23 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 2 lakh fresh cases in last 24 hours; TPR declines to 14.2%||India recorded 2,27,709 new COVID-19 cases and 3,392 deaths till 9.20 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,65,15,789 cases and 2,98,849 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 35,873 new infections, followed by Karnataka (31,183) and Kerala (28,514). Maharashtra recorded 682 casualties over the past 24 hours, followed by Karnataka (451) and Tamil Nadu (448). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. As many as 20,66,285 samples were tested in the country on Friday (the results of which were made available on Saturday), the highest number of tests conducted in a single day in the country since the beginning of the pandemic. This is the fourth instance when daily tests in India have crossed the 20 lakh-mark. India’s average daily test positivity rate (TPR or positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and reduced to 14.2% as on May 21. However, not all the States are following this declining trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-2-lakh-fresh-cases-in-last-24-hours-tpr-declines-to-142/article34625066.ece
23 May 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal politics comes full circle||In the run-up to the West Bengal Assembly poll, defections were used by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as a political tool and talking point as several leaders of the incumbent Trinamool Congress joined the saffron party. However, less than three weeks after the election results, politics in West Bengal has come full circle, with the BJP now trying to keep its flock together. The political shift was evident within days with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hinting that “doors are open” for those who want to return to the Trinamool Congress, less than 48 hours after her landslide victory. While the BJP has managed to accommodate former TMC heavyweight and former Minister Suvendu Adhikari by appointing him Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, the party is finding it difficult to deal with veterans like Mukul Roy, who have remained conspicuous by their absence at BJP meetings and events. “My fight would continue as a soldier of BJP to restore democracy in our State. I would request everyone to put the concoctions and conjectures to rest. I am resolute in my political path,” Mr. Roy had tweeted on May 8. Despite the tweet, speculation about Mr. Roy’s political future has refused to die down. Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of Political Science at Rabindra Bharati University, said not only MLAs but even MPs may jump ship from the BJP and join the TMC in the next few weeks. “Two months is not a very long time in politics but in West Bengal, the past two months have been extraordinary. There has always been a tendency to side with the ruling party in the State. Even during the Left regime, the political hegemony of the CPI(M) pervaded all sections of society. Similarly, after the results of the Assembly poll of 2021, a new realignment, particularly of opportunist elements, is bound to happen,” he said. Security or surveillance? After its defeat, the BJP, citing attacks and violence on party cadre, had accorded central security to its elected MLAs. However, a few of them have refused to accept central security, citing issues relating to logistics. “I don’t think I need central security at this point of time. There is no threat for me in the town I grew up in. Moreover, I use a two-wheeler for commuting and it is not possible for me to house the securitymen or provide vehicles for them,” BJP MLA from Siliguri Sankar Ghosh told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-politics-comes-full-circle/article34625063.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Over 8 lakh migrant workers left Delhi on State-run buses’||Over eight lakh migrant workers left the Capital for their respective hometowns during the first four weeks of the lockdown imposed in the city to contain the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, says a report prepared by the Delhi Transport Department. According to the report, which considered the period between April 19 and May 14, a total of 8,07,032 migrant workers left the city aboard buses; as many as 3,79,604 departed during the first week of the lockdown. The number reduced to 2,12,448 in the following week when the lockdown was extended for the first time. In the third week, it came down further to 1,22,490 and in the fourth week 92,490 migrant workers left Delhi on government-run buses. The report, however, specified that “train travel” was the preferred mode of migrants this year as trains were operational unlike last year when they stopped running during the national lockdown imposed by the Centre in March. A lot of migrant workers also left in private buses and hired vehicles which were not taken into account in the report. The report sought to credit the Delhi government’s “timely coordination” with transport authorities of neighbouring States such as Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand among others in assisting about eight lakh migrant workers in reaching their respective destinations “without any difficulty”. 21,879 inter-State trips According to the report, there were 21,879 inter-State bus trips during the four weeks of the lockdown, which began with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s first announcement of a week-long curfew on April 19. The lockdown, which has been extended four times since then, is likely to continue till May-end, said government sources. The report stated that the Delhi Transport Department learnt from “past experience” viz. the first surge of migrant workers leaving the city in March 2020. This year, the department prepared a plan for deployment of 500 cluster buses on inter-State routes under emergency and, it claimed, there were no complaints of overcharging as the buses were operated by State governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-8-lakh-migrant-workers-left-delhi-on-state-run-buses/article34625448.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Police turn up the heat, enforce stricter lockdown||Police ran roughshod over road commuters at several places across the State on Saturday in the aftermath of strict instructions issued by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to enforce lockdown from 10 a.m. What was limited to imposing fines on travelling public beyond 10 a.m. till Friday suddenly escalated to a higher level of punishment as the police wielded lathis and seized their vehicles. The people were taken by surprise and entered into arguments with the police at several places resulting in mild tension. The police set up barricades on thoroughfares to stop the traffic and check the permissions and e-passes of each passer by. Their vehicles were immediately seized if they failed to produce any and asked to go home on foot. The government and emergency staff were let off if they produced ID proof. The crowding at check-points and haphazard parking of vehicles led to huge traffic jams. The seized vehicles were shifted to Goshamahal police stadium in the city and owners informed that they will be returned only after the conclusion of lockdown. Top police officials led by Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy took to the roads to supervise the enforcement. Intensive checking In Khammam, intensive vehicle checking was conducted at 15 check-posts along the inter-State borders with Andhra Pradesh and also at 15 check-points within the district as part of rigorous enforcement of lockdown to stem the COVID-19 spread. The police seized 230 vehicles including 215 two-wheelers, three cars and other vehicles found plying on the roads in defiance of the lockdown regulations in the town and various other parts of the district on Saturday. Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier visited various police pickets to personally monitor the effective implementation of the lockdown. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, the police impounded a total of 16 two-wheelers and one car for violating lockdown regulations. Similarly, the sudden crackdown by police on food delivery executives had an immediate impact on restaurants which are already reeling from the effects of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-turn-up-the-heat-enforce-stricter-lockdown/article34625511.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Suspend vaccine supply to private hospitals, Jagan urges PM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to suspend the supply of vaccines to private hospitals directly from the manufacturers until there is a surplus quantity. In a letter written to Mr. Modi on Saturday, Mr. Jagan said, “In a situation where there is not enough supply to cater to even the 45+ age group completely and with no possibility of taking up the free vaccination for the 18-44 years for the next few months, it appears very unreasonable to allow some private sector hospitals to vaccinate people of all age groups at exorbitant rates.” Not only it was a disadvantage to the poorer sections of the society but it also created a situation of black marketing of the vaccine, which administratively was a herculean task to control, he said apprising the Prime Minister that the State had to limit vaccination for 45+ age due to insufficient supply. Price “Due to the flexibility available to the private hospitals to fix the price of their vaccines, they are charging as high as Rs. 2,000/Rs. 25,000 for each dose making them one of the costliest in the world and inviting criticism from the general public,” Mr. Jagan said. Further Mr. Jagan said that the availability of vaccines at both public and private hospitals would be a good idea only if there was surplus availability of the vaccines wherein anyone could choose any mode as per his or her choice and financial capability. ‘Unacceptable’ “In today's situation where supply is very limited, providing this option to private hospitals wherein they charge an exorbitant price is socially unacceptable and administratively difficult to monitor,” Mr. Jagan wrote. “I request you to kindly look into the matter and dispense with the supply of vaccines to private hospitals so that entire stock is available only to Central and State governments to take up vaccination of all eligible people,” he said. Vaccination deferred The State government, with the permission of the Centre, had deferred vaccinating people of 18-44 age group as it intended to use meagrely available doses to vaccinate persons of 45+ age group due for the second dose in the State. Private hospitals are allowed to buy vaccines directly from manufacturer from the 50% supply earmarked for the “Other than Govt. of India” channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suspend-vaccine-supply-to-private-hospitals-jagan-urges-pm/article34625074.ece
23 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Barge tragedy: four bodies wash up on beaches in Raigad||The Raigad police recovered four bodies that washed up on three different beaches in the district just days after several people were reported missing after barge P-305 capsized in the Arabian Sea in the aftermath of Cyclone Tauktae which lashed Maharashtra’s coast this week. The police said locals spotted one body on Murud beach in Murud taluka on Friday evening, two on Nagaon beach, and one on Sasawne beach in Alibag taluka on Saturday morning. Raigad Superintendent of Police Ashok Dudhe said, “The bodies are decomposed, bloated and beyond identification. Three had no clothing on them. A jacket-like garment was found on the body that washed up on Nagaon beach.” The bodies were taken to Alibag Civil Hospital for post-mortem. “We are in touch with the Mumbai Police to establish their identity. We have a list of persons missing from the barge and their identification marks. We are trying to match them. All four victims are suspected to be in their 40s,” Mr. Dudhe said. District Collector Nidhi Choudhary said the district administration and the Raigad police were in touch with the Yellow Gate police station, and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation officials. The Mumbai Police said on Saturday it had received 61 bodies from the barge. “We have identified 31 bodies and handed over 28 to relatives. DNA sampling of the remaining 30 is on,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson, Deputy Commissioner of Police S. Chaitanya. ‘A scapegoat’ Meanwhile, a day after an FIR was registered against the barge’s captain Rakesh Ballav and others, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioned whether he was being made a scapegoat. “How can only a captain be held responsible? The contracting company should also be held responsible and face action for homicide,” said BJP MLA Ashish Shelar. Mr. Shelar claimed that the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party were playing politics by demanding the resignation of the Union Minister. “The Centre has ordered an inquiry. But is the State police trying to save Shapoorji Pallonji, the owners of Afcons Infrastructure?” asked Mr. Shelar.    (With inputs from Alok Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/barge-tragedy-four-bodies-wash-up-on-beaches-in-raigad/article34625576.ece
23 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||Black fungus: ‘Use of tap water is among probable causes’||The preliminary report of the State task force on COVID-associated mucormysosis (black fungus) says that possible sources of contamination in cases reported so far were use of tap water for humidifiers, growth of fungus in cannulas and ICU equipment. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said at Hubballi on Saturday that distilled water should be used for humidifiers. “It has been found that tap water was used instead of distilled water.” He pointed out that cannulas and other equipment used in ICUs should be completely sanitised or new sets of equipment should be used for treatment, which, according to the preliminary report, might not have been done. Dr. Sudhakar said another reason for the disease was excess use of steroids, which would badly affect the immunity of patients with diabetes. That in turn would lead to mucormycosis, he said. Clarifying that mucormycosis was not an epidemic, he said hardly around 40-plus cases used to be reported in the country earlier. “Now such numbers are being reported from district centres. As per the data available around 250 cases of infection have been reported in the State. As announced by the Chief Minister, all these patients will be treated for free,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar said there was no shortage of medicines for black fungus and that the State would receive 1,450 vials of the medicine in a day and doctors had been directed to initiate the line of treatment. On May 20, the State Health Department issued a circular listing out 17 SOPs for prevention of black fungus.  Sources of infection Use of tap water for humidifiers Unsanitary cannulas, ICU equipment Excess use of steriods -----------------------------||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/black-fungus-use-of-tap-water-is-among-probable-causes/article34625120.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu to impose severe curbs for a week from May 24||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced an intense lockdown from 4 a.m. on May 24 to 6 a.m. on May 31, with severe restrictions that will shut all shops, including provision and grocery stores. To help the people stock up on essentials and travel to their home towns, the State allowed all stand-alone shops, except malls, to function till 9 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday (May 23). It also allowed public and private long-distance buses to operate on these days. The stringent lockdown is being enforced on the recommendation of an expert medical team that comprised, among others, leading infectious diseases specialist V. Ramasubramanian and public health expert P. Kuganantham. Mr. Stalin also chaired a meeting with a COVID-19 consultative panel, comprising legislators from all parties. During the lockdown, medical shops, including indigenous medicine shops and veterinary pharmacies, will function. Supply of milk and water, distribution of newspapers and functioning of media organisations will remain uninterrupted. “Fruits and vegetables shall be provided to the public through the Horticulture, Agriculture and Marketing Departments in all districts on mobile vehicles in coordination with the local bodies,” a Government Order, issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, said in the evening. Inter-district travel shall be permitted only for medical emergencies and funerals “with e-registration”. No e-registration is required for intra-district travel for medical emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-to-impose-severe-curbs-for-a-week-from-may-24/article34625155.ece
23 May 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat emerges as a hotspot for mucormycosis in India||With over 2,000 cases, Gujarat has emerged as the hotspot for mucormycosis, or black fungus, which has already claimed more than 250 lives in the State. According to the Centre, Gujarat has 2,281 mucormycosis patients, which is the highest for any State in the country. After the cases rose significantly, the Gujarat government on Thursday declared the fungal infection, which has a high fatality rate, an epidemic under the provision of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1857. Death toll According to government sources, the State has witnessed over 250 deaths so far directly attributed to the fungal infection. The highest number of cases have been reported from Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot. The State government has set up special wards in the civil hospitals in Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot to deal with the cases. At the Ahmedabad Civil hospital, nearly all beds have been filled up as cases requiring urgent medical attention are rising. In Rajkot, where more than 500 cases of the fungal infection have been reported, the District Collector set up a special control room to distribute the life-saving drug Amphotericin-B in its liposomal form, which is in short supply. There is a scramble for the drug in Ahmedabad too, as the authorities have failed to procure it amidst the rise in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujarat-emerges-as-a-hotspot-for-mucormycosis-in-india/article34625059.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Yaas may become a very severe cyclonic storm: IMD||Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a “very severe cyclonic storm” and cross the Odisha and West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. A low pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday. “The low pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the east central Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, May 23 morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify into a cyclonic storm by 24th May and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours,” the Meteorological department said. The cyclonic system would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach the north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts by the morning of May 26, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yaas-may-become-a-very-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd/article34625061.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees highest single-day toll as COVID deaths cross 10K||The State again reported the highest single-day toll of 118 deaths in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 19,981 new infections were reported and the cumulative tally reached 15,62,060. The death toll has crossed the 10,000-mark and reached 10,022 and the death rate remains at 0.64%. The last 1,000 deaths were reported during the past 10 days. Krishna stands on the top with a death rate of 1.11%. It was also the only district with more than 1% death rate. Of the 10,000 deaths, more than 55% occurred in Chittoor (1166), Krishna (915), East Godavari (895), Guntur (890), Visakhapatnam (857) and Anantapur (834) districts. Meanwhile, 18,336 patients have recovered in the past day and the recovery rate and recoveries increased to 85.87% and 13,41,355 respectively. There were  2,10,683 active cases in the State. The positivity rate of the 19,981 samples tested in the past day was at 22.05%, a slight rise compared to that of the previous day. The overall positivity rate of 1.85 crore samples was 8.43%. New deaths and cases West Godavari reported 15 new deaths in the past day while Chittoor reported 14 deaths and East Godavari and Visakhapatnam reported 11 deaths each. Guntur reported 10 deaths and Anantapur and Krishna reported nine deaths each. Similarly, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported eight deaths each while Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam reported seven new deaths each. Kadapa reported only two deaths. East Godavari reported 3,227 new infections, the highest. It was followed by Chittoor (2,581), Visakhapatnam (2,308), Anantapur (1,787), West Godavari (1,537), Srikakulam (1,338), Prakasam (1,295), Kurnool (1,161), Krishna (1,064), Guntur (1,040), Nellore (912), Kadapa (893) and Vizianagaram (838).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-highest-single-day-toll-as-covid-deaths-cross-10k/article34625068.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Centre giving priority to those above 45 for shot’||The Central government’s priority remains vaccinating those 45 years and above, said Member (health) of the NITI Aayog V.K. Paul. He was responding to a question about Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s statement that Delhi will have to halt vaccination for the 18+ category due to depleted stocks.Page 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-giving-priority-to-those-above-45-for-shot/article34625075.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Search for hospital bed||The family of a 22-year-old man with leukemia, who contracted black fungus but not COVID-19, has been desperately searching for a hospital bed. With the State’s health machinery prioritising COVID-19-associated mucormycosis, other patients with the fungal infection are struggling for access to treatment.Page 3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/search-for-hospital-bed/article34625119.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Bidding goodbye||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bidding-goodbye/article34625122.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||18 mn Sputnik doses to be on tap by August||More than 18 million doses of the Russian vaccine Sputnik-V will be available for Indians by August, while Indian partners are expected to produce about 850 million doses of the vaccine by March 2022. In addition, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) also hopes to cooperate in the production of a single-dose “Sputnik Light” in India once domestic permissions come through, said India’s Ambassador to Moscow. “Finally, more than 65%-70% of Sputnik vaccines used anywhere in the world will be from India,” said D.B. Venkatesh Verma, Indian Ambassador in Russia, speaking to journalists in St. Petersburg on Saturday. He described a “three-phase process” for production and distribution of the Russian-developed vaccines in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-mn-sputnik-doses-to-be-on-tap-by-august/article34625064.ece
23 May 2021||Kathmandu,||Nepal House dissolved, polls in Nov.||Nepal plunged into fresh political turmoil on Saturday as President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved Parliament and fixed general elections in November, amid a worsening COVID-19 outbreak. The surprise announcement comes after a presidential statement said neither caretaker Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli nor Opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba was able to demonstrate a majority to form government by the Friday deadline set by Ms. Bhandari. “The President has dissolved the House of Representatives and ordered the first phase of general elections on November 12 and the second phase on November 19,” a presidential statement issued after midnight said. It said the decision was made on the recommendation of the Cabinet headed by caretaker Prime Minister Oli, whose December 2020 dissolution of Parliament sparked weeks of protests and was reversed by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional in February. The opposition says Mr. Oli, who lost a vote of confidence this month, has no legal authority to recommend the dissolution of the Parliament. Mr. Oli, 69, said fresh elections could end the political confusion. Elections could be held despite the pandemic, he told reporters on Friday. On Saturday, he asked the Election Commission to initiate preparations for the elections and ensure fair and fraud-free polls in November. Nepal is battling a deadly second wave of the pandemic and is reporting more than 8,000 new infections each day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nepal-house-dissolved-polls-in-nov/article34625069.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Negative report mandatory for entry to State’||Those returning to Karnataka from other States should compulsorily produce COVID-19 negative report for gaining entry into the State, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. He told presspersons in Haveri district on Saturday that the rule would be strictly implemented as per the direction of the Union government. “Already various restrictions have been put in place to ensure strict implementation of lockdown. People from other States should produce COVID-negative report. Otherwise, they will not be allowed to enter,” he said. Mr. Bommai said already suitable directions had been issued to the authorities in the border districts of Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/negative-report-mandatory-for-entry-to-state/article34625114.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM’s greetings||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has complimented Congress legislator V.D. Satheesan on his elevation as Congress Legislative Party leader. He hoped the government and the Opposition would work in tandem to resolve the issues faced by the people and ensure the State’s development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cms-greetings/article34625268.ece
23 May 2021||Guwahati,||ULFA-I releases ONGC employee in Nagaland||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) on Saturday released an employee of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation abducted from an oil rig in Assam a month ago. An Army spokesperson said ONGC junior technician Ritul Saikia was released at Lungwa village in Nagaland’s Mon district on the India-Myanmar border. A joint team of army and State police escorted him to district headquarters Mon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ulfa-i-releases-ongc-employee-in-nagaland/article34625245.ece
23 May 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Call for action to protect vulnerable Odisha tribes||Activists and writers have urged the Odisha government to take immediate steps to prevent loss of lives among Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) like the Dongria Kondh and Bonda due to COVID-19.In a petition to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, over 70 intellectuals expressed concern over rising COVID-19 cases among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-for-action-to-protect-vulnerable-odisha-tribes/article34625246.ece
23 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. to introduce cow protection Bill||Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi said the State government would introduce a cow protection Bill in the next Assembly session. Addressing the inaugural session of the 15th Assembly, he said the government would adopt a zero-tolerance policy for protecting the cow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-govt-to-introduce-cow-protection-bill/article34625450.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMA demands strong action against Ramdev||The Indian Medical Associa-tion has demanded that the Health Ministry take strong action against yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly mislea-ding the public through his statements. It said Ramdev should be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as his “untutored” statements are “a threat to people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ima-demands-strong-action-against-ramdev/article34625451.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||MVA hopes HC query will spur appointment of MLCs||A recent query by the Bombay High Court to the Maharashtra Governor over the appointment of 12 members to the Legislative Council has reignited a debate and raised the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance’s hopes of finding a solution to the impasse. A Division Bench was hearing a public interest litigation over the delay despite the State Cabinet sending the Governor a list of recommended names and issuing two reminders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-hopes-hc-query-will-spur-appointment-of-mlcs/article34625577.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,||Vaccination for differently-abled begins||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched the COVID-19 vaccination programme for the differently-abled in Chennai and 26 persons were vaccinated at a marriage hall on TTK Road in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-for-differently-abled-begins/article34625156.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,||T.N. to get more oxygen from Maharashtra, Centre||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the Tamil Nadu government had taken steps to get more oxygen from the Centre and Maharashtra, as the regular supply from Odisha had been affected by Cyclone Tauktae. “We have held talks with the Maharashtra government to get 900 MT. It is under consideration,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-get-more-oxygen-from-maharashtra-centre/article34625157.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,||35,873 test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu’s toll due to COVID-19 crossed the 20,000-mark on Saturday, as 448 more people succumbed to it. The State recorded a small dip in fresh infections, with 35,873 people testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/35873-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article34625159.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Shortage of vaccine leads to clashes||The frustration and worry over shortage of vaccine, especially Covaxin, is playing out at many PHCs and hospitals, with citizens fighting amongst themselves and clashing with staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shortage-of-vaccine-leads-to-clashes/article34625116.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,||ASHAs to hold online protest tomorrow||Over 42,000 Accredited Social Health Activists in the State, who have been paid their honorarium for the last two months and who have been working without basic protection gear, will stage an online protest on May 24 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ashas-to-hold-online-protest-tomorrow/article34625117.ece
23 May 2021||Mysuru,||Three leopards found dead; poisoning suspected||Three leopards were found dead under suspicious conditions in Belawadi village limits on the outskirts of Mysuru on Saturday. The carcasses were noticed near the Belavadi lake by villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-leopards-found-dead-poisoning-suspected/article34625118.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ticking clock for China’s tech giants||The announcement, very much in keeping with how Zhang Yiming has functioned for much of his life as a Chinese tech titan, was understated and simple. “The truth is I lack some of the skills that make an ideal manager,” he wrote on May 20, announcing he was stepping down as CEO in an email to the employees of ByteDance, the extraordinarily successful $180 billion tech giant — its short video app Douyin, known as TikTok outside of China, has become a global phenomenon — he founded in Beijing in 2012. The news came as a shock both to his company and to China’s tech community. But in one sense, it was not entirely surprising. His stepping down comes amid what is perhaps the most difficult period for China’s Internet giants after a decade of relentless growth and expansion. Companies including ByteDance, Alibaba and Tencent are now embroiled in a battle with regulators over issues ranging from anti-trust investigations to control over users’ data. The tussle, to put it simply, is about cutting them down to size and giving the ruling Communist Party, which is incidentally set to mark its 100-year anniversary in July, a greater say in regulating a tech space that has so far been dominated by a handful of tech behemoths and their billionaire founders. The most famous of them, Alibaba’s Jack Ma, 56, has vanished from the headlines and media attention he usually craves since November when regulators showed who was in charge by putting a stop, at the very last minute, to what would have been a world-record breaking $35 billion IPO for the Ant Group, Alibaba’s financial payments arm. In April, Alibaba was hit with a record $2.8 billion fine for violating anti-monopoly laws. An apparently chastened Mr. Ma still continues to maintain a low profile, seemingly licking his wounds. That same month, Colin Huang, 41, China’s third richest man with a $55 billion fortune — he is one place ahead of the $48 billion-worth Mr. Ma on China's rich list, according to Forbes — who is behind the hugely popular group buying app Pinduoduo announced he would step down. Mr. Zhang, 38, of ByteDance, which is facing its own regulatory problems over both control over data and content, happens to be seventh on the same rich list with a $35.6 billion fortune, and the third big tech titan to now retreat from the limelight. Rise to the top Mr. Zhang was born in Longyan, a small town in the southern coastal province of Fujian known for its Hakka culture. He headed north to Tianjin to attend university and to pursue his dreams of becoming a software engineer. A student by day, he helped classmates fix their computers on the side by night (which was how he ended up meeting his wife, according to a profile in the South China Morning Post ). He was more interested in becoming an entrepreneur than joining an established player. His particular interest was in information and content, and finding the most efficient way to use technology to get people in China to read, listen and watch what they exactly wanted. The end result of that journey was a news aggregator app called Jinri Toutiao (“today’s headlines”), which uses AI to tailor content for individual users. The app launched ByteDance as a major player in 2012. Nine years later, it is still among the most widely used news apps in China with some 200 million users. Besides the AI powered curation, Jinri Toutiao grew in popularity among young Chinese for its appealing and punchy presentation of news, a world away from the still staid ways of many official media outlets. The biggest success of ByteDance was, of course, TikTok, which introduced the company to the world. The company had launched a short videos app in China called Douyin, which became a cultural phenomenon with 600 million users. Its international version, TikTok, would take the world by storm, perhaps the first truly global success of any Chinese Internet firm, something that even Alibaba and Tencent could not accomplish. TikTok, incidentally, is not available in China while Douyin cannot be used outside the country, an unfortunate consequence of China’s “great firewall” of restrictions, thanks to which you now have an entire domestic tech ecosystem essentially entirely cut off from the rest of the world — WeChat instead of WhatsApp, Youku and not YouTube, Baidu and not Google. Facebook, Instagram and Twitter too are all banned in China. Tech troubles If the e-commerce and digital payments space was being dominated by Alibaba and Tencent, ByteDance established itself in the content space. Another early success was an app called Neihan Duanzi, which became possibly China’s first Reddit-like space where users would share jokes and memes, sometimes bordering on what would be unacceptable in China’s heavily regulated media space where Communist Party censors maintain a tight grip. That app too grew rapidly, amassing around 200 million users, before it was suddenly shut down in 2018 by the regulators for “vulgar” content. That same year, Jinri Toutiao also received a rap on the knuckles and its app was temporarily removed. It was restored after Mr. Zhang had to make a grovelling public apology, promising to uphold “socialist core values”. Neihan Duanzi was not allowed to return. The troubles of 2018 were a prelude to even greater scrutiny that many of China’s tech firms would come under. After the anti-trust probe targeting Alibaba, its great rival Tencent, which is behind WeChat, faced similar investigations. The Cyberspace Administration of China said this month it found 105 apps had violated laws over privacy and individual users’ data. ByteDance was among them. The South China Morning Post reported this month that ByteDance “has been called in by authorities every few weeks.” Last month, the company was among 34 tech firms that made public pledges to follow anti-monopoly laws. Douyin, meanwhile, is facing unrelenting scrutiny for allegedly “improper” content. As Mr. Zhang steps down, he will stay on as Chairman as he hands over daily duties — and, no doubt, the demands of continued compliance expected from regulators — to his college roommate and long-time partner Liang Rubo. Unlike Alibaba’s Jack Ma, the low-key ByteDance founder, a practicing Buddhist, has generally preferred to stay out of the headlines. In his resignation letter on Thursday, he said he wanted to have less of the day-to-day responsibilities of a CEO and instead spend his time thinking long-term and “exploring new initiatives in education, brain disease research, and digitizing ancient books.” “I’m not very social,” explained the creator of some of China’s biggest social media platforms, saying that he, instead, preferred “solitary activities like being online, reading, listening to music, and daydreaming about what may be possible”.  In focus  First Alibaba’s Jack Ma vanished from the headlines and media attention since November when regulators put a stop to a $35 billion IPO for the Ant Group, Alibaba’s financial payments arm  In April, Colin Huang, China’s third richest man with a $55 billion fortune, who is behind the hugely popular group buying app Pinduoduo, announced he would step down  Zhang Yiming of ByteDance, which is facing its own regulatory problems over both control over data and content, happens to be the third big tech titan to now retreat from the limelight   Companies including ByteDance, Alibaba and Tencent are now embroiled in a battle with regulators over issues ranging from anti-trust probes to control over users’ data||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ticking-clock-for-chinas-tech-giants/article34625027.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six more bodies recovered from sunken barge||Six more bodies were recovered from the sunken Barge P-305 off Mumbai coast on Saturday, taking the toll death toll to 66, while nine crew are still missing even as the Navy deployed a survey vessel with specialised diving teams for underwater search. On the eastern coast, the Navy and Coast Guard augmented preventive measures for cyclonic storm Yass expected to form in the next 24 hours. “Search and rescue operations continue for the remaining crew. Underwater search for the wrecks of Barge P305 and Tug Varaprada using specialised teams and equipment is in progress,” the Navy spokesperson said. Specialised diving teams onboard survey vessel INS Makar with sonar and INS Tarasa sailed out early on Saturday morning from Mumbai for carrying out the underwater search, he stated. So far, 186 crew have been rescued and 49 bodies have been recovered from Barge P305, which sank 35 nautical miles off Mumbai with 261 crew on board on May 17 due to cyclone Tauktae. As the low-pressure area in the North Andaman Sea is likely to intensify as cyclonic storm Yaas during the next 24 hours over the Bay of Bengal, moving in a north-westerly direction and likely to cross the coast between north Odisha and West Bengal around May 26, the Navy said it was closely monitoring the movement of the cyclonic storm. “Eastern Naval Command and Naval Officers-in-Charge at the West Bengal and Odisha area have carried out preparatory activities to combat the effects of Cyclone ‘Yaas’, and are in constant liaison with the State administrations for rendering assistance as required,” the spokesperson said. As part of the preparedness, eight flood relief teams and four diving teams were prepositioned at Odisha and West Bengal to augment the existing resources. Four naval ships are on standby with Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief blocks, diving, and medical teams to render assistance in the most affected areas along the Odisha and West Bengal coast, he stated. Naval aircraft are kept ready at Naval Air Stations — INS Dega at Visakhapatnam and INS Rajali near Chennai to undertake aerial survey of the most affected areas, casualty evacuation, and air drop of relief material as required, the Navy added. Coast Guard ships aircraft and Remote Operating Stations continue to relay warning for mariners and fishermen in the Bay of Bengal. “Coast Guard pollution and disaster response teams are on standby. Also maintaining close liaison with shipping, fisheries, oil handling agencies and State authorities,” the Coast Guard said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-more-bodies-recovered-from-sunken-barge/article34624977.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre giving priority to those above 45: Paul||The Central government’s priority remains vaccinating those 45 years and over, said member (health) of the NITI Aayog V.K. Paul. He was responding to a question about Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s statement that Delhi will have to halt vaccination for the 18+ category due to depleted vaccine stocks. Speaking at the Health Ministry press conference on Saturday, Dr. Paul said States and private hospitals have to decide on what they have to do with their share of the vaccines procured. He said that as part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Central government is supporting the States and UTs by providing COVID vaccines free of cost. “In addition, the Central government is also facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the States/UTs. We are very clear that the Central Government’s priority is to cover the vulnerable 45-plus category first,” he said. Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination started from May 1 this year and under this strategy, every month 50% of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer is procured by Centre which would then make this available free of cost to the State governments. Dr. Paul said cross vaccination (by COVID vaccine manufactured by two different companies) is “scientifically and theoretically possible. But recommending this now is not possible as this is an evolving situation. No robust scientific evidence currently supports it and only time will tell,” he said. He also clarified that there is no restriction on lactating mothers feeding their children after vaccination. The NITI Aayog member said several States in India are showing signs of COVID cases stabilizing, “though there 382 districts across the country which continue to have COVID positivity rate over 10%. We have to work towards breaking the transmission and this is possible only adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour.” Abuse of steroids He also cautioned against the abuse of steroids and said that while these are life saving drugs, their misuse can cause many medical issues including the rise in cases of black fungus. Dr. Paul added that while children are currently showing mild symptoms of the disease, “they could be carriers and can help in transmission. We have to help them follow the COVID appropriate behaviour. And though world-wide only a small percentage of children need hospitalisation due to the virus, we have to equip ourselves,” he said. The Health Ministry in its presentation noted that six States — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, U.P., Punjab and Delhi — continue to report high number of COVID deaths. Replying to a question on vaccine passports, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Aggarwal said while the matter is under discussion, there is so far no consensus at level of WHO and other such bodies. “Discussion still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by countries, people with negative COVID test report being allowed in,” said Mr. Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-giving-priority-to-those-above-45-paul/article34624995.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Air India data breach may pose legal risk||The breach of passenger data at Air India may pose litigation risks for the airline that could further delay the privatisation process, warn experts, adding that the national carrier must prioritise efforts to contain the damage from the cyber attack by informing passengers about steps they can still take to prevent fraud. In a press statement, the airline said that its passenger processing system, supplied by multi-national information technology company SITA, was a target of a sophisticated cyber attack on February 25. Nearly 45 lakh “data subjects” registered over a period of 10 years between August 2011 to February 2021 were affected around the world, including passengers of other airlines such as Singapore Airlines, Lufthansa, Cathay Pacific, United Airlines, among others. The attack was on SITA’s servers at its data centre in Atlanta, United States. “A major impact it may have is that the current process of privatisation may go slow as there will always be fear of unquantified litigation risks. They (government) may be able to separate past versus future liabilities, but it opens up a new avenue for a discussion with potential bidders,” said Sivarama Krishnan, Leader-Asia Pacific, Cybersecurity, PwC. The extent to which individual airlines were affected due to the cyber attack varied from one airline to another. Some airlines wrote to their passengers saying only passenger names and frequent flyer numbers were stolen. In the case of Air India, the theft pertained to “name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, Star Alliance and Air India frequent flyer data (but no passwords data were affected) as well as credit cards data (but no CVV data).” Note of caution Experts recommend that Air India must prioritise alerting its customers and asking them to take specific preventive steps, says Sanchit Gogia, Founder, Greyhound Research. “The focus ought to be on remedial and protective measures rather than on investigation alone. Air India should be releasing a public advisory either through e-mails or SMSes asking customers to beware of dubious emails, SMSes or calls. Customers must be told to change their passwords and credit and debit cards immediately. This will go a long way in instilling confidence,” says Mr. Gogia. At the same time, there is no need to panic. “There is nothing much a hacker can do just by having a passport number in isolation. If you have safeguarded your email ids, and changed passwords, these measures will go a long way in curbing the steps to hack you.” So far, Air India has issued a notification on its websites for its passengers urging them to change their passwords. The airline has said that it is investigating the data security incident and taking steps to secure the compromised servers besides engaging external specialists of data security incidents and liasing with credit card issuers. In response to an e-mail query, SITA said on Saturday, “By global and industry standards, we identified this cyber-attack extremely quickly. The matter remains under active investigation by SITA. Each affected airline has been provided with the details of the exact type of data that has been compromised, including details of the number of data records within each of the relevant data categories, including some personal data of airline passengers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-india-data-breach-may-pose-legal-risk/article34625008.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The shadow commander||In early May, when the Israeli Supreme Court was expected to give a final ruling on the eviction of Palestinian families in East Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood, Israel got a warning from one of its top enemies. Mohammed Deif, the head of Hamas’s military wing Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, said in a rare public statement that Israel would pay a “heavy price” if it evicts Palestinians from Sheikh Jarrah. This was the first statement from the shadowy commander, whom most Palestinians haven’t seen, in seven years. Deif’s statement was the first indication that Hamas was ready to risk another Israeli attack over Jerusalem. The crisis escalated quickly. Palestinian protesters clashed with Israeli forces in East Jerusalem over Sheikh Jarrah. On May 10, immediately after Israeli troops stormed Al-Aqsa Mosque, Hamas issued an ultimatum to Israel to pull back forces from the compound. In the evening, Hamas launched rockets which were followed by Israeli airstrikes. The cat with nine lives The Israeli military confirmed that they tried to kill Deif twice during the 11-day bombing, but failed. Deif has been on Israel’s kill list at least since the early 2000s. In 2002, he lost an eye in an Israeli strike. In 2006, Israel struck a building in which Hamas leaders had assembled. The attack seriously injured Deif, but he survived. In August 2014, after an initial ceasefire was announced following weeks of fighting, Israel carried out an airstrike targeting him. The attack killed Deif’s wife and two children, but he escaped again. The escapes earned him the nickname among the Palestinians, “the cat with nine lives”. Born in Khan Younis, Gaza, in the 1950s, Deif, whose real name is Mohammed Diab Ibrahim al-Masri, studied in Gaza’s Islamic University, which was co-founded in 1978 by Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, Hamas’s founder and spiritual leader who was killed by Israel in 2004. Yassin, the tallest Muslim Brotherhood leader in Gaza, was then running Mujama al-Islamiyaan, which Israel had recognised as a charity. Deif was an active member of the Brotherhood and when Hamas was founded, after the first intifada broke out in 1987, Deif joined the new Islamist movement with zeal and vigour. During the intifada protests, he was briefly arrested by the Israelis. Having orchestrated several attacks in the 1990s, Deif rose through Hamas’s ranks quickly. In 2002, at the height of the second intifada, he was appointed the head of the Qassam Brigades, after its leader Salah Shehade was killed by Israel. At that time, the Brigades was not much of a force. Named after Izz ad-Din al-Qassam, an Islamic preacher who led violent resistance against British colonialists and Zionist settlers in historic Palestine and was killed in 1935, the Brigades was involved in attacks on Israeli troops as well as civilians. After Deif took over the Brigades, Hamas carried out a host of suicide attacks inside Israel. Israel holds him personally responsible for the deaths of many of its citizens. The U.S. has also designated him as a terrorist. In 2015, the U.S. State Department said Deif “is known for deploying suicide bombers and directing the kidnapping of Israeli soldiers. During the 2014 conflict, Deif was the mastermind of Hamas’s offensive strategy.” When Hamas emerged as a popular organisation within the Palestinian territories and showed signs of moderation and willingness to contest elections, Deif’s focus shifted from terror tactics such as suicide bombings to building a semi-conventional military command structure with resources such as rockets and mid-range missiles. Hamas acquired much of its rocket capability under his command. Israel believes he is on a wheelchair. Hamas doesn’t comment on his health. But they say Deif is fully in control of the Qassam Brigades. Among the supporters of Hamas, Deif has a cult status. Both his enemies and supporters agree that he is the most influential voice within Hamas. “Deif is the decision-maker in Hamas... He believes every day they continue to fight is another achievement for them,” Gen. Giora Eiland, a former Israeli national security adviser, once said. During the 2014 Gaza fighting, Deif issued an audio message. “The Zionist entity will not know security unless the Palestinian people live in peace,” he said. For Hamas, these words make its rule book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-shadow-commander/article34625023.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Treading the middle path||Blood is thicker than water, so the saying goes, and apparently that applies to natural gas and geopolitical allies too. Contrasting sharply with former U.S. President Donald Trump’s attacks on NATO, the Biden administration has decided to stand down on sanctions slapped onto a company Nord Stream 2 AG, whose CEO and former East German intelligence officer Matthias Warnig is alleged to have links to Russian President Vladimir Putin. The reason? To avoid compromising Washington’s relationship with Germany over the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, a 1,230-km twin pipeline capable of doubling the capacity of extant channels transporting natural gas from Russian fields to Europe under the Baltic Sea. While the latest half-measure highlights difficulties that President Joe Biden is facing in terms of adopting a hard stance toward Russia, the complexity of the geopolitics in play necessarily lends weight to a calibrated approach. At stake are Washington’s ties with multiple European allies, who are critical to maintaining the balance of power in a unipolar hemisphere. Firstly, the Russian pipeline seriously impacts Ukraine, through which Russian gas currently has to pass en route to Europe. In bypassing Ukraine with a direct pipeline to Germany, Russia appears to be seeking to isolate the former from the broad swathe Western Europe and render it less relevant in the energy ecosystem. This move gains additional salience in the context of the Russian annexation of the Crimean Peninsula of Ukraine in 2014, following years of gas pipeline pricing disputes. In a similar vein, Poland and Slovakia also oppose Nord Stream 2, as they, along with Kiev, until now collected transit fees on gas flowing through their territorial boundaries. A more direct beneficiary of the pipeline will be Germany, where concern has been rising regarding falling European gas production in recent times. On the one hand, it appears that fears that this pipeline, which is already 95% complete, will tip Europe into a captive situation with Russia might be unfounded. While Gazprom, the Russian government-owned oil and gas giant that is a majority shareholder in Nord Stream 2 AG, is very much a key supplier for certain eastern and central European countries, Western European nations have obtained their gas supply from other countries, including Norway, Qatar, and African nations. At a broad level, the EU as such is seeking to tamp down on its reliance on natural gas in favour of clean energy. History of skirmishes However, German lawmakers have made it clear to the country’s Chancellor, Angela Merkel, that they disapprove of Russian heavy-handedness in dealing with domestic opposition to Mr. Putin, including the jailing of opposition politician Alexey Navalny in August 2020, and that outright support for Nord Stream 2 could undercut their concerns on allegations of human rights violation in this context. From the perspective of the U.S.-Russia relations, there is on the one hand the long history of what the U.S. considers to be the malign influence of Moscow on American politics and national security interests. Seeking to impose punitive action for Russia’s interference in U.S. elections, then President Barack Obama, in December 2016, ejected 35 suspected Russian intelligence operatives from the U.S. and slapped sanctions on Russia’s two major intelligence services, the GRU and the FSB, a move that invited retaliation from the Kremlin. Mr. Trump, however, appeared to adopt a softer line toward cracking down on Moscow’s apparent aggression abroad. Now it has fallen to the Biden administration to tread the middle path, retaining a sharp focus on punitive sanctions against Moscow’s most egregious actions abroad, while recognising the importance of Russia in areas of U.S. strategic interest. Such a path may not necessarily be easy to traverse. Notwithstanding the Merkel government’s warm welcome of Mr. Biden’s support for Nord Stream 2, Republican lawmakers lashed out at the White House for handing Mr. Putin a major political victory. Even Democrats appeared to differ, with Senator Bob Menendez, Chair of the Foreign Relations Committee, denouncing the decision as one that has “has created uncertainty in many corners of Europe”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/treading-the-middle-path/article34625025.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pandemic-hit UPSC aspirants seek one more chance||Civil services aspirants, whose final attempt at the elite exams in 2020 was affected by the pandemic, have approached the Supreme Court again for a chance this year, citing the “most exceptional circumstances”. Two categories of UPSC aspirants have moved the apex court separately. The first are candidates who were unable to take their final attempt on October 4, 2020 due to the COVID-19 situation and lockdown. “The exam was scheduled to happen on October 4, 2020. However, on the day of exam they were directly or indirectly affected by COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, on account of the restrictive protocols and guidelines given by the State, which included mandatory quarantine, etc., the petitioners were unable to appear in the exam and take their last attempt,” writ petitions filed by these aspirants, represented by advocate Samar Vijay Singh, said. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, on April 19, had asked these petitioners to serve an advance copy of their pleas to the government side through the central agency of the apex court. The second group are aspirants, represented by advocate Ashutosh Ghade, who managed to take the exam on October 4. In an intervention application before the apex court, they submitted that their preparation and final attempt at the exam in 2020 was severely affected by the pandemic. The four applicants led by Dr. Vishnu Shivaji Bulbule, a medical doctor based in Pune, said they had taken the civil services exam even as they worked in the frontlines of the pandemic as ‘Corona warriors’. The applicants sought parity with others who had not attempted the exam last year. They said they took the exam in a peculiar situation while suffering from the mental and physical trauma and pain caused by what they saw around them. Their attempt was also crippled by the lack of study material, infrastructure and loss of income. They said while most aspirants had the luxury of another chance at the civil services exam and could afford to miss the 2020 one, last attempters, who had dreamed of joining the services to serve the country, were compelled to risk their health during the pandemic and take the exam on October 4. They have sought an “extra attempt in addition to their permissible attempts, so as to enable them to appear in the Civil Services Examination (CSE) for the year 2021-2022”. The aspirants have highlighted how the Supreme Court in an order on September 30 last year had asked the government to consider giving the last attempters of 2020, who would be age-barred in 2021, a one-time age relaxation for appearing in CSE-2021. They said the government and UPSC had not taken the suggestion favourably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-hit-upsc-aspirants-seek-one-more-chance/article34624980.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. can’t seek removal of Twitter tag: experts||The government does not have the power under the Information Technology Act to direct Twitter to remove the ‘manipulated media’ tag from certain tweets, experts have said. They say the Centre’s move raises concerns of censorship and view the action as “needless interference” in implementation of the terms of service of a private company conducting business in India. The government on Friday had asked Twitter to remove the ‘manipulated media’ tag from certain tweets by Indian political leaders, including the BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, “with reference to a toolkit created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the Government against the COVID-19 pandemic”. However, the microblogging platform has not removed the label. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology did not comment on whether it would take further steps, while Twitter refused to comment on the issue. As per Twitter’s ‘synthetic and manipulated media policy’, it may label tweets that include media that have been deceptively altered or fabricated. “In order to determine if media have been significantly and deceptively altered or fabricated, we may use our own technology or receive reports through partnerships with third parties. In situations where we are unable to reliably determine if media have been altered or fabricated, we may not take action to label or remove them,” the company policy states. Kazim Rizvi, founder of policy think-tank The Dialogue said, “All social media platforms have their terms of service which users sign up for at the time of joining a platform and agree to abide by these terms. If anyone violates these terms of service, they are subject to a range of enforcements as outlined by the respective platforms.” Standard practice Mr. Rizvi said this is a standard global practice for platforms across the world and not just for Twitter in India. He also pointed out that the IT Act does not empower the Ministry of Electronics and IT to order a platform to undo its enforcement decision (labelling a post) and any attempt to interfere raises concerns of censorship and lack of transparency. “It is important to note that the IT Act empowers the government to order blocking and removal of content. It however does not allow the government with any power to interfere with enforcement decisions (labelling a post) of a platform in application of their own terms of service.” According to Alt News, a fact checking website, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) research department letterhead has been tampered with in the toolkit document, raising questions about its authenticity. “An examination of the content of the document, meant to strategise a future course of action, reveals that it refers to events that have already taken place in the past. The BJP till now has only shared screenshots of the alleged toolkit and has failed to produce the original — either the PDF version or the Microsoft Word version,” it said, adding that without the original document, the BJP’s claims come across as inauthentic, especially because the ‘toolkit’ is made on a poor copy of the original letterhead used by the AICC’s research wing. Private entity Prasanth Sugathan, legal director of Software Freedom Law Centre, India, said Twitter is a private entity which, in line with the laws and regulations in India, is entitled to moderate content which is being exchanged upon its platform. There is no law or regulation in India that explicitly prohibits or mandates the marking, flagging or labeling of content by intermediaries, he noted. “The Central government under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 has the authority to issue directions for blocking access to information but that authority cannot be used in respect of ordering an intermediary to remove the label on content... If a user is not abiding by the terms of service, the intermediary even has the right to terminate the user account,” Mr. Sugathan said. On the government’s reasoning that such tagging by Twitter “appears prejudged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency”, he added that what Twitter does on its platform will have no bearing on an investigation by a law enforcement agency on the issue of whether the document is forged. “Thus, the direction, if any, given by the government to remove the labelling is a needless interference in the way Twitter conducts its business in India,” he said. Mr. Rizvi added that attempts from the government to interfere in enforcement of terms of service by private companies raises the spectre of censorship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-cant-seek-removal-of-twitter-tag-experts/article34624999.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Negative report isn’t the end of problem: doctors||A negative COVID report isn’t the end of the problems associated with the virus, warn doctors. They now say since it affects multiple organs, those who were on mechanical ventilation, ICU or form into any high-risk category of lung fibrosis are the group of people who need to watch out for the need to have a re-admission. People with diabetes or obesity, prolonged illnesses are also much likely to go back to hospitals with symptoms such as breathlessness and decrease in oxygen even after getting negative and discharged from hospital. Archana Dhawan Bajaj, gynaecologist obstetrician and IVF expert, Nurture IVF, said: “The thrombosis and protein loss due to the virus can lead to delayed recovery. COVID re-infection is rare and people facing re-infection are mainly those with co-morbidities, healthcare workers and frontline workers. Hence, this is something to be watched out in people of these subgroups.” On the signs to watch out for even after turning negative, Vikas Maurya, director and HOD, Pulmonology, Fortis Hospital, Delhi, said COVID is such a disease that causes inflammation in our lungs, kidney, heart and eventually all organs affect our blood vessels. “Therefore, post COVID, people still face extreme weakness in their body and it takes time to fully get over. But those who have mild symptoms can recover a bit faster than those who experience moderate to severe symptoms,” he said. Healthy diet Hari Kishan Boorugu, consultant physician, Yashoda Hospitals, Somajiguda, Hyderabad, said people need to maintain adequate hydration and follow a healthy diet after recovery. “Avoid eating outside food as it can be difficult for the body to take additional stress in case they develop food borne gastroenteritis etc. Patients with diabetes and high blood pressure need to monitor their sugar and BP while making sure that they are in good control, as often they tend to fluctuate post COVID illness, due to multiple factors — change in diet, stress and medication. Also consider vaccination when eligible,” he said. Dr. Boorugu said recovered patients need to consult a doctor in case they develop fever, severe cough, chest pain or breathlessness, severe headache and facial pain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/negative-report-isnt-the-end-of-problem-doctors/article34624992.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Majority mark in RS to remain elusive for BJP||The majority mark in the Rajya Sabha will remain elusive for the BJP in the second term of the Narendra Modi government, and its performance in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll slated for early next year is crucial for it to maintain its current tally in the Upper House. At 93, the BJP is 30 members short of the majority mark of 123 in a House of 245 MPs. In the second term, with more than half a dozen Opposition MPs changing loyalty to the BJP, the ruling party had managed to pass controversial Bills, beginning with the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights of Marriage) Bill, 2019 or Triple Talaq Act, along with J&K Re-organisation Bill and the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill. Three rounds of retirements in the year 2022 — April (18 members), June (20 members) and July (33 members) — will bring the last change in the political arithmetic of the Rajya Sabha in the second term of the Modi government. Impending losses Major losses for the BJP will come from Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. The BJP holds three out of the four seats that go to the polls in Andhra Pradesh after four TDP MPs joined the BJP in June 2019. These three seats will go to the ruling party YSR Congress. In Rajasthan, too, where the BJP holds all the four seats that fall vacant in July 2022, the Congress has an opportunity. Dissension is already brewing in the State, with Congress leader Sachin Pilot once again raising the flag of rebellion. If the Congress is able to maintain order in its House, it could gain three seats in the Rajya Sabha. In Chhattisgarh, the BJP will lose one seat in the Rajya Sabha elections slated for June next year. The BJP will gain one seat each in Assam and Himachal Pradesh next June. This makes Uttar Pradesh crucial for the BJP’s strength in the Upper House. In July next year, 11 seats from Uttar Pradesh will fall vacant. As per the current tally, the BJP holds five of these, which includes two former Samajwadi Party MPs — Sanjay Seth and Surender Singh Nagar — who shifted their loyalties midway through their term. Without repeating its 2017 performance in the State, the BJP cannot hold on to these five seats. In Punjab, if the current anti-BJP sentiment because of the three controversial farm laws prevails till the polls, the BJP will lose one seat. The BJP allies will also be affected — the AIADMK strength is expected to be curtailed after its defeat in the recent Assembly poll in Tamil Nadu. Currently, the AIADMK has six members and its political adversary, the DMK, seven. The three RS seats from the State that are currently vacant are expected to go to the polls any time soon. The DMK will win two of these three. In June next year, four Upper House seats from the State go to the polls. Out of these four, currently the DMK and the AIADMK have two each. DMK insiders sounded confident that they will easily win three of these. On the balance, the DMK is expected to go into double digits, outstripping the AIADMK. There will be no significant change in the current Congress strength of 34, though it is expected to make gains in Rajasthan (3) and Chhattisgarh (1) on the basis of its current strength in the State Assemblies. It will lose one seat each from Assam, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh. In Assam, two seats are falling vacant in April next year, including that of the current State unit President Ripun Bora. Out of these two, the Congress can hope to retain one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/majority-mark-in-rs-to-remain-elusive-for-bjp/article34624990.ece
23 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha gears up to face cyclone Yaas||Odisha is gearing up to deploy 66 units of the State Disaster Rapid Action Force, 22 units of National Disaster Response Force and 177 fire service teams as cyclone Yaas is likely to hit the coast on May 26. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)bulletin, a low pressure area has formed over east-central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. “It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over east-central Bay of Bengal by Sunday morning. The system may intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 (Monday) and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours,” says the bulletin. As per the prediction, it would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around May 26 morning. Analysing the track of the system, the State government has forecast that 14 districts could be impacted. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik held a high level preparatory meeting attended by top officials and collectors and superintendents of police of the districts through video conferencing on Saturday. “Odisha has expertise in managing disasters as it faces cyclone every year. The situation has got further complicated due to COVID epidemic. Considering the situation, the administration will remain fully prepared and ensure a flawless preparation process,” said Mr. Patnaik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-gears-up-to-face-cyclone-yaas/article34625004.ece
23 May 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Call for action to protect Odisha tribes||Activists and writers have urged the Odisha government to take immediate steps to the prevent loss of lives among Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) like the Dongria Kondh and Bonda due to COVID-19. In a petition addressed to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, over 70 intellectuals expressed their concerns over rising COVID-19 positive cases among PVTGs. They said home quarantine as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19, as suggested by the State government, would not work as privacy and isolation hardly exist within communities in tribal culture. Requesting the government to protect the lives of PVTGs, they proposed the government set up quarantine centres exclusively for tribals within 2 km of their settlements. “Door to door surveys must be done by a team of trained local volunteers from villages for regular monitoring of symptoms, and reporting to quarantine centres for any suspected cases,” said Prafulla Samantara, recipient of Goldman Environmental Prize, who is known for his work with Dongria Kondhs. “All the Dongria and Bonda families must be provided with a special livelihood relief package as compensation for their agriculture and minor forest produce (MFP), which they cannot sell in the local markets that are non-functional due to the prolonged shutdown or lockdown,” said Lingaraj Azad, convenor of Niyamgiri Surakhya Samiti. Activists demanded the distribution of health kits comprising of three layered masks, necessary medicines and vitamins. They laid emphasis on upgradation of all primary health centres located in tribal areas on a war footing, and provisioning of manpower, medical equipment, medicines and other infrastructure. More than 100 tribals among 10 out of 13 PVTGs have been affected by COVID-19. Legislators of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, too, appealed to the Odisha CM to take steps to prevent further spread of COVID-19 in tribal pockets and villages. Meanwhile, the State Schedule Tribe and Scheduled Caste Development Department directed its field level functionaries that, in the absence of proper quarantine facilities at home for PVTGs, affected persons should be facilitated to stay in suitable institutional quarantine for a period as prescribed by local authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-for-action-to-protect-odisha-tribes/article34625013.ece
23 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Public resistance to NSCN growing in northeast India||The only faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) out of the peace process with New Delhi appears to be losing local support in the northeast. On May 16, people in Arunachal Pradesh’s Longding district thrashed four members of the NSCN (Khaplang-Yung Aung), forcing them to release a villager they had kept hostage in Maihwa village. Two of the NSCN (K-YA) men were later handed over to the security forces. Miles to the east in Nagaland’s Mon district, the Konyak Union had on May 12 reaffirmed its decision to not pay “tax” to any group unless they unite for the Naga cause. It was a politically correct way of defying the NSCN (K-YA), the most active of the NSCN groups in the district bordering Myanmar. A couple of days ago, public pressure made the outfit release two local labourers its members had abducted in Arunachal Pradesh for reasons not specified. Fighters from the Konyak community in Nagaland and the Wanchos of Arunachal Pradesh once largely comprised the “Indian” Nagas in the NSCN (Khaplang) group based out of at least five camps — Haukyat, Khanmoi, Lohan, Kamai and Pangsau — in Myanmar’s Sagaing Division. According to the security forces operating along the Myanmar border, there are about 60 Konyaks and Wanchos left in the NSCN (K-YA) that has about 350 cadres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/public-resistance-to-nscn-growing-in-northeast-india/article34625250.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,||‘Age no barrier for students to foray into robotics’||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu , hosted two webinars yesterday, as part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021. The first, A Career in Robotics: Current Trends and Future Prospects, was moderated by Anand Venkateswaran. Opening the session, Prof. Sanjay Goel, Director, Institute of Engineering and Technology, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur, pointed out that robotics is not just fun, but a necessity. “We have a larger population that needs a better quality of life at a cheaper rate. If we want to be globally competitive and relevant, we will have to adapt to this technology,” he said, adding that robotics is becoming relevant in fields such as Farming, Healthcare, and Education. Sneha Priya, co-founder and CEO, SP Robotics Work spoke about her foray into the field and said that there was no age barrier for students to take the plunge. Children of 12 years can be taught a mix of the mechanical, electronic, and programming aspects. “We expose kids to Robotics, AI, virtual reality, and programming to not only help them master their field of interest but also choose it.” One of the preferred ways of learning Robotics is through Mechatronics Engineering, which is an interdisciplinary and concurrent approach of designing systems, said R. Senthilnathan, Associate Professor, Department of Mechatronics Engineering, SRMIST. He advised students who wanted to study Robotics to look for institutes with laboratory infrastructure, faculty who are roboticists, interdisciplinary curriculum that emphasised lab practice, student-driven robotics club, participation in competitions, and entrepreneurship incubation facilities among others. The second session on Challenges for Entrepreneurship in the New Normal, moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, discussed upcoming trends and opportunities. Siddharth Chaturvedi, Executive VP, AISECT Group, emphasised the importance of teaching entrepreneurship in school, as it helps hone collaborative and public-speaking skills, collect and analyse date, use social media as an advocacy tool, and solve complex problems that don’t have a definitive answer. “Promote entrepreneurship culture in and around the campus by providing multiple platforms to budding entrepreneurs to improve upon their business models and be mentored by successful entrepreneurs,” he urged. Drawing from his own experiences, Hari Krishnan Nair, co-founder, Great Learning, stressed that this was the age of opportunity. “Entrepreneurship is a marathon, not a sprint. There are no shortcuts and overnight successes. You cannot do it by yourself. Teams build great companies; not individuals. Apart from family, friends, look for existing support ecosystems such as technology cells, incubation centres, etc.” Ananth Kumar, VP, SRM Innovation and Incubation Centre, emphasised that failure was an integral part of entrepreneurship. Despite the many stories of school dropouts making it big, he said that formal education was important. “Whether learning happens online or offline, it will help reduce assumptions about the field. Take systematic steps with well-defined processes. Be open to asking for help to address concerns,” he advised. Both sessions ended with speakers taking questions from the audience. Those who missed the webinars can view them at https://bit.ly/2RxvimS and https://bit.ly/2SiROjn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/age-no-barrier-for-students-to-foray-into-robotics/article34624982.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Digital media told to remove mention of ‘Indian variant’||The government has asked social media companies to immediately remove any content on their platforms which mentions or refers to the term ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus, in a bid to curb spread of misinformation around COVID-19. Digital platforms said they have received the latest advisory. On Friday, the IT Ministry wrote to all social media platforms emphasising that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not associated the term “Indian Variant” with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports. A notice issued in this regard by the Ministry states that a “false statement” is being circulated online that implies that an ‘Indian variant’ of the coronavirus is spreading across the countries. The IT Ministry said the matter has already been clarified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on May 12, 2021 through a press statement. The social media platforms have been asked to “remove all the content that names, refers to, or implies ‘Indian variant’ of corona virus from your platform immediately”. Previously, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had issued advisories regarding curbing of false news/misinformation concerning coronavirus on social media platforms. India is one of the biggest markets for digital platforms like Google, Facebook, and Twitter. As per data cited by the government, recently, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, while 21 crore use Instagram and 1.75 crore are on Twitter. Earlier this year, the government had introduced guidelines to curb the misuse of social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-media-told-to-remove-mention-of-indian-variant/article34624993.ece
23 May 2021||Patna,||AIIMS-Patna doctors threaten to go on strike from tomorrow||At a time when COVID-19 cases are surging in Bihar, resident doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, have threatened to go on strike from May 24 if their demands are not met by the authorities. The doctors had demanded that at least 20 beds in the COVID-19 ward and two or three in the ICU be reserved for them and their family members. “Besides, as per Central guidelines, we had also demanded that we be allowed to remain eight days in quarantine after eight days of COVID-19 duty,” said Vinay Kumar, president, AIIMS Patna Doctors Association. Dr. Kumar said he informed the hospital director, P.K. Singh, about the association’s decision through a letter. “The doctors at AIIMS Patna attend to 50-60 COVID-19 patients daily, which increases chances of their infection, so we’ve been raising our demands for nearly a month but to no avail”, Dr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-patna-doctors-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-tomorrow/article34625000.ece
23 May 2021||Kolkata,||Control rooms and rescue shelters set up in West Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday reviewed the disaster management preparedness for the impending Cyclone Yaas, likely to hit the State. “I have extensively reviewed the Disaster Management preparedness with regards to the impending Yaas cyclone today afternoon with all senior officers of relevant Central & State agencies along with DMs & SPs. All officials have been advised integrated command, advance planning & early evacuation from coastal & riverine areas to rescue shelters including cyclone & flood shelters, and to conduct relief and rehabilitation operations at the earliest,” Ms. Banerjee said in a series of tweets. The Chief Minister added that fishermen have been advised to return from the seas and pointed out that a “24x7 control rooms had been set up (Ph No - 1070 & 033-22143526).” The low pressure that has formed over East Central Bay of Bengal is likely to concentrate into a depression over East Central Bay of Bengal, the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore said in a press statement on Saturday. “It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify into a Cyclonic Storm by 24th May and further into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It will continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach North Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha &Bangladesh coasts around 26th May morning,” a statement from the Indian Meteorological Department said. The cyclone is “very likely to cross West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha & Bangladesh coasts around evening of 26th May”. The weather office has predicted light to moderate rainfall at most places, with heavy falls at isolated places very likely to commence over coastal districts from May 25, with significant increase in spatial extension and intensity subsequently. There is also a prediction that squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph, gusting 60 kmph, is very likely over North Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts from Monday evening. It is likely to increase gradually to 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph by Tuesday evening. “It will increase to gale wind speed 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph from 26th early hours along and off West Bengal & adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/control-rooms-and-rescue-shelters-set-up-in-west-bengal/article34625014.ece
23 May 2021||Guwahati,||ULFA-I releases abducted ONGC employee in Nagaland||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) on May 22 released an employee of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation abducted from an oil rig in Assam a month ago. An Army spokesperson said ONGC junior technician Ritul Saikia was released at Lungwa village in Nagaland’s Mon district on the India-Myanmar border. A joint team of army and State police escorted him to district headquarters Mon. Five gunmen had abducted Mr. Saikia and two other ONGC employees from the oil rig in Charaideo district on April 21. Junior technician Mohini Mohan Gogoi and junior engineering assistant Alakesh Saikia – were rescued after an encounter near the Myanmar border on April 24. Following the encounter, the ULFA-I had said the Indian armed forces had in “all probability” killed the junior technician. However, it transpired later that the outfit was keeping him hostage. Mr. Saikia was released two days after Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma appealed to ULFA-I “commander-in-chief” Paresh Baruah to release him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ulfa-i-releases-abducted-ongc-employee-in-nagaland/article34625017.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,||Narasimhan, math scientist, is no more||Mudumbai Seshachulu Narasimhan, a towering figure in Indian science, passed away on May 15 in Bengaluru; he would have turned 89 on June 7. He was a world-renowned mathematician of extraordinary breadth and depth, who made fundamental contributions to diverse fields in mathematics such as algebraic geometry, differential geometry, representation theory and partial differential equations. Born in 1932 in a family of agriculturalists in Tandarai village in northern Tamil Nadu, Narasimhan had a keen interest in mathematics from his school days. In an interview with mathematician Sujatha Ramdorai for Asia Pacific Mathematics Newsletter , he said that when he was 12, he was fascinated by Euclid and solving “riders,” thinking for oneself. When asked about the moments he cherished in his life, his answer was: “The best moments, I think, were the times I spent as a student with Father Racine, K. Chandrasekharan and L Schwartz, which shaped my approach to mathematics and my mathematics career.” In Loyola College, Chennai, Father Racine, a Jesuit priest and a student of Elie Cartan, noticed the talent of young Narasimhan and asked him to take up higher studies in mathematics at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in Mumbai, where a school of mathematics had just been founded by K. Chandrasekharan. Narasimhan went to TIFR for his PhD in 1953 and among his co-students was C.S. Seshadri, with whom he went on to collaborate closely. Narasimhan and Seshadri shot to fame in 1965 with the publication of the Narasimhan-Seshadri theorem, which makes a deep and unexpected connection between two different areas of modern mathematics. This and the Harder-Narasimhan filtration (which was discovered later with German mathematician G. Harder) have been generalised and stand as fundamental examples of paradigms with wide applicability. TIFR career   Narasimhan was with the mathematics department at TIFR for the large part of his career. From 1992-1999, he was head of the Mathematics group at the International Centre for Theoretical Physics at Trieste, Italy, and then moved to Bengaluru, where he resided. He won the S.S. Bhatnagar prize in 1975, Third World Academy award for mathematics in 1987, Padma Bhushan in 1990, Fellow of the Royal Society and King Faisal International Prize for Science in 2006 (jointly with Simon Donaldson, Imperial College). Narasimhan was married to Sakuntala Narasimhan, a musician, journalist and consumer advocate. Their daughter and physicist Shobhana Narasimhan is at JNCASR, Bengaluru, and son Mohan is a management professional in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narasimhan-math-scientist-is-no-more/article34625021.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC for vaccine PSUs revival to ramp up COVID-19 inoculation||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court to revive the vaccine public sector units considering the dire need to ramp up the COVID-19 immunisation and utilise their full production capabilities by placement of purchase orders. The petition filed by Amulya Ratna Nanda, IAS (retired), All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), Low Cost Standard Therapeutics (LOCOST) and Medico Friend Circle, represented by advocate Satya Mitra, urged the court to push the ‘reluctant’ Union to put these PSUs to use in the time of dire need, especially after public funds were once spent to make them Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) compliant. The petition said these PSUs, once revived, should be granted “full autonomy” as envisaged in the Javid Chowdhary report of 2010 to ensure their complete revival and smooth functioning in the future. Steps should be immediately taken “to revive vaccine PSUs by ensuring issuance of production licences to the remaining GMP compliant vaccine PSUs to utilise them for manufacturing all mass vaccination programmes including COVID-19 vaccine to meet on-going demand influx”. “No PSUs should be excluded from producing any vaccine or from government vaccine procurement, as long as quality and affordability are ensured,” the petition submitted. It referred to an order of the Supreme Court in October 2016 based on an earlier petition. In that hearing, the government had agreed to take action to revive the PSUs. “Unfortunately, that has not happened and these vaccine manufacturing facilities that were catering to 80-85% of the demand prior to their suspension continued to languish wastefully despite their modernisation and capacity expansion. This is acutely felt in the present times,” the petition said. Oldest PSUs “India is home to the oldest vaccine PSUs, with 25 of them set up under the British Raj. By 1980s, 29 PSUs were set up with the sole objective of self-reliance and self-sufficiency in vaccine production for the Universal Immunisation Programme introduced in 1986 to prevent mortality and morbidity amongst children in India as part of the global effort by the World Health Organisation,” the petition informed. According to the petition, following the liberalisation and privatisation policies, 17 PSUs were shut down by 2005. By 2007, only seven PSUs remained operational, it said. Two of these are State level PSUs and five Central level PSUs. Kings Institute of Preventive Medicine (KIPM, Chennai), a State level PSU, has not produced any vaccines in the past two decades. The only functional State level PSUs today is the Haffkine Institute and its commercial arm, Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., (HBPCL) in Mumbai. The Central level PSUs are the Bharat Biologicals and Immunologicals Ltd, the Indian Institute of Immunologicals, the Central Research Institute (CRI) in Kasauli, the Pasteur Institute of India (PII) in Coonoor and the BCG Vaccine Laboratory (BCGVL) in Chennai, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-for-vaccine-psus-revival-to-ramp-up-covid-19-inoculation/article34624996.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||ONGC’s negligence led to tragedy: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Saturday held the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) responsible for the death of several personnel of the barge that sank off the Mumbai coast, and sought to know if Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan would resign owning moral responsibility of the tragedy. In an editorial in its mouthpieceSaamana, the party said the deaths were not caused due to a natural disaster, but it was a case of culpable homicide as ONGC did not take the cyclone warnings seriously. “Warning of the cyclone was given well in advance, but the ONGC ignored it and did not recall the 700 workers on the barge,” the Sena said in the editorial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ongcs-negligence-led-to-tragedy-shiv-sena/article34625578.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Ensure supply of black fungus medicines’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urged him to ensure that there is adequate production of essential medicines for the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) and also that people affected by it get free care. The Centre had asked the States to declare mucormycosis an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Insurance cover Ms. Gandhi pointed out that there was an acute shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B, which is key for treatment of the disease. “Further, the illness is not covered in Ayushman Bharat and other health insurance products,” she wrote. She asked Mr. Modi to take immediate action on the matter for the relief of the large number of patients afflicted by the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-supply-of-black-fungus-medicines/article34625002.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||How can only captain be responsible, asks BJP||A day after an FIR was registered against the captain and others of the Barge P305 that sunk in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae, the BJP on Saturday questioned whether the captain was being made a scapegoat. “How can only captain be held responsible for this tragedy? The contractor company should be held responsible. This company must face action for being responsible for homicide,” said BJP leader and MLA Ashish Shelar. Mr. Shelar claimed that the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were playing politics by demanding the resignation of the Central Minister Dharmendra Pradhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-can-only-captain-be-responsible-asks-bjp/article34624975.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal politics comes full circle||Similar arguments have been made at least two other BJP MLAs — Anandamoy Barman from Matigara Naxalabari and Chandana Bauri from Saltora in Bankura. A section of political observers, however, said the reason to refuse central security is because the MLAs do not want to be under surveillance. Mr. Ghosh, though said his decision had nothing to do with evading the surveillance of central forces. A crucial aspect of the BJP’s rise in West Bengal is that the rank and file is full of leaders from other parties and the party will find it difficult to keep its flock together while in Opposition. Nearly 30 MLAs had joined the BJP, mostly from Trinamool Congress just months or even weeks before the Assembly polls. The BJP gave tickets to most of them, but many lost the elections. Since then leaders like former TMC Minister Rajib Banerjee, former MLAs Prabir Ghosal and Vaishali Dalmiya, have stayed away from the public eye. On Saturday, four-term MLA Sonali Guha, who had joined BJP on March 8 after she was denied a TMC ticket, wrote an apology to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and requested that she be allowed to return to the party. “Just like a fish cannot stay out of water, I will not be able to live without you. ‘Didi’, I seek your forgiveness and if you don’t forgive me, I won’t be able to live. Please allow me to come back and spend the rest of my life in your affection,” Ms. Guha wrote in a letter addressed to the Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-politics-comes-full-circle/article34624983.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||18 mn Sputnik doses to be on tap by August||This includes ready-to-use direct exports, followed by bulk exports or what are called “fill and finish mode” and then a “transfer-of technology” so Indian companies, most notably Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories can produce the vaccine in India. “The Russian side has also proposed Sputnik Light for which the regulatory approvals are not completed. But once they are, they will be one more area of cooperation,” Mr. Verma added, referring to the less effective, but easier to produce version of the Sputnik-V developed by the Gemalaya Lab in Russia, which could be used in conjunction with the other vaccines to try and deliver some measure of protection for a larger population. According to the Indian Ambassador, Russia has already shipped 2,10,000 Sputnik vaccines of a total of 3 million due to arrive in the month of May, followed by 5 million in June and 10 million in July. In August, RDIF is expected to transfer technology to India to start the manufacture here. In addition, the government has already begun the process of vetting the Sputnik Light vaccine for clearances, and sources said a high-level meeting last week had taken a “positive view” of the single-dose vaccine, which has been shortlisted for further review. In Russian clinical trials the Light version reportedly showed an “79.4%” efficacy as opposed to the Sputnik-V two-dose vaccine that claimed a “91.4%” efficacy, RDIF statements said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-mn-sputnik-doses-to-be-on-tap-by-august/article34624984.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 2 lakh new COVID cases in last 24 hours||Among major States, in Tamil Nadu both average daily tests and average daily TPR are increasing, suggesting that testing needs to be augmented to capture more infections. In Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, the average daily TPR is showing signs of plateauing. However, the average number of daily tests being conducted in these States has also reduced since the first week of May. This is not an optimal strategy for the States as reported infections have been kept low due to low testing and an “artificial” peaking of cases has been depicted. The average daily tests in Andhra Pradesh have increased marginally over the past few days. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Tripura and Lakshadweep. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-2-lakh-new-covid-cases-in-last-24-hours/article34624985.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepal House dissolved, mid-term polls in Nov.||The move followed a notice from the Office of the President which said it could appoint neither Mr. Oli nor Nepali Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba as their claims to form government were insufficient. With four lawmakers in the 275-member House of Representatives dismissed by their party after they chose to be part of another party, a prime ministerial candidate requires the support of at least 136 lawmakers to form government. Interestingly, both Mr. Oli and Mr. Deuba had claimed the support of some lawmakers, whose names were included in both lists, according to Nepalese media reports. This is the second time the President has dissolved Parliament on the recommendation of Mr. Oli following a political crisis. She dissolved Parliament on December 20 but it was reinstated by the SC in February. Nepal’s political crisis had taken a dramatic turn on Friday as Mr. Oli and the Opposition parties staked separate claims for the formation of government by submitting letters of support to the President. Mr. Oli reached the President’s Office and presented his list, a couple of minutes ahead of the Opposition leaders. He was the first to declare that he had the support of 153 lawmakers of the House of Representatives, a day after recommending to the President to initiate the process for the formation of a new government, citing that he does not have adequate support to go through another floor test. The letter he submitted had the signatures of Janata Samajbadi Party-Nepal chair Mahanta Thakur and party’s parliamentary party leader Rajendra Mahato. Likewise, Nepali Congress president Deuba along with other leaders of the Opposition alliance reached Shital Niwas with signatures of 149 lawmakers including 27 lawmakers from the Khanal-Nepal faction of the CPN-UML.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-house-dissolved-mid-term-polls-in-nov/article34624986.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on ‘COVID-19 and children’ on May 24||A webinar on “COVID-19 and children” will be hosted at 5 p.m. on May 24 as part of The Hindu Wellness series. Presented by Kauvery Hospital, the webinar will focus on COVID-19 and its impact on children, precautions, treatment and the way forward on vaccination for children. The panelists include D. Senguttuvan, Chief Consultant Pediatrician, and D. Suresh Chelliah, Senior Consultant Pediatrician, Kauvery Hospital, Trichy and Janani Sankar, Senior Consultant Pediatrician, Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, Chennai. Zubeda Hamid, Special Correspondent, The Hindu, will be the moderator. Participants may register through bit.ly/KAUTHE3 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-covid-19-and-children-on-may-24/article34625010.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Yaas may become a very severe cyclonic storm’||“It is very likely to cross West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around the evening of 26th May,” the IMD added. Last week, extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Gujarat coast and left a trail of destruction all over the western coast. As it weakened further, its impact was felt across the north Indian plains and even in the hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The April-May and the October-December periods are also known to witness cyclones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yaas-may-become-a-very-severe-cyclonic-storm/article34624988.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||Music director Raamlaxman passes away||Veteran music director Raamlaxman, best known for his work on Rajshri Productions’ blockbuster movies — Maine Pyar Kiya , Hum Aapke Hain Koun..! and Hum Saath Saath Hain — died due to a cardiac arrest. He was 78. The composer, whose real name was Vijay Patil, passed away at his residence in Nagpur in the early hours of Saturday, his son Amar said. “He had taken the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, six days ago. There was no problem at that time... But when he came home he developed weakness. His parameters were dropping. Doctors were attending at home. He passed away at around 2 a.m. on Saturday. He had a cardiac arrest,” Mr. Amar told PTI. Patil, known to cinema aficionados as ‘Laxman’ of the composer duo ‘Raam-Laxman’, started his journey in films with Marathi actor-comedian Dada Kondke’s 1975 film Pandu Hawaldar . He composed the music for the movie with his collaborator Surendra under the name Raam-Laxman. Surendra passed away in 1976, but Patil continued to compose under the same name, slightly changing it to Raamlaxman. Patil took his initial lessons in music from his father and uncle. He later studied music at the Bhatkhande Shikshan Sanstha. In his over four decades-long career, he composed music for more than 150 films in Hindi, Marathi and Bhojpuri, and worked with directors such as Manmohan Desai, Mahesh Bhatt, G.P. Sippy, Anil Ganguly and Sooraj Barjatya. Some of his other memorable works are Agent Vinod , 100 Days , Anmol , Tarana , Patthar Ke Phool, Hum Se Badhkar Kaun .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/music-director-raamlaxman-passes-away/article34624978.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Test positivity rate drops to 3.58% in Delhi||Delhi reported 2,260 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,15,219, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the lowest number of daily new cases in more than 50 days. The last time the new cases were less than this was on March 31, when 1,819 cases were reported. The national capital also reported 182 deaths. A total of 63,155 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. The test positivity rate was 3.58%. The last time the TPR was less than this was on April 1 (3.57%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/test-positivity-rate-drops-to-358-in-delhi/article34624997.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre must act against Ramdev: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday demanded that the Health Ministry take strong action against yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly misleading the public through his statements. In a statement, the Association said that Ramdev should be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as “untutored” statements are “a threat to the literate society of the country as well as to the poor people falling prey to him.” “Ramdev deserves to be prosecuted for causing danger to the lives of many by making them believe to not to take the advice of allopathy doctors. If the Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is not taking suo moto action, we will be forced to resort to democratic means of struggle to propagate the truth to the common man and knock on the doors of the judiciary to get justice,” the Association noted. Stating that Ramdev is creating fear and frustration among the public, the IMA said that taking people for ransom and winning business by defaming scientific medicine are unpardonable offences. The Association, citing a video circulating on social media, said Ramdev is seen saying that “ allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalilya science hai … (allopathy is such a stupid science)”. The yoga guru also says “lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines,” the Association said It alleged that Ramdev was trying to take advantage of the situation and is creating a sense of fear and frustration among the people at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-must-act-against-ramdev-ima/article34625005.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||Hold off arrest of Param Bir Singh, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to not arrest former police commissioner Param Bir Singh till May 24 in the atrocities case filed against him. A Division Bench of justices S.J. Kathawalla and SP Tavade heard all 61 matters listed before them till midnight and said, “Since we would cease to be vacation judges at the stroke of 12 a.m. so we adjourn the hearing to May 24.” The court was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Singh seeking to quash the FIR filed against him at Bazzar Peth Police Station Kalyan and it is also registered at Akola. The plea states, “The FIR refers to an event of 2015 and is belatedly registered after having failed to pressurise him to withdraw his complaint against former home minister Anil Deshmukh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hold-off-arrest-of-param-bir-singh-says-hc/article34625015.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Extend workplace vaccination to dependents, family members: Health Ministry||The Centre on Saturday said that the vaccination drive at workplaces could be extended to all employees as well as their dependants and family members. The notification, issued by Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, National Health Mission, Health Ministry, stated that for vaccinating beneficiaries in industrial and private vaccination centres, the vaccine doses would have to be procured by private hospitals with which the employers tie up for the inoculation drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extend-workplace-vaccination-to-dependents-family-members-health-ministry/article34625006.ece
23 May 2021||Srinagar,||Chargesheet against 3 Hizb militants filed in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday filed a chargesheet against three Hizbul Mujahideen militants for “providing logistics support and organising shelter for the terrorists involved in multiple terrorist incidents” in the Chenab Valley. An NIA spokesman said the chargesheet was filed before a special NIA court, Jammu, in a case related to the snatching of service weapon of the escort in-charge of the Deputy Commissioner, Kishtwar, in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chargesheet-against-3-hizb-militants-filed-in-jk/article34625011.ece
23 May 2021||Kolkata,||Stop release of funds to W.B. under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, State BJP chief urges Modi||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre not to release any funds under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi without proper checking and verification of data approved by the State. “The beneficiary list verified by the State Government needs thorough checking &verification at the level of Union Government so that any genuine beneficiary is not excluded from the benefits,” Mr. Ghosh said in a letter to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-release-of-funds-to-wb-under-pm-kisan-samman-nidhi-state-bjp-chief-urges-modi/article34625019.ece
23 May 2021||B. Tilak ChandarDindigul,TAMIL NADU||Restaurateur distributes ‘biryani’ to the needy||A stall outside the popular restaurant ‘Mujib Biryani’ near Dindigul bus stand caters to the needy persons. People can pick up biryani packets and variety rice packets from the stall free of cost. After having seen many people go hungry during the COVID-19 lockdown imposed last year, K. Sheik Mujibur Rahman, the owner of the restaurant, said that he decided to put up the stall. He said that nobody expected the second wave of the COVID-19 to be this severe. In order to ensure that needy people do not go hungry, he said that he keeps the food packets at the stall. People could come and pick them up. The restaurant keeps at least 150 food packets a day, he said. The pandemic had taught everyone a lesson and he wanted to reach out to the needy as many of them were suffering financially. He also engages a group of volunteers with the help of his family members and friends to distribute food packets. Recently, he and his team distributed biryani packets to the differently abled in the town. After learning about his service, he has been receiving calls from residents who have also decided to join the venture. He supplies the food packets to the residents who in turn distribute the food packets to the needy. The pandemic has changed their lives, he said and added that he and his team were happy to serve the needy people. He has started giving food packets free of cost to the family of COVID-19 patients at their houses by following the safety protocol. He continues to run his biryani business and sells a good number of food parcels every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restaurateur-distributes-biryani-to-the-needy/article34625569.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman operates oxygen auto outside Chennai hospital||On May 1, R. Seetha Devi, 36, waited outside the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) to admit her 65-year-old mother, who had tested positive for COVID-19. After many hours, they managed to get her admitted to the Government Stanley Hospital, but she died. To prevent others from struggling like her mother, Ms. Seetha Devi has started an autorickshaw oxygen service outside the RGGGH, where her mother waited for hours. “My mother R. Vijaya, who was under dialysis, would have been saved had we got oxygen on time. However, in the first week of May, there were many patients outside the RGGGH, which was over-burdened. Hence, I decided to start this oxygen auto service,” explains Ms. Seetha Devi, who runs an NGO called Street Vision Social Charitable Trust. It renders help to transgenders, HIV-affected women and children and provides free tuition to children in slums. “We have an autorickshaw that was used to rescue homeless people as part of ‘Kaval Karangal’. I fitted it with oxygen cylinders and started the service on May 6. In case someone needs oxygen immediately, my volunteers, wearing PPE suits, seat in the vehicle and provide oxygen,” she said. She has helped 300 persons so far. “Recently a lady was brought with very low oxygen levels. I made her sit and after her levels improved, she managed to get admission to an ICU ward at the RGGGH. The family was very thankful. She reminded me of my mother,” Ms. Seetha Devi said.  Transporting patients She also transports patients, recommended by doctors at the RGGGH, to other hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. Lingaraj from Kundrathur, who was saved with the help of the oxygen auto on Saturday, said he was indebted to Ms. Seetha. “My oxygen levels dropped to 72%, but I was made to sit in the autorickshaw and I was given oxygen. It increased to 92%,” he said. Ms. Seetha Devi added that she would be happy to help more people. “I am planning to get more autorickshaws and fit them with oxygen cylinders. But I am struggling for money,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-operates-oxygen-auto-outside-chennai-hospital/article34625188.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu market to be open today||As the State government has extended the lockdown till May 31 with stringent restrictions, the Koyambedu market will function on Sunday to enable retailers to buy perishable goods. As Sundays were declared weekly holidays because of the pandemic, it has led to confusion about the availability of sufficient produce. Wholesale traders expect a shortage in arrivals as many did not source produce owing to the scheduled holiday. The Koyambedu market became busy by Saturday afternoon as retailers rushed to make purchases after fresh restrictions were announced. S. Chandran, a wholesale merchant, said business was dull till noon. However, the market witnessed a surge in the number of retailers from afternoon as many wanted to stock up on vegetables. “We usually have nearly 40%-50% of the stock left from the day’s business. On Saturday, most of the remaining stock was sold out,” he said. The sudden demand for vegetables also led to an increase in prices. Wholesale traders raised doubts about the decision to shut vegetable and fruits shops during the lockdown. Uncertainty prevails There was also uncertainty over the functioning of the market from Monday as traders complained that they were yet to be informed or consulted on the issue. G.D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Periyar Market, said that on average, the market received about 5,000 tonnes of vegetables daily from various areas of the State and other parts of the country. “If the wholesale market is shut, the city may experience a shortage. We cannot function when retail shops are closed, and this will also affect farmers who have already been hit,” he said. On Sunday, there could be more demand. However, only 40%-50% of the trucks were expected to arrive. Prices could soar further owing to this, he added. Officials of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee said that the wholesale market would function till Sunday evening. However, a decision was yet to be taken on the operation of the market starting Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-market-to-be-open-today/article34625166.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People are treating lockdown like holiday, says Chief Minister||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said COVID-19 could be brought to an end only if people vowed “not to get infected and spread it to others”. “Though people express fear about the disease in their conversations, it is not getting reflected in their activities. There is a need to warn them,” he said, addressing a COVID-19 consultative panel of MLAs from all parties at the Secretariat. Mr. Stalin said that though a total lockdown had been imposed for the benefit of the people and to save their lives, it was a matter of great concern that some people had not realised its seriousness. “Some are treating the lockdown as a holiday and are roaming around. They are not realising that it is a pandemic and not a holiday,” he said. Explaining that some relaxations had been introduced to allow people to buy essentials and vegetables, the Chief Minister said some people had taken advantage of them to venture out. “The police have advised people not to roam around, but their advice is not heeded to,” he said. He said invaluable lives were lost in the last year, and there was uncertainty over the future of families who had lost their loved ones. “We have to put an end to these deaths,” he said The Chief Minister said medical professionals, nurses and frontline workers were undergoing untold suffering and a lot of doctors had succumbed to the infection.  “The Medical Department is going through great mental strain. Medical professionals are working unmindful of the threat to their lives. We cannot afford to subject them to more pressure,” he said. He said school and college students were also facing a crisis. “Holidays were treated with joy once. Now they are a pain. They may be depressed. How long can we keep schools and colleges shut? We have to secure their education and future soon,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that though the infection rate had come down, it was not under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-are-treating-lockdown-like-holiday-says-chief-minister/article34625181.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin launches vaccination programme for differently abled||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched COVID-19 vaccination programme for the differently-abled in Chennai, and 26 persons were vaccinated at a marriage hall on T.T.K. Road. A State government press release said arrangements had been made for the benefit of differently-abled people in the vaccination centres run by the Greater Chennai Corporation so that they need not have to wait. Differently-abled persons could register their names through 18004250111 and 9700799993, and they would be informed about the time and place of vaccination. “In the case of those who cannot move out of their homes, arrangements have been made to vaccinate them at their place. They can register their names through the above numbers. Medical officials and nurses will visit their place to study the situation. They will be vaccinated at their place through the nearby centre,” the government said. The programme was attended by Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian, HR & CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and South Chennai MP Tamizhachi Thangapandian. Covid care centre In another development, Mr. Stalin inaugurated a COVID-19 temporary treatment centre at the Wesley Higher Secondary School in Royapettah, Chennai. “The centre has 136 beds with oxygen facilities. The air-conditioned centre will be managed by the Government Royapettah Hospital,” said Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian. Every bed in the facility will have a fan, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-vaccination-for-differently-abled-persons-in-tn/article34625199.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Night Safari’ plan revived at Vandalur, activists raise concerns||The ‘Night Safari’ at Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur is being revived, and with it comes the debate on whether it is good or bad for the animals in captivity. Wildlife activists feel the government should focus on overall ecological development rather than spending on such tourism programmes. While the original proposal was mooted in the last DMK regime around 2007, the AIADMK government, led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami, revived the plan after 10 years and now the forest top brass is pushing for its implementation with the new DMK government, in public-private partnership (PPP) mode, much to the disquiet of activists here. According to sources in Panagal Maligai, the headquarters of the Forest Department, the AIADMK government had approved it and it was being hurriedly pushed through for private investment. According to the proposal, a ‘Safari World’ on 64 hectares and ‘Night Safari’ on 124 hectares would be developed, among other things. The Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation Limited had invited international competitive bidding proposals. While it is being touted as the first of its kind in the country, activists say it could change the behavioural pattern of animals. “Disturbing the animals at night will increase their stress levels,” said an activist, unwilling to be named. “Even humans working in night shifts face problems. People visiting in vehicles with headlights on or with torches will definitely be harmful to the animals,” he added. Preston Ahimaz, naturalist and consultant, said the animals would be slightly traumatised but would adapt as they were not free ranging and were used to artificial conditions. “But the question is if this investment is worth it. This is not going to benefit the animals or the zoo,” he said. Besides, he felt that there should be a long gap between cessation of COVID-19 and starting this programme. Activists say there are chances of spread of zoonotic diseases though some forest officials say the project could enhance tourism in the city. A retired forest officer said Vandalur zoo was set up to create awareness among the people. “Any huge investment on night safari during a pandemic is not worth it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/night-safari-plan-revived-at-vandalur-activists-raise-concerns/article34625170.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Anna varsity re-exam will set a wrong precedent’||Eminent academic and former Member of the Union Public Service Commission E. Balagurusamy has written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, saying that conducting a re-examination for B.E./B.Tech students by Anna University would set a wrong precedent. While expressing happiness that K. Ponmudi, an “experienced academic administrator”, was appointed Minister for Higher Education, he pointed out that the Minister’s decision to order a re-examination was not well- founded. “There were no irregularities in the conduct of proctored online exam by Anna University. The exam was designed, developed and administered by a team of online assessment experts using relevant AI-based proctoring software as per international standards. The Minister’s statement of irregularities would grossly undermine the reputation of an internationally acclaimed university,” said Prof. Balagurusamy, a former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University. The only issue, he said, was a delay in processing of “malpractice cases” as over 50% of the candidates were involved. This delay cannot be termed as “irregular”. “Scheduling a re-exam based on the complaints from ‘failed’ students and changing the proctored online exam to an unsupervised one will set a wrong precedent,” he contended. According to Prof. Balagurusamy, the “so called online exams” conducted by other universities did not confirm to the definition and standards of online exam. It was unfortunate that a “reputed technical university” was being forced to follow this “unscientific and absurd online method”. Justifying the proctored online exam conducted by Anna University, he said that it helped prevent malpractices as an AI software could record the identity of students and flag any irregular physical movements, facial expressions or use of digital devices. “In the re-exam proposed by the Minister, students will download the question paper at their homes, write answers and then dispatch answer scripts by post... Since it is an unsupervised exam with no control on time, students are free to copy... How can we call this an exam? At best, it can be called an online ‘Home Assignment’,” he said. Such exams will lower the academic standards and affect the career prospects of good and bright students, he cautioned. Besides, as a university is an autonomous institution, the Education Minister cannot order a re-exam on his own. Citing adverse remarks passed by the Madras High Court, he urged the Chief Minister to replace the Secretary for the Higher Education Department.  The exam ination was designed, developed and administered by a team of online assessment experts using relevant AI-based proctoring software as per the international standards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-varsity-re-exam-will-set-a-wrong-precedent/article34625193.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to get more oxygen from Centre, Maharashtra||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the Tamil Nadu government had taken steps to get more oxygen from the Centre and Maharashtra as the regular supply from Odisha had been affected by Cyclone Tauktae. “I have written to Railways Minister Piyush Goyal for supply of 900 metric tonnes of oxygen, and the letter was personally handed over to him by DMK parliamentary party leader T.R Baalu. Mr. Goyal has promised supply,” he said, addressing a consultative panel of MLAs from all parties at the Secretariat. At present, Tamil Nadu is getting 100 metric tonnes of oxygen from Odisha on a regular basis, and two IAS officers are staying there to monitor the supply. The Centre has already increased the supply from 480 metric tonnes to 519 metric tonnes. “We have held talks with the Maharashtra government to get 900 metric tonnes of oxygen. It is under the government’s consideration. An IAS officer is in the State to oversee supply,” he said. Mr. Stalin said steps had been taken through TIDCO to manufacture oxygen, through a joint venture, and the Industries Department had made arrangements to import life-saving equipment, including oxygen concentrators, cylinders, regulators, flow metres and cryogenic tankers, at a cost of Rs. 40 crore. The government will buy 2,150 cylinders from Singapore through SIPCOT and another 1,000 through CII, besides 800 from Dubai, 975 from South Korea and 380 from Malaysia. Moreover, the Greater Chennai Corporation will buy 2,675 concentrators for Rs. 22 crore. Another 5,000 concentrators will be bought from Singapore at a cost of Rs. 20 crore, and 185 from Lebanon. Mr. Stalin said the Singapore Red Cross Society had come forward to supply 2,000 concentrators and the WHO 100. The government had also taken steps to buy 2,000 concentrators through a loan from the World Bank. He said the use of oxygen at government hospitals had come down because of optimisation. The Chief Minister said the government had announced a 30% grant for investment for companies ready to make oxygen concentrators and cylinders. Companies launched between January 1 and August 31 could get the grant. Companies that can manufacture 10 metric tonnes of oxygen before November 30 will also get a 30% grant. He said oxygen manufacturing had been planned at INOX in Hosur and SIGGILSOL in Ranipet at a cost of Rs. 100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-get-more-oxygen-from-centre-maharashtra/article34625183.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patients aged below 60 triaged at their doorsteps||The Greater Chennai Corporation carried out triaging of 29,000 patients at their doorsteps in the 15 zones of the city. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese shared information on social media about doorstep triaging and creating awareness among the residents of the initiative. COVID-19 patients below 60 years were triaged at their doorsteps by special medical teams of the Corporation, based on data compiled by local sanitary inspectors in each residential neighbourhood, officials said. Doorstep triaging was launched on May 13, screening a number of COVID-19 patients in zones such as Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar, Ambattur and Adyar. Officials said at least 251 doctors and 500 paramedical staff had been working daily to ensure early treatment for patients and to prevent complications. A few residents, who have completed home quarantine, complained to the Corporation about the absence of home triaging in their neighbourhoods. Officials said the initiative was launched only about 10 days ago and residents, who had tested positive after May 13, would get home triaging.  The Corporation has ensured early transfer of sick patients to tertiary facilities with the support of a system of special COVID-19 ambulances. On Saturday, oxygen support was introduced in the special ambulances, which were developed by modifying the vehicles of taxi operators. So far, around 200 cars have been modified. Over 8,000 patients had been transported by them and the introduction of 250 additional car ambulances was under consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patients-aged-below-60-triaged-at-their-doorsteps/article34625163.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ministers to oversee implementation of lockdown||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has designated ministers to ensure proper implementation of lockdown measures in 20 districts where COVID-19 infection was high and to coordinate disease prevention and treatment. A State government press release said Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian and Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu would be in charge of Chennai district. While Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan will handle Chengalpet district, Food Minister R. Chakrapani and Forest Minister K. Ramachandran will be in -charge of Coimbatore. Dairy Development Minister S.M. Nasar will handle Tiruvallur, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan and Commercial Taxes Minister P. Moorthy will be in-charge of Madurai. Thoothukudi would be monitored by Social Welfare Minister Geetha Jeevan and Fisheries Minister Anita R. Radhakrishnan; while Salem district will be supervised by Electricity Minister Senthil V. Balaji and Tiruchi by Local Administration Minister K.N. Nehru. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu will handle Tirunelveli; Housing Minister S. Muthsamy, Erode; PWD Minister E.Ve. Velu, Kancheepuram; Information Minister M.P. Saminathan, Tiruppur; and Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan,Vellore. Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi and Minorities Welfare Minister Gingee K.S. Mathan are in-charge of Villupuram and Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam and Labour Minister C.V. Ganesan will handle Cuddalore district. Environment Minister Siva V. Meyyanathan will handle Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts; Krishnagiri will be monitoried by Handloom Minister R. Gandhi; and Thanjavur by School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. Co-operatives Minister I. Periyasamy will supervise Theni district and Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj Kanniyakumari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-will-oversee-implementation-of-lockdown/article34625197.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable and fruit shops, markets are hotspots: official||The tightening of lockdown norms became necessary after vegetable and fruit shops and markets were turning into “spreaders” of COVID-19, according to a senior government official. Asked about the decision to shut them, the official said such shops and markets were among the four major contributors to the spread of the infection. The other three were workplaces, travel and social, religious and political gatherings. Manpower requirement The official added that even attenders of patients should be “curtailed drastically”. “This requires a significant increase in the number of medical and paramedical staff,” he said. Several residents of Chennai recalled that the government’s announcement on Saturday afternoon, giving limited time for people to buy vegetables and groceries ahead of the lockdown, was similar to what the government did last April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-and-fruit-shops-markets-are-hotspots-official/article34625178.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s COVID-19 toll crosses 20,000, fresh infections see a small dip||Tamil Nadu’s toll due to COVID-19 crossed the 20,000-mark on Saturday, as 448 more people succumbed to the infection. The State recorded a small dip in fresh infections, with 35,873 people testing positive for COVID-19. While fresh cases dipped to 5,559 in Chennai, Chengalpattu’s daily count dropped under 2,000 after nearly two weeks. The district recorded 1,954 cases. There were 3,165 cases in Coimbatore. In eight districts, the number of people who tested positive was over 1,000 — Erode (1,758), Kancheepuram (1,017), Kanniyakumari (1,621), Madurai (1,352), Tiruvallur (1,511), Tiruppur (1,466), Tiruchi (1,351) and Virudhunagar (1,287). Till date, a total of 20,046 people have died of COVID-19 in the State. In Chennai, 86 persons died due to the infection on Saturday, taking its toll to 6,298. There were 38 deaths in Chengalpattu, 32 in Coimbatore, 28 in Madurai, 25 in Ramanathapuram, 23 in Tiruppur and 20 each in Kanniyakumari and Tiruvallur. Of the 448 deceased (169 in private hospitals and 279 in government facilities), 125 did not have co-morbidities. They included an 18-year-old from Ramanathapuram, who was admitted to the Ramanathapuram Medical College Hospital at 3 a.m. on May 21. He died at 3 p.m. the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. He had tested positive for the infection on May 20. Ten people in their 20s succumbed to the infection. The active caseload rose to 2,84,278 in the State. Of these, 49,236 people are in Chennai, 30,104 in Coimbatore and 15,121 in Chengalpattu. Six other districts, including Erode, have over 10,000 active cases each. As many as 25,776 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 15,02,537. A total of 1,75,231 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. A total of 11,078 beds, including 2,002 oxygen-supported ones, are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres across the State. However, hospitals are running out of ICU beds — only 244 of the earmarked 9,737 ICU beds are vacant. Nearly 14 districts have no ICU beds, while 11 have under 10 each. Vaccine update Tamil Nadu received 2.3 lakh doses of Covishield on Saturday. Another 59,824 people, including 31,669 in the 45-59 age group and 13,328 senior citizens, were vaccinated, taking the overall coverage to 72,12,359. Vaccination was held in 2,546 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-covid-19-toll-crosses-20000-fresh-infections-see-a-small-dip/article34625185.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tax assessment order against Dhinakaran quashed||The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Chennai, has quashed an Income Tax Department order determining an undisclosed income of Rs. 57.43 crore against AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran. It said the assessment was not completed within the time permitted under the Income Tax Act. The case pertains to the reassessment of Mr. Dhinakaran’s tax for the block period from April 1, 1986, to March 31, 1996, and April 1, 1996, to July 15, 1996, consequent to the searches made by the Enforcement Directorate for an alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. In 1997, the assessing officer made an assessment of Rs. 57.43 crore in undisclosed income for the block period. Mr. Dhinakaran challenged it before the Tribunal. In 2010, the Tribunal set the assessment aside and directed the assessing officer to redo the assessment. In 2002, Mr. Dhinakaran moved the Madras High Court against the assessment proceedings. Through an interim order, the court stayed the second round of the proceedings till further orders. In December 2018, the court dismissed Mr. Dhinakaran’s plea and told the Income Tax Department to complete the proceedings without any further lapse of time. In 2019, Mr. Dhinakaran told the Income Tax Department that the proceeding was time-barred by limitation. It rejected the grounds taken by him and determined the income to be Rs. 57.43 crore, the same as the one determined in the first round. Against the second assessment, Mr. Dhinakaran moved the Tribunal, arguing that it was barred by limitation as per Section 153(2A) of the Income Tax Act and not sustainable in facts and law. The Tribunal ruled that taking into account the court proceedings, the assessment should have been completed by April 14, 2019. But the Income Tax Department completed it on December 31, 2019; therefore, the assessment order was barred by limitation as per the amended provisions of Section 153(2A).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tax-assessment-order-against-dhinakaran-quashed/article34625174.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Long-distance buses being operated across Tamil Nadu||Hours after the Tamil Nadu government allowed long-distance buses to run ahead of the full-fledged lockdown, passengers started trickling into the Dr. MGR Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT) to travel to their home towns. The government has announced the operation of 1,500 buses from Chennai and of over 3,000 buses between Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Tiruchi, Madurai and other districts on Saturday and Sunday. MTC buses will ferry people to Tambaram and the CMBT. “We have our entire fleet on standby, and are ready to meet the rush. We have a sufficient number of buses from districts like Kanniyakumari to Chennai. This is mainly to ensure that no one, especially daily-wage workers, are stuck in the city or elsewhere and able to reach their home towns. At short notice, we called our crew members back and started operations,” Transport Secretary C. Samayamoorthy said. According to the Transport Department, the last bus to Marthandam will leave at 6 p.m. on Sunday and the one to Nagercoil and Tuticorin at 7 p.m. Buses to Tirunelveli and Dindigul will leave at 8 p.m. and the service to Madurai at 11.30 p.m. The last service to Tiruchi will be at 11.45 p.m. But there was not much of a crowd after the announcement. Around 5 p.m., the first bus to Hosur left with passengers. “All of them were asked to wear masks. Only two passengers were seated in the three seats. However, two persons occupied the two seats. They were made to use sanitisers,” said a driver of the State Express Transport Corporation. Passengers were happy. “I am a daily-wage worker and I was stuck here. I am happy I can visit my family. The government can operate more buses to ensure personal distancing,” said N. Kumar, travelling to Hosur. However, some CMBT staff members said the decision would drive the COVID-19 cases up in the districts and in the city. “We are not sure how many asymptomatic people will travel on these buses. But we are ensuring all precautions,” said one of them. The police were roped in to ensure compliance with safety norms. “We were asked to note down the number of passengers on a bus and the time of its departure. Our personnel checked whether all passengers wore masks,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-distance-buses-being-operated-across-tamil-nadu/article34625176.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police ready to help COVID-19 volunteers||Following complaints that a few volunteers carrying food and other essentials for COVID-19 patients were stopped on roads, the Chennai police said they were ready to help them. Many volunteers were delivering essentials or medicines to families affected by COVID-19. On Tuesday, there were reports that some volunteers carrying medicines and food were stopped and their vehicles were impounded by the police, who insisted on e-registration. When the issue was brought to the notice of senior police officers, they said they had not received any complaint from any volunteer. “Volunteers play a crucial role in the fight against the pandemic. We are ready to help them in case of any difficulty while they are going out for genuine reasons. In fact, they can approach the Deputy Commissioners concerned for immediate assistance,” said a senior officer. “We want to ensure that people should not loiter in the guise of volunteers. Volunteers can apply for e-registration or they can get a letter or a signed statement from the officials in charge, if they are working with the Chennai Corporation,” said the officer. A senior official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said the civic body had started issuing passes for NGOs and community service volunteers helping COVID-19 patients. The police would not prevent the NGOs that had received emergency passes from the Corporation, he said. The Corporation had deployed 14,000 volunteers for helping patients. More NGOs would be permitted to help residents, officials said.  They can apply for e-registration or get a letter from the officials in charge, if they are working with Chennai Corporation senior officerChennai police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-ready-to-help-covid-19-volunteers/article34625189.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen demand action against officials||Fishermen community leaders on Saturday staged day-long hunger fasts in their homes and offices demanding that action be taken against the officials responsible for the Thoothukudi firing incident. While welcoming the State government’s decision to give jobs to the kin of those who lost their lives, they also sought indefinite closure of the copper plant in Thoothukudi. White paper They said that the government must conduct a thorough enquiry into the functioning of the plant and submit a white paper on the pollution and environmental damage that it has caused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-demand-action-against-officials/article34625196.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TAFE’s free tractor rental scheme for small farmers||Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited (TAFE), part of the Amalgamations Group, has announced a free tractor rental scheme to support small farmers of Tamil Nadu during the current cropping season. The scheme would cover about 1,20,000 acres benefiting around 50,000 farmers from May to July, a company press release said. TAFE will offer 16,500 Massey Ferguson and Eicher tractors and 26,800 implements on a “free-of-cost” rental basis to small farmers owning 2 acres or less, it added. Farmers can rent them using TAFE’s digital platform on the Tamil Nadu government’s Uzhavan app or the toll-free helpline 1800-4200-100. Government support The scheme will be implemented with the support of the Agriculture Department. “We thank the Chief Minister for his focus on farmer welfare and the Agricultural Minister for his support,” Mallika Srinivasan, chairperson and managing director, TAFE, said in the release. The total outlay towards all of TAFE’s contributions to COVID-19 relief is Rs. 15 crore, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tafes-free-tractor-rental-scheme-for-small-farmers/article34625200.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Robbery case results in arrest of accused in 2014 Central station bombing||Pursuing a robbery case, the police on Friday arrested S. Rafiq alias Noorudhin alias Ismail, 37, one of the accused in the bomb blast case at the Central railway station in 2014. On May 5, P. Suraj, a jeweller, was waylaid by a gang on Allikulam Link Road at Pattalam. They robbed Rs. 7.5 lakh in cash and 282 gram of gold from him and fled. The police arrested one Sabiyullasin for the robbery and subjected him to custodial interrogation. Based on information provided by him, the police came to know about Rafiq’s involvement in the crime. He was secured from a hideout in Tiruvottiyur. The police took him into two-day custody on Friday. They said Rafiq had more than 10 criminal cases for fraud and a non-bailable warrant, issued against him, was pending in connection with the bomb blast case. On May 1, 2014, two low-intensity bombs exploded in a Guwahati-bound train from Bengaluru arriving at the Central railway station, killing one passenger and injuring at least 14 others. The case is being investigated by the CB-CID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robbery-case-results-in-arrest-of-accused-in-2014-central-station-bombing/article34625167.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin cracks whip on those selling products over MRP||Aavin has warned franchise holders and retailers that action will be taken if they sell milk and milk-based products above the maximum retail price (MRP) printed on the packs. Consumers often complain of Aavin products being sold above MRP. “When I questioned a vendor in our area, he said I can do what I want and that nothing will happen to him. In fact, he has now refused to sell milk to me,” said S. Nagarajan, a resident of Anna Nagar. Similar complaints have been raised in areas such as ICF and Villivakkam. “These complaints have been there for over two months now but no action has been taken,” said S. Easwaran, a resident of Villivakkam. Sources in Aavin said the contracts of 11 franchises had been cancelled for selling over the MRP, and action against errant franchise outlets would continue. Direction to wholesalers As far as retailers are concerned, since Aavin cannot regulate them directly, they have asked wholesalers to ensure that they comply with the rules. “We are also ensuring that wholesalers bill their sales to retailers and sub-agents. Similarly, C and F agents are being asked to ensure billing is done,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-cracks-whip-on-those-selling-products-over-mrp/article34625160.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-CM to stay in same house||The DMK government has allowed Leader of Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami to stay in the government bungalow where he stayed as Chief Minister [2017-21]. Sources said Mr. Palaniswami was being allowed to stay at ‘Sevanthi’ on Greenways Road in Chennai after he sought permission from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-cm-to-stay-in-same-house/article34625201.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man duped while buying Remdesivir||A Madipakkam resident lodged a complaint stating that he had been cheated of Rs. 1.23 lakh by an online firm while purchasing Remdesivir. The police identified the complainant as Sriganeshan, 36. He found a firm on social media selling the drug and paid Rs. 1.23 lakh to purchase it. As the product was not delivered, he contacted the sellers but was allegedly threatened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-duped-while-buying-remdesivir/article34625171.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for hoax bomb threat||Personnel from the Teynampet police station on Saturday apprehended a youth for allegedly threatening to detonate a bomb at Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s residence. The suspect called the police control room on Friday, stating that a bomb had been placed in Mr. Stalin’s house in Alwarpet and hung up. The police, with sleuths from the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, checked the premises thoroughly and confirmed that it was a hoax. After tracing the call, the police tracked the suspect, identified as Bhuvanesh from Marakkanam. The suspect had made similar hoax calls to residences of former CMs and actors, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-hoax-bomb-threat/article34625191.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations pour in for relief fund||The Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund continued to receive donations from industrialists and others, following Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s appeal for contributions to help the State fight the COVID-19 pandemic. According to an official release, R. Veeramani, chairman, Gem Granites, presented a cheque for Rs. 1.02 crore. Gold Winner founder G. Munuswamy; country president of Grundfos India George Rajkumar and Kallal Logistics contributed Rs. 1 crore each towards the relief fund. Representatives of the Church of South India, Tirunelveli diocese; chairman of the Sri Venkateshwaraa Medical College Hospital & Research Centre B. Ramachandiran; and Glazer Brooke Trading Pvt. Ltd. gave Rs. 50 lakh each. Trimble Information Technologies India Pvt. Ltd; S. Vidyaakar, founder, Udavum Karangal; Vummidi Bangaru Jewellers; Infonet Comm Enterprises Pvt. Ltd; and S.K. Steel Tech donated Rs. 25 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-pour-in-for-relief-fund/article34625179.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Permit doctors to voluntarily retire: body||The Service Doctors and Post Graduates Association (SDPGA) has requested the State government to permit doctors aged 58 to voluntarily retire. A lesser age limit could be permitted for doctors who have completed 25 years of service and have medical conditions to opt for voluntary retirement, the association said in a letter to the Minister for Medical and Family Welfare. A large number of doctors with co-morbidities and old age are being retained in service, P. Saminathan, the association’s president, said. “There is a high risk of senior doctors with co-morbidities contracting COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-doctors-to-voluntarily-retire-body/article34625186.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘IBD patients must take COVID vaccine’||Doctors at an interactive discussion with those diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) on Saturday suggested that it was important for all IBD patients to get vaccinated for COVID-19. The online discussion, organised by Tamil Nadu Gastroenterologist Trust and hosted by K.R. Palaniswamy, head, department of gastroenterology, Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, focused particularly on addressing the concerns of IBD patients over COVID-19. ‘Risk not high’ P. Piramanayagam, gastroenterologist at Apollo Hospitals in Chennai, said that according to data available from the U.S. and Europe, the risk of IBD patients contracting COVID-19 was not high, compared with the general population. However, he said that once infected, the possibility of COVID-19 becoming severe was relatively high among IBD patients. Citing the findings of renowned global organisations in the field of gastroenterology, he said IBD patients could get vaccinated at the earliest, although the available data indicated that the efficacy of the vaccines might be slightly lower for IBD patients, owing to medication they took. Ashok Chacko, head, gastroenterology and liver diseases, Naruvi Hospitals, Vellore, spoke on the increasing incidence of mucormycosis. Apart from the use of steroids in the treatment of COVID-19 and uncontrolled sugar levels being major risk factors for mucormycosis, unhygienic way of delivering oxygen and use of unsterilised water in humidifiers and unclean catheters and masks could be the other key reasons for the increased prevalence. Sharing her experience of living with Crohn’s disease, a type of IBD, for the past 25 years, Tanya Prashant highlighted the need for proper diet and medication. “When I was 16, I was diagnosed with the disease. It was not easy for me to accept then that I had to lead a life of many restrictions. I went into denial and experimented with stopping medications for a while. However, acceptance and adapting helped,” she said. The discussion was organised to mark the World IBD Day that fell on May 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ibd-patients-must-take-covid-vaccine-experts/article34625190.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU predicts normal South West Monsoon for Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s Agro Climate Research Centre has predicted normal South West Monsoon rainfall for Coimbatore. In the western region, it has predicted excess rainfall for Krishnagiri and Tiruppur districts. The South West Monsoon season starts in June and ends by September. A release from the Centre said the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Erode, Namakkal, Salem and Dharmapuri districts in the region would receive normal rainfall – plus or minus 10% of normal rainfall. Krishnagiri and Tiruppur would receive 10% rainfall in excess of their normal rainfall for the season – the Centre had predicted that Krishnagiri would receive 420 mm rainfall as against its normal 375 mm and Tiruppur 180 mm as against normal 151 mm. Coimbatore, the Centre said, would receive 200 mm rainfall as against its normal 210 mm rainfall. The Nilgiris would receive 860 mm rainfall as against its normal 875 mm. The release added that the prediction had a 60% probability level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-predicts-normal-south-west-monsoon-for-coimbatore/article34625223.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Six cases of Mucormycosis reported in Coimbatore||At least six persons have been diagnosed with Mucormycosis or the black fungus in Coimbatore district. Confirming the cases, District Collector S. Nagarajan said that Mucormycosis is a notifiable disease and a private hospital has notified six patients, who were diagnosed with the disease. He added that it was an “evolving situation”. Mucormycosis is a rare but aggressive fungal infection caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes which affects persons who have recently recovered from COVID-19. A private hospital in Coimbatore said that it had already alerted the ENT and Ophthalmology Departments to look for possible cases of the black fungus infection going by the symptoms. Symptoms Stuffy nose, double vision, one sided facial pain, swelling/numbness around neck, bloody blackish/brownish discharge from nose, blackish discolouration of skin, swelling of eyelid and redness of eyes are some of the symptoms of the infection. A multidisciplinary team comprising ENT surgeon, ophthalmologist, infection control specialist and maxillofacial surgeon is required for effective diagnosis and the treatment of the infection, says J.S. Bhuvaneswaran, Medical Director, PSG Hospitals, Coimbatore. Main drug “Amphotericin-B is the main drug of choice for the treatment of Mucormycosis. Surgical or medical intervention is followed for the treatment depending on the severity of cases. “Though the infection is said to be caused in an immunocompromised state, mostly post-COVID-19 treatment stage, other aspects of the infection are being discussed now,” he adds. According to him, the State government made a good move by notifying Mucormycosis as an epidemic so that hospitals would be prepared to handle cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-cases-of-mucormycosis-reported-in-coimbatore/article34625211.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation resumes vaccination||The Coimbatore Corporation resumed vaccination on Saturday after it received fresh doses from the State Government. According to sources, as of Saturday evening, the civic body had vaccinated 2,920 people – 650 in East Zone, 594 in West Zone, 750 in North Zone, 376 in South Zone and 550 in Central Zone. This took the total people the corporation had vaccinated since January 18, 2021 to 26,180, said sources. The corporation conducted the vaccination drive at five centres – one each a zone. Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, who inspected the West Zone centre, had asked the medical team to send a few vaccines to the primary health centres in Kalveerampalayam and another centre to prevent overcrowding at the vaccination centre, said sources familiar with the development. Consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the civic body should not restrict the vaccination centres to just five as this could lead to people crowding them, particularly the 45-plus age category. It would be prudent if the civic body were to despatch the vaccines to as many urban primary health centres possible, he said and added that this would also prevent people from travelling long distances for vaccination. This was more important during the lockdown because people going for or returning from vaccination had to answer police personnel, who enforced lockdown. Mr. Pandian said the civic body would distribute the vaccines to the urban primary health centres in the next round so as to prevent overcrowding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-resumes-vaccination/article34625207.ece
23 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC operates limited mofussil bus services||Ahead of the week-long lockdown without relaxations from Monday, Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) made arrangements for operation of limited number of mofussil buses from Coimbatore on Saturday and Sunday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in his announcement on Saturday said government and private buses would be allowed to operate till 9 p.m. on Sunday. According to TNSTC officials, around eight buses were operated from Singanallur Bus Terminus to destinations including Madurai and Tiruchi on Saturday, while a few more mofussil buses were operated to Erode and Salem from Gandhipuram Mofussil Bus Terminus. While 180 mofussil buses were prepared for operation, the buses would be operated on Sunday from Coimbatore district as per the requirement, the officials said. Meanwhile, officials from State Express Transport Corporation said around 40 buses would be operated to from Coimbatore to various destinations including Chennai, Tirunelveli and Chengalpattu on both days. Only a few private omni buses were operated from Coimbatore to major destinations such as Chennai and Tiruchi on Saturday. R. Baskaran, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association (Coimbatore) said many omni bus operators had decided against operating their buses as it was not financially viable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-operates-limited-mofussil-bus-services/article34625227.ece
23 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign||Ganapathy Nair Service Society, a non-government organisation, recently conducted an awareness campaign on COVID-19 at Saravanampatti and Ganapathy here. A press release said the members distributed kits comprising masks, hand sanitisers, kabasura kudineer powder and vitamin tablets to the public during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign/article34625230.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camp for industrial workers||With Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launching recently vaccination for all aged above 18, camps were held at a few industries here on Saturday to vaccinate all workers and staff. As many as 9,464 people were vaccinated in 13 units, including those manufacturing pumpset, machinery and jewellery. The vaccinated people included 1,890 at LMW, 1000 at Roots and 970 at Emerald. The camps are organised by the district administration, health department, district industries centre and the industry associations. A press release from the district administration said priority was on high risk category people such as LPG delivery men, taxi drivers, e-commerce delivery personnel, and industry workers. As part of the drive to vaccinate industry workers camps would be held every day. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, which had planned to conduct vaccination camps at multiple locations on Sunday, called it off to avoid crowding. However, the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association, Coimbatore Jewellers Association, and Coimbatore Gold Bullion Association will conduct a camp on Vysyal Street on Sunday, May 23. All members, goldsmiths and staff of the three associations aged above 18 and less than 45 can get vaccinated. It will not be open for their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camp-for-industrial-workers/article34625209.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Aavin gets ISO certification||The Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation (Aavin), Coimbatore, has received ISO 22000:2018 certification, according to a release. R. Ravi Kumar, General Manager of Aavin Coimbatore, said the milk and by-product packets made here would now say that the products were made at an ISO certified dairy. Aavin Coimbatore procured milk from 349 societies in the district. It procured 1.8 lakh litres of milk a day and sold 1.75 lakh litres. With reduction in prices, there was an increase in sales. Aavin also made six types of products such as ghee, butter, and sweets, at its plant that had now obtained ISO certification sold milk by-products worth nearly Rs. 2 crore a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-aavin-gets-iso-certification/article34625444.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Not all shops open on Saturday||Following the State Government’s late afternoon instruction that all shops could be opened and run till 9 p.m. on Saturday and function from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Sunday, only a few shopkeepers opened their premises for business. In the otherwise busy R.G. Street, Thomas Street, Edayar Street and neighbouring areas, a majority of the shops remained shut. Traders from the area said they had closed their shops at 10 a.m. as per the State Government’s previous announcement. The traders expect a large turnout on Sunday as shops could remain open till 9 p.m. Doorstep delivery The Coimbatore Corporation has urged residents not to gather in large numbers at shops on Sunday in view of the total lockdown for a week from Monday. It said in a release that steps were being taken to deliver essential commodities and vegetables at a fair price in every neighbourhood. This would be done using vehicles that the civic body would deploy soon. The release also said the civic body had taken steps for small traders to deliver goods using auto rickshaws. The Corporation had also taken steps to ensure that shops delivered goods at customers’ doorstep after they had placed orders over phone. Customers always had the choice of ordering from department stores using any of the e-commerce platforms, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-all-shops-open-on-saturday/article34625205.ece
23 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bid foiled||The police foiled an alleged attempt by a truck owner, S. Kanniyappan (28), to end his life in front of Dharapuram Police Station on Saturday, and admitted him to Government Hospital. A few hours before the incident, Deputy Tahsildar (Mines) Senthil Kumar seized Kanniyappan’s truck on charges of illegally transporting gravel, the police said. (Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-foiled/article34625228.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police help family in need||The Vadavalli police on Saturday came to the help of a Coimbatore native who works in Arunachal Pradesh after he posted on Twitter that his family was struggling without provisions. After seeing the post, the Vadavalli police immediately sent head constables Kumaravel and Kumar to the house and handed over provisions including 10 kg rice, cooking oil, and vegetables. The police said the man, who sought the help, had recently moved to Arunachal Pradesh for work. His elderly parents and sister’s two children live at Nagarajapuram. Though his sister works as a housemaid at R.S. Puram, she could not come out and help her parents and children due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-help-family-in-need/article34625446.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth booked for sexual assault||The All Women Police, Coimbatore east, on Saturday booked a youth on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl and sharing her photos with his friends. The police said a construction worker from a residential area near Sundarapuram was booked based on a complaint lodged by the girl, a plus one student. According to the police, the accused and the girl were in an alleged relationship and the former assaulted her sexually. He later circulated her photos through WhatsApp, allegedly after the girl cut off the relationship, the police said. The accused was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. A special team is on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-booked-for-sexual-assault/article34625445.ece
23 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Southern Railway announced that the second Oxygen Express carrying liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to Madukkarai near Coimbatore will reach on Sunday. The Oxygen Express, which is the 16th service to the State, will carry three tankers with a load of 19.54 metric tonnes of LMO and reach Madukkarai Railway Station in the early hours of Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article34625210.ece
23 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Bronze coins, swords stolen from museum in Dharmapuri||Around 30 bronze coins and three swords belonging to 18th century were found stolen from the district government museum in Dharmapuri on Saturday. The theft came to light during a routine inspection on the museum campus. A museum staff found the rear door of the museum and alerted the police. CCTV footage Upon inspection, it was found that the 30 bronze coins belonging to Raja Raja Cholan period and the three swords of Tipu Sultan period were missing. In addition, a CPU was found stolen. The burglars also took away the CCTV footage, according to the police. Artefacts The museum has housed several treasured historical artefacts including swords, coins, Buddha statues, and weapons of warfare belonging to various eras. All government museums were ordered shut from May 10, following the surge in infections. The town police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bronze-coins-swords-stolen-from-museum-in-dharmapuri/article34625224.ece
23 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables to be sold in vehicles from tomorrow||With the State government announcing a week-long lockdown from May 24, during which grocery stores would be closed, the corporation has allowed traders to sell vegetables in autorickshaws in the corporation limits. Currently, wholesale vegetable shops function during night hours till early morning at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable Market while retail shops function from 4 a.m. to 7 a.m. every day. Uzhavar Sandhai that was functioning at Sampath Nagar was shifted temporarily to the Government Girls Higher Secondary School premises at Panneerselvam Park from May 20. The fruit market is functioning at the rear side of the Corporation Central Bus Terminal till 7 a.m. every day. Since vegetable shops were not allowed to function from Monday, the civic body has decided to allow the traders to sell vegetables in their vehicles in wards across the city. Officials said that autorickshaws carrying vegetables will be stationed at locations in the streets and residents can purchase them. “We will ensure that people do not gather in large numbers at each place while purchasing”, said the officials. The number of vehicles that will be allowed to sell vegetables in each ward will be known soon, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetables-to-be-sold-in-vehicles-from-tomorrow/article34625203.ece
23 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Declaration of RT-PCR test results takes over four days||With a spike in COVID-19 cases in the district, declaration of Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test results is taking over four days causing concern among the public here. As on May 1, the district reported a total of 21,617 positive cases, 18,237 recoveries, 3,214 active cases and 166 deaths. On May 21, the district reported a total of 40,254 cases, 30,306 recoveries, 9,722 active cases and 226 deaths. Swab samples taken from government hospitals, special camps and those in the corporation limits were taken to the Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai and analysis done. Earlier, around 2,200 samples were tested every day in the lab that rose to 5,000 samples now. Health officials said that over 18,500 positive cases were reported in the current month and over six lakh samples were tested, so far. “Since there is a spike in cases, the number of samples tested every day is also on the rise leading to the delay in declaration of the results”, they added. Delay in the declaration of test results force many to depend on private labs while many, instead of being in home isolation, wander on the streets, thus paving way for spread of the virus, they said. Also, the delay causes risk to patients who are admitted at the last minute for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declaration-of-rt-pcr-test-results-takes-over-four-days/article34625204.ece
23 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Construction firms donate oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 20 lakh||Two Africa-based construction companies on Saturday donated 10 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 20 lakh to Christu Jyothi Hospital where COVID-19 patients are given free treatment. With spike in cases, Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai, the District Headquarters Hospital and private hospitals that treat only COVID1-19 patients were facing shortage of beds with oxygen facility. Hence, Olirum Erodu Foundation that works for environment protection and restoration of water bodies in the district joined hands with Christu Jyothi Hospital and established 40 beds in the hospitalthat was later expanded to 150 beds. Also, food and medicine are provided free to the patients while under treatment. The Foundation has deployed 12 doctors, 20 nurses, conservancy workers and security persons to run the centre. Texvalley, an integrated textile market at Gangapuram, took steps to get sponsors for oxygen concentrators. Gagan Gupta, Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, ARISE IIP and ARISE IS, a pan-African operator and developer of industrial zones, donated 10 concentrators each with 10 litres capacity, to the hospital. Mr. Gupta in his message said oxygen concentrators would help save lives. C. Devarajan, vice-chairman, Texvalley, said that oxygen concentrators donated by the company would serve the needy during the pandemic and added that the foundation and Texvalley are taking steps to receive much-needed concentrators from foreign companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-firms-donate-oxygen-concentrators-worth-rs-20-lakh/article34625221.ece
23 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Uzhavar Sandhai begins functioning on school premises||The Uzhavar Sandhai (farmers’ market) that was functioning at Sampath Nagar here has been temporarily shifted to the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Panneerselvam Park and started functioning on the new premises on Friday. As a precautionary measure against COVID-19 and to prevent gathering of people in large numbers, shops in the market were divided into three and started functioning at Sampath Nagar, Periyar Nagar and Kumalankuttai from April 12. In order to move the market to a more spacious place, the district administration announced that the market would be moved to the school premises from Friday. On Friday, 44 farmers arrived at the market with their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uzhavar-sandhai-begins-functioning-on-school-premises/article34625214.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nurses stranded in UAE allege job scam||When Susan Saji, a nurse from near Pathanapuram, landed in Dubai leaving behind her three-year-old child back at home, she was brimming with hope. But that dream of a high paying job dissipated in no time, as it emerged that the job was a chimera and that the Rs. 2.30 lakh paid to a Kochi-based recruitment agency was practically for nothing. Since then, she has been stranded in the United Arab Emirates along with, according to her allegations, hundreds of similarly cheated job aspirants. “We were recruited for administering COVID-19 vaccines and were promised upwards of Rs. 1 lakh as salary. On arrival, we were asked to go in quarantine for three weeks and only later did we realise that quarantining was not even in force in the UAE at the time we came. As the job was not forthcoming, we demanded our money back and were given four different failed deadlines, the last of which was May 10,” said Reena Rajan, a nurse of nine years’ standing, who is now closeted with Ms. Saji in an apartment. While a few of them have flown back home trusting the agency’s promise to repay them on return, the majority have chosen to stay put. “We have petitioned local MLA K.B. Ganesh Kumar and Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, besides petitioning the Chief Minister’s Office. Our families are now about to lodge a complaint with the Kochi City police,” said Ms. Saji. Their decision to go public about their plight has helped land them jobs in Sharjah. NoRKA-Roots, the State government agency looking after the welfare of Malayali expatriates, has said that such incidents may have been the result of bypassing a prudent and protocol-driven system in place since 2015. “This could be happening as there is a surge in demand for health workers abroad for a short period for vaccination, and many countries have outsourced recruitment, which is being exploited by unlicensed private recruitment agencies. These agencies may not be willing to channel the recruitment through NoRKA-Roots, since it takes nearly 25-30 days to complete the process,” said a NoRKA-Roots official. He said the journey of such recruits might have been facilitated by a change in the job title in visa to ‘technician’ or even ‘domestic worker’ as anyone being recruited as nurse needs emigration clearance and hence would have been stopped at the emigration desk of the airport. NoRKA-Roots has alerted the Indian Embassy in the UAE about the alleged job fraud. The problem was that the victims of such frauds opted for repatriation only as the last resort and desperately tried for some jobs abroad,said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-stranded-in-uae-allege-job-scam/article34625047.ece
23 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||War room comes into operation in Krishnagiri||The Unified Command Centre (UCC) war room for information management on COVID-19 has been set up at the Collectorate to provide critical information on hospital availability and related information. Earlier, District Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the war room and verified the incoming calls.  Three shifts The UCC has been set up with round-the-clock operation with teams operating in three shifts to take calls. According to the administration, it will provide information on availability of beds at the hospitals, over calls received from patients and their families. The public may contact the UCC –War Room on 04343-233021; 04343-233022; 04343-233023; 04343 -233024; 04343-233025; or alternatively contact on 94865 89038. The district administration has designated 25 private hospitals for COVID-19 coverage through the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/war-room-comes-into-operation-in-krishnagiri/article34625442.ece
23 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||28 deaths recorded in Madurai||A total of 28 COVID-19 deaths were recorded in Madurai district on Saturday, making it the highest number of deaths recorded in the district in a single day. The total deaths increased the district’s toll to 785. Of these deaths, 14 were recorded in Government Rajaji Hospital. A 29-year-old male without any comorbidities died at a private hospital. Similarly, another 29-year-old man and a 24-year-old female died in GRH due to COVID-19. A total of 1,352 new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded, increasing the total number of cases in the district to 54,588. As many as 748 patients got discharged and the active cases stood at 12,875. Virudhunagar For the first-time, number of cases in Virudhunagar district crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,287 persons testing positive. With this, the number of active cases breached the 5,000-mark and stood at 5,457, after discharge of 620 patients. Meanwhile, eight persons died in the district. Among them two were women. While one of the deceased was a 42-year-old man, others were between 53 years and 81 years of age. Except for one who had died on May 4, all others had died between May 19 and 21 in different hospitals in the State. This has taken the death toll to 325. Meanwhile, the total number of positive cases went past 30,000 and stood at 30,431, with a total discharge of 24,649 patients. Ramanathapuram Following swab test results, at least 17 personnel at the Coast Guard station in Mandapam, who tested positive, were admitted for treatment, officials at the district health department here said on Saturday. In all 109 persons had tested positive on a single day from Mandapam area which included 13 from the Sri Lankan Refugee Camp and 19 workers employed by a contractor, who are engaged in the construction of a new bridge at Pamban. Senior officials from the district inspected the area and directed the civic authorities to conduct door-to-door swab tests in the next four days. Several teams were formed to ensure that the home quarantined patients adhered to the norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-deaths-recorded-in-madurai/article34625295.ece
23 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Not all red eyes are mucormycosis’||Not all red eyes are going to develop mucormycosis and not all diabetic patients will get affected by the fungus and therefore there was nothing to panic about, according to doctors at the Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai. “I see a lot of patients with a sense of fear psychosis when they get a red eye. Even well controlled diabetic patients are unduly and unnecessarily worried. We have to allay their anxiety too,” said Venkatesh Prajna, chief, Department of Medical Education at Aravind Eye Hospitals .  The combination of COVID-19 in an uncontrolled diabetic environment, accentuated by indiscriminate use of oral steroids is causing a resurgence of mucormycosis, which is curable. Strict control of diabetes is required. Even post-recovery from COVID-19, patients should continue to wear masks, he said. The ophthalmologist pointed out that mucor is a type of fungus widely present in the environment - soil, leaves, compost and animal dung. “Most people come in contact with microscopic fungal spores every day. Hence, it is impossible to completely avoid coming in contact with mucormycetes,” he said. “As long as the immune system is functioning normally, our system can take care of this,” he said. However, for people who have weakened immune systems, breathing in mucormycetes can cause an infection in lungs or sinuses which can spread to other parts of the body,” Dr Prajna cautioned. It mainly affects people who have uncontrolled chronic health problems or take medicines that lower the body’s ability to fight germs and sickness. “Whenever a patient shows symptoms of mucormycosis, we usually suspect they are very immunocompromised patients. We used to see around seven cases per year earlier, but in the COVID-19 situation, we are seeing the same number in a month or even more,” he added. In many cases, he said, the first culprit was very high uncontrolled diabetes and this has to be really emphasised. In addition, COVID-19, apart from causing altered immunity, itself can alter the metabolism and shoot the blood sugar up. “So, if a patient is already an uncontrolled diabetic, then it is a double whammy”, he added. “Oral steroids are definitely a life saver in certain phases of COVID-19 treatment. However, if it is used indiscriminately, then steroids can also push up diabetes,” he noted. He said disposable masks should be disposed of after four to six hours of use, which means, one would have to use at least two to three masks a day. He said that any slackness to screen properly for mucor may affect organs such as the nose and paranasal sinuses. It can also invade the orbit, which causes swelling around the eyeball. When it hits the brain, it may turn fatal, Dr Prajna underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-all-red-eyes-are-mucormycosis/article34625289.ece
23 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Task Force to enforce complete lockdown norms, says Minister||A Special Task Force under the leadership of the Collector, comprising members from various departments and organisations, will be formed to strictly ensure compliance with the complete lockdown norms, said Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan, here on Saturday. Addressing mediapersons after chairing a meeting to discuss COVID-19 preventive measures, he said that the government was taking several steps to bring medical oxygen from other States and countries He said that only one attender would be allowed to accompany a COVID-19 patient to hospital. This increases the spread of coronavirus infection among the attendees as well as other members of the public, he pointed out. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy said that prices of essential commodities were being sold at a higher rate causing suffering to the public. Traders must not focus on profits but should sell commodities at government prescribed rates, he urged. If essential commodities were delivered to the residents at their doorsteps, it would help avoid crowding outside shops, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/task-force-to-enforce-complete-lockdown-norms-says-minister/article34625292.ece
23 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for a fresh panel of inquiry||Disappointed over the inquiry being conducted into the 2018 Thoothukudi firing that claimed the lives of 13 people protesting against Sterlite Copper, Madurai-based NGO People’s Watch has asked the government to constitute a fresh commission of inquiry. Its Executive Director Henri Tiphagne said that paying compensation and providing employment alone to the dependent of the deceased cannot deliver justice to the families. Those responsible for opening fire have to be identified. The government should ask the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to monitor the CBI investigation. The CBI should periodically report to the court, he said. Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission’s performance shows there was no special efforts made to hasten the process of inquiry. Continuing with such lethargy would not bring justice to the people. The government should pass orders to discontinue and close the Commission. All evidence gathered by it should be made available in the public domain. A fresh panel must be constituted, Mr. Tiphagne said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-a-fresh-panel-of-inquiry/article34625559.ece
23 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Number of doctors testing positive in GRH goes up||A total of 13 doctors and four nurses of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), who were in COVID-19 duty at the hospital recently, have tested positive for COVID-19. This is the first time that such a large number of doctors and nurses who were in COVID-19 duty at the GRH have tested positive for COVID-19. All these doctors and nurses had completed their COVID-19 duty and a RT-PCR test taken on Thursday - six days since the completion of their duty on the COVID-19 ward. The results showed that they had turned positive for coronavirus infection. “Until now only one or a couple of doctors who had finished their COVID-19 duty tested positive”, said a doctor. Currently, around 30 doctors, including those who were not on non-COVID-19 duty, are undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection in the hospital. Sources say that while the hospital has the capacity to treat around 1,044 COVID-19 patients, currently there are around 1,500 patients being treated in the hospital. GRH Dean A. Rathinavel said that such an overload of cases will increase the viral load that the doctors are exposed to, which might be the reason for such a large number of doctors and paramedics testing COVID-19 positive. The number of attendants accompanying COVID-19 patients lead to crowding inside the hospital, thus increasing the risk of spread of coronavirus infection. K. Senthil, treatment coordinator for COVID-19 Speciality wing of the GRH, said that there was a need to increase the strength of nurses at GRH for COVID-19 duty. Recently, the government announced the appointment of 120 nurses for the GRH. “There is a need to appoint an additional 120 nurses to handle the growing number of cases”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-doctors-and-nurses-testing-positive-in-grh-goes-up/article34625288.ece
23 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles seized in Dindigul||The Dindigul police seized 391 vehicles on Friday for violating COVID-19 lockdown restrictions that have been imposed in order to tackle the rapid spread of the pandemic. On Thursday, the police seized 407 vehicles. Despite distributing leaflets on COVID-19 and urging people to stay indoors, people were out on the streets. Drone surveillance has been adopted by the police to monitor the situation. A total of Rs. 1.76 lakh fine was collected from 921 people for not wearing face masks and maintaining physical distancing. A total of 865 people were fined on Thursday and Rs. 1.68 lakh fine was collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-seized-in-dindigul/article34625284.ece
23 May 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Number of deaths goes up in Nagapattinam||As the number of deaths and fresh cases of COVID-19 patients continued to soar in the district, the administration has taken urgent measures to meet the requirements of beds and oxygen beds. The district reported an average of 600 fresh cases and recorded as many as 16 deaths on Friday. The increase in the number of deaths is due to the sharp increase in the number of cases, and the late reportage of symptoms, senior officials said. The district administration has begun work to increase the number of oxygen-support beds in the district. A. Liakath Ali, District Epidemiologist, said that the reason for the shortage in beds was that patients who did not need medical attention had been occupying it. ‘In a state of panic, they rush to the hospital and admit themselves. Only about 10-15% of the patients who test positive in a district require immediate medical attention with oxygen support and ventilation,’ he said. Meanwhile, 200 normal beds have been readied at Srinivasa Subbaraya Polytechnic College and at another place in Mayiladuthurai. As many as 100 oxygen concentrators were donated to the district, plans are being made to include oxygen-support beds in all Covid Care Centres. The district has taken a multipronged approach in the treatment of patients. For patients who are in stage I- mild infection with the blood-oxygenation level of over 94, home isolation is advised. ‘Village Health Nurses, block-level officers monitor their health on a daily basis, check their oxygen levels using an oximeter,’ Dr. Ali said. Stage II is moderate patients who will be treated at Primary Healthcare Centres itself. ‘We are also looking to increase the number of beds at Keezhvelur and a few other PHCs,’ he said. Stage III is patients who require immediate medical attention and need to be rushed to a hospital. ‘Only these patients will be brought to the District Headquarters Hospital at Nagapattinam or the government hospitals in Mayiladuthurai and Sirkazhi,’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-deaths-goes-up-in-nagapattinam/article34625586.ece
23 May 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Plea to trace 12 missing fishermen||Family members of 12 missing fishermen submitted a petition to Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind on Saturday seeking immediate steps to start the search operation to locate their breadwinners who went missing after venturing into the sea for fishing in a mechanised boat on May 5. According to Rev. Fr. Churchill of South Asian Fishermen Fraternity, 16 fishermen, including 12 from Kanniyakumari district and four from West Bengal, had gone for multi-day deep sea fishing in the boat of one Satish from Kozhicode from their base, Beypure. Following the recent alert on cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea, the fishermen in deep sea reached the shores. However, these 16 fishermen, who had gone for fishing in the boat, ‘Aji Mersha,’ failed to return to any of the fishing harbours in Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa and Maharashtra on the west coast as they apparently did not get the cyclone Tauktae warning. Or their boat might have developed a technical snag and got drifted away. “Since they had food and fuel sufficient for only 12 days, we are afraid that the fishermen may be in trouble. Hence, the Collector should take appropriate steps through the State government to search for them with the help of Indian Navy ships and helicopters,” Rev. Fr. Churchill said. Colachel MLA J.G. Prince accompanied Fr. Churchill and the families who submitted the petition. They have also forwarded similar petitions to Minister for Defense Rajnath Singh, Union Minister for Fisheries Giriraj, the Indian Coast Guard and Chief Ministers M.K. Stalin, Mamata Banerjee and Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-trace-12-missing-fishermen/article34625562.ece
23 May 2021||P. SudhakarTIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Now, COVID-19 awareness messages are cynosure of all eyes in the town||Compound walls of public buildings, which once were carrying messages with caste overtones, are now conveying COVID-19 awareness paintings, thanks to efforts made by Tirunelveli City Police and members of Tirunelveli District Painting Workers’ Association. Many of the caste-based messages were painted earlier at the instigation of some community leaders. This had also led to clashes in the past. One such ‘leader’ was arrested in Alangulam sub-division a week ago by the police after it was found that he was heading a unit of contract killers. “Making money by inciting the youths from their castes is the only goal of these caste leaders. While one among them was nabbed at Alangulam, a few more are still roaming around and organising caste-based meetings by instigating the youth through posters and wall graffiti on public buildings. They do not even spare small culverts, street light poles and milestones,” an Inspector of Police said. Machetes, colours “In some cases, machetes will be drawn in particular colours to warn their ‘enemies.’ To wipe out this culture, we have started painting COVID-19 awareness messages over those anti-social messages,” he told The Hindu.  When Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tiruenlveli City, V.R. Srinivasan, mooted this plan, members of Tirunelveli District Painting Workers’ Association readily joined hands with the police for this cause. Annai Teresa Pothunala Trust too chipped in. “Apart from COVID-19 awareness paintings, we have also planned to tell the public through these paintings about the uniqueness of Tirunelveli, environmental conservation, road safety etc. In the first phase, we have planned to cover the walls of 40 public buildings,” said Mr. Srinivasan while inaugurating this refreshing effort in Tirunelveli Junction recently in the presence of Assistant Commissioner of Police Sathish Kumar. Mr. Srinivasan also warned that those who dare to deface these awareness paintings by pasting posters or drawing something else would have to pay a heavy price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-covid-19-awareness-messages-are-cynosure-of-all-eyes-in-the-town/article34625561.ece
23 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. sees marginal dip in daily cases, death rate remains high||While the Union Territory registered a marginal dip in daily cases and a rise in the recovery rate in the last 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday, the death rate continued to be on the higher side. The Union Territory registered 30 COVID-19 deaths and 1,445 new admissions while screening 9,092 people and 2,011 patients getting recovered from the infection. As per data available with the Health Department, 22 persons succumbed to the virus in Puducherry, while 4 each died in the Karaikal and Yanam regions of the Union Territory. With 1,445 people diagnosed for the virus, active cases now stood at 17,340. The new cases were diagnosed while testing 9,092 people, according to the data. The recovery rate in the second wave of the virus had dipped to 77% but in the last two days, it had shown a marginal increase. The rate increased to 79.36% on Friday, and it had further improved to 80.27% on Saturday, data revealed. The overall tally is 1,325 deaths, 17,340 active cases, a total of 94,612 cases and 75,947 patients treated and discharged.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 38,161 with 588 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 33,680 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 3,880. The district's death toll is 601. In Ranipet district, 497 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 30,095. In Tirupattur district, 494 new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 18,455. In Tiruvannamalai district, 757 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 34,461. Of this, 28,383 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 5,700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-sees-marginal-dip-in-daily-cases-death-rate-remains-high/article34625195.ece
23 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former Puducherry CM objects to plea for remission to Rajiv case convicts||Former Chief Minister of Puducherry V. Narayanasamy has taken strong objection to the demand for remission of sentence to the seven life convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In an audio message on Saturday, he said the Supreme Court had originally awarded death sentence to the seven persons involved in the assassination of Mr Gandhi. “Some political parties and outfits have been demanding remission of sentence. But the Congress party wants the culprits to undergo the punishment given by the Supreme Court to them. Those who have committed the crime should undergo the punishment. They have done an unpardonable crime,” the senior Congress leader said. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. K. Stalin recently wrote to the President requesting him to accept a recommendation made by the State Government in 2018 seeking remission of life sentence awarded to the convicts. Mr. Narayanasamy also expressed concern at the rising number of COVID-19 deaths in the Union Territory. Medical facilities He requested the administration to ramp up medical facilities to bring down the death rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-puducherry-cm-objects-to-plea-for-remission-to-rajiv-case-convicts/article34625443.ece
23 May 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram has sufficient oxygen-supported beds: Minister||Transport Minister Raja Kannappan said that Ramanathapuram district had sufficient beds with oxygen. He told reporters that the State government had started containing the spread of the virus and there was no need for panic. The Minister, who dedicated over 65-bed facility at a newly established Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Kadaladi Government Arts College, said that the district had 600 beds with oxygen facility. Wherever possible, the district administration had established CCC and the objective was to ensure that people in the local vicinity, who tested positive for the virus, got admission at the CCC. The Minister said that a special ‘war room’ has been set up at the district through which the public can get information regarding bed vacancies and ambulance service. The numbers are as follows: 77087 11334, 77082 92732, 04567-230060. Besides, the public can access the information through toll numbers: 1077 and 104 in the Ramanathapuram district. Ragland Mathuram, 63, a teacher, who had opted for voluntary retirement and joined the Indian Red Cross Society here, died at Theni Government Medical College Hospital following COVID-19 complications in the wee hours of Saturday. According to the Red Cross members, he was friendly and helped the needy for well over a decade. He was instrumental in developing infrastructural facilities in many government hospitals in rural pockets. He had organised numerous blood donation camps. Till last week, he had served free food to patients at isolation ward here in Ramanathapuram Government Hospital. Many attendees recalled his help in organising ambulance services to take the deceased to the crematorium from the Covid ward here. He even sent food and some fruits to patients in the isolation ward. The body of Mr. Mathuram was brought here in an ambulance from Theni and cremated in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-has-sufficient-oxygen-supported-beds-minister/article34625573.ece
23 May 2021||S. SundarVirudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Infection spreads fast in rural areas as villagers keep moving||As many as 76 COVID-related deaths and 8,800 new positive cases in the last 21 days in Virudhunagar district have forced the administration to have a relook at its strategies to contain the pandemic. The infection is spreading fast in rural areas as people from villages keep moving to nearby towns every day for work or shopping. Besides, a lot of people from several towns and cities have moved to their native villages due to lockdown, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said. Asymptomatic people were encouraged to remain in home isolation and almost 50% of them remain at home. “However, we find that home isolation was working only in urban areas where people had adequate facilities - separate room with separate toilet - in their houses to keep a person in isolation. This is not possible in rural areas where most of the people live in single bedroom houses,” he said. Besides, the officials had difficulties in keeping a tab on as many as 2,398 patients as to whether they strictly remained in home quarantine or they were roaming around. Multiple exits “The district has 133 containment zones (three or more houses with positive patients in an area). Though police are effective in restricting the movement of people within the zone in urban areas, this is not possible in rural places where there are multiple entrances / exits,” an official said. “This could become a cause for spread of the infection. So we have changed the strategy in containing further spread of the infection by putting all asymptomatic patients in institutional quarantine facilities,” the Minister said. Virudhunagar district has seven functional COVID care centres (CCC) with 686 patients. “We are planning to have 12 more CCCs to increase the number of beds to accommodate all asymptomatic patients,” an official said. Meanwhile, the reluctance of the villagers in getting tested for COVID-19 is also a cause for worry for the administration. Stating that the people were still wary of social stigma and were not coming forward to get swab tests done, he said that this was impeding early identification and treatment. Door-to-door combing for fever cases would be done by workers from anganwadi, revenue department and local bodies for early detection of positive cases. It can help in reducing mortality rate. The infection was highly virulent and the condition of patients worsens within couple of days if left unattended, he cautioned. The Minister inaugurated a CCC at M. Reddiyapatti in his Assembly constituency of Tiruchuli.  In the hinterland Home isolation is impossible as villagers live in single bedroom houses  Reluctance to get swab tests impedes early identification and treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infection-spreads-fast-in-rural-areas-as-villagers-keep-moving/article34625567.ece
23 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||TPR increases to 21.9% in Salem||The Total Positivity Rate (TPR) in Salem district increased to 21.9% and the district administration has set up teams to intensify lockdown restrictions. According to health officials, on May 13, the TPR was 18.3% and it increased to 21.9% on Friday. On Friday, 7,473 samples were collected for testing and 725 positive cases were reported in the district. There are 20 taluks, four Municipalities and a Municipal Corporation in the district and in past 10 days, 33,446 samples were collected and 7,316 persons tested positive. As many as 3,702 cases were reported in the Corporation limits and the positivity rate was 30.5%. The positivity rate was the highest in Veerapandi taluk. About 554 samples were collected and the positivity rate was 69.5%. In Attur Municipality, 660 samples were collected and the positivity rate was 28.6%. The rate was less than 5% only at Kolathur taluk. The Health Department has increased swab collection in the district and on an average, 7,000 samples are collected on a day. As part of the lockdown measures, markets have been closed to prevent crowding and movement of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpr-increases-to-219-in-salem/article34625217.ece
23 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews containment measures||Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji on Saturday reviewed the COVID-19 situation in the district and advised officials on containment measures to bring down the daily caseload. Mr. Senthil Balaji is the Minister in-charge in Salem and the district administration has classified areas into zones to intensify lockdown measures. According to officials, there are 177 zones and each zone has been provided with two teams including officials from health, revenue, police and local body. The officials have been advised to ensure strict implementation of lockdown in their respective zones. Eleven officers have also been deployed for the 11 Assembly constituencies here as part of containment efforts. Mr. Balaji visited the COVID-19 treatment centre near Salem Steel Plant and reviewed the progress of works.  The district administration and the State government is planning to expand the 500-bed facility with another 500 beds. The Minister told the officials to complete the works on a war footing. District Collector S. Karmegam, City Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar, Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger and other officials took part in meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-reviews-containment-measures/article34625215.ece
23 May 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Two tonnes of ration rice seized||Civil Supplies officials seized around two tonnes of ration rice from several houses on a street at Maharajapuram under Watrap taluk. The rice was handed over to Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation godown. According to Srivilliputtur Taluk Supply Officer A. Gothandaraman, a flying squad led by Tahsildar Rajkumar raided Muthalamman Temple Street in Maharajapuram at around 4.30 p.m. on Thursday.The officials went there on getting intelligence input about several bags of public distribution rice being kept ready for smuggling, he said. When the officials went there, they found that 48 bags of rice were kept ready for loading. This is the third time Civil Supplies officials have seized PDS rice in different locations in Maharajapuram. They had seized around four tonnes on two occasions in January and February. The officials said that the people were selling it to some agents, who buy the ration rice from the family cardholders and sell them elsewhere. Revenue Inspectors Vigneswaran and Mathialagan had to load the bags themselves into a vehicle after seizing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized/article34625558.ece
23 May 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Get pass to take farm produce to market||The district administration has made arrangements for issuing permits to farmers cultivating horticultural crops to take their produce to the markets in vehicles. In a statement, Collector G.S. Sameeran said the district administration has made arrangements for issuing permits through the Department of Horticulture to the growers to take the horticultural produce from their fields to the markets in a bid to ensure unhindered marketing of their produce during lockdown. Accordingly, the farmers can take vegetables, fruits, flowers etc., from Tenkasi to other districts in the vehicles for which passes are being given through Horticultural Officers concerned. Farmers can obtain the passes by producing their Aadhaar card, driving licence and vehicle’s registration certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-pass-to-take-farm-produce-to-market/article34625290.ece
23 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Arrack cans unearthed from plantain field||Plastic cans with arrack were unearthed from a plantain field near Pandhanallur. Inquiries reveal that the Pandhanallur police received information about the illegal sale of arrack in Sozhiyavilagam area during the lockdown period. Subsequently, a team of police raided a house in the area on Saturday from where the suspected illegal sale was reported. As the raid failed to result in the seizure of any contraband, the police extended their scope of search to nearby agriculture fields which led to the unearthing of 21 plastic cans, filled with arrack. The seized contraband is worth Rs. 6 lakh, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrack-cans-unearthed-from-plantain-field/article34625594.ece
23 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life||Raju, 42, of Thenkarai Periyakulam, who was working as a Child Protection Officer on a temporary basis at the District Child Protection Office here, committed suicide, on Saturday. Following a complaint that he had reportedly consumed poison, he was rushed to the GH in a serious condition two days ago, where he died on Friday. A postgraduate, he had joined the office in September 2012. Though every year, his appointment order was renewed at the end of 11th month, it was not done in 2021. An advertisement was also issued in the newspapers calling for recruitment to his post. Raju moved the Madras High Court Bench in Madurai and obtained an order in his favour. He wrote to the senior officials citing the court order. However, when Raju was not reinstated, he went home and ended his life. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life/article34625574.ece
23 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Firing victims remembered||People from various walks of life, on Saturday, paid floral tributes to the portraits of 13 persons who were killed in firing by the police during the anti-Sterlite protest violence here on May 22, 2018. When the protestors took out a rally to the Thoothukudi Collectorate to submit a petition seeking the permanent closure of the copper smelter, violence and arson broke out and 13 persons were killed due to police firing. Pledge Floral tributes were paid to the victims at several places where a pledge to seek the permanent closure of the copper smelter was administered. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan and DMK cadres paid floral tributes to the portraits of the deceased at the party office here. Cadres of Naam Thamizhar Katchi paid their respects to the portraits of the victims at Mattakkadai. Similar events were organised in many parts of Thoothukudi, Kumareddiarpuram, Pandarampatti and other places in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firing-victims-remembered/article34625565.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to set up temporary markets at different locations||As the need for decentralising the retail vegetable trading gains momentum to de-congest overcrowding on the West Boulevard Road, where the wholesale and retail operations of the Gandhi Market were shifted a few days ago, the district administration mulls a strategy to set up temporary markets at different locations and to encourage sale of vegetables on wheels. It was with the aim of preventing overcrowding, the district administration shifted the entire operations of the Gandhi Market to West Boulevard Road a few days. The officials of the Tiruchi City Corporation had to make a number of home works to convince the reluctant traders. As per the arrangements, the wholesale traders would occupy the road from dusk to dawn and the retail traders would carry out business from 6 am to 10 am. However, the officials have noted that there has been no notable impact in crowd management on West Boulevard Road too. Since the timing of retail trading is limited, the customers throng in large number to buy vegetable and fruits. No one seems to be following the social distancing norms of the State government. The officials feel that except the traders do business in the open, which is of course is said to be a safe method to check the spread of COVID-19 virus than the closed environment at the Gandhi Market. While a section of residents is in favour of decentralising the retail trade at different locations as it was done during the first wave of COVID-19, the State government’s Saturday decision to impose a total lockdown for a week and to organise vegetable supply to households has added a new dimension to the market issue in Tiruchi. A clear picture is likely to emerge on the modalities of supplying or selling vegetables to households after the video conferencing by Chief Minister with the Collectors on Sunday. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that a detailed consultation was on with various stakeholders. The decision would on the line of the State government. It should be a win-win situation for traders and the people. Moreover, it should effectively check the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-set-up-temporary-markets-at-different-locations/article34625585.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHEL floats tenders to establish oxygen plants||The Bharath Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) has floated tenders for establishing cryogenic-based oxygen generation plants at its units in Tiruchi and Ranipet. While the proposed oxygen generation plant to be set up in Tiruchi will have a capacity 150 cubic meter per hour, the proposed plant at Ranipet will be of 50 cubic meter per hour. May 26 will be the last date for submitting the tender documents. They will be opened on the same day. In addition to Tiruchi and Ranipet, the BHEL has floated tenders for establishing cryogenic-based oxygen generation plants at Jhansi, Vizhag and Jagdishpur. The supply of the materials should be completed within four months from the date of issuance of the purchase order. According to sources, the successful bidder will have to carry out erection and commissioning of the plants. The activities will be completed within four weeks from the date of intimation by the BHEL. The move is aimed at supporting the increasing demand for medical oxygen, being reported in different parts of the country including Tamil Nadu, in the wake of the rapid surge in COVID-19 patients, many of them require oxygen support. Members of Parliament S. Thirunavukarasar and Tiruchi N. Siva had urged its administration to take immediate steps to make use of the availability. Moreover, Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru visited the plant to impress upon the need to start oxygen production as early as possible. He expressed the State government’s wish to launch oxygen production. Taking into account the demand and to support patients, who are in dire need of oxygen, the BHEL management is said to have floated an open tender for its units in Tiruchi, Ranipet, Jhansi, Vizhag and Jagdishpur. When the issue was brought to the notice of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin when he visited the National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi to inaugurate a new COVID care centre on Friday, Mr. Nehru, who accompanied him, said that a senior official of the BHEL had informed him that tender had been floated for establishing new oxygen generation plant in Tiruchi and Ranipet. The units would start the production as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-floats-tenders-to-establish-oxygen-plants/article34625583.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One more COVID Care Centre set up||The district administration has set up another COVID Care Centre (CCC) at Kalai Arangam near Central Bus Stand. The fourth in the city, it is the first to have oxygen support. S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said that 100 beds, of which 50 will have oxygen support have been prepared at Kalaiarangam. Health officers, doctors, and managers would soon be deployed and the centre would begin functioning soon, he said. The centre was aimed at taking some load off the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, he said. "For patients who can recover after some oxygen is administered, and require minimal medical attention, they can be admitted here. In that case, beds at the Tiruchi GH would be freed up for patients who need emergency care," he said. Food, basic amenities and even toiletries have been arranged for, for all patients, he said. ‘The patient will be redirected here from the Tiruchi GH or from the Primary Healthcare Centres,’ he said. Doctors and staff nurses would monitor the patients' health, and would immediately rush them to the Tiruchi GH if their condition worsens. The cost of meals, snacks, medication will all be borne by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-covid-care-centre-set-up/article34625589.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||4,670 fresh cases in central districts||The central region reported 4,670 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. There was a dip in the number of deaths with 38 reported from eight districts in the region. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths with 16 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Thanjavur, meanwhile, reported five and Perambalur, four. Three deaths each were reported in Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam while Karur and Ariyalur reported two each. Tiruchi district reported a slight dip in the number of COVID-19 cases. As many as 1,351 patients reported COVID-19 positive. Intensive-care beds and oxygen support beds were at capacity at most hospitals in the district, including private hospitals and quick arrangements were being made by the district administration to increase the bed capacity. In Thanjavur, 884 patients tested positive. Nagapattinam reported a marked spike with 651 patients reporting positive, while similar trends were also reported in Tiruvarur, with 569 fresh cases, and Pudukottai with 406. Karur reported 315 fresh cases while Perambalur and Ariyalur districts both reported a sharp rise with 219 and 275 fresh cases respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4670-fresh-cases-in-central-districts/article34625591.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six suspected cases of mucormycosis in Tiruchi||Tiruchi district has six suspected cases of mucormycosis, according to Collector S. Sivarasu. Samples have been lifted and sent to a laboratory for testing and results are awaited, he said. Meanwhile, doctors have cautioned patients, especially those who have recovered from COVID-19 to keep an eye and alert a doctor in case of pain in the nasal passage. Mucormycosis, a now vilified infection, can be detected early and can be fully treated, experts say. Fatalities occur when symptoms are ignored, they say. However, fear-mongering too, has created a problem for healthcare workers, Arun Prabhu Ganeshan G., ENT specialist at Apollo Hospitals told The Hindu . "There are patients who come to us with sinusitis but are afraid it might be mucormycosis," he said. Dr. Arun said that in his experience, the disease was not fatal, but the fear of it caused further complications. Mucormycosis was an invasive, opportunistic infection that feeds on moisture. However, it was too early to draw conclusions and blame steroids for the development of the infection, he said. Dr. Arun warned that the primary site of infection is the nose, just like COVID-19. "Mucor cuts down blood supply and is therefore harmful, however, surgery and anti-fungal medications can help cure it, provided that it is detected early," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-suspected-cases-of-mucormycosis-in-tiruchi/article34625587.ece
23 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 97.80 feet as against the full level of 120 feet on Saturday. While the inflow was 1423 cusecs, the discharge was 2002 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34625582.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Agricultural inputs on sale||Sincemajor dams in the district have good storage, sale of certified paddy seeds, fertilizers and pesticides for ‘kar’ season through the Agriculture Extension Centres is going on. Joint Director of Agriculture Gajendra Pandian said in a statement that arrangements had been made for sale of certified paddy seeds to the farmers, who had started the preparatory works on their fields during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The farmers can buy the seeds, fertilizers and pesticides from the Agriculture Extension Centres till noon every day. Those who face any hardship in getting the inputs or transporting them to their fields may contact the following Assistant Directors of Agriculture: Uma Maheshwari, Ambasamudram (94894 77619); Karpaga Rajkumar, Cheranmahadevi (99429 82578); Subha Selvi, Mukkoodal (94420 25935); Angelin Greba, Maanur (94423 38354); Murali Ragini, Palayamkottai (94441 07556); Jasmine Latha, Nanguneri (94862 71166); Vasanthi, Kalakkad (94421 51397); Sunil Dutt, Valliyoor (63742 54317); and Sujatha Bai, Radhapuram (94866 52706). Tenkasi Tenkasi Collector G.S. Sameeran said that there was adequate stock of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides for ‘kar’ paddy cultivation that usually starts in June every year. Urea (4,560 tonnes), Di-Ammonium-Phosphate (DAP) (510 tonnes), potash (990 tonnes) and complex fertilizer (2,670 tonnes) had been stocked in the primary agriculture cooperative societies and with the private sellers. DAP should be sold at a subsidised rate of Rs. 1,200 per bag. “Sellers should not trade agro inputs at inflated price which invite cancellation of licence and legal action against them,” he said in a statement issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agricultural-inputs-on-sale/article34625563.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘kabasura kudineer’ at your doorstep||As part of its anti-COVID-19 operations, the Corporation has started distributing ‘kabasura kudineer’ from autorickshaws to distribute the concoction to the public at their doorstep. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic), Tirunelveli City, Magesh Kumar flagged off the autorickshaws in the presence of City Health Officer M. Saroja on Saturday. ‘Star Rotary Club’ in Tirunelveli has joined hands with the Corporation in this exercise. These vehicles fitted with a public address system will also play COVID-19 awareness messages and distribute pamphlets to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kabasura-kudineer-at-your-doorstep/article34625286.ece
23 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Collector reviews preparedness||Ahead of the South West Monsoon, Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Saturday chaired a meeting with officials to review the preparedness of various departments. The flood control rooms in all the taluk offices and revenue divisional offices in Tiruppur district must be functional from June 1 and reports regarding loss of lives must be sent to the Collector, District Revenue Officer and the Disaster Management section periodically, the Collector instructed the Revenue Department. Amid the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, additional relief centres must be set up to rehabilitate the public in case of floods to prevent crowding. Any COVID-19 isolation centres set up within areas vulnerable to flooding must be shifted at the earliest. Personal protective equipment (PPE) kits must be made available to all first responders and volunteers and additional stock of masks must be ensured for the public who were shifted to these centres, according to a release. Instructions regarding flood preparedness were provided to other departments including Public Works Department, Forest Department, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Department and Fire and Rescue Services during the review meeting, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-collector-reviews-preparedness/article34625226.ece
23 May 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||DCB files case against petrol bunk owner||The District Crime Branch has filed a case of criminal breach of trust on a petrol bunk owner. Inquiries reveal that the complainant, R. Muruganandam of Nedumbalam in Thiruthuraipoondi taluk had entered into a deal with three persons running a petroleum product retail unit at Ammalur in the same taluk and finalized the deal at Rs. 1.35 crore. Muruganandam paid Rs. 85 lakh to Vaikuntham of Ammalur, in whose name the retail unit licence exists, in June 2018 in the presence of Vaikuntham’s son, Baranidharan, and a financier, Natarajan. Subsequently, the complainant managed to run the business for nearly four months when a group of people led by Vaikuntham and Baranidharan arrived at the petrol bunk on October 28, 2018 and forcibly vacated him from the bunk premises. When inquired about the cause of their action, the complainant was told that the outstanding loan taken by the father and son to run the petrol bunk from the financier Natarajan had been settled by registering the vacant land near the petrol bunk by Vaikuntham and Baranidharan and hence Muruganandam could get back his money invested in the business from Natarajan. Baffled by the sudden development, the complainant sought the help of the financier to settle the issue, in vain. He filed a petition at the Judicial Magistrate Court, Tiruvarur, and obtained a direction from the court ordering the investigation of the complaint from Muruganandam by the District Crime Branch. A case was filed against Vaikuntham, Baranidharan and Natarajan by the DCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dcb-files-case-against-petrol-bunk-owner/article34625592.ece
23 May 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||CMC alumnus Prathibha Varkey named president of Mayo Clinic Health System||Dr. Prathibha Varkey, an alumnus of Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, has been named president of the Mayo Clinic Health System, effective August 16, 2021. Friends from her alma mater recall her as a person very dedicated to her work. Dr. Varkey will partner with Mary Jo Williamson, chief administrative officer, Mayo Clinic Health System, to lead the strategy and operations of the health system’s 17 hospitals and nearly 50 community clinics across Iowa, Minnesota and Wisconsin. She succeeds Bobbie Gostout, M.D., who retired from Mayo Clinic in December 2020. She earned her medical degree from Christian Medical College, Vellore, in Tamil Nadu, India. She joined the CMC in 1991 and apart from excelling in medical studies, she was also good at quiz, essay competition and sports. According to her batchmates, she represented the college in volleyball. Academic excellence Mr. Varkey also excelled in academics during her school days. "We joined MBBS in 1991. She has been academically brilliant and very much research-oriented. She was very focused from the start. All our batchmates congratulated her after hearing this news," said Chandra Singh, urologist and associate director, finance, CMC. He said that CMC values diverse involvement in different scales. “Some have contributed well by going to remote corners of the country. There are also a few in the corporate sector who do extremely conscientious work. Since our system has a way to nurture and support those from the economically weaker backgrounds, they go on to do extremely well in terms of professional contribution,” he said. Anna Pulimood, principal, CMC, Vellore, said that in CMC, the focus on the health of the community is given importance. “Dr. Varkey must have been tuned to public health issues right from her graduation days. This is because our students are expected to identify health problems of villages and come up with solutions. Since Dr. Varkey would have such a bent of mind, she has been able to take up such a big responsibility,” she said. Dr. Varkey completed her internal medicine residency at Yale New Haven Health's Hospital of St. Raphael. She has a Masters of Public Health from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, a Masters of Health Professions Education from University of Illinois Medical Center, an MBA from the University of Minnesota, and an honorary Masters of Arts from Yale University.  Ms. Varkey must have been tuned to public health issues right from her graduation days. Since Ms. Varkey would have such a bent of mind, she has been able to take up such a responsibility Anna Pulimood, Principal, CMC Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmc-alumnus-prathibha-varkey-named-president-of-mayo-clinic-health-system/article34625194.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance with COVID-19 patient catches fire at CMCH||An 108 ambulance which was waiting on the premises of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) with a COVID-19 patient was gutted on Saturday. The patient, who was made to wait in the ambulance with oxygen support, was evacuated by the crew. The incident took place around 11 a.m. outside the ILI ward of the hospital. The ambulance crew had brought a patient to the hospital and the admission was delayed due to non-availability of an oxygen supported bed. The patient was made to wait in the ambulance with oxygen support. The pilot noticed smoke from the rear side of his seat when he was changing the oxygen cylinder for the patient after the first cylinder got exhausted. “The pilot noticed the fire when the fixing of the second cylinder was about to finish. He immediately tried to put out the fire using the portable fire extinguisher. But the fire spread fast. The emergency medical technician immediately evacuated the patient,” an official with the ambulance service said. An official from the Fire and Rescue Services said that a minor leakage from the oxygen cylinder intensified the fire. “As a fire extinguishing unit was kept on standby on the hospital premises, the fire was put out immediately. No person was injured in the incident,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulance-with-covid-19-patient-catches-fire-at-cmch/article34625220.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,165 test positive in Coimbatore||A total of 3,165 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, taking the number of active cases to 30,104. The district’s death toll increased to 999 after the Health Department on Saturday announced that 32 more persons died of the disease at different hospitals in the last few days. According to the department, 2,377 persons recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday. Hospitals in the district together had 424 vacant beds reserved for COVID-19 patients as of Saturday evening. A total of 538 beds were vacant at COVID-19 Care Centres in the district. Tiruppur district reported 1,466 new cases, taking the overall tally to 45,472. The Health Department reported 23 new deaths that occurred between May 18 and the early hours of Saturday, which took the district’s toll to 323. A total of 10,823 patients were active cases. Out of the 34,326 patients who have recovered, 758 were discharged on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 83 vacant beds in government and private hospitals for COVID-19 patients and 995 beds in care centres. Erode district reported 1,758 new cases, taking the tally to 42,007. While 981 persons were discharged, 10,484 continue to be under treatment. Ten persons died, raising the death toll to 236. Krishnagiri recorded 781 fresh cases and 109 cases were discharged with two deaths registered. The total number of cases in the district stood at 8,114 cases as of Saturday. In Salem, M. Vijayakumar (46), a photojournalist of a reputed Tamil magazine died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. As many as 742 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 313 were reported in corporation limits. As per bulletin, 18 deaths were reported in Salem, including seven women patients. In Namakkal, 598 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, five men died at government and private facilities. Dharmapuri recorded 360 fresh cases, and 218 cases discharged with two deaths registered. The total number of cases in the district was 2,934. In the Nilgiris, 387 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 14,815. The number of deaths in the district stood at 67.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3165-test-positive-in-coimbatore/article34625213.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment donated||NTT Data Corporation, a Japanese multi-national system integration company, has provided medical equipment worth Rs. 16 lakh to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. A release from the Native Medicare Charitable Trust said it had submitted proposals to several corporate companies requesting contributions to control the pandemic here. NTT Data came forward to support with the equipment. The Trust and NTT Data handed over a kit, consisting of Hematology Analyser and Desktop Computers, to Dr. Nirmala, Dean-CMCH and Dr. Keerthivasan, Nodal Officer-CMCH. They also handed over IR thermometers, pulse oximeters and oxygen cylinder trolleys. In Krishnagiri, a retired government servant from the Silk Development Board made a contribution to COVID-19 care to the District Collector. K. Srinivasalu of Thinnur in Hosur handed over a cheque for Rs. 50,000 to the Collector. Similarly, the District Red Cross Society handed over oxygen concentrator and masks to the administration. Earlier, Srinivasan Services Trust, social arm of the TVS Motor Company and Sundaram Clayton, handed over 30 oxygen concentrators of 10 ltr capacity each. They were contributed at a cost of Rs. 37.50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-donated/article34625225.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rush to buy goods||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-to-buy-goods/article34625571.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. under severe curbs for a week||While e-commerce services will be permitted from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., restaurants, hotels and bakeries will be allowed to offer parcel services in three slots daily — 6 a.m. to 10 a.m.; noon to 3 p.m.; and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Food delivery will be allowed through entities such as Swiggy and Zomato during this schedule. The staff members of private organisations, insurance companies and IT/ITES companies “may work from home”, the order said, allowing banks to function with one-third of their staff. ATM and related banking services will be permitted. There will be no disruption to the functioning of petrol and diesel bunks as well as LPG deliveries. Transport of agricultural produce, inputs and essential commodities will be permitted. Only those Departments handling essential services at the Secretariat and the Collectorate shall function. “Continuous process industries and industries manufacturing essential commodities [as listed in the GO dated April 20], along with in-situ construction works, are permitted...,” the order said. Earlier, Mr. Stalin said the infection was likely to peak by May-end or in the first week of June. “We have to take steps to prevent more infections and deaths,” he said at the meeting, attended by Mr. Irai Anbu and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, among others. ( Visit http://bit.ly/TNLockdown to read the order )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-under-severe-curbs-for-a-week/article34625172.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Jansons Institute of Technology: Sports Quiz 2021, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34625218.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||315 trees to make way for Langford metro station work||Much to the dismay of citizens and green activists, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has started felling 276 trees to build Langford underground metro station. Another 39 trees will be translocated to facilitate the work. The station is part of the underground line that the rail corporation is building under phase II of Namma Metro from Dairy Circle to Nagawara. The trees identified for felling include jackfruit, sandalwood, rosewood, bete, neem, gulmohar, Ashoka, and eucalyptus. Initially, the BMRCL had identified 343 trees for removal to build the tunnel network and the station. Last December, a public notice was issued on felling trees by the Deputy Conservator of Forests of Bengaluru Urban Division who is also a tree officer. Officials claim that only one objection was received for the public notice. The Forest Department also conducted an assessment of the trees identified for felling, which was submitted before the Tree Expert Committee (TEC). On May 4, it recommended that 28 trees be retained, 39 translocated and the remaining 276 felled. According to officials, the trees need to be removed to build entry and exit points for the underground station, a shaft for tunnel works, station box, and road widening. The TEC suggested that the 39 trees which will be translocated should include mango, mahogany, neem, and sandalwood, and can be moved to vacant spaces available at the Corps of Military Police (CMP) and Center. The BMRCL has also been told to plant 3,150 saplings as compensatory afforestation. The saplings will be maintained for a period of three years. “To build the Langford station, a total of 2,137 sq. m of defence land was acquired, as well as around 200 sq. m of private land on the other side of the road to build the entry point. The defence authority has handed over the land. As it is an underground station, provision has to be made for tunnel works,” said a BMRCL official. A tunnel boring machine has been deployed at Rashtriya Military School. “Once it achieves a breakthrough at Langford, it will be redeployed to tunnel parallel lines towards the school. A few days ago, the Forest Department gave permission to fell trees identified for the project,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/315-trees-to-make-way-for-langford-metro-station-work/article34625125.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shortage of vaccine leads to clashes||This past Wednesday, the government-run K.C. General Hospital in Malleswaram received a consignment of 940 doses of Covaxin. As word spread, around 700 people thronged the hospital the next day hoping to get a second shot of the vaccine. “We were so overwhelmed we had to call the police to manage the crowd. The staff were able to vaccinate 570 people and we ran out of stocks by Friday,” said B.R. Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent, K.C. General Hospital. He added that they prioritised senior citizens and the physically challenged so that they could get their shot in the first half an hour itself. Prakash S., an employee of a software firm, was witness to the chaos as people fought with each other and clashed with the hospital staff. “When I heard that K.C. General was administering Covaxin, I took my father-in-law there to get his second shot. I was shocked to see the crowds at a time when there were so many cases in the city. Doctors, healthcare workers, and citizens have to bear the brunt of this,” he said. What happened at K.C. General is not an isolated incident. On Saturday, people who gathered at a primary health centre (PHC) in Bangarappa Nagar clashed with the staff after they learned that there was no Covaxin available. The frustration and worry over shortage of vaccine, especially Covaxin, is playing out at many PHCs and hospitals, with citizens fighting amongst themselves and clashing with staff. In some cases, people above the age of 45 secure an appointment on the CoWIN app to go to a vaccination centre, but when they arrive they are informed there is no stock. Others line up outside the centres in the morning and wait for hours, only to be told that the vaccine doses are over. With tempers running high, many hospitals are demanding police protection to manage crowds. ‘Verbal abuse’ S. Abhilash Reddy, vice-president of Bengaluru Mahanagara District Congress Committee, who is active in New Thippasandra ward, alleged that the police verbally abused him at a PHC in Bhuvaneshwari Nagar on Thursday when he went to help a few citizens. “On May 19, the PHC ran out of vaccines and asked 47 citizens to return the next day [Thursday]. They were told that they would be prioritised and given the shot in the morning itself. But on Thursday, the staff at the centre were vaccinating other people. There was a lot of chaos, so I questioned the doctors. The police were called in and they verbally abused me,” he alleged. At Ullal Government Hospital, many who had booked appointments on the app were unable to get vaccinated due to vaccine shortage. Roopa S., an employee at a private company who went to get her mother vaccinated at a PHC in North Bengaluru, said she witnessed several altercations between the staff and citizens. “Although health officials were trying their best to manage the crowd, they did not have adequate vaccines as more than a hundred people had come to the centre and they had only 60 doses left. People were really desperate and fought with each other to get vaccinated. Finally, the police were called in to intervene,” she said. It is not just public ire that has hospital staff worried. With huge crowds, doctors and healthcare workers are worried about COVID-19 spreading within the premises. While the government recently announced that vaccination drives would be shifted to college and school premises, a system is yet to be rolled out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shortage-of-vaccine-leads-to-clashes/article34625137.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not paid for 2 months, ASHAs to hold online protest tomorrow||Over 42,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in the State, who have been working tirelessly at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic, have not been paid their honorarium for the last two months. Moreover, they have been working without basic protection gear such as masks and face shields, let alone PPEs. D. Nagalakshmi, State secretary of Karnataka Rajya Samyukta ASHA Karyakartheyara Sangha affiliated to All India United Trade Union Centre, said the workers had not been paid for March and April. “If the payment is not made in another week, it will be three months without the meagre Rs. 4,000 fixed honorarium for us,” she said. Pointing out that repeated requests to the State health officials to clear the pending payment had resulted only in assurances, Ms. Nagalakshmi said the sangha will stage an online protest and social media campaign on May 24. “I have personally submitted appeals to all the authorities concerned, including the Health Commissioner, Mission Director, National Health Mission, and State ASHA Programme Officer. “For the last 20 days, they have only been assuring us that the dues will be cleared, but nothing has been done,” she alleged. Although over 1,000 ASHAs have tested positive so far, the Health Department has not been providing them masks or face shields. “ASHAs have been only given pulse oximeters and are assigned visits to home-isolated COVID-19 positive patients to check on their health and distribute medicines. While doctors and paramedical staff wear PPE kits while handling COVID-19 patients, how do they expect us to work without masks,” she asked. Meanwhile, the All India Committee of Scheme Workers’ Federation of India has also given a call for all-India strike by ASHAs on May 24. The federation called upon ASHAs throughout the country to stand united and go on a day’s strike on May 24. “Depending on the State specific situation, we call upon all units to respond to the call of strike either through ‘Kam Bandh’ (boycott work), online protest and submission of online/offline memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister through proper channel,” said a statement. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra claimed the fixed honorarium was being paid regularly. “The issue is only with part payment of incentives that has to be made through Direct Bank Transfer. It will be resolved by Monday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-paid-for-2-months-ashas-to-hold-online-protest-tomorrow/article34625144.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports a record 61,766 COVID-19 recoveries||Karnataka on Saturday reported a record 61,766 recoveries — the highest on a day so far. With this, the total recoveries touched 18,91,042. Recoveries have been outnumbering new cases for the past few days. Active cases, which had been on the rise and had breached the six lakh mark on May 16, fell to 4,83,204 on Saturday. Following an exponential rise in the number of new cases, the State’s recovery rate had reduced considerably in the last one month. From 98.1% on February 28, it fell to 97.8% on March 15. Subsequently, it further dipped to 96.3% by March 30 and 90.1% in mid-April. In the next 15 days, the recovery rate saw a drastic reduction to touch 73.9% on April 30. Although it plummeted to 70% on May 8, it again touched 73.6% on May 18. As on Saturday, it stood at 78.82%. Meanwhile, the State reported 31,183 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 23,98,925. Of these, 8,214 were from Bengaluru Urban. With 451 deaths, the toll rose to 24,658. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to other reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-a-record-61766-covid-19-recoveries/article34625129.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 held for Rs. 75 lakh robbery, murder committed in 2018||It took the police a little over two years, but they finally tracked down and arrested a gang of four taxi drivers who allegedly murdered a van driver and stole Rs. 75 lakh that he was transporting for a cash management company. With their arrest, the police have solved the November 2018 murder of Abdul Shahid, 30. “The Govindapura police received a tip-off about the prime accused Kumar N., a former driver with another cash management company,” said S.D. Sharanappa, DCP (East). Kumar, who was well versed with how cash management firms operated, befriended Shahid in 2018. He along with his associates — Prasanna M.B., 31, from Mysuru, Madhusudhan, 23, from Mandya, and Mahesh U., 22, from Andhra Pradesh — offered Shahid Rs. 5 lakh if he teamed up with them. They allegedly convinced him to steal the cash box in the van while the guards were refilling the ATM. During the course of the investigation, the police recovered footage of the victim walking away with Kumar from the van. “Initially, Shahid joined them and escaped with the cash box. However, he started having misgivings, and asked the accused to drop him home. Fearing that he would spill the beans, they strangled him to death in a moving car and dumped the body in the forest area in Sakleshpur,” said a police officer. The accused managed to evade the police and even started a cab service business with the money they stole. “After they murdered Shahid, they went to Dharmasthala to visit the temple where they made a cash donation,” the officer added. However, the police were actively investigating the case, and received a tip-off about Kumar’s whereabouts. He was arrested him at K.R. Pet. Based on his information, the police arrested the other accused and recovered three bikes, two cars, and gold valuables worth Rs. 15 lakh from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-held-for-rs-75-lakh-robbery-murder-committed-in-2018/article34625141.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 labourers killed in wall collapse||Two labourers were buried alive while another was injured after a mud wall collapsed on them while they were working at a construction site at Devarabeesanahalli, Marathahalli, on Saturday afternoon. “Seven labourers were on the site when the mud wall collapsed. While four men had a narrow escape, the trio were buried before they could react,” said a police officer. They were digging in the basement of the site. However, the mud wall nearby was unstable and wet due to the recent heavy rain, and a part of it collapsed on them around 3.30 p.m. The Marathahalli police along with Fire and Emergency Services personnel deployed an excavator to reach the victims. The deceased have been identified as Jambhanna, 40, a native of Koppal, and Bheemaraya, 34, from Kalaburagi. Veeranna B., who survived the incident with injuries was shifted to a hospital in the area. “Doctors said his condition is stable,” said a police officer. The labourers were living in sheds at Devarabeesanahalli with their families. The Marathahalli police have registered a case of negligence against the site engineer and contractor charging them under death due to negligence. The police in the past have expressed concerns over the number of instances of accidents on construction sites leading to the death of labourers. In almost all the cases, it was found that proper safety equipment had not been provided to workers. In March, the West division police had brought this to the attention of the Labour Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-labourers-killed-in-wall-collapse/article34625126.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Duo caught transporting 154 liquor bottles in tomato sacks||The police intercepted a van and arrested two men who were allegedly transporting 154 liquor bottles to Andhra Pradesh. The bottles were concealed in sacks of tomatoes. The accused, Mallikarjuna and Suresh, are both 24 years old and hail from Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. Police sub-inspector Rajinth S. from K.R. Puram station was conducting random vehicle checks as part of the lockdown enforcement at T.C. Palya junction on Thursday night. When the duo drove the van past the checkpoint, they were stopped by the police. “They said they had come from the RMC yard and were driving to Andhra Pradesh to sell the tomatoes. However, the police on duty were suspicious as the men were returning to their home town so late. They started checking the sacks and found the liquor bottle,” said a police officer. They were booked under the Disaster Management Act and Karnataka Excise Act. “The duo have been taken into custody while efforts are on to track down a third accused, Raghu, who is on the run.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/duo-caught-transporting-154-liquor-bottles-in-tomato-sacks/article34625127.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion over vaccination for 18-44 priority group||Although the State government had announced that vaccination for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group would resume for frontline and vulnerable workers from Saturday, it did not take off at most government hospitals in Bengaluru. Following the Health Department’s announcement, many beneficiaries lined up at hospitals assuming they would get vaccinated. However, they had to return disappointed. There were minor skirmishes reported in a few hospitals as many were asked to go back. State health officials claimed that vaccination was taken up in a few workplaces and some vaccination centres, including primary health centres, and as many as 22,788 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 3.30 p.m. However, the heads of various hospitals in the city said they had not been given a separate stock for this group. “While the routine vaccination for 45 years and above continued as usual, we did not resume the drive for the 18-44 group as we did not get the stocks for this group,” said B.R. Venkateshaiah, K.C. General Hospital medical superintendent. T.S. Ranganath, nodal officer for vaccination at Victoria Hospital, said the Health Department was working on developing a separate portal that will be linked to the CoWIN portal. “We have been told to wait till this happens. Vaccination for this age group will begin only after that,” he said. H.D.R. Radhakrishna, medical superintendent of Sir C.V. Raman General Hospital, also said separate stock for this age group was not given and hence vaccination had not resumed. However, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said new guidelines have been issued for vaccination of this group, and based on that the drive would be carried out from Monday. For identified workers Clarifying that vaccination in the 18-44 group was only for identified State COVID-19 frontline workers and vulnerable/prioritygroups, Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said the concerned would be informed about the date and time of vaccination by the designated nodal officers. “Vaccination for all in this age group is currently not available,” she said. “We have noted that there is some confusion among the general public regarding vaccination. While vaccination for 45 and above is continuing with Covishield, Covaxin for first dose is currently not available,” she said in a statement. “For the first dose with Covishield, prior online registration is a mustonly in urban areas. On-site registration is allowed in rural areas. However, for the second dose, walk-in vaccination is being done. For the second dose of Covaxin, an SMS will be sent to the beneficiaries, who can visit the designated centres mentioned in it,” the statement said. Meanwhile, Health Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted that Karnataka had received 2,04,050 doses of Covishield on Saturday from an order placed by the State government. A total of 1,04,251 people were vaccinated on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-over-vaccination-for-18-44-priority-group/article34625131.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Help from corporates for COVID-19 fight||Several corporate houses have extended help to Karnataka in its fight against COVID-19 with equipment and cash. South Korea-based multinational company Seoul Semiconductors handed over medical supplies worth Rs. 7.5 crore under its CSR fund to the State government on Friday. TVS Motors donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund on Friday. It also donated oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment worth Rs. 3 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-from-corporates-for-covid-19-fight/article34625123.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Female loco pilots steer oxygen train||Two women loco pilots drove an Oxygen Express carrying 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen from Jolarpet Junction to Inland Container Depot, Whitefield, in Bengaluru city on Saturday. The train had originated from Tatanagar in Jharkhand. Loco pilots Sireesha G. and Aparna R.P. steered the train for a distance of 129 km from Jolarpet to the city. Both are B.Tech graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/female-loco-pilots-steer-oxygen-train/article34625134.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reduced testing has led to decline in cases: Ex-CM||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah questioned the State government’s data on decline in the number of COVID-19 casesand said the government is “instilling a false sense of confidence by claiming the COVID-19 cases have reduced”. He tweeted that it was only because of reduced testing that the number of cases were reduced. “Order by National Health Mission director has exposed the lies of @CMofKarnataka,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah, along with the tweets, attached an order issued on April 25 by the NHM director, which said that asymptomatic patients need not be tested.“Is @CMofkarnataka even aware of the implications of such order?” he said. He described it as a “foolish order” since asymptomatic person may infect many people if that is not tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reduced-testing-has-led-to-decline-in-cases-ex-cm/article34625138.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest held||Members of the Karnataka State United Construction Workers Union recently held an online protest demanding Rs. 10,000 be paid as COVID-19 relief for at least three months for all registered construction workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-held/article34625142.ece
23 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman gives birth in auto outside health centre||A woman was delivered of her baby in an autorickshaw outside the community health centre at Shantigrama on Thursday night as the hospital staff allegedly delayed in admitting her on the grounds that she was not carrying a COVID-19 negative report. Hema, a resident of Halasanahalli in Hassan taluk, was rushed to the hospital in the autorickshaw by her husband after she developed labour pains around 11.30 p.m. The hospital staff enquired if she had the COVID-19 negative report. The woman did not have the report and the hospital staff allegedly delayed her admission. According to her family members, Ms. Hema was delivered of her boy in the autorickshaw itself. Even as she was screaming in pain, none of the staff members responded, they alleged. Only after the delivery, the staff took her inside the hospital. Following the incident, District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar visited the hospital and enquired about the incident. Later, the woman and her baby were admitted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The officer told presspersons that an inquiry would be held and if the staff were found guilty, action would be taken against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-gives-birth-in-auto-outside-health-centre/article34625233.ece
23 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Black fungus death in Hassan||A person, who was earlier infected with COVID-19, succumbed to black fungus in Hassan on Saturday. The patient, aged about 50, was undergoing treatment at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. This is the first death due to the black fungus infection in the district. So far, seven cases of black fungus infection have been reported in Hassan. As many as 14 more people died of COVID-19 infection and 1,933 fresh cases were reported in Hassan district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-fungus-death-in-hassan/article34625234.ece
23 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Official files plaint against villagers||The Range Forest Officer of Tanigebailu has filed a complaint with the police against the residents of Santaveri in Chikkamagaluru taluk, who stopped vehicles of senior officers, accusing them of obstructing the government officials from discharging their duties. The complaint was registered by Lingadahalli Police on Friday night. R.Naveen Kumar, the RFO, has named Mubarak, 36, Janardhana, 37, Rangaswamy, 42, Nowshad, 24 in his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/official-files-plaint-against-villagers/article34625232.ece
23 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t deny treatment under Ayushman in emergencies: Kota||Dakshina Kannada in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Saturday asked private hospital not to deny treatment to patients with Ayushman Arogya Karnataka cards who approach them under emergency just because they do not have referral from the government hospital concerned. He was speaking at a meeting on treatment to COVID-19 patients at private hospitals in Athena Hospital here. In such a situation, private hospitals should get the referral from government doctors electronically through Arogya Mitra workers designated for the particular private hospital. Mr. Poojary reiterated that private hospitals should reserve 50% of their beds for COVID-19 patients being referred from government hospitals. The discharge summaries of patients getting discharged from private hospitals should be attested by nodal officers concerned. Meanwhile, the government has enhanced treatment charges for non-referral COVID-19 patients, Mr. Poojary said and if private hospitals indulge in collecting excess fees, the district health and family welfare officer should get the excess refunded. Chairing a meeting of medical experts on COVID-19 here, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra urged the medical fraternity to intensify testing, tracing, and treatment (three Ts) in order to contain the spread of the pandemic. It was essential to trace the primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive person, test them, isolate them if found to be positive, and treat them. Only then the pandemic could be contained, he said, adding test results were being provided within 24 hours of obtaining samples. Dr. Rajendra said the district has 10,398 active cases with 1,470 patients being treated in hospitals, 8,928 at home isolation, and 91 at Covid Care Centres. The positivity rate was 31.58% since seven days while the recovery rate was 84.63% and death rate was 1.23% during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-deny-treatment-under-ayushman-in-emergencies-kota/article34625231.ece
23 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Broiler chicken piling up in State’s poultry farms||Broiler chickens have begun piling up in poultry farms across the State due to poor off-take in view of the lockdown. Though an estimated 15 lakh live chicken gets ready for sale every day in the State at 20,000 poultry farms, where they are reared, the demand had come down drastically due to closure of hotels and restaurants, besides cancellation of marriages and other community gatherings. Retail chicken shops, where the meat is available for purchase, also have a limited window period for sale – between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. With the off-take of chicken from the poultry farms coming down drastically, leading to a pile-up of live birds, the Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association (KPFBA) has expressed concern over not only the financial consequences arising out of feeding the chicken for an extended period of time, but also the threat to the health of the birds. KPFBA president Sushanth Rai, who has sought “urgent help” from the State government to dispose off the “perishable” poultry products. He has urged the State Government, in a letter to the Commissioner to the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences, to extend the window period for sale of chicken from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. to at least till 2 pm every day. The production expenses incurred by the farmers includes the daily feed comprising of maize, soya and other raw materials, which cost about Rs. 30 crore per day in the State, he said. The piling up of chicken even for one day affects the production cycle as well as the economy of the poultry farms. “If the bird stays in farm beyond the stipulated number of days, it continues to feed, adding to the cost of production,” said a source in KPFBA. Also, the price comes down with the age of the bird beyond a time. Ramesh, wholesale chicken dealer from Mysuru, said he purchases birds that are 32 to 33 days old, weighing around 2.3 kg. But, nowadays he was getting birds that were around 2.6 kg to 2.8 kg. Consumers prefer tender birds that are less than 2.3 kg. Any increase in the weight of the bird will push the prices downward, he said. He pointed out that the demand for chicken from the retailers had come down in the last few weeks. Apart from the short four-hour window period for sale of chicken, Mr Ramesh said he felt that the purchasing power of several people, particularly daily wagers, had taken a huge beating during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/broiler-chicken-piling-up-in-states-poultry-farms/article34625148.ece
23 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Katuru village a ‘green zone’ amidst COVID-19 hotspots||A village in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district is set to emerge as a “model” for the rest of the State in combating the second wave of COVID-19, which is sweeping rural areas. Katuru village in Hardanahalli Gram Panchayat limits, which has a population of about 2,000 people, has not reported a single case of COVID-19 ever since the pandemic broke out last year. Role model Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, also in charge of Mysuru district, has expressed his desire to visit Katuru. Speaking to media persons at Nanjangud on Saturday, the Minister, who visited a few primary health centres in the taluk, said the village should be promoted as a role model for others to emulate. The villagers at Katuru have ensured compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing, disinfect the village twice or thrice a week, and have banned public gathering, including jatras and festivals.  The Minister said that the surge in the number of cases in the rural hinterland in Mysuru was also accompanied by high rate of recovery which was a positive development. However, it was imperative to create greater public awareness on following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, said Mr.Somashekar. An oxygen refilling plant will also be established at Nanjangud under CSR funding for which preliminary discussions have been completed. After reviewing the functioning of a few more PHCs at Konthaiahnahundi and Tagadur, the minister noted that there was scarcity of doctors, para medical staff and oxygen and efforts were being made to resolve it, he added. MLAs Yathindra and Harshavardhan, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/katuru-village-a-green-zone-amidst-covid-19-hotspots/article34625149.ece
23 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Helpline launched||Covid Helpline Mysuru, an initiative by volunteers from the Emergency Response Team in association with Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), was launched by MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag on Friday. The helpline’s website (https://covidhelplinemysore.com/) was described by Ms Nag as a “one-stop destination” for all COVID-related queries. The information is verified by the MCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helpline-launched/article34625132.ece
23 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Three leopards found dead; poisoning suspected||Three leopards were found dead under suspicious conditions in Belawadi village limits on the outskirts of Mysuru on Saturday. The carcasses were noticed near the Belavadi lake by villagers who informed the Forest Department personnel. It transpired that a leopardess aged between 4 and 5 and its two cubs – a male and a female - estimated to be around 8 months had died after consuming the flesh of a dog. Deputy Conservator of Forest K.C. Prashanth Kumar said prima facie it seems to be a case of poisoning as there were traces of suspected pesticide or insecticide on the dog’s carcass. Samples of the dog’s carcass and the three leopards have been collected and will be sent to the laboratory. The State Pollution Control Board was asked to take samples of the water to examine if there was high level of pollution in the lake. Incidentally, the place where the leopards were found dead is about 2 to 3 km from BEML complex where a mother and a few cubs were found sauntering near the compound wall on Tuesday night and the video had gone viral on social media. Though there are fears that it could be the same leopards that were found poisoned, Mr. Kumar said the leopards in the video were smaller. The outskirts of Mysuru is an ideal habitat for leopards as the city is surrounded by reserve forests, sugarcane fields and scrub jungles. The hinterland is also linked to Arabhithittu and Chamundi Hill forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-leopards-found-dead-poisoning-suspected/article34625146.ece
23 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tigress found dead||A tigress was found dead in an Elephant Proof Trench (EPT) bordering the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, on Saturday. It is estimated to be around nine years old and the carcass was found in the EPT dug along the Nugu wildlife zone in Hediyala sub-division of the tiger reserve. Forest Department personnel said there were no traces of external injuries nor did it seem to be a case of poisoning. The skin and the claws were intact thus ruling out poaching and hence, the authorities suspect it to have died of natural causes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tigress-found-dead/article34625150.ece
23 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Place of worship to appease ‘Corona Maramma’ removed||A makeshift place of worship where a former gram panchayat president had conducted prayers to appease “Corona Maramma” near a village in Kollegal was cleared by the district administration on Friday night. Based on information from villagers, Kollegal tahshildar K. Kunal along with the rural sub-inspector Ashok visited Madhuvanahalli village, located about 40 km from the town, and got the place cleared. Yashodhamma, a former GP president who had conducted prayers to “ward off the evil effect of the pandemic”, was issued a stern warning against initiating such practices as they could lead to the propagation of superstitious beliefs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/place-of-worship-to-appease-corona-maramma-removed/article34625128.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Implementing norms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/implementing-norms/article34625140.ece
23 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||2,178 cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 2,178 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 2,162 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 14 others remains unknown. One person who came from another State and a health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 26.27%. Meanwhile, 2,619 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district fell to 20,798. Kottayam As many as 1,750 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 1,718 people including two health workers contracted the disease through local transmission. The test positivity for the day was 20.92%. With 197 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Parathodu with 122 cases. As many as 2,290 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total number of active cases to 11,217. Meanwhile, 55,484 people are under observation. Meanwhile, the authorities have imposed additional restrictions in four more panchayats – Kurichy, Nedumkunnam, Thalayolaparambu and Kanjirappally. As per estimates, TPR in 23 local bodies remains below 20% with Poonjar (6.31) at the top of the tally. The TPR hovers between 20 to 30% in 30 local bodies while it varies between 30 and 40% in 13 local bodies. The TPR in Udayanapuram and Maravanthuruth panchayats, however, still remains well over 40%t. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 877 people tested positive for the disease on Saturday. Of these, all but five contracted the disease through local transmission. With 70 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 44 cases. The district also reported seven COVID-19 related deaths during the day. As many as 1,486 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the number of active cases to 13,144 while 27,627 others are under observation.  ( With contributions from our bureaus in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2178-cases-in-alappuzha/article34625581.ece
23 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||More restrictions in local bodies with high TPR||The Alappuzha district administration has decided to impose more stringent restrictions in local bodies where the test positivity rate (TPR) remains high. The average TPR over the seven days between May 13 and 19 crossed 40% in six grama panchayats in the district. Pulinkunnu has the highest positivity rate at 50.82%. TPR in Aroor stood at 43.10% during the period. It is followed by Puliyoor (42.40%), Thuravoor (42.38%), Arattupuzha (41.79%), and Thiruvanvandoor (40.71%). Another six grama panchayats recorded TPR above 35%. They are Veeyapuram (38.23%), Purakkad (38.31%), Kadakarappally (37.68%), Ezhupunna (37.02%), Chennam Pallippuram (35.75%), and Panavally (35.42%). TPR was above 30% in Mannancherry, Karthikappally, Kodamthuruth, Kuthiathode, Mararikulam North, Pathiyoor, Pattanakkad, Thycattusserry and Venmony. Of the 72 grama panchayats, test positivity rate remained below 20% in 11 grama panchayats during the period. Among the six municipalities, Kayamkulam has the highest TPR rate at 28.88% followed by Haripad (26.54%), Alappuzha (26.50%), Mavelikara (24.36), Cherthala (23.92%) and Chengannur ((21.09%). District Collector A. Alexander directed the police to barricade all byroads in local bodies where the COVID-19 situation has turned grim. He warned of legal action against those removing barricades. Measures would be taken to ensure the primary contacts strictly observe home quarantine. Apart from the police, fire and rescue services personnel and civil defence volunteers would be deployed for patrolling in interior parts. In view of the spiralling COVID-19 cases, the local bodies in the district have ramped up measures to tackle the spread of disease. The Arattuppuzha, Aroor, Chennam Pallipuram, Ezhupunna, Kadakarappally, Kavalam, Mararikulam North, Panavally, Pulinkunnu, Thiruvanvandoor, Thuravoor, Thycattusserry and Veeyapuram grama panchayats have been directed to immediately set up domiciliary care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-restrictions-in-local-bodies-with-high-tpr/article34625580.ece
23 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Krishi Bhavans to turn hi-tech, says Prasad||Krishi Bhavans in the State will be made high-tech, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. He was speaking to reporters here on Saturday. “Like public schools, Krishi Bhavans will be made smart. The government will prepare a project to make agriculture profitable,” he said. Mr. Prasad said that climate change was a huge challenge to farmers in Kerala. “We need to take steps to overcome the challenges arising due to climate change. We will focus on increasing production of organic vegetables,” he said. The Minister said the government was serious about issues facing the Kuttanad region. Mr. Prasad visited Alappuzha Bishop House and held talks with Bishop James Anaparambil and others about various issues being faced by the people living in the coastal areas of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/krishi-bhavans-to-turn-hi-tech-says-prasad/article34625314.ece
23 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Community living may aggravate COVID situation in Idukki||The increase in COVID-19 cases in plantation areas, tribal settlements, and vegetable hubs has raised concern among health officials as they fear that the community living system followed there may aggravate the situation. Though the average number of cases per day has been below 1,500 in the district, a spurt in cases has been reported from the plantation areas of Devikulam, Udumbanchola, and Peerumade and a few tribal settlements in these taluks. The vegetable hubs of Kanthallur and Vattavda have also reported a spurt in cases recently. Plantation workers live in estate quarters with each family having a kitchen, central room, and a front portion in a single line. Bathrooms, toilets, and water connections are for all, which increases the chances of interaction among families and easy virus transmission.  District Medical Officer Priya N. said the District Collector recently convened a meeting to check the spread of the disease to plantation areas. “When a family in a plantation area contracts the infection, the members are shifted to COVID care centres. In case of clusters in worker colonies, the colony is isolated as a separate zone,” she said. She said the number of COVID-19 tests had been increased in plantation areas. At present, there was no vaccine shortage in Kanthallur, she added. In Vattavada, nearly 30 people in Samiyala Colony were infected and remedial measures had been initiated. A few forest tribal settlements in Anchunadu also reported COVID-19 cases recently. Of the 25 settlements in Marayur, the infection was reported in seven settlements, including the three adjacent to the town. A forest official said a few cases recently reported were under strict monitoring and essentials were being reached to the families of the patients. In the forest settlements of Muthuvans, boys and aged men usually sleep at common halls called ‘Chathram’. This increases the chances of the spread of the disease there, says Jayan Variath, a local journalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-living-may-aggravate-covid-situation-in-idukki/article34625316.ece
23 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records 3,219 fresh COVID cases, 8,296 recoveries||A total of 3,219 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. The test positivity rate stands at 24.1% and 13,307 tests were done. The district’s active caseload has fallen to 45,405. The figure was at 68,357 on May 16, roughly a week ago. Sreemoolanagaram recorded the highest number of new cases with 113 people testing positive, followed by Thrikkakara with 107 and Thripunithura with 80 new cases. Palluruthy registered 78 new cases, Kumbalangi 68, Payipra 67, Udayamperoor 63, Fort Kochi 62, Choornikkara and Mulavukad 61 each, and Mattancherry 60. Nine health workers, one police officer and two CISF personnel have tested positive. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Saturday, when 8,296 people were considered to have recovered. While 332 people were newly admitted to hospitals and other treatment centres, 233 people were discharged. As many as 37,345 people are recovering from the infection at home. A total of 1,01,954 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-3219-fresh-covid-cases-8296-recoveries/article34625306.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4 municipalities in district lose their ‘clean’ status||Four municipalities in Ernakulam — Thrikkakara, Perumbavoor, Piravom and North Paravur — were found lagging behind in solid waste management and sanitation despite earning the government’s ‘clean’ status last year. The lapses in the management of solid waste emerged after the Department of Local Self-Government carried out a detailed assessment on the present situation in local bodies across the State in April. Thrikkakara, Perumbavoor, Piravom, and North Paravur were among the district’s 30 local bodies that had won the ‘clean’ certificate issued by the government in October last. However, the civic bodies could not maintain the track record and slipped in solid waste management and sanitation, especially after December, according to the assessment. The performance of the local bodies was assessed under various categories prescribed by the Department. It included doorstep collection, formation of Haritha Karma Sena for collection of non-biodegradable waste, decentralised systems of biodegradable waste, and setting up material collection facilities. Waste collection The assessment revealed that the door-to-door collection of solid waste had gone down over the last six months in the municipalities. Efforts to check the illegal dumping and open burning of waste had also witnessed a decline. The civic bodies that won the clean status were supposed to step up their performance. The local bodies have been told to ensure scientific management and disposal of waste under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The municipalities have to take up waste management initiatives under their annual projects without fail. The secretaries of the local bodies have the responsibility to set up material collection facilities, resource recovery facilities, and make arrangements for providing viability gap funding for the Haritha Karma Sena members. The local bodies will have to include projects to check dumping of untreated sewage and effluents in rivers and other waterbodies. The projects include installation of modern sewage treatment plants. The civic bodies in a region could form clusters and set up joint projects to arrest pollution of waterbodies, according to the Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-municipalities-in-district-lose-their-clean-status/article34625309.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 10-lakh relocation support offered to coastal residents||The State government has offered a sum of Rs. 10 lakh to families wishing to relocate from Chellanam, which witnessed sea water incursion and flooding of homes triggered by the heavy downpour early this week during Cyclone Tauktae. K.J. Maxi, MLA, who attended a meeting of representatives of Chellanam panchayat convened by District Collector S. Suhas on Saturday, said the district authorities had said that people whose houses were damaged would be given Rs. 4 lakh each and those who wanted to relocate from the village would get a support of Rs. 10 lakh. Chellanam panchayat president K.D. Prasad said the District Collector made the announcement on relocation as answer to a question from people who attended the meeting. He said a survey of the damage suffered by houses in the coastal village was being made by the district revenue authorities and the panchayat. There are around 10,000 houses in Chellanam lined up along the coast. Many houses have been damaged. The extent of the damage was being assessed, he said. Mr. Maxi said other details were not discussed at the meeting as the first priority for the coastal village was the cleaning up of houses. He said there was a plan to send doctors to homes to assess the health situation and to help COVID-19 patients. Cases showed no signs of diminishing even as test positivity rate reached 50% in Chellanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-10-lakh-relocation-support-offered-to-coastal-residents/article34625304.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Heavy rain, flooding hit fish farming around Kochi||Scores of fish farmers around Kochi, who use cages and open ponds, have sustained substantial losses in the floods triggered by heavy rain this week resulting from Cyclone Tauktae. While some of the shrimp farmers near Kochi fear the possible outbreak of a viral disease, aquaculturists in areas such as Kumbalanghi, Chellanam, and border areas of Ezhupunna have seen heavy flooding, which has rendered most of the coastal paddy fields unsuitable for fish and shrimp farming in the coming season. Several farmers have lost cages, which were either washed ashore in the floods or were severely damaged. A.R. Joseph, a fish farmer in Kumbalanghi, said he lost substantial numbers of pearl spot ( karimeen ), cat fish, tilapia, and milkfish in the rain that flooded the fish pond, measuring around 4.5 acres, in the village surrounded by backwaters. The fish escaped as water levels rose above the bunds that were built to prevent water incursion from outside, he said. Festival season Mr. Joseph said he had launched the aquaculture venture targeting the December festival season, when demand for varieties such as pearl spot go up. Pearl spot is in great demand throughout the year, with fish weighing over 250 grams apiece fetching around Rs. 500 a kg. He said that there were around 25,000 fingerlings in the pond from where a large number had escaped in the rains. V.P. Anthony in Chellanam said about 150 acres of fish farming area in the coastal village had been rendered unsuitable for further fish culture operations after sea water incursion during the heavy rain and winds. He said in his experience, the 2021 flooding was similar to the December 1965 floods that had resulted in inundation of a large number of homes and paddy fields in Chellanam. Augustine Kurisingal, another farmer in Paruthithode in Chellanam, too has lost substantial fish farming area to flooding from the sea. Aqua farmers in these areas grow shrimp, pearl spot, grey mullet, tilapia, red snapper as well as milkfish and catfish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-flooding-hit-fish-farming-around-kochi/article34625308.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bund taken down to ease flooding in Kakkanad||The Thrikkakara municipal authorities, in cooperation with the Irrigation Department, dismantled the Kozhichira bund near the Rajagiri Valley to ease flooding in some of the eastern areas of the municipality on Friday. The bund was taken apart under the supervision of Thrikkakara Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan and councillor P.M. Abdu from Edachira. He said that areas such as the Link Valley residential complex, Edachira, Thengode, and Vikas Vaani were flooded. Crops damaged The floodwaters also caused damage to standing crops in these areas. The situation was such that people were unable to get out of their homes because of the flooding of the surrounding areas. The road leading to these areas too came under flood waters, which remained stagnant for two days. Kadambrayar With siltation and debris, the Kadambrayar river has seen little flow of water. This had resulted in storm water causing floods in the area, said Mr. Abdu. Earlier, a part of the bund was dismantled to allow some of the water to flow out. However, the flooding eased only a little, which led the authorities to resort to completely taking the bund apart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bund-taken-down-to-ease-flooding-in-kakkanad/article34625307.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||825 cases registered||During the five-day-long triple lockdown, which was lifted on Saturday, the Kochi City police registered 825 cases under various police station limits for protocol violations under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance. While 2,304 were booked for not wearing masks, 2,802 were charged for not maintaining physical distancing. As many as 232 vehicles were also seized during the period. The City Police will continue to impose restrictions in connection with the general lockdown that has been extended for a week. Helping hand Janamaithri police personnel clad in personal protection equipment kit visited infected persons quarantined at homes and helped them install the COVID safety app on their mobile phones. Essential items were also delivered at houses at Elamakkara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/825-cases-registered/article34625555.ece
23 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medical college to have system to counter possible third wave||A system is being put in place at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, to ensure better treatment for COVID-19 patients with serious illnesses and reduce the number of deaths. Two special wards will be dedicated for black fungus treatment, and ventilators and intensive care unit (ICU) equipment will be bought using the Rs. 5 crore allocated under the plan fund. The plan is to equip the health system to counter a possible third wave of the infection. According to sources, a committee involving senior doctors from all departments will be formed soon. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao on Saturday against the backdrop of concerns over black fungus infection. Deputy Collector Anitha Kumari has been appointed coordinator of the system. More expert doctors and nurses will be assigned for COVID treatment. Doctors aged above 55 and professors will not be included in the list. Fifty per cent of doctors from the rest will be deputed for COVID duty and others for non-COVID treatment. The services of medical graduate students in the Community Medicine Department too will be utilised. The duty time of nurses will be revised every week. Head nurses, staff nurses, and those appointed under the National Health Mission and Hospital Development Society will have a separate duty list. Tele-ICU facilities will be improved, and the services in private hospitals designated for COVID treatment will be supervised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-to-have-system-to-counter-possible-third-wave/article34625297.ece
23 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Principals’ council seeks rethink on semester system||The Kerala Unaided College Principals’ Council has urged the Minister for Collegiate Education R. Bindu to have a rethink on the semester system in colleges in the State against the backdrop of the pandemic situation. Council president Varughese Mathew said in an open letter that the system had turned out to be exam-oriented instead of encouraging the students’ aptitude for research-oriented learning. A three-year degree course has six semesters and there are 17 exams in each semester. There are 10 internal exams, five university exams and one audit course exam and open course exam each, apart from five assignments per semester. A two-year postgraduate course with two semesters has 15 exams in each semester. During a three-year course, a student will have to write at least 102 exams, apart from appearing for seminars and doing assignments and projects. Before the semester system was implemented in 2010, both graduate and postgraduate students had only 15 exams in a year, including five university exams, and quarterly and half-yearly exams. They did not have any assignments or seminars. Though the university wants at least 90 academic days in a semester, colleges get only around 70 now in view of holidays and others. Many teachers would be on exam duty and later put on answer script evaluation. Mr. Mathew said teachers were forced to present subjects only in a capsule format as they are short of time. Students were not able to get to the core of the subject. They don’t develop scientific temper or a thirst for knowledge. Mr. Mathew said that the students were also not able to participate in extra-curricular activities such as the National Cadet Corps or National Service Scheme. They are not able to develop their artistic or sports skills either. He claimed universities were unable to implement the semester system mainly because of the large number of affiliated colleges. Most universities outside Kerala have only around 100 colleges affiliated to them. In Kerala, Calicut University, the largest such institution in the State, has 275 arts and science colleges across five districts, apart from teacher training colleges and management institutes. The university holds 12,000 exams a year for over 3.5 lakh students. Demands The council wanted the government to implement advanced technologies for the conduct of exams and decentralise the process. Cluster of colleges should be formed to share resources. They should also be allowed to conduct exams on the question papers set by the university and evaluate answer scripts on their own, the council added.  During a three-year course, a student will have to write at least 102 exams, council tells Collegiate Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/principals-council-seeks-rethink-on-semester-system/article34625281.ece
23 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily TPR drops to 18.07%||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) of COVID-19 infection declined to 18.07% in Kozhikode district on Saturday when 1,971 new cases and 3,928 recoveries were reported. Right now, 29,727 people from the district are under treatment, of whom 24,558 are under home isolation. According to the District Medical Officer, 11,331 samples were tested. Of the fresh cases, 1,918 are due to local transmission, and the source of 53 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 473 cases of locally acquired infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-drops-to-1807/article34625298.ece
23 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Centre’s help sought to track missing boat||Owners of Ajmir Sha , a fishing boat from Beypore which went missing two weeks ago with 15 migrant workers in the sea, have expressed rude shock over the yet-to-be successful rescue operation by various forces. They fear that any further delay in launching an extensive air-sea rescue operation off the northern part of the west coast will affect the possibility of saving many lives. “It was an unverified message about the missing boat that affected the whole pace of the real rescue operation. Those who circulated the message as confirmed reports in the media on May 16 had claimed that the boat had already been spotted by rescue operators, and that efforts were on to tow it to the shore,” K.T. Shamsudheen, one of the boat owners, told The Hindu . “There were 11 Tamil Nadu natives and four from West Bengal in the boat which ventured into fishing on May 5. Meanwhile, the Kerala Fishing Boat Owners Association has appealed to the Union government and Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan to extend a helping hand to intensify the “slow-going search” with limited resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centres-help-sought-to-track-missing-boat/article34625302.ece
23 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New turn in rape case against cop||The case against a 28-year-old civil police officer of Pathanamthitta who allegedly raped a 24-year-old woman after offering to marry her took a new turn with the duo tying the knot here on Saturday. Officials said the civil police officer, who had been absconding following the case, married the complainant following discussions with her relatives. “We have learned that the CPO and the complainant are now going to approach the High Court to get the case quashed,” said the official. Based on a complaint by the woman a few days ago, the Ranni police had booked the CPO under IPC Section376.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-turn-in-rape-case-against-cop/article34625271.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hospitals to have info centres||The anxious wait to get updates on the health of kin admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 is at an end. Round-the-clock information centres are set to be opened in various hospitals in the district to provide relatives information on the health of their loved ones who are admitted with COVID-19. The decision was taken at a meeting at the Collectorate that was attended by Minister for General Education and Labour V. Sivankutty, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil, and Minister for Transport Antony Raju. More tests The meeting also decided to increase COVID-19 testing in coastal areas, colonies, and other areas where people lived cheek by jowl in the wake of COVID-19 spread. Steps for vaccination of migrant workers and other priority groups will be speeded up. Vaccination centres will be shifted to public places so that people can reach these places easily and crowding in hospitals can be avoided. The functioning of domiciliary care centres will be improved. COVID-19 first-line treatment centres that were functioning at Greenfield Stadium at Karyavattom and Lakshmibai National College of Physical Education will be reopened. Community kitchens To ensure the availability of health workers, medical and paramedical staff will be deployed from the list provided by the Kerala Youth Welfare Board. Community kitchens should be started urgently in all panchayats. The functioning of ward-level committees should be stepped up. The functioning of war rooms and call centres will be expanded to prevent delays in admission of COVID-19 patients to hospital. The Ministers directed the officials to open an ambulance control room centred around Nedumangad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitals-to-have-info-centres/article34625273.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall likely in Kerala for 5 days||Heavy rainfall is likely in Kerala over the next five days due to a low pressure area that has formed in the Bay of Bengal, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials indicated on Saturday. The IMD has put several southern and central districts on yellow alert till May 26. The low pressure area is likely to turn into a cyclonic storm by May 24 and move northwards towards the Odisha-West Bengal coasts. Under its influence, Kerala can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall till May 26. The State should also brace for thunderstorms and gusting winds during this period, the IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said. Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on May 23. Yellow alert has been sounded for these districts and Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Ernakulam on May 24, May 25 and May 26. Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 25. Yellow alert has also been issued for Thrissur on May 25 and 26 and Palakkad on May 26. The southwest monsoon advanced into the Andaman Sea and the southern parts of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Friday. The onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala is expected on May 31 with a model error of plus or minus four days. The Indian Navy put on standby four warships and a number of aircraft on Saturday to deal with the possible impact of the cyclone that is brewing in the Bay of Bengal. The Navy carried out a massive relief and rescue operation after cyclone Tauktae battered India's western coast earlier this week, leaving behind a trail of destruction in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Karnataka and Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-kerala-for-5-days/article34625312.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PDS will be strengthened: Minister||As Kerala goes through a prolonged lockdown, new Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil has his task cut out and ensure that no one remains hungry in the State. Besides ensuring the smooth flow of the public distribution system (PDS), the department has to supply free food kits for all sections of society. The Communist Party of India (CPI) leader says stimulus will be provided to the sector, which has been stagnant for around three months since the declaration of the polls. The department will continue to play a vital role during the pandemic and intervene to control price rise of essential commodities, he adds. Care home residents After assuming office, the 58-year-old granted approval for a scheme to provide ration kits to residents of destitute homes, orphanages, monasteries, old-age homes and mental health institutions. In these centres, ration will be provided to units comprising four people. While the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had implemented the move briefly, the programme is yet to take off in full swing. The Minister signed a file to recommend the inclusion of Supplyco and Maveli store employees and fair price shop owners (ration dealers) as front-line workers to receive COVID-19 vaccination on priority basis. He has also initiated steps to provide insurance coverage for ration dealers. e-ration card Mr. Anil set his sights on implementing the e-ration card service across the State. While the facility implemented as part of the One Nation, One Ration Card scheme was initially launched in Thiruvananthapuram, it was recently extended across the State. Around 8,000 e-ration cards have been issued. The Integrated Management of Public Distribution System (IMPDS) enabled nation-wide portability of ration cards. He said that workers from West Bengal and Assam, who formed a bulk of the migrant population in Kerala, could enjoy the benefits of the scheme when their home States joined the Central system. The Minister would collect feedback from ration dealers, other licensees and the public to improve service delivery. For this, he will devote an hour each from May 25 to 28 for a phone-in programme. He will also receive suggestions online. Further details will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pds-will-be-strengthened-minister/article34625326.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,300 new cases in capital||The capital district recorded 3,300 COVID-19 cases and 4,525 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 20695 on Saturday. The test positivity rate stood at 23.23% when 14,200 people were subjected to tests. While almost all the fresh cases were attributed to local transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 183 cases. Seven health care workers were among those who tested positive. The death toll rose by 33 to touch 1,420. The recent deaths were reported from May 18 to 20. The case fatality ratio, which has marginally increased during the last few days, stood at 0.63. The district administration placed 5,676 people in quarantine in 24 hours, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 89,710. A total of 7370 people ended quarantine. Thiruvananthapuram district reached a significant milestone in the drive against COVID-19 with the vaccination coverage crossing the 10 lakh mark. As many as 10,08,098 people have received vaccination thus far. These include 7,47,970 people who received the first dose and 2,60,128 who were provided both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3300-new-cases-in-capital/article34625277.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Deaths continue to rise in State||The State reported 28,514 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, when 1,26,028 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate is slowing down and registered 22.63%. Deaths are rising and will continue for the next two weeks even though disease transmission is beginning to go down, as the State is just past the peak of the epidemic. The cumulative fatalities, according to official figures, crossed the 7,000 mark on Saturday and totalled 7,170, when 176 new deaths were added to the official list. The active case pool, which had gone up to 4.45 lakh cases 10 days ago, has declined to 2,89,283. On Saturday, 45,400 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease, taking the cumulative recoveries to 20,25,319. However, much of these recoveries are reported in patients with mild COVID illness and who are mostly recovering at home or an institution. Hospital admission continues to remain high, indicating that patients with moderate or severe disease are continuing to occupy hospital beds and ICUs and that their recovery period is prolonged. 3,383 hospitalised As many as 3,383 persons were newly admitted in hospitals. At present, 38,743 patients are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients has risen to 3,964, while the number of those on ventilator support has shot up to 1,513. In Thiruvananthapuram, while the active case pool has significantly come down to 20,695 patients, hospitalisations are rising. It has the maximum number of patients in hospitals at 6,130.. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began stands at 23,22,146 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,932, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 3,300, Ernakulam 3, 219, Palakkad 3,020, Kollam 2,423, Thrissur 2,404, Alappuzha 2,178, Kozhikode 1,971, Kottayam 1,750, Kannur 1,252, Idukki 9876, Pathanamthitta 877, Kasaragod 702 and Wayanad 499.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deaths-continue-to-rise-in-state/article34625322.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IT practicals for SSLC dropped||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government has abandoned the IT practical examination for SSLC students. It will conduct the SSLC valuation between June 7 and June 25 and Higher Secondary and Vocational Higher Secondary between June 1 and June 19. The administration will conduct practical examinations for High Secondary and Vocational Higher Secondary students from June 21 to July 7. The State will vaccinate teachers attending valuation camps. The Health Department will finalise the arrangements. The PSC will send advice memo online, given the pandemic. He asked the police and sectoral magistrates to ensure physical distance and fish and vegetable markets. Action plan Mr. Vijayan also said the government would further tighten the triple lockdown imposed in Malappuram district. The government would implement a special action plan to bring down the infection curve in the region by strictly enforcing the pandemic code. Those who violate lockdown regulations without a valid reason would risk fine and incarceration. The ADGP, Law and Order, and IG, North Zone, are camping in Malappuram to supervise the lockdown enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-practicals-for-sslc-dropped/article34625324.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Differently abled man dies of burns||A differently abled man who suffered serious burns after his neighbour hurled a petrol bomb on his coffin shop succumbed to his injuries at the Government Medical College Hospital here early Saturday. The deceased, Varghese, 47, of Aruviyodu, had been under treatment since the incident at Kunnathukal on May 12. The Marayamuttom police had arrested his neighbour Sebastian soon after the incident. Sebastian had objected to Varghese running a coffin business close to his house. While his pleas to the authorities to close down the shop were turned down, the accused allegedly took it upon himself to destroy the shop. Sebastian is currently placed under judicial custody.  Neighbour allegedly hurled petrol bomb at his coffin shop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/differently-abled-man-dies-of-burns/article34625275.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10 special trains cancelled||Railways have cancelled 10 special trains from the East Coast to Kerala and back in view of Cyclone Yaas. The trains cancelled are Nagercoil Junction-Shalimar Weekly Gurudev Special (02659), scheduled to leave Nagercoil Junction on May 23, Howrah Junction-Kanyakumari Weekly Special (02665), scheduled to leave Howrah Junction on May 24. Shalimar-Thiruvananthapuram Central Special (02642), scheduled to leave Shalimar on May 25, and Thiruvananthapuram Central-Silchar Weekly Aronai Special (02507), scheduled to leave Thiruvananthapuram Central on May 25, have also been cancelled. Shalimar-Nagarcoil Junction Weekly Gurudev Special (02660) of May 26, Ernakulam Junction-Patna Junction Biweekly Special (02643) of May 24 and 25 and Patna Junction-Ernakulam Junction Biweekly Special (02644) of May 27 and 28 have also been cancelled. Ernakulam Junction-Howrah Junction Weekly Special (02878) of May 24, Thiruvananthapuram Central-Shalimar Biweekly Special (02641) of May 27 and Kanyakumari- Howrah Junction Weekly Special (02666) of May 29 have also been cancelled, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-special-trains-cancelled/article34625313.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tobacco products, wash seized||Excise officials on Saturday unearthed banned tobacco products worth Rs. 25 lakh in a house near Balaramapuram. A team led by State Excise Enforcement Squad circle inspector T. Anikumar arrested Shankaran, 54, of Chappathu in Eruthavoor during the raid conducted on the basis of a tip-off. Around 3,500 kg of tobacco products were seized from the house. The accused purportedly smuggled the consignment from Thrissur. He has been booked under provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act. In another case, excise officials seized 150 litres of ‘koda’ (undistilled spirit) allegedly from the house of Dileep Kumar of Kochukonam in Panayamuttom. The spirit was found stored in a barrel that was buried in his land. A team led by Vamanapuram Excise Inspector G. Mohan Kumar has registered a case against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tobacco-products-wash-seized/article34625274.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MLA tests positive||Kovalam MLA M. Vincent was admitted in the Government Medical College Hospital along with two of his three children after they were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Saturday. Mr. Vincent and his family underwent tests after his eldest son, aged 17, developed fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-tests-positive/article34625278.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Clean-up on ‘dry day’||The city Corporation has appealed to the public to observe Sunday as a ‘dry day’ as part of efforts to control the spread of vector diseases. Water should not be allowed to collect in coconut shells, tyres, sunshades and discarded plastic containers to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. Dengue, chikungunya Houses and surrounding area needs to be cleaned up. Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the spread of vector diseases including dengue fever and chikungunya during this pandemic period could burden the health system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-up-on-dry-day/article34625279.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Move to revive domestic tourism||Kerala is charting measures to revive its tourism sector by rolling out packages that encourage domestic travellers to visit the destinations. A high-level meeting presided over by Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Saturday decided to finalise and implement them at the earliest so as to inspire confidence in travellers and woo them to a whole range of destinations in the State. The initiative seeks to complete select tourism projects in the districts on a time-bound basis. Kerala Tourism will work in close association with allied departments by initiating sustained dialogues with all parties. In a month, the various approval/classification schemes under Ease of Doing Business will go online. New COVID-19 protocols for tourists arriving from other States will be framed in association with the health authorities. Vaccine The government will administer anti-COVID vaccine to deserving workers in the tourist sector and will explore the possibilities to train them for jobs in tune with world tourism standards. Senior functionaries of allied institutions had been asked to come up with drafts of projects that can reinvigorate the sector. The proposed initiatives will commence in the second week of June. The Tourism Department has conceived strategies to hard-sell Kerala Tourism as a formidable brand by extending novel packages to potential beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-revive-domestic-tourism/article34625310.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SLBC to be approached to revive tourism sector||The government will approach the State-Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) to seek support for reviving the tourism sector that has come to a grinding halt due to the COVID-induced lockdown. A decision to this effect was taken by Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas at a meeting of Kerala Tourism officials convened to discuss interventions needed to support and revive the sector. A meeting with the SLBC will be convened soon to seek support as the crisis in the tourism sector could harm the State economy. It will be explored what the top lenders can do to support the sector. The Minister told the officials that it was important to make all interventions to address the concerns of entrepreneurs, employees, and other stakeholders in the sector. Mr. Riyas said it was important to work out strategies to reactivate the tourism sector. Discussions should be held with domain experts from within the State and outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slbc-to-be-approached-to-revive-tourism-sector/article34625319.ece
23 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Master plan for forests: Saseendran||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has initiated efforts for evolving a master plan for developmental activities in the sector. During his first visit to the Forest Headquarters for the first time after assuming office on Saturday, Mr. Saseendran sought lists of potential projects that could be implemented both in the short-term as well as in the long-term. He also pledged to review their progress constantly and work towards their time-bound completion. Interacting with officials, Mr. Saseendran called for greater accessibility, transparency and efficiency in the services rendered by the department. Principal Secretary (Forests) Rajesh Kumar Sinha, Head of Forest Force P.K. Kesavan and Chief Wildlife Warden D.K. Verma were among those who interacted with the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-plan-for-forests-saseendran/article34625327.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Muslim League spreading lie: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan has slammed the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for communally distorting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s decision to retain the Minority Welfare portfolio. He said IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty had propagated a lie by stating that Mr. Vijayan had second thoughts about assigning the department to an MLA from the Muslim community. Faith in CM Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the general impression was that Mr. Vijayan had done well by deciding to keep the portfolio for himself. The minorities, including the Muslim community, had faith in Mr. Vijayan. The growing trust among minorities for the LDF had perturbed the IUML. The IUML had constantly betrayed the interests of Muslims. It had not lifted a finger of resistance against the Centre’s anti-minority legislation and policy, he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muslim-league-spreading-lie-cpim/article34625323.ece
23 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kodakara heist: special team to question BJP State leaders||The special team investigating the Kodakara black money robbery case will question Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State leaders. The probe team has summoned BJP State organisation secretary M. Ganeshan and party office secretary Gireesh to appear for questioning. The police had already questioned BJP Thrissur district general secretary K.R. Hari and Ayyanthole area secretary G. Kashinadhan in connection with the case. The police asked Thrissur district treasurer Sujay Senan to appear for questioning. Though there is a clear indication of BJP link in the case, it is for the first time that the BJP State leaders are being questioned. The incident occurred on April 3 on the Kodakara flyover. According to a complaint lodged by Shamjeer Shamsudheen of Kozhikode with the Kodakara police, a gang waylaid him on the flyover and robbed him of Rs. 25 lakh and his car when he was en route to Kochi from Kozhikode. The police arrested 20 people in the connection with the case from various parts of the State. G. Poonkuzhali, Superintendent of Police, Thrissur, had earlier said Dharmarajan of Kozhikode, who handed over the money to driver Shamjeer, was a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activist. It was Sunil Naik, former State treasurer of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, who handed over the money to Dharmarajan. Though the complainant mentioned robbery of Rs. 25 lakh, the police found that the money involved was much more. During interrogation, Dharamarjan and Sunil Naik agreed that money stolen was around Rs. 3.5 crore. From Karnataka Though they told the police earlier that the money was meant for real estate business, there was an allegation that the money, which reportedly came from Karnataka, was meant for the election campaign of a national party in Kerala. The police have recovered more than Rs. 90 lakh of the stolen money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodakara-heist-special-team-to-question-bjp-state-leaders/article34625318.ece
23 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Govt. committed to developing higher education sector: Bindu||The government is committed to developing the higher education sector into international standards in the next five years, Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu has said. The developments witnessed in the last five years in the general education sector will be implemented in the higher education sector too. Discussions in this regard will be initiated soon, the Minister said. Ms. Bindu listed her plan for the Irinjalakuda constituency, from where she was elected to the Assembly. Priority will be given to develop roads. Projects to give a facelift to the town will be implemented. Efforts will be made to establish a government college or a technical institute at Irinjalakuda. The Minister, on a visit to the National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Kallettumkara, which falls under the Social Welfare Department, said it would be developed to international standards. She added that the facilities at the institute would be improved to offer treatment to more people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-committed-to-developing-higher-education-sector-bindu/article34625301.ece
23 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records 2,404 cases||Following a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases, triple lockdown was withdrawn in Thrissur district on Saturday. However, the State-wide lockdown will continue. There were 2,404 fresh cases in the district on Saturday, while 7,353 patients recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 21.19%. The district has 21,150 active cases, and 87 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 2,19,288 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Thrissur, and 1,96,853 people have recovered. Meanwhile, 2,395 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 393 are above the age of 60 and 182 are below the age of 10. In all, 14,906 people are in home quarantine. As many as 11,347 samples were taken for testing on Saturday. In all, 6,12,158 people have taken the first dose of the COVID vaccine, while 1,61,681 people have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-records-2404-cases/article34625299.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Calm amid the storm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calm-amid-the-storm/article34625557.ece
23 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain damages harvested paddy||Heavy rain damaged the harvested paddy on Friday in Anantapur district with farmers in Kannekal and D. Hirehal mandals suffering owing to inundation of storage spaces in the open. About 16.18 MTs of the paddy spread for drying on the B.T. Road in Kanekal was reportedly damaged. Anantapur Joint Director Agriculture Y. Ramakrishna said the paddy belonged to 23 farmers. The farmers had produced RNR-15048 (Telangana Sona) variety which was a super fine grain variety and had a good market. Some standing crops were also damaged, as the harvesting season was on and the enumeration was being done on the fields. The wet produce was spread for drying as soon as sunshine was seen, he added. The usually dry river Vedavathi (also known as Hagari) witnessed inflows leading to inundation of the harvested produce. Farmers had to toil overnight and in the morning to retrieve the paddy that was kept ready for sale or for handing over at the procurement centre through the Civil Supplies Department from May 25. Paddy is grown in 7919.89 acres in Anantapur district during Rabi season with an estimated production of 24,036 MTs mainly in Rayadurg, Kannekal, D. Hirehal, Garladinne, and Singanamala Mandals and the registration process for procurement had begun on May 1. Meanwhile, Anantapur district experienced 70.2 mm of rainfall against a normal of 23.1 mm, recording 203.9% excess for May so far. On Friday, the total rainfall was 1,416.8 mm in the district with an average of 22.5 mm. Beluguppa Mandal recorded 80.2 mm, the highest, followed by Rayadurg 62.4 mm, Roddam 57 mm and Kambadur 56 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-damages-harvested-paddy/article34625081.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Non-COVID-19 black fungus patients suffer||Aziz Ahmed, a resident of Ilkal in Bagalkot district, spent two days trying to get a hospital bed for his 22-year-old nephew after he contracted mucormycosis. However, the youth, who has leukaemia, did not contract the dreaded black fungus through COVID-19. And with the State health machinery prioritising COVID-19 patients with mucormycosis, finding treatment for his nephew proved to be a nightmare. Almost all medical facilities in the city treating the infection —both public and private ones — are filled with COVID-19 patients. Even if there is a bed vacant, hospitals cannot admit a non-COVID-19 patient in the ward. The 30 beds earmarked for COVID-19 Associated Mucormycosis (CAM) at Victoria Hospital and the 10 at Lady Curzon and Bowring Hospital are occupied. “We cannot admit a non-CAM patient with CAM patients. It will only lead to further complications,” said Smitha Segu, task force head and nodal officer for COVID-19 at Victoria Hospital. Even the critical medicine Liposomal Amphotericin B, which is in short supply, is being supplied on a priority basis for COVID-19 patients, leaving others, like Mr. Ahmed’s nephew, high and dry. He cannot afford treatment in private hospitals, where the cost is in the range of Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 6 lakh, and as his nephew does not have CAM he is not entitled to the free treatment announced by the government. “We don’t have the wherewithal to bear the cost of treatment at a private hospital. But our inquiries in private hospitals also revealed that there are no beds available for non-COVID-19 patients suffering from the fungal infection. Also, the drug is unavailable,” Mr. Ahmed said. Mucormycosis is a fungal infection mostly found in patients with compromised immune systems. While there has been an outbreak of the infection in COVID-19 patients, it was prevalent even before the pandemic. Cancer patients and severe diabetics are prone to it.  We don’t have the wherewithal to bear the cost of treatment at a private hospital. But our inquiries in private hospitals also revealed that there are no beds available for non-COVID-19 patients suffering from the fungal infection Aziz Ahmed, uncle of youth with mucormycosis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/non-covid-19-black-fungus-patients-suffer/article34625054.ece
23 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hearing only through videoconference: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has issued fresh standard operating procedures (SoPs) making hearing only through videoconference mode in its Principal Bench in Bengaluru and all trial courts in taluks and districts in view of lockdown and surge in COIVD-19 cases. The entry of advocates, parties-in-persons, and litigants has been prohibited to court halls in the High Court’s Principal Bench in Bengaluru and all the trial courts across the State. However, hybrid mode of hearing — both physical and videoconference — has been allowed for advocates in the High Court’s Benches in Dharwad and Kalaburagi. However, the Advocate-General/Additional Advocates-General/State government advocates/public prosecutors, may, if necessary, address the courts by physically remaining present in the Principal Bench in Bengaluru. In Bengaluru, entry of advocates to the High Court premises is allowed only for carrying out rectification in the petitions already filed. Sitting of judges at the High Court’sBenches in Bengaluru and Dharward has been scattered, with some judges sitting only in the morning session and some only in the afternoon session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hearing-only-through-videoconference-hc/article34625042.ece
23 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lone elephant electrocuted in fields near Puttur||The lone elephant, which got separated from the three-member “bachelor’s group” that entered the Nagari plains after moving away from Tamil Nadu forests in January this year, was found electrocuted in a sugarcane field on Saturday evening, near Subba Naidu Kandriga village of Narayanavanam mandal, 12 km from Puttur, close to the Chennai NH. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East Wildlife) G.G. Narentheran said the elephant which turned into a loner in recent weeks had been on prowl in the fields abutting Nagari hills. In the evening, it entered a sugaracane field and came in contact with a power transformer. At first it was thought the animal suffered a deep shock, but veterinary officials confirmed its death from electrocution, the official said. The sub-adult male jumbo was around 8 years. The post-mortem and burial formalities would be performed on Sunday. Mr. Narentheran said the two other male elephants which formed into a separate group were also moving close to the vicinity of the spot of electrocution. Forest watchers and elephant trackers were deployed around the village. The villagers alleged that observing the elephant moving close to the power lines dangling across the fields and the transformers, they had informed the area officials of the forest department, but no action was mooted for the safety of the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lone-elephant-electrocuted-in-fields-near-puttur/article34625043.ece
23 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu: govt. trying to silence dissenting voices in State||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday slammed the State government for “ill- treating” Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju by filing a “false sedition case.” It showed the YSRCP government’s autocratic style of functioning aimed at silencing all dissenting voices in the State, Mr. Naidu told reporters during a virtual media conference he addressed on Saturday. “The observations of the Supreme Court during the hearings of the case against the MP are a disgrace to the government,” Mr. Naidu said. The Supreme Court had said it was believing that Mr. Raju was prima facie ill-treated while in the custody of the CID, he added. Mr. Naidu said it was unfortunate that a senior advocate arguing for the government had stated that Mr. Raju might have inflicted injuries on his own during his transit from Guntur to the Secunderabad Army Hospital. The Supreme Court had to remind the learned counsel that Mr. Raju was in the custody of the AP Police at that time, he added. He also expressed concern over the “collapse of the rule of law” in the State. Parishad polls Top courts were passing serious strictures against his government’s decisions, he said. The High Court had questioned the suitability of Ms. Nilam Sawhney for the post of the State Election Commission as she had “brazenly misinterpreted and violated the Supreme Court’s order,” he added. More than Rs. 160 crore of public funds had been wasted on the conduct of the MPTC and ZPTC elections, which were now cancelled by the High Court, he said. “Who will take responsibility for this misuse – Ms. Nilam Sawhney, or the Chief Minister, or the Ministers?” he questioned. ‘Govt. murder’ Mr. Naidu further said that the death of Dr. Sudhakar was a “government murder,” considering how he had been “victimised, targeted, arrested, beaten up, branded as insane, and not given salary till his last breath.” Mr. Naidu criticised the government for “mishandling the herbal preparation” for COVID-19 at Krishnapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-regime-trying-to-silence-dissent-naidu/article34625045.ece
23 May 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC youth alleges torture by sub-inspector in Karnataka||The police sub-inspector attached to Gonibeedu Police Station in Mudigere taluk of Chikkamagaluru allegedly forced a Scheduled Castes youth to drink urine in his custody recently. The incident came to light after the youth wrote to senior police officers seeking action against the PSI. Based on the complaint filed by Punith, Punit K.L, a resident of Kirangunda, the Gonibeedu police registered a case against PSI Arjun on Saturday evening. The case has been booked on under sections of the IPC related to wrongful confinement, causing hurt, torture, wrongful confinement to extort a confession, besides the provisions under the SC-ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The Gonibeedu police had taken custody of Punit around 11 a.m. on May 10, based on oral complaints by villagers, who alleged that he was responsible for discord between a man and his wife in the village. The police then took him to the police station. Punit, speaking to The Hindu over the phone, alleged that the police beat him up for a couple of hours. At one point, he requested for water and PSI, refusing to give him water, made Chetan, who was in the lock-up in connection with a theft case, urinate on Punith’s face, alleged Punit. “Chethan refused initially. But he was forced to urinate on me as he was threatened that he would also be subjected to severe torture. Later, the officers made me lick the urine on the floor,” Punith said. The police let him go home only late in the night at 10.30 pm. “All this was done without a complaint against me,” he said. After Punith wrote to the SP and other senior officers about the incident, Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay ordered a preliminary inquiry into the incident by DySP of Chikkamagaluru sub-division. The enquiry officer also recorded Punith’s statement. When The Hindu contacted Mr. Hakay, on Saturday, he said preliminary enquiry had been completed and the officer had been shifted from the police station. “Now departmental inquiry will be done. If he is found guilty, the official will get maximum punishment,” he said. However, SP refused to share the outcome of the preliminary enquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-youth-alleges-torture-by-sub-inspector-in-karnataka/article34625040.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commuters allege police high-handedness||Police started barricading roads in the city for a stricter lockdown vigil at 9 a.m. on Saturday and many reported getting stuck in cascading traffic jams as they tried returning home before 10 a.m. They were stopped at the makeshift checkposts and rebuked by police at every point. “I was stuck in traffic because of police barricades from 9 a.m., and by 10, cops started harassing me at every checkpoint. I told them there was a traffic jam because of police barricades from 9 a.m. itself but they refused to listen,” a resident of Kondapur said, adding that the situation was same in Banjara Hills too. “My wife and I started from Secunderabad at 8.30 a.m. to reach Malakpet well in time. But, the traffic was the worst today. We were stopped at 10.20 a.m. and our car was seized. We had to pay the price for unmanaged traffic which was actually the reason behind us running late,” said Deekshith Vemuganti, marketing head of a private company. Asked how they would return home after their car was seized, a Sub-Inspector responded insolently saying “walk your way back home, we don’t care”, he added. Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy hit the road to supervise the implementation of lockdown in the city. “People should come out only for medical emergencies. All vehicles seized during lockdown will be released only after lockdown is lifted,” he said.   This was an unforeseen development since the government directive allowed food delivery as an essential service. We have paused our operations till we have clarity from the authorities keeping in mind the safety of our delivery partners. Zomato spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commuters-allege-police-high-handedness/article34625518.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 50 ‘fake’ delivery boys booked in Hyderabad||More than 50 persons who ventured out donning T-shirts of Swiggy, Zomato and other app-based delivery services were booked by the police of three urban commissionerates of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda on Saturday. As a result, police were forced to stop every delivery executive on the street, seize their vehicle and impose a fine of Rs. 1,000. They said the youths were ‘just’ wearing the T-shirt of the delivery companies and moving around for no reason. Recently, a report on how ‘People finding reasons to venture out on the streets’ was published in these columns, in which it was mentioned how a borrowed Zomato or Swiggy T-shirt was serving as a ticket to roam around for fun during the lockdown. But, police in the State capital have sniffed out such cheap tricks and are clamping down with cases to teach the loiterers a lesson. In Hyderabad city limits alone, police booked more than 25 such ‘fake’ delivery executives, while rest were booked by police of Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-50-fake-delivery-executives-booked/article34625526.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police beat up duty-bound power staff at several places||Police beat up power staff in Nalgonda town while enforcing the lockdown, inviting the intervention of Energy Minister G. Jagdish Reddy and Chairman and Managing Director of transmission and distribution corporations D. Prabhakar Rao. Over enthusiasm by the police personnel, including officers at some other places across the State, also resulted in several employees of power utilities who were on way to their offices bear the brunt of police excesses including taking lathi blows and foul language, all in the name of enforcing the lockdown, despite the exemption provided to them. The employees’ unions threatened to boycott their duties in case there was no change in the attitude of the police in Nalgonda. Similar incidents were also reported from different parts of Hyderabad. As a measure of protest, the electricity employees stopped power supply in some areas of Nalgonda town, particularly where the police stations are located, for a couple of hours. Following the incidents of police excesses on electricity employees, Minister Jagadish Reddy spoke to the DGP over phone and asked him to restrain the police from attacking the power staff on way to duties. He also spoke to the Superintendent of Police of Nalgonda A.V. Ranganath and asked him to take steps against recurrence of such incidents. Mr. D. Prabhakar Rao also appealed to the police to cooperate with the electricity staff stating that they were discharging duties as essential service and their presence was must for uninterrupted power supply during the pandemic situation. CMD of Southern Discom (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy asked the power employees to sport/display their identity cards on the way to/return from duties. Meanwhile, Telangana Electricity Employees Union (1104) Nalgonda zonal secretary N. Venkataiah said the police had been using foul language even with the women (power) employees on their way to offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-beat-up-duty-bound-power-staff-at-several-places/article34625039.ece
23 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO donates oxygen concentrators||Aarti Home, a voluntary organisation in Kadapa, has donated 107 oxygen concentrators worth nearly Rs. 59 lakh to the district administration to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. . It is also building two pressure swing absorption plants in RIMS GGH, which could provide oxygen for 250 COVID beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngo-donates-oxygen-concentrators/article34625084.ece
23 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh donated for COVID-19 facilities||The East Godavari Seafood Exporters Association (EGSEA) on Saturday donated Rs. 50.50 lakh for COVID-19 treatment facilities and equipment in government hospitals and care centres in the district. EGSEA representatives Y. Veerraju, D. Dileep and D. Veerabhadra Reddy handed over the cheque to Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-50-lakh-donated-for-covid-19-facilities/article34625607.ece
23 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVM opens 100-bed CCC in Konaseema||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday inaugurated a 100-bed COVID Care Centre established by the Smart Village Movement (SVM-A.P.) at Mori village of Sakhinetipalli mandal in East Godavari district. Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and SVM State director Y.S. Michael said that COVID-19 patients would be provided medical and health care at the CCC equipped with oxygen facility. Full-fledged services would be offered from May 26. “The State government will extend support to run the CCC for the people,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svm-opens-100-bed-ccc-in-konaseema/article34625608.ece
23 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Party will have a new face’||New Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader V.D. Satheesan has said the Congress and the United Democratic Front (UDF) will have a new face in tune with the expectations of the people. “A generational shift is a natural phenomenon in any political party. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] had implemented such a change. The Congress party had witnessed generational changes earlier too,” said the 56-year-old leader and five-time MLA from the North Paravur Assembly constituency in Ernakulam, who replaced Ramesh Chennithala to be the new leader of the CLP in the State on Saturday. ‘Groupism’ reality Admitting that 'groupism' in the State unit of the Congress is a reality, Mr. Satheesan said the effort now would be to rise above group politics and build a new and strong second line of leadership in the party. “Merit will be the criteriion instead of group affiliation and the party leadership will ensure it from now onwards,” he said. Asked about the role of Mr. Chennithala in the wake of a leadership change in the party, Mr. Satheesan said the party high command will decide on it, and he will continue to play a key role along with senior leader Oommen Chandy. “Mr. Chennithala is like a brother to me for the last three-and-a-half decades as senior leader A.K. Antony is to Mr. Chandy,” he said. Constructive role On the Opposition’s position to be adopted against the new Left Democratic Front government, Mr. Satheesan said they would play a constructive role both inside the Assembly and outside. “We will extend unconditional support to the government in the fight against the pandemic. The United Democratic Front will be a strong Opposition and will resist authoritarian tendencies from the part of the elected government,” he said. Mr. Satheesan said the Congress and the UDF will oppose both majority and minority communalism as it is dangerous to the secular fabric of the State. “The party will also carry out a threadbare analysis of the massive defeat in the Assembly election and take corrective action in the run up to the Lok Sabha elections in 2024,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/party-will-have-a-new-face/article34625046.ece
23 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja, LSD blots seized, 10 held||The Kurnool Special Enforcement Bureau(SEB) on Saturday arrested 10 persons and seized 17 kg of ganja, 11 lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) blots, eight cell phones, one weighing machine from them. Additional Superintendent of Police Gauthami Sali told mediapersons here on Saturday that the accused were arrested for possessing and transporting the banned drugs all valued in the market at Rs. 4.5 lakh. The LSD, 22 milligrams in total, were in the form of stamps valued at Rs. 27,500. The police said that the accused were nabbed when, after placing the order online, they were returning with the materials from Giddalur in Prakasam district and Tuni in East Godavari.  According to the police, the accused reportedly used to buy the drugs from unidentified groups on social media platforms using Bitcoins. They then sold ganja in small quantities at Rs. 500 for 20g in Kurnool district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-lsd-blots-seized-10-held/article34625079.ece
23 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Security beefed up in Krishnapatnam||An eerie calm prevailed at Krishnapatnam in SPSR Nellore district a day after a stampede caused by tens of thousands of people who thronged the village for an ayurvedic preparation that reportedly claimed to provide a cure for COVID-19. Police tightened security in Krishnapatnam and sent out people camping in and around the village waiting to get at least a few packets of the preparation by B. Anandaiah despite suspension of its distribution pending approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR). Barricades were erected at several places on the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway to prevent people from coming to the village defying the prohibitory orders in force during the partial curfew imposed by the State government to combat COVID. “'The situation is well under control,” said Nellore Rural Deputy Superintendent of Police Y. Harinath Reddy. Meanwhile, a patient named Kottaiah from Tinnelapudi village, near Kota, who had reportedly taken the eye drops from the ayurvedic practioner was rushed in a critical condition to a designated COVID-19 hospital here. Appeal Joint Collector M.N. Harendhira Prasad, who accompanied a team of the Indian Council of Medical Research which rushed to the village at the behest of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu for a scientific study, appealed to the people not to rush to the village as the distribution of the herbal preparation had been suspended by the district administration. They should wait for the findings of the ICMR which might take about one week to 10 days, he said. An AYUSH team headed by its Commissioner Col. V. Ramulu collected samples of the preparation for study after Mr. Anandaiah gave a demonstration of the preparation made by him. Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan clarified that Mr. Anandaiah was only provided security and had not been taken into custody and as reported in a section of the media. No case has been registered for COVID safety norms violation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/security-beefed-up-in-krishnapatnam/article34625597.ece
23 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||More olive ridleys saved in 2020-21: DFO||The forest department in SPSR Nellore district in collaboration with the TREE foundation, Chennai, had successfully taken forward the Olive Ridley Turtle Conservation programme in the district during 2020-21, District Forest Officer Y.V.K. Shanmukh Kumar said on Saturday. As many as 57,000 eggs were collected during the year and 46,891 hatchlings were released into the sea, he said while briefing the media on the conservation efforts on the eve of World Turtle Day. “The success rate of the assisted hatching in hatcheries is high as only one in 1,000 survives under normal condition,” he explained. The number of hatchlings released was 8,300 more when compared to the ones released last year. For best results, local fishermen were made partners in the conservation programme as some of the most endangered species come to the shores to do nesting in large numbers between November and January every year. They come to the same place at periodic intervals for nesting. Over 3.47 lakh hatchlings were released since the launch of the programme in 2012-13, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-olive-ridleys-saved-in-2020-21-dfo/article34625083.ece
23 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marginal dip in deaths in South Coastal A.P.||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh witnessed a marginal dip in daily tally as also deaths as 1,295 persons in Prakasam and 912 in Nellore tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. After recording 19 deaths on Friday, the highest in the second wave, the region registered 14 fatalities on Saturday. The toll in the region rose to 1,503 as seven patients each in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts succumbed to COVID during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. So far, SPSR Nellore district accounted for 755 deaths and Prakasam district for 748 deaths. The overall coronavirus case tally inched closer to 2.10 lakh mark while the number of active cases stood at 42,234 in the region including 24,154 in Prakasam district. The region also saw a dip in daily tally. The number of fresh cases outnumbered the recoveries from over 1,300. Only 749 patients in Prakasam district and another 566 patients in SPSR Nellore district recovered bringing the recovery rate further down to 77.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marginal-dip-in-deaths-in-south-coastal-ap/article34625076.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. signals generational shift in Kerala||The Congress on Saturday brought the curtains down on days of uncertainty by nominating V.D. Satheesan as the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader in Kerala. At one stroke, it also forcefully articulated a theory of generational change in the Congress in Kerala. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran announced the decision of the Congress high command to appoint Mr. Satheesan as CLP leader at Indira Bhavan here. Being the leader of the largest Opposition party in the Assembly, Mr. Satheesan will be recognised as Leader of the Opposition by the Speaker in due course. The post-poll reorientation of the party is likely to reflect in the make-up of the KPCC soon. More leadership changes are in the offing. For one, Mr. Ramachandran has also opted to quit owning responsibility for the Congress defeat. Mr. Satheesan, a four-time legislator from Paravur, succeeds Ramesh Chennithala. Non-partisan support of a greater part of the 21-member CLP buoyed Mr. Satheesan’s s chances. It helped him break the constraints of factional politics. The new crop of Congress MLAs who backed Mr. Satheesan wanted to imprint the party in Kerala with their perspective and character. They sought to push aside decades of group wrangling. Mr. Satheesan has signalled his focus on broader societal and economic concerns. The power of social issues would drive the party's narrative. Mr. Satheesan also has to live up to Mr. Chennithala's legacy of exposing official corruption. Mr. Satheesan has indicated that he favours decentralised decision making rather than unilaterally determining political strategy and policy. Realignment in groups Mr. Satheesan's selection as CLP leader has also signalled a realignment in Congress groups in Kerala. He has arguably diminished Mr. Chennithala's standing in the ‘I’ group and emerged as its future leader. At the same time, Mr. Satheesan has also ensured the support of ‘A’ group legislators despite former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy's alleged support for Mr. Chennithala. A Congress insider said Mr. Satheesan's nomination had the imprimatur of Rahul Gandhi. A Congress insider said Mr. Satheesan's nomination was no reflection on Mr. Chennithala's showing as Leader of the Opposition. His stepping down as CLP leader was a matter of precedent. Mr. Chandy had done the same after the United Democratic Front's (UDF) defeat in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-signals-generational-shift-in-kerala/article34625051.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deaths don’t match case drop in Kerala||Tamil Nadu’s toll due to COVID-19 crossed the 20,000-mark on Saturday, as 448 more people succumbed to the infection. The State recorded a small dip in fresh infections, with 35,873 people testing positive. Fresh cases dipped to 5,559 in Chennai, and there were 3,165 cases in Coimbatore. Till date, a total of 20,046 people have died of COVID-19 in the State. In Chennai, 86 people died due to the infection on Saturday, taking its toll to 6,298. Of the 448 deceased (169 in private hospitals and 279 in government facilities), 125 did not have co-morbidities. This included an 18-year-old boy from Ramanathapuram. He died at 3 p.m. the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Ten people in their 20s succumbed to the infection. Among them was a 24-year-old woman from Chennai with gestational hypertension. The active caseload rose to 2,84,278 in the State. As many as 25,776 people were discharged after treatment, and a total of 1,75,231 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the State. A total of 11,078 beds, including 2,002 oxygen-supported ones, are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres across the State. However, hospitals are running out of ICU beds—only 244 of the earmarked 9,737 ICU beds are vacant. Nearly 14 districts have no ICU beds, while 11 have under 10 each. Tamil Nadu received 2.3 lakh doses of Covishield on Saturday. Another 59,824 people, including 31,669 in the 45-59 age group and 13,328 senior citizens, were vaccinated, taking the overall coverage to 72,12,359. Kerala reported 28,514 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Deaths, however, were rising and the trend was expected to continue for the next two weeks. Karnataka The State on Saturday reported 31,183 new cases, of which 8,214 were from Bengaluru Urban. With 451 more deaths, the overall toll rose to 24,658. Active cases stood at 4,83,204 and the TPR for the day stood at 24.21%. As many as 61,766 persons were discharged on Saturday. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.44%. As many as 1,28,761 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,11,235 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,85,82,203. A.P. and Telangana Andhra Pradesh reported the highest single-day toll of 118 deaths on Saturday. There were 19,981 new infections. The death toll has crossed the 10,000-mark and reached 10,022 and the death rate remains at 0.64%. Krishna district topped the death rate at 1.11%, the only district with more than 1% death rate. There were 2,10,683 active cases. The TPR of 19,981 samples was 22.05%. West Godavari reported 15 new deaths, Chittoor 14, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam 11 each, Guntur 10 and Anantapur and Krishna nine each, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram eight deaths each, Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam seven each and Kadapa two. East Godavari reported 3,227 new infections, the highest. COVID-19 cases as well as testing in Telangana witnessed a downward trend. On Saturday, 3,308 more cases were recorded as against 3,464 a day before, with 63,120 samples being tested, compared to the previous day’s 65,997. Fresh fatalities recorded by the government on Saturday stood at 21. Also, 42,959 persons were under treatment or in isolation in Telangana. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region with 513 cases recorded the highest incidence while in the neighbouring district of Rangareddy it was 226 and in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 203. Districts which recorded over 100 cases were Karimnagar with 161, Khamman 228, Mahbubnagar 116, Peddapalli 101, Sangareddy 120, Siddipet 110, and Warangal Urban 116.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru, Vijayawada & Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deaths-dont-match-case-drop-in-kerala/article34625056.ece
23 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Science-based leadership a must’||Nations need to have science-based leadership and policy, follow evidence-based guidelines and be able to review new evidence as it emerges and be adaptable to have a grip on a pandemic as dynamic as COVID-19, chief scientist, WHO, Soumya Swaminathan, has said. This was one of the reasons, despite having so many tools of science and technology, nations were not able to bring the pandemic under control, Dr. Swaminathan said, while delivering the convocation address at the 37th annual convocation of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), here on Saturday. The convocation ceremony was held online, in which 162 senior residents, Ph.D. scholars, and students who graduated in 2020 after completing DM, Mch, Post doctoral fellowships, and certificate courses, MS etc received their degrees. The lessons from the pandemic were several and nations had learnt how important it was to have good communication and community engagements, without which long-term behavioural change — one of the primary tools of battling this pandemic — cannot be brought about in the community. The world also learnt how important it was to have a compassionate and humble approach, when dealing with a contagion that often remained way beyond the control and means of nations, she said. The impact of the pandemic had widened the inequities among countries and societies and in every country, it had adversely affected those who were already marginalised and were vulnerable and at the bottom of the socio-economic scale.  President of the institute V.K. Saraswat presided over the function and conferred the degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/science-based-leadership-a-must/article34625049.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Education tops government’s list of priorities||Realising that education is fundamental to development and growth of an individual, the State government, in the last two years, has rolled out a series of welfare schemes with an aim to provide children of all sections access to quality education. Amma Vodi A total of Rs. 25,714 crore has been spent on education since June 2019, in addition to Rs. 1,800 crore being spent on nutrition of children and mothers in the anganwadis, which are set to become Pre-Primary Schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme. The government has recognised the need to incentivise education, and has, therefore, launched Jagananna Amma Vodi, a scheme that encourages mothers from the economically weaker sections to send their children to school and, in turn, benefit from a financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum. So far, Rs. 13,022 crore has been directly deposited into the bank accounts of the mothers of 44,48,865 students. From the next academic year, the government proposes to give a choice to the students of classes 9 to 12, to opt between Rs. 15,000 and a laptop. The Jagananna Vidya Deevena is designed to ensure that students of the underprivileged sections do not give up higher education. The beneficiaries of the programme are students belonging to the SC, ST, BC, EBC, Minority, or economically poorer sections pursuing degree, polytechnic, engineering and medicine courses, whose full fee is reimbursed in four instalments. So far, 18,80,934 students have benefited to the tune of Rs. 4,879.30 crore. Under Vasathi Deevena, basic needs such as food, accommodation and fee of the students are taken care of by the State through a grant of Rs. 20,000 in two instalments. In the last two years, 15,56,956 students have benefited to the tune of Rs. 2,269.93 crore spent for the purpose. The thought of sparing the financial burden of spending money on students’ necessities has resulted in Jagananna Vidya Kanuka. Under this, school kits, comprising three pairs of uniforms, a school bag, textbooks, notebooks, belts, socks and shoes, are given to the students. An English-Telugu dictionary is the latest inclusion in the kit. Nearly 45 lakh schoolchildren have benefited from the programme that has cost the government Rs. 781 crore. Infrastructure in government schools is a focus area, and ‘Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu’ takes care of this aspect. It is proposed to give a facelift to 45,000 government schools and junior colleges, 151 government degree colleges, 3,287 government hostels, and 28,169 anganwadi centres, all at a cost of Rs. 16,700 crore in three phases. Under Jagananna Gorumudda, nutritious food is provided to the students in 45,854 government and aided schools at a cost of Rs. 1,600 crore. New initiatives Further, pushing the agenda of educational reforms, the government proposes to introduce English as the medium of instruction from the primary level in schools. It also plans to implement CBSE syllabus from the 2021-22 academic year. Further, it proposes to introduce English as the medium of instruction in all degree courses from 2021-22 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-tops-governments-list-of-priorities/article34625596.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State may further defer, not cancel, SSC exams||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal has called for a meeting on Sunday to discuss the key issue of conducting the Class 12 CBSE examinations, and also other important issues related to the institutions of higher education in the country, in view of the unabated surge of the COVID-19 cases. The State Education Ministers and Secretaries will also attend the meeting. The meeting is eagerly awaited by the students and parents, who are hoping for a clear picture to emerge with regard to the Board examinations. In the State, the Class 10 (SSC) examinations are scheduled to be conducted from June 7. Though the government has been maintaining that the examinations will be conducted as per the schedule, sources in the department say that the conduct of the examinations amidst such high number of COVID-19 positive cases may not be possible. “The government, at the moment, is not looking at cancellation of the crucial examinations, but it plans to further postpone the examination dates,” says an official. Since there has been no let-up in the pandemic situation, and not many days are left for the scheduled examination dates, it is anybody’s guess that the government can ill-afford to go ahead with its decision to conduct the examinations, the official adds. Education Minister A. Suresh, meanwhile, has said that the safety of the students and teachers is paramount for the government. ‘Important milestone’ “We are also mindful of the parents’ worry. The Chief Minister has made it very clear that the health and safety of the children should be the top priority. The Class X examinations are an important milestone in the students’ academic career. But, we will not allow anyone to suffer on account of the examinations,” he has reassured. Sunday’s meeting, Mr. Suresh says, may focus mainly on eliciting the views of the stakeholders on the conduct of the CBSE and ICSE examinations for Class 12 students. Many States, including Telangana, have cancelled the Class 10 examinations and declared “all pass.” Even the Centre has announced that all the Class X students in the CBSC and ICSE schools are deemed to have passed the examinations, as there is no possibility of conducting them due to the pandemic. In Andhra Pradesh, schools are currently closed for summer vacation till the month-end, and the Class 10 students have been asked to prepare for the examinations keeping in view the present schedule. All teachers have been asked to come to the school from June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-may-further-defer-not-cancel-ssc-exams/article34625599.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industrial survey under way in State||The government has expedited the ‘Samagra Parisrama Survey - 2020’ (comprehensive industrial survey) to complete it at the earliest in order to understand their requirements and capture the current manufacturing scenario in the State. The objective is to provide timely services to the industries in a hassle-free manner. According to official sources, the survey has been completed in 45,295 industrial units, a total of 54,009 applications are in various stages of processing, and the survey is in progress in 8,714 units. Emphasis has been laid on completing the survey in 899 large and mega industries, and then in industrial parks and estates, in coordination with the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC). The Industries Department has developed web and mobile applications for conducting the survey efficiently as per detailed guidelines issued on August 13, 2020. Upon completion of the mammoth exercise, the industries will be given ‘Parisrama Aadhaar’ numbers. Survey teams led by 588 lead officers, drawn from various departments, have been put on the job after imparting them extensive training. They are carrying out the survey with the experience gained from a pilot project implemented in August 2020. A full-fledged survey was initiated in all the districts in the first week of September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industrial-survey-under-way-in-state/article34625600.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Verify efficacy: Veerraju||Andhra Pradesh BJP president Somu Veerraju has written a letter to Union AYUSH Minister Kiren Rijiju, urging him to constitute an expert committee for investigating the “herbal preparation,” for which people of the Krishnapatnam area and other far-off places are clamouring for, as an “effective treatment for COVID-19”. The medicine is being prepared by B. Anandaiah. By setting up a committee, the Central government would be throwing light on the efficacy of traditional medicines, Mr. Veerraju said. He said Ayurveda had a history of over 5,000 years. A team of the Indian Council of Medical Research visited the place where the herbal preparation had become very popular. Its effectiveness in fighting COVID-19 required proof, he said. “People of the coastal region have gained confidence in Ayurveda as many COVID-19 patients recovered. The Ministry of AYUSH should, therefore, get these claims verified,” Mr. Veerraju added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/verify-efficacy-of-herbal-preparation-says-bjp-leader/article34625053.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centenarian awaits assistance from govt.||A centenarian is waiting for the State government’s response to his application seeking financial assistance under the Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) for more than a month now. 103-year-old D. Rama Murthy’s wife D. Kamala Bai was hospitalised in January this year after she had a fall and sustained injury to the left hip. She was discharged from hospital in February. Later, she was hospitalised again in February for treatment of COPD Type2 respiratory failure. Mr. Rama Murthy incurred expenses of Rs. 7.21 lakh in the first instance and Rs. 8.49 lakh in the second instance. The former assistant lecturer in his application on April 17 said that all his resources had drained. Mr. Rama Murthy had close association with the former CM Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. He took initiative in establishing a junior college at Veerupunayanipalem in Kadapa district. He worked in Vempalli village for three years. “I had (a) very close association with your father late Shri Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy garu,” he said in the letter. Mr. Rama Murthy is said to have taught English to Dr. Rajasekhara Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centenarian-awaits-assistance-from-govt/article34625085.ece
23 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 40 black fungus cases reported in Krishna dist.||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that there were over 40 mucormycosis (black fungus) cases reported in the district so far. In a review meeting headed by Minister Velampalli Srinivas, Mr. Imtiaz said the medicine used to treat black fungus was manufactured by 17 companies in Telangana, but its government restricted them from sending medicine to other States. He said the Centre allocated 75% of the medicines being produced to States where more black fungus cases were reported. He said all efforts were being made to get more vials to the district. Mr. Srinivas asked officials to leave no stone unturned in treating black fungus cases. Meanwhile, Mr. Imtiaz warned Registered Medical Practitioners (RMPs) and other medical practitioners not to treat COVID patients as they were not permitted to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-40-black-fungus-cases-reported-in-krishna-dist/article34625077.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Partial curfew slams brakes on occupancy ratio of RTC||The Visakhapatnam region of the APSRTC has been getting an average occupancy of 38% due to the partial curfew being implemented in view of the second wave surge in COVID-19 cases. While the number of city services operated on normal days is 711, only 181 services are being operated a day from 6 a.m. to 12 noon in view of the partial curfew. The drivers and conductors are being booked on rotation basis. “While majority of the passengers are observing COVID protocols like wearing masks, a few who do not doing so are being advised by the conductors on the dangers of not using a mask,” said an RTC official. Workers hit hard The other day, a driver was seen sanitising the hands of passengers as they entered the bus at the Dwaraka Bus Station (DBS) complex. In some of the city buses, social distance was being given the go-by and drivers say they are left with no choice but to allow passengers sit one beside the other in view of the limited hours of operation.  Meanwhile, the opening of malls, commercial establishments and shops by 6 a.m. and closing by 12 noon is causing hardship to commuters, coming from the outskirts of the city and suburban areas for work. They have to leave home at least one hour in advance to reach their place of work on time. As the RTC buses are also starting operations only from 6 a.m., they are having to depend on autorickshaws to reach their place of work in the city. Similarly, the operation of buses is ending by 12 noon and they are again having to depend on autorickshaws to reach home. The autorickshaws are being overloaded to cash in on the situation and this is putting the workers at a greater risk of getting infected. A total 169 RTC employees in the district have tested positive for COVID from May 1 to 18. There are 10 depots in Visakhapatnam region and these operate a total of 1,056 services a day during normal times but on May 18 only 266 services were operated. The highest number of services are operated by Gajuwaka at 159 followed by Waltair depot at 155, Simhachalam – 151, Visakha Steel City – 105 and Maddilapalem 141. The percentage of operation for the region is 25.19. “We are operating the buses, despite the poor occupancy, as some of the passengers have taken monthly bus passes,” says an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/partial-curfew-slams-brakes-on-occupancy-ratio-of-rtc/article34625616.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kisan Rail leaves for Delhi with 544 tonnes of mangoes||The Waltair Division has once again created a record parcel loading of 544 tonnes of mangoes, loaded at Vizianagaram to Adarsh Nagar (New Delhi), in a single Kisan Rail on Saturday. It is ever highest record parcel loading in a single day in the history of East Coast Railway. With this, the division has sent more more than 6,000 tonnes of mangoes to New Delhi through 19 kisan trains, since April 17. Waltair Division continues its efforts for the uninterrupted supply of essential commodities during the pandemic. Despite odd situations, the division is running parcel special trains and Kisan Special Trains to boost income to the farm sector, by providing hassle-free, safe and speedy transport services of agricultural produce, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, appreciated the relentless efforts of the staff in continuing the record performance. He appealed to the farmers, traders and the exporters to utilise the opportunity of Kisan Rail Special Trains for safe and speedy transportation of the fruits. 50% subsidy Under this Kisan Rail, the Union government is giving subsidy to the tune of 50% in freight charges. This will help farmers to bring their produce to national markets at competitive prices and at a fast pace. It would help increase farmers’ income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kisan-rail-leaves-for-delhi-with-544-tonnes-of-mangoes/article34625617.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 2,308 new COVID-19 cases, 11 deaths||As many as 2,338 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the COVID-19, recovered in the last 24 hours in the Visakhapatnam district as on Saturday morning. The district also recorded 2,308 new infections in the same duration taking the cumulative tally to 1,25,498. Visakhapatnam district has reported the third highest single-day tally after East Godavari (3,227) and Chittoor (2,581) among other districts. The death toll has increased to 829 after 11 more persons succumbed to the infection. The total number of deaths reported this month so far was 218. The total number of recoveries has also increased to 1,04,367 by Saturday morning. It may be remembered that in the last four days, as many as 8,659 persons recovered from the virus. The number of active cases stands at 20,302.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-2308-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths/article34625622.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former AU V-C passes away||Former Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University Yedla C. Simhadri (80) passed away of COVID-19 related complications, here on Saturday. He also served as Vice-Chancellor of Banaras Hindu University, Patna University and Acharya Nagarjuna University. He started his teaching career in the 1980s as professor in the Department of Sociology, Andhra University. He was the 13th Vice-Chancellor of AU and served from 2002 to 2005. Later, he joined BJP and was active in the party activities. Despite his age, he was very active and participated in all programmes, said BJP district president M. Raveendra. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy and other staff members expressed their condolences. Several academicians, including Vice-Chancellor of Central Tribal University of AP T.V. Katimani and Gurajada Educational Society Founder G.V. Swami Naidu paid rich tributes to Simhadri . The final rites was performed at his native village Gurajapu Lanka in East Godavari district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-au-v-c-passes-away/article34625626.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stir against VSP divestment completes 100 days||Ever since the Union Government proposed 100% strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), employees, members of various trade unions, and political parties stood against the decision and launched an agitation, which entered the 100th day on Saturday. One significant development during the period was that the State government had passed a resolution during the Budget session of the Legislative Assembly opposing the Centre’s decision and asking it to think of alternative solutions to revive the steel plant. The movement for the first shore-based integrated steel plant in Visakhapatnam had begun in 1963 and reached a feverish pitch in 1966 after 32 persons had been killed in police firing across the State, including 12 in Visakhapatnam. The agitation under the banner ‘Visakha Ukku - Andhrula Hakku’ reverberated across the nation. In 1966, the State government had passed a resolution demanding the setting up of the plant in Visakhapatnam. Finally, in 1971, the foundation stone for the plant was laid by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “Though the government has decided to privatise a number of PSUs, the case of the VSP is different, as it comes wrapped in emotions, sentiments, and history. That is why people across the nation are supporting our agitation,” said CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao. As a symbolic protest, the employees and trade unions led by CITU unveiled a 100-foot banner, and protests were organised across all districts in the State, said Mr. Narasinga Rao. Protests were also staged across all the 11 PSU steel plants and mines across the nation, said Mr. Ganga Rao of the CPI(M). Members of the Steel Executives’ Association said the agitation would pick up in the days to come if the Union government did not shelve the idea of strategic sale. They said that VSP had made profits earlier, and could easily be revived by making a few policy changes, such as allotting captive iron ore mines to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stir-against-vsp-divestment-completes-100-days/article34625604.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspended doctor Sudhakar dies of cardiac arrest in Vizag||Doctor K. Sudhakar (55), who was suspended from the Narsipatnam area hospital last year for criticising the State government for failing to provide PPE kits, masks and other protective gear to the doctors and nurses engaged in COVID-19 treatment at hospitals, died due to cardiac arrest late on Thursday night. His final rites were performed on Friday. He is survived by wife and two sons. Dr. Sudhakar’s suspension on April 8 raked up a controversy and later the issue took a different turn with the police reportedly manhandling him on the National Highway near Akkayyapalem in Vizag city, and the High Court ordering a CBI probe into the issue. Thereafter, while undergoing treatment at KGH, he was sent to Government Hospital for Mental Care for treatment and assessment of his mental health. He was questioned by the CBI at the facility. According to his family members, the doctor had recovered from COVID-19 and was recuperating at his home at Seethammadhara when he reportedly died of a cardiac arrest. They said that he was depressed as the final judgment of his case that was scheduled to be announced in April last week had been postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspended-doctor-sudhakar-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-vizag/article34625603.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Set up village COVID-19 management committees’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed the officials to set up village COVID-19 management committee in every panchayat. The team will be headed by Sarpanch, while ANM will be the convenor and Village Volunteers will be the members. He was speaking to MPDOs, medical officers, constituency special officers on containing and controlling COVID in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas, in a meet at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Saturday. Doctors and health staff in Community Health Centres (CHC), Area Hospitals, Primary Health Centres (PHCs) on the city outskirts and Agency areas should be very alert, he said. He instructed the officials to set up isolation rooms at village-level and arrange posters. He also asked them to ensure COVID-19 patients don’t come out. ASHA workers and Village Volunteers should conduct a survey and in Agenc the teams should also take up malaria survey, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-village-covid-19-management-committees/article34625624.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former AU Rector passes away||Officials from Andhra University expressed grief over the death of first Rector G.J.V. Jagannadha Raju. Raju, who passed away on May 13, also worked as vice-president of State Higher Education Council, vice-chancellor of Acharya Nagarjuna University, National Board of Accreditation founder-chairman and a few others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-au-rector-passes-away/article34625618.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of meat, seafood banned today||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has decided to ban sale of meat, fish and other seafood on May 23 (Sunday). GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that the decision has been taken in view of curfew and huge gathering of people which are becoming super spreaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sale-of-meat-seafood-banned-today/article34625619.ece
23 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen concentrators donated||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) –Vizag Steel is building a COVID-19 care facility in Ukkunagaram, Steel Plant township. Greater Portland Telugu Association, (GPTA), Oregon, USA, has extended support by donating 20 oxygen concentrators to Visakha Steel General Hospital, RINL, Visakhapatnam. Meanwhile, 10 oxygen concentrators and 10 portable cylinders were donated to Visakhapatnam Steel General Hospital (VSGH) by the Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Aganampudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article34625620.ece
23 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Summer camp from May 24||Chinmaya Mission, Ukkunagaram (Visakhapatnam Steel Plant), is organising Balavihar summer camp for children from Class III to X from May 24 to 30. The timings for the online Zoom classes are 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.. For further details, contact 9490109884, 7995864266.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/summer-camp-from-may-24/article34625623.ece
23 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Many villages will be COVID-19 free within 21 days’||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Saturday expressed concern over the increasing number of COVID-19 cases among the youngsters too in the district. He urged the youngsters and others to follow COVID-19 protocol for the safety of their family members and others. Along with SP B.Rajakumari, he addressed a media conference virtually to highlight the government's initiatives in controlling the dreaded disease. He said the government was trying for absolute recovery of each and every patient in the district. “Currently, there are 8,659 active cases in the district. As many as 7,270 persons are in home isolation under the observation of the district administration. We are taking series of measures to make Vizianagaram district as COVID-19 free region within a few months. Initially, we will make selected villages as COVID-19 free areas within 21 days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-villages-will-be-covid-19-free-within-21-days/article34625612.ece
23 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Harita official gets award||Harita Vizianagaram coordinator and headmaster of Jammu Government School Mantri Rammohana Rao has been selected for the AP Biodiversity Conservator award for 2021. Mr. Rammohana Rao is the only awardee from the district among the 15 announced on World Biodiversity Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/harita-official-gets-award/article34625611.ece
23 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bringing ambulance services within the reach of the needy||Over 10 ambulance services have been made available either free or at reasonable rates in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts with the intervention of officials and non-governmental organisations to put a check on the exploitation of COVID-19 patients. The ambulance owners and drivers are demanding Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 even for a 50-100 km distance on the pretext of personal risk involved in transporting COVID-19 patients, leaving the hapless people with no choice. Non-availability of beds in hospitals and immediate availability of oxygen in ambulances are also said to be the reasons for making hefty payments to the drivers. The charges go up to Rs. 25,000 for carrying bodies of deceased patients. The Transport Department has fixed rates between Rs. 1,760 and Rs. 6,160 based on vehicle model, facilities and distance but they are seldom followed. Under such circumstances, some industries and non-governmental organisations have come forward to provide support. Aurobindo Foundation, the corporate social responsibility wing of Aurobindo Pharma Limited, has provided two ambulance services for the two districts. “The services will be helpful for needy patients, including employees and workers’ families,” says N.R. Raja Reddy, senior general manager of Aurobindo Pharma. Naa Vooru Vizianagaram, Vizianagaram Youth Facebook Group and Gowri Seva Sangham have been arranging ambulance services to patients free of cost. “After counselling, a few ambulance drivers have understood that it is not good on their part to demand hefty charges when patients are in distress. We are paying around Rs. 4,000 per trip. The drivers are also happy as they are getting more trips through our organisation,” Gummuluri Vishala tells The Hindu . According to transport officials, people can complain against ambulance owners and drivers to Motor Vehicle inspectors J.V.S.S. Prasad (9154294414) and U. Durga Prasad (9154294615).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bringing-ambulance-services-within-the-reach-of-the-needy/article34625610.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inviting trouble!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inviting-trouble/article34625089.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health hazard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-hazard/article34625606.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Precariously perched!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/precariously-perched/article34625614.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thickening clouds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thickening-clouds/article34625629.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown violators face the lathi as police step up measures||People venturing out on the roads on Saturday were in for a rude shock as police officials across the State intensified enforcement of lockdown measures following the top brass’ warning to citizens against unwarranted movement after 10 a.m. Marking a change in strategy to keep people at home, the uniformed men seized more vehicles besides slapping cases and penalties of violators. The top officials in the State capital directed use of lathis in cases where citizens were found to be not cooperating with the police. A Commissioner has even instructed his personnel to use excess force, if need be, while another advised them to brandish lathis but not without ‘instructions’ from his office. “We are asked to wield lathis while checking vehicles during lockdown hours. Our counterparts in the neighbouring commissionerate were asked to use force and assured to not worry about the consequences,” a senior police officer said. This sudden development is said to be an offshoot of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s assessment of lockdown measures during a video conference from Warangal on Friday. Sharing details of the video conference with The Hindu , a top officer in the capital said Mr. Rao was upset over laxity with which the police department was implementing the lockdown across the State. “He told us that our force is not implementing the lockdown effectively, as a result of which people are venturing out on the streets even during the restricted timings,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. The CM reportedly told the police bosses that he was not convinced with their ‘style of functioning’ and asked them to step up lockdown measures. Soon after Mr. Rao’s marathon video conference, DGP M. Mahender Reddy held one with all Commissioners and Superintendents of Police. Later, the Inspectors General of two zones (North and West) held another discussion with unit officers. Two youths wearing the T-shirts of two different food delivery apps were caught by the police on Saturday and beaten up in the presence of Cyberabad Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar. Videos of the incident have gone viral on social media. On Friday evening, Hyderabad Commissioner Anjani Kumar took to Twitter to warn citizens. “This is a warning that we will be very firm from May 22. After 10 a.m., do not come out of your houses,” he stated in an audio message. “Seen unwarranted movement of youth on roads in lockdown from 10 am onwards. 22nd May 10am onwards vehicles will be strictly checked & seized if violation of GO102 and GO8 is noticed.#YourSafetyOurConcern (sic),” tweeted Rachakonda CP Mahesh M. Bhagwat. Vehicles seized Police in the Commissionerates of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachkaonda seized around 8,300 vehicles and booked the same number of cases. Of those, Hyderabad police seized 5,680 vehicles.  While the government’s recent directive allows Swiggy to operate as an essential service not just for our food deliveries but also Genie and other services, we have paused our operations due to the on-ground challenges today. We’re prioritising the safety of deliver partners while we await clarity on this matter Swiggy spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-violators-face-the-lathi-as-police-step-up-measures/article34625521.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Universities in State get new Vice-Chancellors after 2 years||After a gap of two years, universities in Telangana will have full-fledged Vice-Chancellors with the government finally issuing orders to fill up the vacant posts in 10 universities. The new Vice-Chancellors include: Prof. D Ravinder Yadav - Osmania University, Prof. T Ramesh - Kakatiya University, Warangal, Prof. D Ravinder - Telangana University, Nizamabad, Prof. Sita Rama Rao - Dr. BR Ambedkar Open University - Hyderabad, Prof. T Kishan Rao, Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University - Hyderabad, Prof. Laxmikanth Rathod - Palamuru University, Mahabubnagar, Prof. Ch Gopal Reddy, Mahatma Gandhi University, Nalgonda, Prof. Katta Narsimha Reddy, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Prof. Mallesham, Satavahana University - Karimnagar, and Kavitha Daryani, Jawaharlal Nehru Architecture and Fine Arts University, Hyderabad. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan approved the list sent by the government and earlier recommended by the Search Committees. Their term will be of three years. Prof. Sita Rama Rao and Prof. Kavita Daryani Rao have got a second term for the same university while Prof. Narsimha Reddy earlier served as the V-C of Mahatma Gandhi University in Nalgonda. Except these, all the others will be in their first term as Vice-Chancellors. Prof. Ch. Gopal Reddy is presently the Registrar of the Osmania University while Prof. Mallesham served as the Vice Chairman of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) earlier. The government ensured social balance in the selection giving priority to most sections of the society. The government was under severe pressure from the civil society and also the High Court on the appointments. Most of these varsities have been headless for two years now and were functioning with IAS officers appointed as incharge Vice-Chancellors. The new incumbents have a great challenge of streamlining academic, administrative and research activity with the functioning disrupted for the last one year due to COVID-19 restrictions. Only online classes are being offered now and access to labs is almost nil for the last one year. With research taking a back seat in the varsities over the last decade and the institutions losing shine slowly, the calibre of the new Vice-Chancellors will be put to a thorough test. Managing the shortage of faculty and also the burgeoning student groups will be the biggest challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/universities-in-state-get-new-vice-chancellors-after-2-years/article34625548.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cases reaching ENT Hospital go up||The number of patients going to Government ENT Hospital, Koti, has gone up in the last one week after Black Fungus cases started to rise. Such is the demand that the number of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) patients undergoing treatment is more than its bed capacity of 200. And there were a little over 90 COVID patients along with Black Fungus at Gandhi Hospital. Several Mucormycosis patients who underwent surgery at corporate hospitals opted the ENT hospital for post-surgery treatment. ENT doctors said that people who usually opt corporate hospitals are inclined to get admitted to government hospitals. Reason. Availability of important anti-fungal medicines such as Liposomal Amphotericin B, and Posaconazole, at govt. health facilities. These medicines are in short supply in the market and private hospitals have to file online application to get them. There are 200 beds at the Government ENT Hospital. However, 215 patients with Black Fungus were at the hospital till Saturday evening. Out of the 215, around 20 patients were shifted from private hospitals. Extra beds were placed in available rooms when it reached full capacity. A few beds are reserved to admit patients who have severe form of the fungal infection and need immediate attention. Superintendent of the hospital Dr. T. Shankar said that they were performing operations on patients on high priority basis. After six days of post-surgery treatment and after assessing the patients’ condition, they are discharged. Then, anti-fungal medicines are given for 20 days. “Patients have to come for review after 20 days. They can consult us if they have any issues during this time interval,” he said. While patients who have recovered from COVID are admitted to the ENT Hospital, Black Fungus patients with COVID are admitted at Gandhi Hospital. Some of the patients had severe form of the fungal infection. Two patients with fungal infection died at Gandhi Hospital in the past 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-reaching-ent-hospital-go-up/article34625542.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crackdown hits restaurants||The sudden crackdown by police on food delivery executives had an immediate impact on restaurants which are already reeling from the effects of lockdown. “It is a blow for us. If they had told us earlier, we would stayed shut. All these days, deliveries were permitted. What has changed overnight,” asked Ali, a partner of Sarvi Cafe in Banjara Hills. The lockdown guidelines of May 11, GO MS no.8 clearly allow deliveries: “7) Delivery of all e-commerce and home delivery services are permitted”. However, restaurants which were delivering food through app-based platforms suddenly found themselves out of business as police started stopping delivery executives and penalising them besides seizing their vehicles. Affected in the process were hundreds of COVID-19 patients and their kin waiting for their lunch. “There is an old couple living near OGH, Afzal Gunj who are unable to get any food since morning due to unavailability of Swiggy/Zomato in the city. Please help them with cooked food as soon as possible. Contact: +9187901XXX66,” read a tweet by a volunteer at 5.59 p.m. as the apps stopped delivery. Wastage and losses “The raw materials for our restaurant got delivered in the morning and were then wasted as we learnt at 9 p.m. on Friday that the enforcement of lockdown will be tough and no delivery will be allowed,” informed Muhammad Rabbani of Shah Ghouse Cafe in Gachibowli. The food industry in Hyderabad has seen a big churn over the last two years as the lockdown and stoppage of dine-in facility has impacted their business. While a large number of restaurants have shut down, others have changed hands. According to an industry insider, one of the smaller food outlets is even running a crowd-funding campaign to stay in the business. However, a few delivery executives in the Mehdipatnam and Toli Chowki areas managed to make their deliveries, thanks to their expert knowledge about the inner lanes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crackdown-hits-restaurants/article34625527.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Outrage after food delivery boys stopped, vehicles seized||Delivery executives on Saturday were stopped at various checkpoints in the city and their vehicles seized. Some were even allegedly assaulted by police, who seemed to enforce a strict lockdown. The delivery executives, including those from food aggregators Zomato and Swiggy, were stopped at checkpoints near the Rythu Bazaar in Mehdipatnam, Road Number 12 Junction in Banjara Hills and Khairtabad, among other locations. Several video clips and images surfaced on social media with the issue quickly becoming viral. Social media users expressed anguish at how these delivery executives were being treated, and pointed to ‘xvii’ under ‘Permitted Activities’ of GO MS 102 allows e-commerce, which includes ‘delivery of goods and merchandise including food’. Explaining the ordeal, a Zomato delivery executive said, “The police are unnecessary stopping and penalising us. We are being asked to show documents. They seized our vehicles. The company sent us permission letters. We didn’t get any word from the company not to take orders. We are delivering orders to COVID patients, risking infection. Despite this, we are being treated this way.” The issue was taken up by the Telangana Gig and Platform Workers Union. Its State president Shaik Salahuddin stated that delivery executives received no prior communication from aggregators about the restriction in service and claimed that the aggregators stopped taking orders after police began to stop delivery workers. “It is because of these companies that drivers are suffering. If they didn’t have permission to operate, respective company apps should have been closed. This wouldn’t have put delivery workers in such a situation. We demand the government take action against the companies,” he said, adding that fines imposed on delivery executives be either waived off, or be imposed on companies. He also demanded that seized vehicles be returned immediately. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi also demanded that seized vehicles be immediately returned. He tweeted, “G.O on lockdown in Telangana clearly states that food delivery is permitted. Why are delivery personnel being detained then? They must be released along with their vehicles immediately. These are poor youths trying to get by”. He also mentioned that in case the State government has decided not to permit food delivery, the GO should be amended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/outrage-after-food-delivery-boys-stopped-vehicles-seized/article34625530.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Delay in getting nod for anti-fungal medicines||Doctors who applied for approval to get a few anti-fungal medicines used in treatment of Mucormycosis (Black Fungus) alleged that there are long delays in getting the approval from the Health department. Also, patients who need Amphotericin B or Posaconazole have to apply online for clearance from a committee. The delays lasting for two to three days were experienced in several cases. A corporate hospital head said that they are receiving the approvals after long delays, and hope the process of clearing the applications is expedited. Besides, ENT surgeons say that each patient needs 40 or more vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B. However, only around five vials are permitted per application. Sources said that severe crunch on availability of the anti-fungal medicine stock is a reason for issuing a few vials. Doctor’s poser “The online application process is important. But why are only five to six vials being issued per application? Imagine the plight of patients and their attendants who have to wait anxiously for the medicine vials every day. Why can’t all 40 or more vials be cleared at one go?” an ENT surgeon from a private hospital questioned. Officials said that the online application system was introduced for judicious use of the anti-fungal medicines, which are in short supply. Attendants of patients can buy the medicines only after receiving the approval. “Availability of small amount of Liposomal Amphotericin B stock is a reason for allotting a few vials per application,” sources said. There are hundreds of patients suffering from Black Fungus admitted at corporate hospitals across Hyderabad. And all of them have to file applications. If only five vials are issued per application, eight applications have to be filed per patient considering at least 40 vials are needed per patient. Patient’s weight The ENT surgeons said that the number of vials could be more depending on weight of a patient. “Patients are desperately waiting for the medicines. Since there are long delays, we are requesting family members of other patients who received the approval to share one or two vials hoping another set of applications will be cleared in a day or two,” the ENT surgeon said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delay-in-getting-nod-for-anti-fungal-medicines/article34625539.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coronavirus: LPG agencies threaten to stop home deliveries||Cooking gas distributors of the three national oil companies, who between them cater to 1.2 crore households across Telangana, have threatened to stop home delivery of the refills after a week on account of delay in vaccination of their frontline staff. It is a herculean task to convince the staff to deliver the cylinders, Telangana LPG Distributors Association said. Around two lakh cylinder are delivered daily through a network consisting of over 700 liquefied petroleum gas distributors and 14,500 employees, which includes the delivery boys, counter staff, those involved in transportation and employees at the bottling plants of the oil companies. Stating that there is a growing unrest among delivery boys and the support staff, the association said they have conveyed their inability to continue with the work. They want to be recognised as corona frontline warriors and given vaccine immediately. Under the circumstances, it would be difficult to continue home delivery beyond seven days unless the request for vaccination is met, TLDA leaders M. Venkateswara Rao (president), K. Jagan Mohan Reddy (general secretary) and J.Aialy Reddy (treasurer) said in a release. Jagan Mohan Reddy said with hundreds of LPG delivery staff getting infected and some losing their lives, there is a sense of fear among the rest of the staff. They are reluctant to report for work. In the last 30 days alone, seven distributors and six staffers have died. Many distributors have recently reduced working hours of their showrooms. Supplies of refills, however, are being maintained with senior officials of the companies saying the households are getting cylinders within 1.5 days of the bookings. In response to representations from the petroleum trade over the last two months, the Commissioner of Civil Supplies had earlier this month advised District Collectors to facilitate vaccination of the workforce. With the State putting on hold the shots for those in the 18-45 age group, the process is, however, yet to begin. The State government can take a decision on who ought to be given priority in vaccination as per the local requirements, Mr. Reddy said, adding Rajasthan, Delhi, Assam and a few north-east States have vaccinated the LPG delivery staff. The TLDA statement said vaccinating the delivery staff would also be in the interest of the customers since on an average they visit 40-50 houses daily. “We are confident Telangana government would be considerate as always and help LPG [delivery] network get vaccines,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coronavirus-lpg-agencies-threaten-to-stop-home-deliveries/article34625543.ece
23 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||State records 3,308 fresh cases, 21 more die||COVID-19 cases as well as testing in the State continued to witness a downward trend. On Saturday, as many as 3,308 positive cases were recorded as against 3,464 a day before with 63,120 samples being tested as compared to the previous day’s 65,997. The deaths as recorded by the bulletin released on Saturday was 21, taking the total number of fatalities in the State to 3,106. The number of persons under treatment or in isolation in Telangana now stands at 42,959. Meanwhile, with 4,723 more persons recovering, the total number of recoveries now stands at 5,04,970. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits with 513 cases continued to record the highest number of cases in the State. The number of positive cases in neighbouring districts of Rangareddy was 226 followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri at 203. Districts which recorded over 100 cases are Karimnagar with 161, Khamman 228, Mahbubnagar 116, Peddapalli 101, Sangareddy 120, Siddipet 110, and Warangal Urban 116.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-3308-fresh-cases-21-more-die/article34625534.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAS officer and team on the job||The issue of long delays in approving online applications for anti-fungal medicines used in Mucormycosis treatment has come to the notice of senior government officials. Sources said that an IAS officer along with a team of Health staff are on the job of addressing the matter that would hopefully be resolved by Saturday night. It was learnt that applications running into several hundreds have reached the committee assigned to give the approvals. The online application system for allotment of Liposomal Amphotericin B, Posaconazole and Isavuconazole, was announced on May 19. Application for the medicines should be sent in a prescribed proforma to ent-mcrm@telangana.gov. in. “The applications will be scrutinised by the committee consisting of Director of Medical Education (DME), Superintendent of ENT Hospital, and HoD of Department of ENT, Gandhi Medical College,” as per a press note. “An IAS officer along with a few more people have been on the task of addressing the issue with long delays in issuing approvals. The process would be addressed,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ias-officer-and-team-on-the-job/article34625540.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Convert schools into isolation centres’||Congress MLC and former Minister T Jeevan Reddy has appealed to the State government that all the government schools, hostels and residential schools in the rural areas be converted into isolation centres for the benefit of COVID affected people who are unable to isolate themselves due to the lack of enough rooms in their houses. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here on Saturday, he said that Jagtial district was top in the State with a high incidence of virus-positive cases. Against the State average positive cases of 5%, Jagtial district was reporting 17% positive cases, he stated. The government after conducting the door to door health survey to identify the positive cases, is just providing the medical kits and a suggestion that they stay away from other family members. But due to non-availability of separate rooms and toilets in the rural areas, people are forced to stay in their cramped houses along with other family members resulting in the spread of the virus, he said. Mr. Reddy said the spread could be successfully curbed if the government converts all the educational institutions into quarantine and isolation centres, besides providing proper medical assistance to people who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/convert-schools-into-isolation-centres/article34625545.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||picture briefly Sajjanar distributes groceries to transgenders||Cyberabad CP V.C. Sajjanar distributed groceries to 145 transgenders through the Transgenders’ Help Desk at Gachibowli police station on Saturday. Each kit comprises 18 items, including 10 kg of rice, atta, salt, sugar, onions and spices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/picture-briefly-sajjanar-distributes-groceries-to-transgenders/article34625525.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cryogenic tankers from Thailand land in city (with photo)||Three cryogenic tankers of liquid medical oxygen landed in the city from Bangkok in an Indian Air Force aircraft on Saturday afternoon. They were received at the Begumpet Air Force Station by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and immediately despatched to railway container terminal at Sanatnagar for onward movement to Odisha by a train for oxygen filling. These tankers were part of the 11 tanks promised by Infrastructure giant, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures (MEIL) as a part of corporate social responsibility activity, and imported from Thailand. Three tankers had already reached here earlier and the remaining were promised to be delivered once the cyclonic storm subsides in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cryogenic-tankers-from-thailand-land-in-city-with-photo/article34625547.ece
23 May 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed on Saturday at Narsingi when they lost control of the tractor they were travelling on. According to police, K Narsimhulu, 30, and J. Vijay, 25, left for work in a field -- and when on Ragi Guntla bund, they lost control of the vehicle and in the accident that took place, they fell down and came under its wheels. Vijay was married one week back. The bodies were shifted to the government hospital for postmortem. Narsingi police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-accident/article34625550.ece
23 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Rs. 100 cr. paid to procure vaccines, says Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said an amount of Rs. 100 crore was paid to manufacturers for procurement of vaccines. “Despite paying the advance, we can not get them. The allotment should be made by the Union government. That’s the reason why we have called for global tenders. The Centre has given the nod for Russian vaccine, Sputnik,” said Mr Harish Rao while addressing a gathering after inaugurating a 100-bed isolation centre at Zaheerabad on Saturday. The Minister along with Lok Sabha member B.B. Patil, MLA Manick Rao and MLC Fareeduddin inaugurated the COVID care centre at Calvary Temple, adjacent to Mumbai Highway in Zaheerabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-100-cr-paid-to-procure-vaccines-says-harish-rao/article34625549.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Tough task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tough-task/article34625553.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Second wave sees 51 patients being admitted every hour||An average of 51 COVID-19 patients were being admitted to hospitals every hour as the second wave wreaked havoc across the city during a 50-day period between April 1 and May 20, according to government records. Delhi government records related to the admission and discharge of COVID-19 patients state that 61,916 patients were admitted to city hospitals in this period – a daily average of over 1,238 patients per day. The total number of hospital beds in the city went from 6,032 to 24,424 during this phase to cope with the sudden surge. As the second wave stretched Delhi’s healthcare infrastructure to its limits – something which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has conceded on more than one occasion – the virus claimed 11,552 lives between April 1 and May 20, which is an increase of over 7165% compared to the 159 COVID-19 deaths during the same 50-day interval in 2020. During this time, around 867 patients were discharged per day, or 36 per hour, bringing the total number of those who recovered from hospitals to 43,384. According to government records, there were 294 hospital admissions on April 1. As the second wave picked up pace, the figure peaked at 1,993 on April 29, when the total number of hospital beds in the city stood at 21,152. COVID-19 admissions were in the triple digits from April 1-12, during which time a total of 932 admissions took place. On April 13, the hospitals reported 1,218 admissions. For the next 33 days, admissions remained above 1,000, before slipping to 952 on May 16. The number of patients discharged from hospitals was less compared to admissions for the first 20 days of April. The lowest number of single-day discharges from hospitals, 131, was recorded on April 4 – during which they remained in the triple digits even as admissions continued to soar. In fact, the number of those discharged peaked only in mid-May with 1,384 patients leaving hospitals on May 13. They have been consistently going down since. This peak in patients being discharged, according to records, also marked the first time during the 50-day period that the number of patients being released overtook the number of those being admitted: 1,384 discharges were recorded against 1,366 admissions. Since then, more patients are being discharged from city hospitals compared to admissions almost every day. A Delhi government source said this indicated that the situation was getting better and that the second wave was retreating. On May 14, 1,331 patients were discharged against 1,256 admissions. The figures stood at 1,379 and 1,052 on May 15; 1,079 and 952 on May 16; 895 and 914 on May 17; 1,326 and 806 on May 18; 1,090 and 731 on May 19; and 978 and 560 on May 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/second-wave-sees-51-patients-being-admitted-every-hour/article34625476.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR lodged against former AMU student over tweets||A non cognisable FIR was registered against former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student Sharjeel Usmani for allegedly posting objectionable tweets, the police said on Saturday. Police sources said the Laxmi Nagar police station received a complaint by BJP media head Naveen Kumar. The complainant stated that Mr. Usmani’s tweets regarding ‘Lord Ram’ and the recent death of a news anchor were defamatory, mischievous and intended to hurt religious sentiments. Sources said that a non cognisable report under Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on May 20 and further investigation will be conducted according to law. An FIR was also lodged against Mr. Usmani in Maharashtra’s Jalna district following his recent tweets. He was charged under Section 295A (malicious act outraging religious feelings) of the IPC and the Information Technology Act on the complaint of a Hindu Jagran Manch member. Earlier this year, the Pune police had registered a case against Mr. Usmani under IPC Section 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground religion, etc.) over his speech made during the Elgar Parishad conclave held there on January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-lodged-against-former-amu-student-over-tweets/article34625454.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU issues rules for OBE to be held from June 7||After deferring examinations for final-year students, Delhi University has issued guidelines on the open book examinations to be held from June 7. Answer scripts that are not submitted on the OBE portal will not be accepted. Those facing Internet connectivity will be permitted to email answer scripts to the nodal officer, provided that documentary evidence of the same is attached along with the answer scripts. In a notification dated May 21, the university said, “In case of poor Internet connectivity, the student is advised to submit his or her script beyond the specified period with the documentary evidence to the email ID of the nodal officers of the college or department. The maximum time limit for delayed submission is 30 minutes, and documentary evidence of non-submission on the portal must be attached.” All such cases where students submit via email, will be examined by a review panel and the answer sheets will be evaluated based on the decision of the panel. Results of such students may be delayed. The duration of the OBE will be four hours out of which three hours shall be given to students for answering the questions and the remaining one hour can be utilised for downloading the question papers and scanning and uploading answer scripts, the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-issues-rules-for-obe-to-be-held-from-june-7/article34625453.ece
23 May 2021||new delhi,||Police plea for Kalra’s custody rejected again||A court here on Saturday dismissed the plea of Delhi Police seeking five more days of custodial interrogation of businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. This is the second time the court has rejected the police plea. Mr. Kalra told the court that he is being implicated in the case as he is famous. He also stated that he hd sold oxygen concentrators to police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-plea-for-kalras-custody-rejected-again/article34625455.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A city in stasis||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-city-in-stasis/article34625473.ece
23 May 2021||Barmer,||I was anguished, says Rajasthan Cong. MLA||Rajasthan Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary on Saturday said he was “anguished” over some issues and that was why he sent his resignation to the Assembly Speaker. The MLA, who was among the 19 legislators who had rebelled last year against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot under former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot’s leadership, is also said to be dissatisfied with the government over the alleged stoppage of the developmental work in his Assembly constituency. Mr. Choudhary, however, did not elaborate on what caused anguish to him. He said Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra had spoken to him and it is now for him how he sorts out the issue. “I have sent my resignation and now the Speaker has to look into it. The party’s State president talked to me and said it is a family matter... it is for him to sort out the issue,” he said. The Gudhamalani MLA said his priority is fighting COVID-19 in his constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/i-was-anguished-says-rajasthan-cong-mla/article34625483.ece
23 May 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. to ease COVID-19 ‘curfew’ from June||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday announced that the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the State would be gradually relaxed from the next month. “Our target is to free our State of COVID-19 by May 31. We will have to unlock the coronavirus-induced-curfew gradually from June 1... in such a manner that COVID-19 doesn’t spread again,” he said at a meeting to review the situation. Lockdown-like restrictions — termed as ‘curfew’ by the State government — are in force in many cities and towns. In most of the districts they have been extended till May 31. Several localities would already be free of COVID-19 infection, Mr. Chouhan said. “Identify the spots where the infection is still present and make micro-containment zones. Infected persons should either be isolated at home or shifted to COVID Care Centres,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mp-to-ease-covid-19-curfew-from-june/article34625488.ece
23 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Compensate farmers, traders, demands Hooda||The Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, has demanded compensation for farmers and traders who had bought diammonium phosphate (DAP) amid confusion surrounding announcement by the Central government on increase and decrease in DAP prices. “While the government first increased prices and then decreased, a large number of farmers and shopkeepers had to buy fertilizers at inflated prices. On one hand, the JJP-BJP government kept saying that prices would not be increased and on the other hand, fertilizer was sold at increased prices in the market,” he said. “In such a situation, the government should compensate farmers and traders who have purchased the fertilizer at a high rate in the past... as they have suffered this loss due to the negligence of the government,” he added. Mr. Hooda said the government should formulate special policies to provide relief to farmers who have been hit hard by the multiple blows of recession, a raging pandemic and inflation and take urgent steps to reduce input costs of farming. ‘Cut fuel prices’ He sought an immediate cut in the prices of petrol, diesel and other petroleum products to provide relief to the farmers. “This would not only provide relief to the farmers but to other sections as well. The government must understand that while all other sectors come to a standstill in a lockdown and pandemic, the agriculture sector continues to drive the economy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/compensate-farmers-traders-demands-hooda/article34625485.ece
23 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam to introduce cow protection bill||Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi said the State government would introduce a cow protection bill in the next Assembly session. Addressing the inaugural session of the 15th Assembly, he said the government would adopt a zero-tolerance policy for protecting the cow that gives “life sustaining milk” and is considered a sacred animal. “I am happy to inform you that my government plans to introduce the cow protection bill in the next Assembly session. The proposed bill envisages imposition of complete ban on transport of cattle outside the State,” he said. The zero-tolerance policy would entail stringent punishment for those found transporting cattle outside Assam, the Governor said. “Once passed, Assam will join other States which have passed similar bills,” he said. The Governor also underlined the Himanta Biswa Sarma government’s commitment to recover the lands of the satras (Vaishnav monasteries) and places of worship from illegal encroachments. “My government will remain committed to strengthening the namghars (prayer halls) and protecting the rights of the satras. A task force will be constituted to recover the lands of the satras and places of worship from illegal encroachments,” he said.  Grants to be given “We will also continue to strengthen the satras by providing them grants-in-aid,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-govt-to-introduce-bill-on-cow-protection/article34625248.ece
23 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Weather fluctuations may trigger pest attack on sugarcane crops in U.P.||The fluctuations in weather conditions in the recent past have brought a cause of concern for the sugarcane crop in Uttar Pradesh. The government on Saturday issued an advisory to its officials to make proper arrangements for prevention of insects and pests which attack the crop by conducting on-site inspections along with scientists of the Sugarcane Research Council. “Due to excess moisture in the atmosphere and day-to-day fluctuations in the weather, various pests such as pyrilla, grass hopper, fall armyworm and black bug infest sugarcane crop,” said Commissioner, Cane and Sugar, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy. These pests attack the sugarcane crop during weather fluctuations, he said. Mr. Bhoosreddy said the black bug is mostly found in the ratoon plant. The leaves of the affected plants turn yellow and brown spots appear, he said. “Its nymphs are found up to the middle of the leaflet of central leaf. Both adult and nymphs suck the juice of the leaves, which stops sugarcane growth and decrease yield and sugar content,” he said. Mr. Bhoosreddy asked the department officials and sugar mill managements to destroy the affected plants and not to use them as cane seeds for sowing, if the presence of this pest is reflected in any particular area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/weather-fluctuations-may-trigger-pest-attack-on-sugarcane-crops-in-up/article34625492.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||MVA hopes HC query will spur Governor to appoint 12 MLCs||A recent query by the Bombay High Court to the Maharashtra Governor over the appointment of 12 members to the Legislative Council has reignited a debate and raised the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance’s hopes of finding a solution to the impasse. On Friday, a Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade was hearing a public interest litigation over the delay in the appointment of the 12 MLCs despite the State Cabinet sending a list of recommended names and issuing two reminders. The Bench then directed the secretary of Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to file an affidavit on June 9 and adjourned the matter. The issue has been brewing since the MVA government submitted to Mr. Koshyari its list of 12 nominees to the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota in November last year. The appointment has emerged as a point of contention between the tripartite government and Mr. Koshyari, who served as a senior leader of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party before being appointed as the Governor. Leaders from the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena have held several meetings with Mr. Koshyari to resolve the issue. The Governor has the prerogative to nominate 12 MLCs from the fields of literature, art, science, and social service. Though the Governor is expected to approve the names recommended by the State Cabinet, sources say that there is no fixed deadline to complete the process. Expect action soon: NCP Reacting to the court’s query, the NCP said Mr. Koshyari has been using the lack of a time frame to keep the decision pending. “We expect him to take action as the court has now intervened and sought his reply,” said senior NCP leader and State Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik. “The court questioned the Governor on whether the file was sent to him for safekeeping in a drawer or to act upon it. We will now have to wait for his reply,” Mr. Malik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-hopes-hc-query-will-spur-governor-to-appoint-12-mlcs/article34625263.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC Justices hold marathon sitting||It is the annual summer vacation for the Bombay High Court, however, among other judges hearing important matters, Justice Shahrukh J. Kathawalla and Justice Surendra P. Tavade have been burning the midnight oil. On Friday, the Bench along with its court staff heard matters till 12 a.m. While granting relief to former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, the Bench said, “Since we would cease to be vacation judges at the stroke of 12 a.m., we adjourn the hearing to May 24.” It then directed the Maharashtra government to not arrest Mr. Singh till then. Justice Kathawalla has a record of sorts of having heard matters till 3.30 a.m. in May 2018. He always ensures that the Bench he leads finishes each case that has been listed before it, without looking at the clock. No lunch break Both the judges did not take their customary one-hour lunch break and had their snacks and beverages while hearing all the civil and criminal cases assigned to the Bench from May 15 through videoconferencing. The cases before them were a legal potpourri, with pleas for interim bail, child custody, eviction or demolition of structures, tree-cutting related to the coastal road development, termination of pregnancy, intellectual property rights, and allegations against ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh.  It was probably a first at the Bombay High Court, when Justice Kathawalla insisted on speaking to professor Hany Babu, who was admitted to a COVID-19 ward at GT Hospital. It was only after seeing and talking to Mr. Babu, along with the hospital staff, that the Bench directed that he be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital. The court also directed the 84-year-old Jesuit priest, Father Stan Swamy, who is lodged at Taloja Central Jail, to be produced before it through videoconferencing. ‘Trees that bear fruit’ After a marathon hearing for the second time in a week, Justice Kathawalla said, “We are facing criticism for sitting for such long hours. But what to do. Sticks and stones are thrown only at trees that bear fruits.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-justices-hold-marathon-sitting/article34625265.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||NGO provides free oxygen supplies in MMR||An NGO has started providing free oxygen supplies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) through its Oxygen Connect campaign. Making the Difference has set up 20 centres to supply free oxygen concentrators and cylinders in the MMR. The NGO said it started the campaign keeping in mind the need to remain oxygen self-sufficient and aid people suffering from COVID-19. While the NGO is charging a deposit, it will be refunded once the oxygen cylinders and concentrators are returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ngo-provides-free-oxygen-supplies-in-mmr/article34625264.ece
23 May 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees 40,294 recoveries||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 26,133 fresh COVID-19 cases and 682 deaths, taking its tally to 55,53,225 and toll to 87,300, the State Health Department said. With 40,294 patients being discharged, the tally of recoveries rose to 51,11,095, leaving the State with 3,52,247 active cases. The case recovery rate improved to 92.04%, while the fatality rate increased to 1.57%. At the same time, the case positivity rate slightly dipped to 16.97%. Of the 682 fatalities, 392 occurred in the last 48 hours, while 290 had occurred in the last week. With 1,283 new cases and 52 fatalities, Mumbai’s tally rose to 6,95,483 and toll to 14,516. The Mumbai region, including the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and satellite towns, added 3,603 new infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-sees-40294-recoveries/article34625266.ece
23 May 2021||Kathmandu,||Nepal’s Opposition plans to approach SC||Nepal’s President dissolved the House of Representatives on Saturday for the second time in five months and announced snap elections in November, rejecting both embattled Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli and the Opposition alliance’s claims to form a government, a move that will be legally challenged yet again. President Bidya Devi Bhandari announced in an early morning statement that the House of Representatives has been dissolved in accordance with Article 76 (7) of the Constitution, ending a day of high-voltage political drama in the Himalayan nation, amidst the raging COVID-19 pandemic. As per the Article, a date to conduct another election within six months must also be fixed. The President has called early elections pursuant to the Article, the dates being set for November 12 and November 19. The announcement came after Prime Minister Oli in his last deal-sealing move on Friday midnight recommended the Office of the President to dissolve the 275-member House and announce dates for early elections. Earlier, Mr. Oli and Opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba had staked separate claims to premiership, both of which were rejected by the President, citing that none had adequate grounds for winning a vote of confidence. “It has been noted that Prime Minister Oli counted those lawmakers as his supporters who extended support to the Opposition alliance, whereas the UML and JSP-N have forwarded letters stating action would be taken against those who had gone against the party to endorse the Opposition’s claim,” Ms. Bhandari said in a statement late on Friday. The President’s announcement plunged Nepal into further political crisis, a reminder of her December 2020 decision when she first dissolved the House at Mr. Oli’s recommendation, a move that swayed the course of Nepali politics towards uncertainty. The Supreme Court had annulled the duo’s move in February. Alarmed by the move yet again, the leaders of Nepal’s Opposition alliance on Saturday decided to take all legal and political means to counter Prime Minister Oli and President Bhandari’s “unconstitutional and undemocratic” move of dissolving the House. In a joint statement issued at the end of a meeting called to discuss the matter, the Opposition leaders expressed their commitment to “defend the constitutional rights of Nepali citizens achieved at the end of years of political struggle.” They appealed to all political and civil forces to condemn and stand against the Oli-Bhandari duo’s “regressive, autocratic intentions”. They condemned their move as “unconstitutional, undemocratic and arbitrary.” The statement was signed by Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba, CPN-Maoist Centre Chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’, CPN-UML leader Madhav Kumar Nepal, Chairperson of Janata Samajbadi Party-Nepal Upendra Yadav and Vice-Chair of the Rastriya Janamorcha Durga Paudel. The Opposition alliance is devising a strategy to approach the Supreme Court with all its lawmakers on Sunday demanding to scrap the President’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepals-opposition-plans-to-approach-sc/article34624970.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s ‘father of hybrid rice’ is dead||Yuan Longping, a Chinese agricultural scientist whose breakthroughs in hybrid rice brought food security to China and transformed agriculture worldwide, died on Saturday aged 91. Mr. Yuan, who is celebrated in China as the “father of hybrid rice” for his contributions to agriculture and beloved for his simple demeanour that endured despite the many honours that came his way, was still conducting research at the Sanya Hybrid Rice Research Base until he suffered a fall in March this year. In 2004, he was honoured with the World Food Prize “for his breakthrough achievement in developing the genetic materials and technologies essential for breeding high-yielding hybrid rice varieties”. His “new hybrid rice technology not only benefited China, but was also enthusiastically adopted in other countries,” read the citation from the World Food Prize Foundation, noting that “he and his research associates traveled to India, Vietnam, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and the United States to provide advice and consultation to rice research personnel” and trained over 3,000 scientists from more than 50 countries. “Farmers around the world have benefitted from his techniques as hybrid rice spread throughout Asia, Africa and the Americas,” the foundation said, adding that “the impact of Yuan’s ingenuity has been felt beyond China’s rice industry” as producers of other crops “successfully used the two-line breeding system for rice to explore similar systems for hybrid sorghum and rapeseed with increased yields.” His desire to experiment with rice was borne out of hardship. In 1960, when he was 30 years old, China was in the midst of a famine unleashed by Mao Zedong’s “Great Leap Forward” policy in 1958 that devastated the agriculture sector and led to mass starvation and the deaths of millions. Stirred into action “On a day in 1960, Yuan went outside of the school and came across two scrawny corpses lying on the side of the street,” he once told State broadcaster CCTV. “The frames were so thin that they looked like skin being wrapped on skeletons. The scene deeply stirred Yuan, who felt that he must do something.” Mr. Yuan told the channel, “Something as small as a grain can save a country, while it can also make a country fall.” His experiments with rice went against conventional wisdom, as the World Food Prize Foundation noted, at a time when “classical genetics concluded that heterosis — a phenomenon in which the progeny of two distinctly different parents grow faster, yield more, and resist stress better than either parent — was not possible in self-pollinated crops such as rice.” He believed it was possible with rice, and published his first findings in 1964. Nine years later, he developed “the first hybrid rice combination called Nan-you No. 2 which, due to heterosis, boasted yields 20 percent higher than previous varieties,” the foundation said. China’s rice production “rose by 47.5% by the 1990s, even as some five million hectares of erstwhile paddy land was shifted to cash crops such as vegetables, fruits, cotton, and rapeseed,” said the Ramon Magsaysay Award Foundation, which honoured him with a prize in 2001, adding that “as much as half of China’s rice land is planted to Yuan’s hybrids.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-father-of-hybrid-rice-is-dead/article34624966.ece
23 May 2021||COLOMBO,||In Sri Lanka, Mandarin kicks up a row||Sri Lanka’s Attorney General’s Department on Saturday removed a plaque at a recently opened library on its premises following social media uproar over the omission of Tamil, an official language, while including Mandarin in the text. “The plaque made to declare open the Smart Library of the AG’s Department, by an inadvertent omission did not contain the script in Tamil language, has been removed now and is being replaced with a new plaque,” the public prosecutor’s spokesperson said. The development comes following considerable twitter backlash from users who shared the picture of the Attorney General – along with the Chinese Ambassador — unveiling the plaque, with text in Sinhala, English, and Mandarin. They questioned the exclusion of Tamil. Prominent Tamil legislators too raised the issue on social media. Many in Sri Lanka see the omission of Tamil in official signage as a reflection of the historic discrimination against the minority community, beginning with the infamous ‘Sinhala Only Act’ of 1956, one of the root causes of the country’s more than three decade-old ethnic conflict. It was only after the passage of the 13th Amendment in 1987 that Tamil was also accorded the status of an official language. Despite the law, residents of the Tamil-majority north and east, and elsewhere, frequently point to the absence of Tamil in police stations and some government offices. “Exclusion of Tamil is certainly not new!” Tamil legislator M.A. Sumanthiran tweeted on Saturday. Meanwhile, some Twitter users in Sri Lanka, including lawyers and journalists, questioned the inclusion of Mandarin in official signage. Responding to a journalist, the Chinese Embassy said: “It’s an internal E-Library in the AG’s Department, funded by the Government and People of China. Chinese language is displayed as a kind gesture towards China, which is highly appreciated.” This was the second instance of the Chinese mission responding to tweets flagging Mandarin text in sign boards. Last week, Batticaloa MP Shanakiyan Rasamanickam shared on Twitter an image of a sign board of the ‘Central Park’ coming up at the China-backed Colombo Port City, with text in Sinhala, English and Mandarin, and said: “Tamil text is missing, that’s alright! Soon Sinhala will be missing too. Hope Sri Lankans wake up at least then.” Trilingual rules The Embassy said in a tweet on the same day: “We noticed an interim sign in a JV building site not abiding by trilingual rules. Request raised. We respect all 3 official languages in Sri Lanka, and urge China companies to follow,” sharing images of other Chinese-built structures that also included Tamil text in their name boards. Mr. Rasamanickam said “the cat is really out of the bag”. “The Chinese gov decides what goes on nameboards in SL...this really indicates how little control the SL Gov has over the situation,” he tweeted. The MP also vehemently opposed the recently passed law governing the Port City and said the country had become “Chi-Lanka”. Weighing in on the developments, Tamil Progressive Alliance leader and opposition parliamentarian Mano Ganesan said in a tweet that by dropping Tamil, the Chinese are “violating language law”. In a subsequent tweet, he said the Chinese Embassy told him that the Board [at the Port City] was an old one and has been removed. “It appears Chinese learn to ignore Tamil from our Govt since GoSL’s usage of Official Language Tamil is no better,” said the MP, a former cabinet Minister for National Co-existence, Dialogue and Official Languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-sri-lanka-mandarin-kicks-up-a-row/article34624971.ece
23 May 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Enjoy Enjaami’ a welcome start, say Sri Lanka’s Malaiyaha Tamils||When ‘Enjoy Enjaami’ fame Arivu from Chennai recently joined a virtual discussion with a group of activists and youth from Sri Lanka’s Malaiyaha or hill country Tamil community, there was one person binding them and their histories — Valliamma, Arivu’s grandmother. She is named in the song that has got over 200 million views since its YouTube launch two months ago. The viral number has intrigued listeners about her story — she was among the Indian-origin Tamils who laboured in Sri Lanka’s tea estates and was later repatriated back to India, with not a patch of land to call her own after years of hard work. Thousands like her returned, and several thousands remained in Sri Lanka, plucking tea every day, building its export-reliant economy. The song merely names Ms. Valliamma, but could be a spark that begins telling the story of the Malaiyaha Tamils, according to Saumyaa Vilashini Muthulingam, a Kandy-based activist working on plantation rights and gender issues, who took part in the discussion. And that is significant, because Tamil Nadu has had little appetite to learn about the struggles of this community, she recalls. “I studied in Bengaluru for three years from 2008. The final war was raging [in Sri Lanka] and Tamil people in India were following it closely. At that time and even later, I noticed that whenever I raised the issue of Malaiyaha Tamils, they were not receptive. It was all about ‘Jaffna Tamils,” she says. In her view, this was just another manifestation of the “indifference” to the community’s concerns seen within Sri Lanka as well. “Tamils of the north and east tend to look down upon our people. Even if you look at Malaiyaha Tamils who migrated to the north and east, they face discrimination when it comes to land rights and housing.” Brought to Sri Lanka by the British to work in tea estates located in the country’s scenic hill country, the Malaiyaha Tamil community’s history is one of braving discrimination and oppression through two centuries, till date. They were disenfranchised, rendered stateless, denied basic rights and yet, the 1.5-lakh estate workers, from the million-strong community, continue to toil in estates, fighting for fair wages and decent living conditions. Different struggles It was not only the social hierarchy of different groups of minority Tamils within the island nation that relegated the Malaiyaha Tamils’ issues to the background, but also one of politics, Ms. Muthulingam notes. “Whether it is here or in Tamil Nadu, an economic struggle is not considered as heroic a struggle as the one for civil and political rights,” she says. Arivu, in his talk, foregrounded the politics of caste, drawing upon his work in The Casteless Collective band, while also highlighting how intimately it was linked to his family’s class location. “It is only from a position of privilege that one can say there is no caste today. The soil beneath our feet bears witness to our history of caste-based oppression. It is a question of whether we support hierarchy in our society, or equality,” he said. Recalling his family’s struggle as daily-waged labourers and koothu artistes, he said: “the class we come from, our caste identity — all these are shaped by a host of political factors. We can’t take politics out of our lives.” Joining the discussion among others was Mylvaganam Thilakarajah, a writer and former MP representing Malaiyaha Tamils in Parliament. Compared to other places where Tamils live, such as Tamil Nadu, Malaysia or Jaffna, caste-based violence was relatively less in the hill country, he notes. All the same, he points out that those like Ms. Valliamma, who returned to India, were branded “Ceylon Repatriates”, “virtually like a caste group” although they came from different caste groups. “So your identity can depend on where you are and at what point, you see.” Pop culture Writers and poets in Tamil Nadu such as K.A. Gunasekaran, Ra. Vinoth, Tamizhmagan, and Mohammed Yousuf have written on Malaiyaha Tamils and their lives, but popular culture can have a wider reach, as Arivu and Dhee’s song has shown, Mr. Thilakarajah says. “ Enjoy Enjaami has is a massive hit and with the fame it has brought, Arivu has been trying to advance his progressive politics, which is very commendable. The reference to Valliamma is significant, but for the stories of those like her, and of those who stayed back in Sri Lanka to come out in some detail, we need a full-length film on a character like that.” Telling such a story will also offer scope to zoom into how caste played out within Sri Lanka and among those who returned to India. “I feel there’s a good film waiting to be made.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/enjoy-enjaami-a-welcome-start-say-sri-lankas-malaiyaha-tamils/article34624974.ece
23 May 2021||Gaza City,||Egyptian mediators hold talks to firm up Israel-Hamas truce||Egyptian mediators held talks on Saturday to firm up an Israel-Hamas cease-fire as Palestinians in the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip began to assess the damage from 11 days of intense Israeli bombardment. A 130-truck convoy carrying urgent humanitarian aid headed to Gaza. Saturday marked the first full day of a truce that ended the fourth Israel-Hamas war in just over a decade. In the fighting, Israel unleashed hundreds of airstrikes against militant targets in Gaza, while Hamas and other militants fired more than 4,000 rockets toward Israel. More than 250 people were killed, the vast majority of them Palestinians. Gaza City’s busiest commercial area, Omar al-Mukhtar Street, was covered in debris, smashed cars and twisted metal. A Palestinian official said an initial assessment showed at least 2,000 housing units were destroyed in the 11-day fighting. Naji Sarhan, deputy of Gaza's works and housing ministry, said that more than 15,000 other units were partly destroyed. “We really didn’t expect this amount of damage,” said Ashour Subeih, who sells baby clothes. Having been in business for one year, Mr. Subeih estimated his losses were double what he has made so far. Sticking points Both Israel and Hamas have claimed victory. There was a widespread expectation that the ceasefire would stick for now, but that another round of fighting at some point seems inevitable. Underlying issues remain unresolved, including an Israeli-Egyptian border blockade, now in its 14th year, that is choking Gaza’s more than 2 million residents and a refusal by the Islamic militant Hamas to disarm. The fighting began on May 10, when Hamas militants in Gaza fired rockets toward Jerusalem. The barrage came after days of clashes between Palestinian protesters and Israeli police at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound. Heavy-handed police tactics at the compound and the threatened eviction of dozens of Palestinian families by Jewish settlers had inflamed tensions. Anger against Abbas The war has further sidelined Hamas’ political rival, the internationally backed Palestinian Authority, which oversees autonomous enclaves in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Hamas’ popularity seemed to be growing as it positioned itself as a defender of Palestinian claims to Jerusalem. On Friday, thousands of Palestinians in the Al-Aqsa compound chanted against Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and his self-rule government. “Dogs of the Palestinian Authority, out, out,” they shouted, and “The people want the president to leave.” Despite his weakened status, Mr. Abbas will be the point of contact for any renewed U.S. diplomacy, since Israel and the West, including the U.S., consider Hamas a terrorist organisation. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is to meet with Mr. Abbas and Israeli leaders when he visits in the coming week. Mr. Abbas is expected to raise demands that any Gaza reconstruction plans go through the Palestinian Authority to avoid strengthening Hamas. Mr. Abbas met on Saturday with Egyptian mediators, discussing the rebuilding of Gaza and internal Palestinian relations, according to the official Palestinian news agency Wafa. An Egyptian diplomat said on Saturday that two teams of mediators are in Israel and the Palestinian territories to continue talks on firming up a ceasefire deal and security long-term calm. The diplomat said discussions include implementing agreed-on measures. Separately, a 130-truck convoy with humanitarian aid and medical supplies reached Gaza from Egypt on Saturday, according to a senior Egyptian official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/egyptian-mediators-hold-talks-to-firm-up-israel-hamas-truce/article34624972.ece
23 May 2021||Yangon,||Junta threatens to dissolve NLD over ‘election fraud’||Myanmar’s junta has threatened to dissolve the political party of ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi over alleged voter fraud in the 2020 election, an official said. Union Election Commission chair Thein Soe said on Friday the investigation into November’s election result was almost complete. “What shall we do with the (National League for Democracy) party that (acted) illegally. Should we dissolve the party or charge those who committed this (illegal activity) as traitors of the nation? We will analyse and consider taking this action,” he said, in a video posted on a local media outlet’s Facebook account. The Election Commission met with political parties on Friday to discuss potential changes to the electoral system but NLD representatives did not attend. Junta leader Min Aung Hlaing has justified his February 1 power grab by citing alleged electoral fraud in the November poll won by Ms. Suu Kyi’s NLD party in a landslide. On Thursday, local media reported the junta had removed a mandatory retirement age for generals, which would allow Min Aung Hlaing to continue serving once he turns 65 this July. Myanmar has been in chaos and its economy paralysed since the putsch and more than 800 people have died as the military moved to crack down on protesters and dissent. The coup and its aftermath have also seen a spike in clashes between the military and Myanmar’s numerous ethnic rebel armies, sending tens of thousands of civilians fleeing their homes. Ms. Suu Kti was subsequently hit with a series of criminal charges, and her legal team has faced an uphill battle to get a private audience with their client. The charges include flouting COVID-19 restrictions during last year’s election campaign and possessing unlicensed walkie-talkies. The most serious charge alleges that she violated the country’s colonial-era Official Secrets Act. Ms. Suu Kyi is expected to appear in person in court Monday for the first time, after weeks of delays with her legal case. NLD secured an absolute majority in Myanmar’s election in November, in a poll disputed by the military-aligned opposition. The Asian Network for Free Elections monitoring group has said “the results of the 2020 general elections were, by and large, representative of the will of the people of Myanmar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/junta-threatens-to-dissolve-nld-over-election-fraud/article34624968.ece
23 May 2021||MUMBAI,||First-time investors seen aiding stock market surge||A good part of the Indian stock market’s rally over the past 14 months, even as the COVID-19 pandemic has shrunk economic activity and left millions without jobs, has been fuelled by a jump in first-time investors, according to equity analysts. The widening disconnect between the equity market and the ground reality of strict lockdowns across most of the States and tens of thousands of deaths has done little to deter these investors who appear to have been drawn by the lure of quick returns. The S&P BSE Sensex, which gained almost 2% to close at 50,540.48 points on Friday, has almost doubled since its pre-national lockdown low of 25,981.24 points on March 23,2020, having surged 94.5%. In FY21, more than 14 million new demat accounts were opened, an almost threefold jump from the 4.9 million that were started in the previous year, a trend that has continued this fiscal. While ease of trading on new technology platforms, including mobile phone applications, has been a trigger, the lack of commensurate returns from real estate and debt instruments have also driven investors to the stock market, said the analysts. ‘Easy, lucrative’ “People are now idle and sitting with cash,” said Ambareesh Baliga, an independent stock analyst. “Making money in the stock market has become easy and lucrative. Most of the new investors are youngsters in the age group of 18 to 35. Students are borrowing money from parents and investing in a small way but quickly increasing their portfolio by making quick profits which they are reinvesting,” he added. According to Tanushree Banerjee, co-head, research, Equitymaster, most of the new investors were those who had ventured into stock markets with the expectation of making quick returns. “The sentiments in the stock markets are currently driven by two factors: rate of recovery in corporate earnings and flow of liquidity,” Ms. Banerjee said.  ‘Could thwart recovery’ With the second wave having delivered in the RBI’s words a ‘demand shock’ to the economy, it is hard to envisage companies continuing to deliver robust results and this could lead to downgrades in expectations, warned the analysts. “Investors need to be careful about a few sectors, like the financial sector, where the second wave of the pandemic could thwart earnings recovery in the coming quarters,” said Ms. Banerjee, observing that the average return on stocks, across market caps, in the past year, had been in the region of 40% to 50%. ‘Stock picking’ “Investors cannot afford to take such high returns for granted. They need to be very careful in their stock picking. Let’s see how this experience pans out. It’s not clear to me whether it will be good for all these new investors,” she added. According to Mr. Baliga most new investors don’t do adequate research and just ‘pick up any stock based on recommendations easily available on social media’. “They do not know when to take profit home,” he said. “Unfortunately, none of them has seen big losses, though they might have heard about it. “So, when the bubble bursts, they will be looking at much bigger losses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/first-time-investors-seen-aiding-stock-market-surge/article34624947.ece
23 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||Elgi Equipments boosts capacity threefold to manufacture oxygen-plant compressors||Air-compressor manufacturer Elgi Equipments has increased the capacity to manufacture compressors for specific models of oxygen generation plants. Jairam Varadaraj, managing director of Elgi Equipments, informed the media that the company had increased its capacity almost threefold for specific models that were in demand in the oxygen sector. “We are diverting our capacities that are there for other products to this sector now,” said Mr. Varadaraj. “We are reaching out to customers and talking to them and taking their concurrence. So, it is a comprehensive approach,” he added. “We continue our support to our subsidiaries because we cannot compromise on deliveries in the international market because of the demand for oxygen in India.” The company expects 10%-15 % of its revenue for this quarter from the oxygen sector. “We are not looking at oxygen as a business opportunity. We are looking at it as a social responsibility,” Mr. Varadaraj asserted. “We are trying to supply as much as we can at a shorter period. Compressors are a key requirement for oxygen-generating plants. This demand is expected to settle down in another three to four months,” he added. On the overall results of the company for the last financial year, he said that the consolidated sales grew 5%. Fluctuating raw material prices had impacted profitability in the third and fourth quarters. Capex to rise The growth last year was because of the recovery of the economy and also because some sectors did very well. In terms of capital expenditure, last year Elgi had invested Rs. 15-20 crore. This year, though it had not been finalised yet, it was likely to be Rs. 20 crore to Rs. 25 crore. The consolidated profit after tax for 2020-2021 stood at Rs. 102.49 crore, compared with Rs. 42.57 crore in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/elgi-equipments-boosts-capacity-threefold-to-manufacture-oxygen-plant-compressors/article34624949.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Sundaram Home Finance mulls raising Rs. 2,500 crore||Sundaram Home Finance Ltd. (SHFL), a wholly owned subsidiary of non-banking finance company Sundaram Finance Ltd., is mulling to raise Rs. 2,500 crore to fund its growth plans, the firm said. SHFL has declared its financial performance for the fourth quarter ended March 31. According to a statement, net profit stood at Rs. 36.60 crore. The company registered a net profit of Rs. 82 crore during the corresponding period last year, including a one-time exceptional item of Rs. 60 crore due to write-back of deferred tax liability. “Hence the net profit for the two periods are not comparable,” the company said. Disbursements grew to Rs. 459.38 crore from Rs. 389.60 crore. For the year ended March 31, the net profit was Rs. 191 crore against Rs. 218 crore. The net profit for the full year included the one-time exceptional item of Rs. 60 crore and the net profit for the two periods were therefore not comparable. “To fund the growth plans, the company is looking to raise Rs. 2,500 crore this year through a mix of debt instruments and bank funding,” the company said. On the outlook, SHFL MD Lakshminarayanan Duraiswamy said, “There will be a momentary halt in the upward trend as we are likely to witness truncated housing sales and scrapped property projects. However, as the recovery of 2020 showed, the market is likely to emerge stronger.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-home-finance-mulls-raising-rs-2500-crore/article34624957.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We may double exports in FY22’||The five-decade-old Duroflex Pvt. Ltd., a sleep-solutions provider, has set its sights on achieving a turnover of Rs. 1,000 crore in FY22, tailoring its products for customer needs, says MD Mathew Chandy in an interview. Edited excerpts:  How did you mitigate the challenges during FY21? FY 21 was a blessing for us. Exactly, this time all our factories, shops and offices were shut. We had a lot of salaries to pay. We all had to work harder and much more together. We focused a lot more on doing smart work rather than hard work. FY21 was the best year ever and most profitable too. The first quarter was a washout. By the third and fourth quarter, we were 25% above the previous fiscal in top-line. The sales run rate was 50% higher than FY20 and we ended with a turnover of over Rs. 600 crore. The pandemic was more of a vaccine for us than a virus. We made a lot of investments. We bought a factory in Indore and expanded our footprint. What was the learning from the first wave? People have started taking health and wellness seriously and this pandemic has helped us to realise that sleep is more important than health. We take sleep very seriously and as a result, we put a lot of scientific and medical research into our products. We go far beyond our product. We communicate a lot about passion for sleep to our consumers. We are not selling a product, but promoting a healthy lifestyle. How do you differ from your competitors? Though we are 50 years old, we are a technology-led company. We think and behave like a start-up. We have lot of young energy. We like to experiment a lot, communicate a lot, use technology much more and are data driven. We have an old-school value, but with a new-age thinking. We tailor our products like orthopaedic pillows, mattresses and anti-viral mattress and scientific sleep tracking, among others, for the customers. What is your capital expenditure plan for FY22? We have set our eyes of reaching a top-line of Rs. 1,000 crore during the current fiscal and doubling it over the next three to four years. Last year, we had set aside Rs. 100 crore [for capital expenditure] of which Rs. 50 crore was spent on setting up a new unit in Indore. For the current fiscal, we are again planning to invest over Rs. 100 crore. This would be for setting up a new unit in the North and for doubling the number of Experiment Centres from 15 to 30 across India. They will be funded through internal accruals. Your expansion plans... Basically, we are a South-based company having three units in Hosur, one each in Bengaluru and Hyderabad, an export unit each in Kerala and Indore. We might add two or three more new units and also expand the capacities of existing ones. One reason for capacity expansion is the rising export opportunity. Currently, exports accounts for 10% of revenue and this will be doubled in FY22. Due to cold war between China and the U.S., we are seeing requirement for mattresses and furniture from India. In the long term, we see building world-class manufacturing, world-class R&D in India, which is something good for the economy. We have already started exporting to the U.S.  What is your current capacity utilisation? We currently operate at 75-80% in two shifts and that’s why we are investing Rs. 100 crore. We can run one more shift as we have capacities in the South and in the West. But, we do constantly add capacities so as to be closer to the market. So far, we had focused fairly on the South. In the last three years, we expanded our presence in the North. By the end of FY22, we should have equal capacities in the South, North and West. Out of Rs. 1,000 crore, exports would account for Rs. 100 crore, About 50% of the Rs. 900 crore will come from the South and balance from the North and West. What is the market size for mattresses? It is between Rs. 10,000-Rs. 12,000 crore of which the organised sector accounts for Rs. 4,000 crore. There about five-six reasonably-large players, 25 smaller players and a long tail of 65% unorganised players. In the South, we have a 25% market share and 15% nationally.  Due to the cold war between China and the U.S., we are seeing requirement for mattresses and furniture from India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/we-may-double-exports-in-fy22/article34624954.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hero MotoCorp plans to restart units from May 24||The country’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Saturday said it is gearing up towards a gradual resumption of operations by starting production at all its manufacturing plants in India from May 24. “The company had already commenced single-shift production at three of its plants – Gurugram and Dharuhera in Haryana and at Haridwar in the northern hill State of Uttarakhand – on May 17,” it said, adding the plants Neemrana in Rajasthan, Halol in Gujarat and Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, would also start single shift operations from May 24. The Global Parts Centre (GPC) at Neemrana will also be operational from May 24. “In addition to producing for the domestic market, these plants will also have enhanced focus on catering to the global business (GB) markets across the world,” the company said. It will move to double-shift production gradually. More than 90% of Hero MotoCorp employees above the age of 45 had already been vaccinated, according to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-motocorp-plans-to-restart-units-from-may-24/article34624952.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Natco gets USFDA nod for 2 products||Natco Pharma has received final approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for abbreviated new drug applications (ANDA) for two products. Natco said its anti-cancer drug Lenalidomide capsules had received final approval for 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 25 mg strengths and tentative approval of the 2.5 mg and 20 mg strengths. Natco also said marketing partner Breckenridge Pharmaceutical Inc. had received final approval for its ANDA for Everolimus tablets, indicated in the prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney and liver transplantation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/natco-gets-usfda-nod-for-2-products/article34624950.ece
23 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Punjab & Sind Bank turns Q4 net of Rs. 161 cr.||State-run Punjab & Sind Bank turned profitable in the fourth quarter of FY21 after eight consecutive quarters of losses, posting a profit after tax (PAT) of Rs. 161 crore on the back of an improvement in recoveries and a decline in bad loans. The lender had registered a net loss of Rs. 236.3 crore in the year-earlier period. However, for the full year, its loss widened to Rs. 2,732.9 crore as against Rs. 990.8 crore in FY20. “The profitability is due to our focused monitoring and also on account of recoveries,” the bank’s Managing Director and CEO S. Krishnan told reporters. “Though it has been challenging times, we were able to make a reasonable amount of recoveries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/punjab-sind-bank-turns-q4-net-of-rs-161-cr/article34624955.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||TVS-E turns Q4 profit of Rs. 5.85 crore||TVS Electronics, a major player in electronic peripherals, has reported a net profit of Rs. 5.85 crore for the quarter ended March 31. The city-based company had reported a net loss of Rs. 5.69 crore during the corresponding quarter last year. For the year ending March 31, net profit stood at Rs. 77 lakh as against Rs. 39 lakh registered a year earlier, TVS Electronics said in a BSE filing on Saturday. Total revenue for the quarter grew to Rs. 72.61 crore, from Rs. 54.95 crore in the same quarter last year. For the year ending March 31, total revenue slipped to Rs. 226.66 crore, from Rs. 264.05 crore registered in the same period last year, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-e-turns-q4-profit-of-rs-585-crore/article34624958.ece
23 May 2021||Monte Carlo,||Leclerc takes pole despite crashing||Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc crashed to pole position at his home Monaco Grand Prix on Saturday, with rivals unable to better his time after red flags halted qualifying for Formula One’s showcase race. The 23-year-old smashed into the barriers with 18 seconds of the session remaining and faced an anxious wait to see if the damaged car can be repaired without incurring any grid penalties. “With the crash, I don’t know where I’m starting tomorrow,” said Leclerc. “I’m not feeling well for now, I’m just waiting for the mechanics to open the gearbox.” Chance for Verstappen Red Bull’s title contender Max Verstappen was one of those who had to abort their final flying laps but the Dutch driver stands to inherit pole if the Ferrari needs a new gearbox, triggering a grid drop. “It was all going really well and the red flag ruined the chance for pole,” said Verstappen. Mercedes’ world championship leader Lewis Hamilton, who leads Verstappen by 14 points after four races but had struggled through the session and in practice, qualified a distant seventh. “We go back to the drawing board now,” said the seven-time world champion. “There is a lack of grip, so that leaves you to overdrive the car and unfortunately it just didn’t improve.” Ferrari boss Mattia Binotto said it was too early to know whether the gearbox was damaged. “We are worried but we are checking it,” he said.  Starting grid:   Front row: Charles Leclerc (Ferrari), Max Verstappen (Red Bull); Second: Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes), Carlos Sainz Jr (Ferrari); Third: Lando Norris (McLaren), Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri); Fourth: Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes), Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin); Fifth: Sergio Perez (Red Bull), Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo); Sixth: Esteban Ocon (Alpine), Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren); Seventh: Lance Stroll (Aston Martin), Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); Eighth: George Russell (Williams), Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri); Ninth: Fernando Alonso (Alpine), Nicholas Latifi (Williams); 10th: Nikita Mazepin (Haas), Mick Schumacher (Haas).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leclerc-takes-pole-despite-crashing/article34625108.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||It will be a challenge: Arundhati||India pacer Arundhati Reddy says her first tour of England will not only be exciting but also very challenging as it could provide her an opportunity to make her ODI debut. The 23-year-old Arundhati, who has played in 23 T20Is and claimed 17 wickets since her debut in 2018 against Sri Lanka, said it would be a dream for any pacer to play in England where the conditions are expected to be bowler-friendly. Training hard “It also means you have to be consistent right through. Since, I have been training really hard and waiting for this moment, I am ready for the challenge of bowling to English batters on their home soil,” Arundhati said in a chat with The Hindu . “The preparations have been really good, thanks to Murthy Sir (R.S.R. Murthy). I bowled a lot in the open wickets to hit the ‘spot’ consistently,” she said. “The focus has been to be good both with bat and ball. I am confident my improved batting skills will come in handy,” said the young pacer. Mithali an inspiration “With Mithali as captain, it is quite natural to be in the comfort zone. “She has always been a huge inspiration and motivation for me and never hesitated to put things in a simple and effective manner to get the best out of me,” said Arundhati, who idolises Jhulan Goswami and Jasprit Bumrah. Any goals? “I want to be the best player for India and I will put in all effort for that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-will-be-a-challenge-arundhati/article34625091.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Batra re-elected as FIH president||When Narinder Batra became the first Indian to head the international federation of an Olympic sport in 2016, it was a cakewalk. On Saturday, he retained the presidency of the International Hockey Federation (FIH) by the closest of margins and insisted he would work on improving his interactions with the rest of the national bodies. Batra defeated Belgium’s Marc Coudron 63-61 of the 124 votes polled during the 47th FIH Congress, held virtually due to COVID-19, to be re-elected till 2024. It had been 68 out of 114 members last time. “Perhaps I was unable to communicate my point of view properly. Almost 49% of the members wanted a change and now it is my duty to understand where I could not live up to their expectations and interact to ensure implementation of the listed priorities with everyone on board,” he admitted in an interaction soon after. The priority “My priority is to grow the sport globally and to do that we need to constantly evolve with new formats and events. We need to enhance our financial stability. “A well-developed revenue model is the key to achieve sustainable financial growth,” he added. Asked about resumption of India-Pakistan hockey ties, Batra reiterated it would be a bilateral decision. “It is up to Hockey India and PHF and there are some political decisions as well,” he said. For a large part, however, it was FIH CEO Thierry Weil who fielded questions on the sustainability of the sport and competitions in the coming cycle. “Many have asked about the viability of the Pro League but it will go on. Also, we will have the Nations Cup from 2022 as the perfect accompaniment to Pro League, making it an open tournament with promotion and relegation,” Weil insisted. Hoping that the remaining events through 2021 would be held as scheduled, Weil said he would personally support any move to relax age limits in case the Junior World Cup (scheduled in India in December) is postponed, although a decision can be taken only by the EB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batra-re-elected-as-fih-president/article34625094.ece
23 May 2021||Munich,||Lewandowski surmounts Muller’s record||Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski broke Gerd Muller’s 49-year-old Bundesliga goal-scoring record for a single season on Saturday when he scored in the last minute of its last match, a 5-2 win over Augsburg, taking his tally to 41 goals, one more than the former Bayern great. Lewandowski missed more than half a dozen clear scoring chances in the game. But the Pole was not to be denied and in the final minute, when keeper Rafal Gikiewicz spilled a Leroy Sane shot, the forward rounded the keeper to score.  The results: Bayern Munich 5 (Gouweleeuw 9-og, Gnabry 23, Kimmich 33, Coman 43, Lewandowski 90) bt Augsburg 2 (Hahn 67, Niederlechner 71); Borussia Dortmund 3 (Haaland 5, 84, Reus 51) bt Bayer Leverkusen 1 (L. Bender 89-pen); Hoffenheim 2 (Adamyan 49, Kramaric 90+1) bt Hertha Berlin 1 (Darida 43); Wolfsburg 2 (Philipp 47, Victor 66) lost to Mainz 05 3 (Boetius 44, Quaison 54, Bell 77); Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Silva 62-pen, Toure 87, Ache 90+2) bt Freiburg 1 (Woo-Yeong 76); Union Berlin 2 (Friedrich 67, Kruse 90+2) bt RB Leipzig 1 (Kluivert 55); Cologne 1 (Bornauw 86) bt Schalke 04 0; Werder Bremen 2 (Rashica 80, Fullkrug 83) lost to Borussia M’gladbach 4 (Stindl 3, Thuram 52, Bensebaini 58, Neuhaus 67); Stuttgart 0 lost to Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Klos 66-pen, Doan 72).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewandowski-surmounts-mullers-record/article34625110.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Indian team begins training||All the players and support staff of the Indian football team have tested negative for COVID-19 after arrival in Qatar and have also started training ahead of the joint Qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup and 2023 Asian Cup next month. The team, which arrived in Doha on Wednesday evening, was under compulsory quarantine and waiting for the results of the RT-PCR tests before starting the preparatory camp. The team, bolstered by the return of Sunil Chhetri, will have a preparatory camp inside a bio-bubble here before its first match on June 3 against host Qatar. The other two matches are against Bangladesh (June 7) and Afghanistan (June 15). “Gearing-up for the challenges ahead. The #BlueTigers had their training first training session in Doha, Qatar last night,” the AIFF said in a tweet. India is already out of contention for a World Cup berth but is still in the reckoning for the 2023 Asian Cup in China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-begins-training/article34625112.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Boxers land in Dubai after confusion||The Indian boxing team, featuring the likes of M.C. Mary Kom (51kg) and Amit Panghal (52kg), reached Dubai to compete in the Asian Boxing Championships, aboard an “air-bubble” flight, which had to stay mid-air longer than scheduled as administrative paperwork delayed its landing. The tournament starts on Monday. It is the only major competition that the boxers will get before the Olympics. The team reached Dubai on Saturday after being held up for over two hours in the flight, of which close to one hour was mid-air, because of a delay in the clearance of paperwork which approved the team’s arrival in Dubai.  “There was some confusion regarding the approval letter for the trip which was eventually sorted thanks to the intervention of the Indian Embassy in the UAE. The flight took a while to land,” a source close to the team said. The approval was required as the UAE has imposed a ban on flights from India in view of the heavy COVID-19 caseload here. The women’s team is being led by Mary (51kg) along with three other Tokyo-bound boxers — Simranjit Kaur (60kg), Lovlina Borgohain (69kg) and Pooja Rani (75kg).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxers-land-in-dubai-after-confusion/article34625095.ece
23 May 2021||MONACO,||23 Russians allowed to compete as neutrals||World Athletics has declared 23 Russian track and field athletes eligible to compete under a neutral flag ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. With their national federation under a doping suspension, Russians must apply for individual exemptions to gain “authorized neutral athlete” status after their drug-testing records have been vetted. High jumper Mikhail Akimenko and race walker Vasiliy Mizinov — both silver medallists from the 2019 world championships — were among the names on the list released Saturday by track's governing body. A total of 27 Russian athletes have so far been declared eligible to compete internationally in 2021 as neutrals. The other four include three-time world champion high jumper Mariya Lasitskene and world champion pole vaulter Anzhelika Sidorova. No more than 10 Russian athletes, however, will be granted eligibility to compete at the Tokyo Olympics, under rules approved by the World Athletics council when it recently revived the authorised neutral athlete or “ANA” scheme. Two applications for ANA status have so far been rejected by the World Athletics doping review board. Saturday's announcement did not identify them. The Russian track federation, known as RusAF, has been suspended since 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/23-russians-allowed-to-compete-as-neutrals/article34625092.ece
23 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Azhar writes to secretaries of HCA affiliated clubs||“It is time for you all to wake up, step up, voice heard and say ‘no further and no more’,” Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) president Mohd. Azharuddin appealed to the secretaries of the affiliated clubs in a letter (copy marked to BCCI) on Saturday. In response to the HCA secretary’s letter appointing N. Shivlal Yadav as its representative to the BCCI’s SGM on May 29, Azhar asked whether Shivlal qualified under 6 (5) (f) of Constitution under which he stated that a person shall be disqualified from being a representative to the BCCI if he/ she has been an office-bearer of a State Association or the BCCI for a cumulative period of nine years. Shivlal served as an office-bearer of HCA for 18 years, he said. “Another comedy show is unraveled by the secretary R. Vijayanand in this regard. Is this not a reflection of the quality of cricket administrators of Hyderabad who are part of the bull-dozing brigade,” Azhar questioned in the letter. “Further they are firing on the shoulders of a senior cricketer and administrator. I feel there are a lot more talented and honest people amongst you who can take on the leadership roles and do better than the understanding of the Constitution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azhar-writes-to-secretaries-of-hca-affiliated-clubs/article34625493.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Olympic-bound athletes get COVID vaccine||As many as 148 athletes across all sports, including those who have qualified for the upcoming Tokyo Games, have already received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination, according to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). Out of these 148 athletes, 17 have got both the doses and 131 have received their first shot, IOA president Narinder Batra said. These 148 include potential athletes who can make it to the Tokyo Olympics which is opening on July 23. Besides this, 13 Tokyo Paralympic-bound athletes have got their first vaccine shot while two have received both doses. The Tokyo Paralympics opens on August 24. The total number of athletes (including para-athletes), who have got at least their first dose till May 20, is 163. Giving the 'vaccination status of Tokyo-bound Indian athletes and officials in the long list as on May 20', Batra said 87 officials have got single dose of COVID-19 vaccine while 23 are fully vaccinated. More than 90 Indian athletes across sports have so far qualified for the Tokyo Olympics which was postponed from last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Olympic-bound shooters who are currently training in Croatia will be vaccinated there as they are expected to directly fly to Tokyo from there, the NRAI has said. Some of them have already got their first jabs in India before departing for Croatia and they will get their second dose in that country. Fencer Bhavani Devi also got her first jab at her training base in Italy while weightlifter Mirabai Chanu is expected to get her shots in the United States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-bound-athletes-get-covid-vaccine/article34625104.ece
23 May 2021||Chennai,||‘I still feel weak and dizzy’||Kolkata Knight Riders spinner Varun Chakravarthy is still not fit for intense training after his recovery from COVID-19 as he is still feeling “weakness and dizziness”. “I’m now doing well and recovering at home. I still haven’t been able to resume training full tilt because of post-COVID-19 symptoms. Although I don’t have cough or fever, there is weakness and dizziness,” said Varun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-still-feel-weak-and-dizzy/article34625153.ece
23 May 2021||Kolkata,||Tanwar tests positive, withdrawn||Boxer Vinod Tanwar (49kg), who was in the squad for the Asian championships in Dubai, was withdrawn after he tested positive for COVID-19. “With Tanwar’s RT-PCR test turning positive, he has been asked to be in isolation,” said a Boxing Federation of India statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanwar-tests-positive-withdrawn/article34625096.ece
23 May 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||BWF to continue with 21-point format||Badminton’s scoring system remains unchanged as an attempt to replace the existing three-game format of 21 points each with a best-of-five of 11 points failed to get the required two-thirds majority during the Badminton World Federation (BWF) AGM on Saturday. The member nations voted on the proposal to amend the laws of the sport relating to scoring. The proposal received 66.31% for and 33.69% against, falling just short of the two-thirds majority required. Himanta elected BAI president Himanta Biswa Sarma was elected to the BWF Council till 2025. He got 236 votes as 31 members contested for 20 spots in the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bwf-to-continue-with-21-point-format/article34625097.ece
23 May 2021||Hyderabad,||Sravanthi’s mother passes away||S.K. Suman, mother of former India women’s cricketer Sravanthi Naidu, passed away on Saturday afternoon, according to N. Vidya Yadav, former BCCI women’s cricket convenor (South Zone).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sravanthis-mother-passes-away/article34625098.ece
23 May 2021||Montreal,||WADA to use DBS technique||The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), on Friday, approved an innovative method of screening dried blood for banned substances which will be trialled for the Tokyo Olympics. The decision marks a “very important step” in the fight against doping, its scientific director Olivier Rabin said, as the Dried Blood Spot (DBS) testing technique will ultimately strengthen WADA’s capacity to track down cheaters. To start with, it will be less intrusive for the athletes. Some samples are taken from the fingertip, from the earlobe, from the shoulder, from the thigh... the other advantage of DBS is that from the moment you put it on a piece of paper, the liquid will dry and it stabilises the matrix... you have to put that in parallel with the increasingly elaborate doping strategies of certain athletes, who know very well how to use substances which stay a relatively short time in the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wada-to-use-dbs-technique/article34625113.ece
23 May 2021||CHENNAI:,||Varun, Ganapathy leave for Lisbon||Olympic-bound sailors Varun Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy left for Lisbon (Portugal) on Saturday for training. The duo, who got vaccinated recently, will be training for 30 days in Portugal before proceeding for Tokyo for the Olympics. Varun and Ganapathy are participating in the 49er class in the quadrennial event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-ganapathy-leave-for-lisbon/article34625151.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Palak-Parul duo qualifies for Paralympics||Women’s pair of Palak Kohli and Parul Parmar on Friday became the first Indian para shuttlers to qualify for Tokyo Paralympics. The 18-year-old Palak and veteran Parul, who couldn’t compete at the Spanish para-Badminton International (May 11 to 16), due to travel restriction in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, received an official intimation from the world body BWF on Friday. The pair has achieved the qualification for the SL3-SU5 women's doubles event in para-badminton, which will be making its debut in this year’s Paralympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/palak-parul-duo-qualifies-for-paralympics/article34625107.ece
23 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Susainathan passes away||Former Karnataka junior football player Susainathan passed away here. He was 63. Susainathan represented the Karnataka team in the 1977 B.C. Roy Under-19 Trophy. On the club circuit, Susainathan represented Young Gems, 515 ABWS and ITI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/susainathan-passes-away/article34625099.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 07:39 IST,||Sudoku — May 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-23-2021/article34625638.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Degree of gratitude||Not many folks know I actually went to college. I don’t blame them. I haven’t given anyone the impression of having been to one. This piece is about that difficult time in my life, and is actually a belated thank you to that one person who was the sole reason I have a degree certificate, my proudest possession, in my cupboard today (sitting right next to my third-place certificate in the lemon-and-spoon race in Class 3, the cease-and-desist order from one of my editors, and my grandfather’s Padma Bhushan.) At the end of my third year, on the very last working day, when I went to the staff room to submit my final assignment — all that stood between me and a degree — the professor looked at me, and the beautifully bound 100-page assignment (which he didn’t as yet know contained select sections of the Madras Telephone Directory, 1986 edition, interspersed with the screenplay of Enter the Dragon ) I had delicately placed on his table, and asked me a question teachers don’t normally ask third-year students: who are you? I told him. ‘In these three years, I’ve never once seen you in my class,’ he said. That wasn’t entirely true. I had gone to one. It was the first period on the first day of the first year. And had left midway using a technique US marines use in tropical jungles. Not having a proper verbal response handy, I did what any self-respecting young man proud of his East Godavari heritage would do under such circumstances. I gracefully swan dived for the professor’s tiny Quo Vadis-clad feet. I was escorted away by the peon and two assistant professors with my assignment still tucked under my arm and my legs backpedalling the air in vain. College closed. For an entire week, my father, not a man easily fooled, kept giving me one particular look that appeared disturbingly familiar. When I realised it was the exact same look Sivaji Ganesan gives Srikanth in Thangappathakkam when he finds out he’s a smuggler, I figured something needed to be done. I didn’t fancy having a premature end at the hands of my own father as he recited a nursery rhyme. Using my underworld connections, by which I mean the college peon, I found out where the professor lived. The next day, sporting copious amounts of penitent vibuthi on my forehead (actually, Johnson’s Prickly Heat Powder), I landed up at the professor’s doorstep at about 7 a.m. Taking a deep breath, I rang the doorbell. There was no response. I waited a decent interval and rang again. The door opened. It was a girl. She was about my age, dressed in a cotton nightie. ‘IsSaar... er ... Daddy at home?’ I said. ‘ Whose Daddy ?’ the girl said. ‘Yours?’ I said tentatively. ‘ Ennango ,’ the girl called out, turning back. ‘Someone for you.’ The professor appeared. He was wearing a towel and a sleeveless Bisonbanian. There was still a bit of toothpaste foam around his mouth. He looked at me and made a sound like a bird of prey being garrotted. ‘ Ullae po, di ,’ he yelled. She had already done that. Channelling my inner Ekalavya, I just short of knelt, and held out my assignment. The professor took it without a word. ‘Thank you, sir,’ I said. ‘Er... does anyone else know where I live?’ he said. ‘Not a soul, sir,’ I said. I got 76% in my assignment. So, guardian angel in a nightie, wherever you are today, consider this my official, if much delayed, thank you. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/degree-of-gratitude/article34625236.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Ranipet toll gate: Fauna and portraits of people now greet those passing by Ranipet toll gate, near Vellore. Under Nippon Paint India’s CSR initiative, 47,341 sq ft of National Highway 46 features art on the theme, Living in Harmony with Nature. The project includes Ranipet bridge, and lockup rooms in police stations at Ranipet, Arakkonam and Sholinghur. @nipponpaintindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapick/article34625237.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Definitive Dylan||Clinton Heylin’s new biography, The Double Life of Bob Dylan: A Restless, Hungry Feeling (1941-1966), dives into the personal archives of over 6,000 items that Dylan sold in 2016. This promises to be the definitive story of his life. Rs. 3,023. Find the recipe for the white soup from Pride and Prejudice in Martha Lloyd’s Housebold Book: The Original Manuscript from Jane Austen’s Kitchen , to be published in June. Featuring recipes from the Austen family. Rs. 3,000, bodleianshop.co.uk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/definitive-dylan/article34625238.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||For those connected||Starting June, you can experience music in a new way on Apple Music. The company is rolling out two features at no extra cost to subscribers: lossless audio and spatial audio with support for Dolby Atmos (which promises an ‘immersive’ listening experience). Amazon India, on the other hand, has launched miniTV, a free video streaming service available within the Amazon app. Watch curated content across web series, comedy shows, tech news, and more. Presently, only on Android.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/for-those-connected/article34625239.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Architecture biennale||The 17th International Architecture Exhibition, How will we live together?, opens today. Curated by scholar Hashim Sarkis, and organised by La Biennale di Venezia, it includes participants from 46 countries. Till November 21. labiennale.org. Speaking of living spaces, the recently-held NYCxDesign Awards had unusual choices, such as Aryaman Giri Gundala’s Perforated Lamp design in the Student Design category. Inspired by Bauhaus cut paper projects, he has optimised it for 3D printing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/architecture-biennale/article34625240.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||BTS: There seems to be no way but up for BTS! The Korean pop septet’s highly-anticipated second English single, ‘Butter’, dropped on the morning of May 21 (IST), garnering 2 crore views in one hour. The band is also part of the upcoming Friends: The Reunion special.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article34625241.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Comedy track||Listen toThe Expertwho knows nothing but also everything. Comedian Sorabh Pant gives you his take on everything from politics and Bollywood to world news and sports. The show, which promises to be interactive, will have a new episode every Saturday. From May 22 onwards, 8.30 p.m. Rs. 299. in.bookmyshow.com. Or there’s the special by actor-comic Vipul Goyal, of Humorously Yours (web series) fame. May 23, 30. Rs. 599. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/comedy-track/article34625242.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Photos and readings||Photo prints by Madhavan Palanisamy and others are part of CPB Foundation’s initiative to raise Covid relief funds. chennaiphotobiennale.com. For young readers, NLF Imaginary Lines has interactions with authors Kate DiCamillo (May 25) and Joseph Bruchac on (May 28). neevliteraturefestival.org. Prabha Khaitan Foundation’s The Write Circle launches in Chennai virtually with author Amish Tripathi and Vidya Gajapathi Raju Singh. May 28, 6 p.m. On Facebook Live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/photos-and-readings/article34625243.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Burnout||Gauri Seth, 25, a fresh medical graduate and a doctor at a government COVID-19 facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district, says she is hurtling towards a breakdown. “When I go home, I cry. I graduated with such different expectations.” The conditions at the centre she works at are dire and she finds it hard to cope: there isn’t even regular water supply, let alone oxygen for the patients. “The doctors ask patients to lie prone. But when the patient is gasping and needs oxygen, what can we possibly offer as substitute?” she asks. Sometimes she is so shattered she leans on anti-anxiety pills; she has nightmares and says she needs to talk to a therapist. When home, Dr. Seth is gripped by the fear of transmitting the virus to her family. Until May 18, Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous State, recorded 18,072 deaths. As the casualties rose, the government was criticised for alleged under-reporting. Rather than address the deficits, the State government, at the peak of the second wave, threatened individuals and institutions who reported oxygen or medicine shortages. As they cope with the enormity of the pandemic and the mishandling of it, India’s doctors, nurses, radiographers, lab technicians, anaesthetists, and young interns are under extreme psychological pressure. Many of them are reporting anxiety, insomnia and burnout. The unrelenting influx of patients, the mounting deaths, the endless hours of work, the helplessness at the lack of resources, the fears of contracting COVID-19 or infecting their families — everything is contributing to a budding mental health crisis in the healthcare sector. Anger and guilt At a private hospital in Bengaluru, Anjana Kumar*, 33, is a labour room nurse. Last week, when a patient’s test returned positive, Kumar panicked. She had attended to the patient for a whole day without PPE and returned home to her infant daughter and 60-year-old mother. “I immediately called my sister and asked her to take my baby and mother away,” she says. But as she waited for her own test results, Kumar felt wracked by guilt. And anger. “The hospital tells us to use PPE only if the patient is confirmed positive, in order to save costs. We often wash and reuse masks because there aren’t enough to go around.” In Kolkata, even though the private hospital Dipanita Bhaskar*, 32, works for is relatively well equipped, she is seized by a sense of helplessness and despair. As an ICU doctor, she sees the sickest patients. All too often, no matter what she does, she cannot save a life. “I may be talking to them one day, talking to their families over the phone, and the next day they are no more.” There are days when Dr. Bhaskar is able to disassociate herself from work, but there are many days when she feels constantly anxious. Over the last week, the number of people who have died in her ICU has climbed to 10-12 daily. “I find it difficult to sleep,” she says, but steels herself and carries on. Carrying on Psychiatrist Sowmya Krishna is increasingly seeing these symptoms in frontline healthcare workers. “What I notice is that they are very averse to seeking help. There is a tendency to minimise their problems, internalise them,” says Dr. Krishna, co-founder of the Bengaluru-based Green Oak Initiative, a community mental health organisation that runs a helpline for healthcare workers. “If you look at the way doctors are trained, they are taught to manage emotions; you can’t feel upset, you just carry on.” But with a catastrophe of this magnitude, people are going to ‘destabilise’, she says. “We are seeing stress, anxiety, lack of sleep because people are unable to switch off after a long day of work.” A sense of helplessness is almost all-pervasive. “Healthcare professionals strive to help people, but in this situation, no matter what you do, people die. There is a feeling of a lack of control.” And a patient’s death, says Dr. Krishna, brings a deep sense of loss that frontline workers don’t have the time to process. A few weeks ago, when Usha B., 53, a nurse, was on COVID-19 duty at a government hospital in Chennai, a young patient in his 20s died. “He was just fine. I’d spoken to him, given him coffee and breakfast. Within 10 minutes, he had a heart attack and passed away,” says Usha. She was agonised, but all she could do was meditate to calm herself down. There’s manpower shortage at her hospital, and the last 13 months have been mentally exhausting, says Usha. “Being responsible for so many people is extremely taxing.” When on morning shift, Usha’s day begins at 3.30 a.m. She makes breakfast and lunch for her family, washes the dishes, then leaves to get to work by 7 a.m. She puts on her PPE and N-95 mask, and the endless cycle of caring for dozens of COVID-19 patients begins. Sleeplessness dogs her and her blood pressure shot up last week. “There wasn’t even time to get a proper check-up because there was so much work,” she says. When Usha returns home, she soaks every single thing she has used in hot water — even her water bottle and handbag — before showering and greeting her family. Face of government The fear of contracting the disease and infecting families is very real. Since the start of the pandemic, Pavithra Niranjan, 38, an assistant professor of pathology at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, one of the major State-run hospitals in Chennai, has tested positive twice. The second time she contracted COVID-19, in October, its impact was more intense. “I developed fever, severe myalgia, and had to be hospitalised. Being a doctor who understands the progression of COVID-19, it was frightening.” As she pushed aside her anxiety, recovered, and went on to become assistant resident medical officer for COVID-19 wards, her worst fears came true. Her father, in his late 60s, became infected and had to be hospitalised earlier this month. “It stressed me out. For almost a year, I had lectured him to wear a mask, wash his hands. But he ended up in hospital,” says Dr. Niranjan. The sense of fear is not only about getting infected. Medical professionals also fear violence and abuse from the families of patients. Harjit Singh Bhatti, National President, Progressive Medicos & Scientists Forum, works at a private hospital in New Delhi and has been dealing with COVID-19 patients for a year now. “Families are angry and frustrated with the government, but doctors are the face of the government,” he says. “We try to ignore the verbal abuse, but I have seen physical abuse. One of my friends was beaten up by a family member. Young doctors and interns who face abuse can lose confidence.” ‘I lied’ Francis J. Kattady, 30, a senior resident, Department of Critical Care, St. John’s Medical College, Bengaluru, had just finished his PG residency when the pandemic hit last year. Appointed to a COVID-19 ICU, he has already seen it all in this short span of time. Yet nothing prepares him for the despair he feels each day when talking to families of patients. They are difficult conversations, he says. “In the second wave, the patients are younger and more critically affected. I have had to lie, assure them that they will get better. Most of them don’t survive. I feel helpless. How do I tell a new mother with 70% lung infection that she won’t live to see her three-month-old? Another patient asked if he would get to celebrate his 40th birthday with his mother next week. I lied to them all,” he says. There is a generalised anxiety among most of his peers, says Dr. Kattady. They suffer from mood disorders. Some young residents have asked for psychiatric leave. “Earlier, we would go out to play football or catch a movie together. But we can’t do all that now. The only way to get through this is to depersonalise,” he says. At PVS Hospital in Ernakulam, a 32-year-old nurse says that most nurses are on duty for over two weeks without a break. “Many of us are testing positive even after both doses of the vaccine. We recently lost a 42-year-old with no co-morbidities to COVID-19. Such deaths are haunting,” he says. Remya Mol V.R., 32, is a nursing officer in AIIMS, New Delhi. Everything is drastically different this time, she says. “The patients are younger, their condition worsens in just two-three days. We could have saved so many if there had been oxygen or blood. We felt completely helpless. All we can do is talk to each other, cry to each other. But the next minute, we pick ourselves up and get back to work.” More and more healthcare workers are reporting burnout issues, says Soumya Raj, a psychiatrist with the District Mental Health Programme in Ernakulam. Stress-induced sleep disturbances and anxiety are the most common complaints. Calls are also on the rise from ASHA workers, whose workload has grown exponentially, says Dr. Raj. Dr. Krishna reiterates that we are likely to see more burnouts and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) very soon if things continue at this pace. “We often see PTSD after a catastrophic event is over, when people finally sit down and say ‘Oh, my God, this has happened to me’. The flashbacks start,” she says. As Remya says, “I think many of us are in the denial phase now. We just want to get a grip on this pandemic and return to normalcy.” Seeking help Though there is a specific helpline for health workers in every district, the response to these has been poor, says Muhammed Issudeen, nodal officer at the District Mental Health Programme, Kozhikode. “This could be because they don’t have the time to seek help or because of the stigma associated with mental health,” he says. Dr. Bhatti echoes this when he says, “Doctors don’t talk about it. They are afraid it will affect their careers. And senior doctors and colleagues don’t take it seriously either when their younger colleagues talk about feeling the stress.” What can hospital administrations do? “They can try and reduce work hours, get in more manpower, and make sure staff members get their days off,” says R. Thara, vice-chairperson, Schizophrenia Research Foundation, Chennai. “Second is to make sure they get emotional support, both at home and outside. This could be access to helplines, so that they have someone to talk to if they want to,” she says. Even something as simple as being given a few minutes break from the stifling PPE they wear, time off to eat, hydrate and use the restroom can help, says Dr. Krishna. “But most importantly,” she says, “they need a space that is conducive to talk. They need to be told that it is okay to not cope. That you are human. That it’s okay to feel stressed. That it’s okay to cry.”  *Names changed to protect identity.   (With inputs from Omar Rashid,   Julie Merin Varughese,   Zubeda Hamid, Serena Josephine M., and Abhinaya Harigovind.)   Stress-induced sleep disturbances and anxiety are the most common complaints. Calls are also on the rise from ASHA workers, whose workload has grown exponentially||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/burnout/article34624900.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Indian English is a Prakrit, not a creole’||Migration has shaped the arc of Indian history in myriad ways, from the day the Vedic Aryans first alighted from their chariots to the arrival of Namboothiri Brahmins in Kerala to the Persianised Turkic conquerors of the Middle Ages. For linguist Peggy Mohan, all this finds a strong echo in the evolution of the subcontinent’s languages. In her new book, Wanderers, Kings, Merchants: The Story of India Through Its Languages , she delves into the often surprising sounds and structures of what we conventionally call Indo-Aryan and Dravidian languages, and relates these to the deep pasts of their speakers. Excerpts from an interview: Can you briefly outline your central insight about how gendered migration patterns shape the development of languages? My background is in the Caribbean, and the Caribbean is very much into hybridising of languages, because of the slavery situation where West African languages managed to take on the words from European languages in very predictable ways, which made me think that we have two parental strands. I’d been thinking of writing this book all this time and saying precisely that, until suddenly the genetic data started coming out — again talking of two parental strands of the men coming in from outside and the women being local. And you see a similar thing, so obviously, in Kerala, where the idea was that the women were local and the men came from abroad. We don’t know how many women the Namboothiris brought. I can’t imagine that they brought very many, because migrants generally don’t. And similarly with the Vedic people. We hear about the Y-DNA spreading, but never about the mtDNA, the matrilineal, mitochondrial DNA. So, in this situation, the children spend their first few years learning their mother’s language and possibly — especially if they’re boys — moving on to their father’s language. And they influence each other that way, because technically by the first generation, Vedic children would have been native speakers of something older in that area, and then when they finally learnt Sanskrit, they may have learned it very well, but slowly over the centuries, things slipped in. Things that looked very much like how non-Brahmin Malayalis pronounce Sanskrit. If you listen to a Malayali pronouncing Sanskrit, especially women, you hear something that sounds like the Prakrits. And it makes me wonder, what were the Prakrits, if not something very close to Sanskrit except with a different accent? One of the first examples of something slipping in would have been retroflexion. [Retroflex or murdhanya consonants, like the ‘n’ and ‘d’ in ‘Pandava’ are made with the tongue tip curled back.] Retroflexion. It’s almost like a DNA tag that tells you a language is Indian. Except the Assamese will probably be a little upset about that because they don’t have it. Everyone has it. Everywhere in Pakistan. Can you believe it — Pathans speak with retroflexion? Balochis. Andamanese. Kerala, of course, along with Tamil. Are you characterising this change brought about by children as creolisation? No, not quite. When you have a situation of apartheid — and apartheid comes in different forms, it can be Black and White in the Caribbean, it can be caste-wise in India — you find people don’t have access to a language they need to learn or want to learn. And very often, they take very superficial features out of it, like words, and sometimes endings. Even now in tribal areas, they’ve been taking Sanskrit and Prakritised endings into their language, which they have no reason to do. That is more the creole situation. How do you relate this to English? What I like to call Indian English — it’s a Prakrit, not a creole. If you look at how the babus picked it up, it’s exactly the way elite men and women in the Vedic time picked up Sanskrit. They just threw in an accent and a few grammatical features, which were not actually wrong. Every time you say, “This is with me only,” it’s an avoidance of the word ‘have’ — which doesn’t exist in Indian languages — but it’s not wrong. So we have a bunch of possibilities in India. You have the Prakrit situation, which is quite close to the target language, the language they’re trying to learn. You have the creole situation where all sorts of old things have remained, but just got a coat of paint from a new language. And then we have something in-between, like Malayalam and Urdu, where nouns came. And nouns are so visible that people get the impression that the language has changed, whereas it’s just got a new wardrobe. Then of course there’s the Hinglish thing, which is very interesting because it gives us an impression of how this might have happened in the old days — how people might have started bringing things in gradually. Poor people, possibly speaking the same old languages that were related to the Harappan languages... there are so many features in North Indian languages that are clearly southern, or Dravidian, and they are not in Sanskrit. Phrases like hua and ho gaya . You have that in Malayalam, Tamil, Marathi, all the tribal languages. You don’t have it in Sanskrit. And verbs having gender! The case of Nagamese is very interesting. So, a new Indo-Aryan language has emerged? It’s not a pidgin? It’s not a pidgin. It has the same strange feature, like Malayalam, of no endings on verbs to mark person, but otherwise, it is absolutely a language of the area. I imagine it would have been like the Assamese spoken in the border areas with the Naga Hills. You find that languages move in and claim territory. If the whole Naga community knows Nagamese as well as their old language, you’re finding a pushing eastward of existing zones. And if there isn’t apartheid, you can actually learn it. You mention that women were likely barred from writing Vedic poetry. But weren’t there some Vedic poetesses? [Philologist] Michael Witzel thinks no. It’s possible, but we do know that women were not allowed to speak Sanskrit after some time. Witzel says they were men speaking as women. It fits the pattern of women being different, speaking an earlier language. In Vedic ceremonies, their role is extremely limited. It’s almost like the women were a separate ethnic group. And they had to be tolerated because there would be no children without them, but they were the people who, on another day, you were fighting on the battlefield. So, what’s next? I want to see why creoles are actually like that. I don’t buy the old theories about genetics. You have to look at history, together with migration patterns, navigation patterns, to see how languages are shaped.  Born in Trinidad to an Indo-Trinidadian father and a Canadian mother  Ph.D. in linguistics from the University of Michigan  Has taught at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jamia Millia Islamia, and Howard University, Washington D.C.  Now teaches music at Vasant Valley School, New Delhi   When you have a situation of apartheid — and apartheid comes in different forms, it can be Black and White in the Caribbean, it can be caste-wise in India — you find people don’t have access to a language||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indian-english-is-a-prakrit-not-a-creole/article34624865.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||India in a changing world||Independent India’s foreign policy, according to Shivshankar Menon, has gone through three geopolitical phases and their transitions. From 1947 to the 1960s, a bipolar Cold War world; from the early 1960s to the mid-1980s, rapid changes in its neighbourhood such as China falling out with the Soviets and moving to the U.S. side; and the post-Cold War world when the U.S. emerged as the sole superpower in a unipolar world order. Menon, who was the Prime Minister’s National Security Adviser and Foreign Secretary, is exploring these phases in their historical context to tell the story of how India weathered the many geopolitical storms of the past in his latest book, India and Asian Geopolitics: The Past, Present . ‘Prisoner of beliefs’ The conventional wisdom about Jawaharlal Nehru’s conduct of foreign policy is that he was too idealistic to understand the changes in geopolitics. Francine Frankel, for example, portrays a Nehru who was a prisoner of his beliefs in her book, When Nehru Looked East . In The India Way , S. Jaishankar, the External Affairs Minister, blames “legacy issues” for India’s current China problem. Another argument by foreign policy writers is that Nehru did nothing when China took Tibet, bringing Chinese forces to the Indian border for the first time in history. Menon has taken a different approach to history. He underscores the seriousness of China taking Tibet in 1950, which, according to him, was a pivotal moment in India-China relations, but challenges the argument that India failed to stop the Chinese invasion. The Tibetans themselves did not want to antagonise China by seeking Indian help. By the time they sought help, it was too late. General Cariappa told Nehru in October 1950, the Tibetans had no military capacity to withstand the battle-hardened People’s Liberation Army. “In effect, India had no real military options in Tibet,” writes Menon. But both states failed to deal with this fact (of coming face to face on the border for the first time) and reconcile their interests and positions on the boundary, he writes. “The consequences of that failure were the border conflict of 1962.” Different allies While both China and India pursued Asian solidarity, they did it differently. When India chose non-alignment, China chose to ally with the Soviet Union (and later partner with the United States). Menon questions the reports that China’s UN Security Council seat was offered to India. “If China retained a seat on the UNSC through the Cold War, whether occupied by the Republic of China [Taiwan] or the People’s Republic of China, it was because it was allied to one or other superpower.” But for India, non-alignment worked well, given the strategic realities of the 1950s and its own weaknesses. “Non-alignment did achieve most of its early goals in the 1950s such as decolonisation, the partial test ban treaty and international boycotts of apartheid South Africa... it was also a useful buffer and channel between the superpowers,” Menon writes. Transforming ties Indian foreign policy has largely been flexible, readapting itself to the changes in geopolitics. If in 1955, Nehru opposed Zhou Enlai’s proposal for a permanent Afro-Asian Secretariat saying it would create yet another bloc, in 1961 — after CENTO (Central Treaty Organization) and SEATO (Southeast Asia Treaty Organization) were formed as part of the Cold War alliance building — non-alignment became the Non-Alignment Movement under the same Nehru’s watch. When ties between China and Pakistan deepened and China moved to the U.S. side, India chose to tighten ties with the Soviet Union. And after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, India opted for integration with the global economy and transforming ties with the United States. Currently, India is facing another major transition. China has already risen as a major power. Other countries in Asia, including India, are rising. The more India rises, the more relations between India and China will shift away from cooperation to competition. If in terms of economic and military resources both countries were at par in the late 1970s, now China is far ahead. And India-China relations have slid into a crisis with the 2020 Galwan clashes. “India’s biggest strategic challenge today is managing its relationship with China and dealing with the consequences of China’s rise. The former has to be done with China, the latter must include other powers that share India’s interests,” he writes. This is an important book for both students and practitioners of Indian foreign policy. Menon builds a credible, chronological narrative of the transformation of India’s foreign policy and maps its present-day challenges with prescriptions for its tasks in an impassioned way. While doing so, he emphatically emphasises the idea of a plural India — the country’s key strength — and warns against prejudices masquerading as ideas as well as fear and polarisation. “This is not a time for drama, showy events, and the pursuit of status... Influence, like power, is a means to an end.” And what’s the end? “India should make it possible for every Indian to live a safe, prosperous, and dignified life.”  India and Asian Geopolitics: The Past, Present Shivshankar Menon Allen Lane/PRH  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-in-a-changing-world/article34624922.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Menagerie of monsters||A house in the posh enclave of Queens Park in Ballygunge, Kolkata, against which a death sentence is already imposed, came back to scintillating life when Narayan Sinha chose it as his gallery. Sinha’s work, which transmogrifies junk into amazing sculptural pieces, swathes the walls and banisters of the old house’s wooden staircase, while other pieces occupy the enormous rooms, gardens and crumbling outhouses like giant prehistoric beasts. The exhibition Firelight , spread across 45,000 square feet, began without fanfare on March 12 but has since been shut due to the lockdown. Augmented reality The slender 44-year-old Sinha comes from the hinterlands of Nalhati in Birbhum district, close to Jharkhand. Drawn to art from childhood, he is more or less self-taught; his family is in the transport business. For this exhibition, the artist retrieved metallic organs and armatures from the enormous carcasses and carapaces of vehicles of every variety to put together 165 sculptures that conform to no particular movement or school of art. Sinha has attempted to forge his own language, compelled by a desire to express his thoughts about nature being subjugated by man, and about nature’s resilience as it springs back to life once man loosens his grip. Looking at the vast range of his works, you can’t help thinking of the words of French philosopher Gaston Bachelard, “imagination augments the value of reality.” Sinha’s practice is the obverse of Karl Blossfeldt’s. The German sculptor, amateur botanist, pedagogue and pioneering photographer constructed a device that allowed him to magnify by a factor of 30 the biological specimens that he photographed. Thereby, Blossfeldt revealed a world of uncanny, never-before-seen beauty in flora, replete with architectural forms, extravagant decorations, buttresses, spires, mouldings, elaborate tracery, and rose windows. Some of Blossfeldt’s images resembled the exotic plumage of the lyre bird, multi-armed candelabra, jewellery, filigree, the curlicued scroll at the tip of a cello and other forms so fantastical that it is often difficult to distinguish between the work of nature and artifice. Sinha, on the other hand, conjures up a world of monsters emerging from our darkest thoughts and instincts inside the 14-room mansion — hundreds of dark serpents that have emerged from Medusa’s head writhing on a wall; two predatory creatures, one atop the other, fighting to the bitter end; mammoth winged insects, wriggling tapeworms, a headless equine carcass hanging from the ceiling above the stairwell. Incredible as it sounds, Sinha assembled these with his hands, using tractor wheels, bicycle tyres, bits from abandoned Ambassadors, gearboxes from trucks, the propeller of a ship. The transparent wings that look as if they might start flapping any moment are windshields of various vehicles. Sinha’s imagination turns the inorganic into organic forms. Structural integrity Sinha’s eye for detail is incredible and although these are not realistic, each form has structural integrity. A lathe machine is inseparable from the aerial roots of parasitical plants. A flawless bank of blooms has sprouted at the foot of the staircase. These are actually white ceramic insulators of high-tension wires. A gigantic bouquet of klaxons, those vehicle horns that Sinha hated because of their nerve-shattering wails, looks as pretty as a posy bathed in blood-red light. Fear of the unknown Juxtaposed with these fantastic forms are some fine monochromatic minimalistic paintings and drawings by Sinha. They reflect the basic structures of the sculptural forms. This is not the first time that Sinha has turned a building into a piece of sculpture, but he has never done so on this scale. However, some of the rooms at Queens Park are too cluttered — Sinha should have left some breathing space. Some stray lines penned by Sinha displayed on the walls are clues to his thoughts: “The harsh growls of machinery push me into the cradle of nature.” “Fear of the unknown: the long-necked headless creature walks past. I feel its soft fur…” “The rancid smell of grease and burnt engine oil haunts me. A throwback to childhood.” Lying supine, the branches of trees felled by a cyclone blend with a gateway made of sewerage pipes. A flower-shaped fountain with a bird perched atop it adorns the grounds. Banana plants and jackfruit trees create clumps of green across the garden and embrace the exhibits and the concrete-and-glass cliffs build an impenetrable wall around the house. Sinha looked for six long years for a building in Kolkata that could hold this exhibition. In 2018, when his friend Radhika Singhi invited him to have a look at a posh bungalow in Queens Park, his eyes fell on its scruffy old neighbour. This tumbledown, bat-haunted house concealed in a smother of plants belonged to Saugat Upadhya and his father, Ujjal. Queens Park was once a European precinct, and according to P.M. Bagchi’s Kolikata Street Directory of 1915, No. 12 was in that year occupied by G. Hallmann, A. Richter and P. Tiefermann. The Upadhyas allowed Sinha to clear up the mess and transform the house into a giant gallery where he could exhibit gratis his giant creations. The show was supposed to run till end-May, but now that it’s closed for the lockdown, one wonders how quickly nature will reclaim these works. The writer focuses on Kolkata’s vanishing heritage and culture.  Sinha assembled these with his hands, using tractor wheels, bicycle tyres, bits from abandoned Ambassadors, gearboxes from trucks, the propeller of a ship||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/menagerie-of-monsters/article34624934.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A serving of history||Teetering precariously over that fine line between morbidity and a sensorial blast from the past is ‘The Titanic Menu’, served at the Rayanne House restaurant in Belfast, Northern Ireland. The sumptuous, nine-course meal features everything from a main of pan-seared filet mignon topped with foie gras to spiced peaches in chartreuse jelly for “pud”, as the British like to call dessert. This menu is said to be a recreation of the last meal that was served in the first-class restaurant aboard the ill-fated Titanic . A vessel that was designed and built in Belfast between 1909 and 1912. Book bound I clearly remember partaking in this edible extravaganza almost a decade ago when on a work trip to Belfast, where I found myself seated in the beautiful period dining room of the restaurant, which overlooks the Belfast Lough, from where the Titanic would have set sail on her maiden voyage on April 10, 1912. Ironically, as I write this piece on another April 10 — exactly 109 years later — I am fresh off digesting another nugget of Titanic food trivia. Thanks to a fascinating little book that I received on a recent birthday, I learn that something called a Waldorf pudding too was part of that final dinner. Although not to be confused with the similarly named American Waldorf salad, this dessert too features apples and walnuts, but also raisins, is baked in individual ramekins, and spiced with ginger and nutmeg. The book in question is called History Dishtory: Adventures and Recipes from the Past by Ranjini Rao and Ruchira Ramanujam. Featuring a brother and sister duo and a cutting-edge app that allows them to time-travel to 15 important junctures in history, the book also includes a recipe inspired by each event. From the Renaissance in Italy to the aforementioned sinking of the Titanic (Waldorf pudding!) and from the first men landing on the Moon to Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi Salt March. Although purported to be a children’s book, this is one of those easy reads that sucks you into its pages and keeps you captive within, never mind your age! Each page holds forth a promise of that irresistible quartet of food, history, adventure and trivia. Making it the perfect, vicarious escape from the mentally debilitating second phase of the pandemic and the second major lockdown in Mumbai. Rosewater pizza, anyone? My unbridled love for all things potato takes me back to the French Revolution as mentioned in the book. This was when members of the Third Estate — as commoners were referred to then — turned to the previously shunned tuber in lieu of bread. The latter’s cost had increased to over 80% of their earnings, and people were forced to rediscover the humble potato. Thus charting the course for dishes like the ubiquitous mashed potatoes and the relatively unknown Hachis Parmentier, which is a shepherd’s pie-like dish made with beef and potatoes. The book also tells me that long before ice and chocolate sculptures became all the rage at banquets and feasts that they are now, butter sculptures were the ‘in thing’ during the Renaissance. Interestingly, on further research, I gather that in faraway Tibet, the Buddhist practice of carving mandalas and deities from brightly coloured blocks of yak butter began roughly at the same time in the 14th century. Medieval viral trends, one might even say! And for all those like me who are revolted by the idea of pineapple and grapes (hello, Jamie Oliver!) as pizza toppings, pizzas flavoured with rose water and topped with sugar and pine nuts were quite de rigueur during the Renaissance. It seems like bad ideas transcend eras!  Amethyst Bamboo 9X. That’s the name of what is believed to be the world’s most expensive salt. It retails for approximately $272 for a one-pound bag. It’s trivia like this about the Korean Amethyst Bamboo salt that I glean from the chapter on Mahatma Gandhi’s famous salt march that ended in Dandi, Gujarat, on April 5, 1930. My interest in India’s very own natural protein powder aka sattu is piqued when I learn that Nepalese Sherpas on their perilous treks up Mt. Everest consume copious amounts of the stuff. Made using roasted gram flour, barley or corn, the nutty-tasting flour can either be eaten plain or mixed with water or milk for a hearty porridge. Sattu is also considered an effective coolant when made into a refreshing sherbet. The book’s penultimate chapter explores the future of food. But strangely, when I take this journey, I look into the past. Seemingly straight out of science fiction, the dehydrated chicken salad and freeze-dried fruit served aboard the moon-bound Apollo 11 way back in 1969 may very well have served as a blueprint for our consumption of food in the decades ahead. With concepts like molecular gastronomy and cryogenic cookery throwing light on the way forward. We’ve already seen the dawn of lab-produced ‘meat’ and the vegan-friendly, plant-based impossible burger. The million dollar question now is, “What’s next?”  The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  Amethyst Bamboo 9X. That’s the name of what is believed to be the world’s most expensive salt. It retails for approx. $272 for a one- pound bag||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-serving-of-history/article34624863.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The gospel according to the women||All those stories that consist of many narratives, each recording the same events from a different perspective, seem to trace their origins to the New Testament. In that old, old story, a prophet is born, he preaches the word, and he is killed. Those three events we are sure of. But how, when, and in what order the smaller incidents in between took place — all of that makes for a richly confusing, shifting narrative. We listen like a jury to various testimonies, building a story that, after all, we understand only partly. Matthew and Mark seem to have squared up their dry testimonies with each other before taking up their quills, but Luke knows how far back to start if you want to catch a reader’s attention, and gradually the picture begins to fill with colour. Recording their voices For centuries, women readers of the scriptures must have hunted for details about those robed, veiled, grieving figures they have seen on cathedral walls. The male disciples of Jesus witness miracles and then swear they believe he is the son of god. But the women take it all on trust from the very beginning. Who were these women, where did they come from, and what were they thinking when they followed the messiah? In Names of the Women , Jeet Thayil gives us the voices of those who birthed, cooked, washed, ministered, witnessed and testified to the final mystery. His work is itself a testament — the gospel according to Mary the mother of Jesus, Mary of Magda, Old Mary, Mary of Bethany, her sister Martha, Joanna, Susanna, and many others. Jesus speaks, mostly to Mary of Magda, but also, futilely, imploring his disciples to record the women’s roles in his story. Golden age In that golden age, women were enslaved, sold, imprisoned, forsaken, and seldom able to do what they believed in. But when the condemned messiah’s hangers-on have fled, it is his female followers who watch him die on the cross and wait till his body is taken down and laid in the tomb, and a stone rolled across its mouth. Thayil draws us into that age and that world with his first words, and he holds us there long after we have finished reading. In each short, sharp chapter, he shows his ability to create a living soul that walks out of the page, often from raw material amounting to a line and a half of biblical text. Mary of Magda is the first voice after that of Jesus, as she was the first to seek him after his death, carrying oils and spices with which to preserve the body. Having watched her people kill their long-awaited prophet because he was not what they expected, she begins to understand that they are a people of destruction and vengeance created in the image of a god of destruction and vengeance. Susanna the barren testifies next. She is the one who led the other women into the tomb to see the emptiness Mary had seen. She tells all this to the gathered people, explaining as if they are the children she doesn’t have. And it is she, not the men walking with her, who recognises Christ when he reappears. Mary of Bethany speaks, she who sat at the prophet’s feet to listen instead of fetching water and pouring wine for the gathering. She searched the marketplace for something special to give her master, something fit for a man who will soon die, and she found the spikenard with which she lavishly anointed him. Dangerous as the prophet Martha of Bethany, who knows that if she and Mary had been born as boys, they would have made better, kinder rulers than the kings they were taught to honour, is the big sister who takes care of everyone else. But when her brother Lazarus is brought back to life and roams around haunted by the horrors of death, she wonders whether it would have been better to have left him dead. A compelling story within the story is the terrifying dance of Salomé, directed by her mother and queen, Herodias. Together they engineer the beheading of John the Baptist. Joanna, who serves at the banquet and, after its gruesome end, reassembles and washes John’s body and leads his funeral procession, eventually finds her way to Jesus. In Thayil’s hands they all take shape, along with the woman whose bent back was straightened, the widow who threw in her two mites, and the woman taken in adultery who was almost stoned to death but not quite. Even the most invisible women — Aquila and Bilhah, the maidservants who recognise the cowering Peter as one of Jesus’s followers — were witnesses who questioned why a man who preached love was executed like a dangerous criminal. In that witnessing, that questioning, they became as dangerous as the prophet himself, voices that were silenced as effectively as his, till one writer decided to say their names. The writer is author ofThree Seasons: Notes from a Country Year.  Names of the Women  Jeet Thayil  Jonathan Cape  Rs. 699    Who were these women, where did they come from, and what were they thinking when they followed the messiah?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-gospel-according-to-the-women/article34624906.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||I feel your pain: B.1.617||Most of you would remember my interview last July with SARS-CoV-2-XUV-700, the Chairvirus of the virus community’s COVID-19 task force. It was a journalistic coup because until then this virus hadn’t given an interview or addressed a press conference in 7,000 years. Today, I am thrilled to present my second interview with a celebrity virus that is currently the toast of the entire microbe community — B.1.617, also popularly known as the ‘Indian variant’. I’m once again grateful to Potangoli Pvt Ltd for sharing with me the special bio-genetic software that enabled me to bypass the communication barrier between humans and viruses and conduct this historic interview. Edited excerpts:  Me : Congratulations on finally being adjudged a ‘Variant of Concern’ (VoC).  B.1.617 : Thank you. We viruses work very hard — almost 27 hours a day — but we are not motivated by praise or glory. Tomorrow, if a better variant comes along, I will calmly take my jhola and disappear.  Me : Soon after getting VoC recognition, you swept the 2021 Pathogen Awards. Not many were surprised to see you win the award for ‘Most Promising Newcomer with a Double Mutation’, which was expected. But you also went on to win the awards for ‘Most Transmissible Virus’ and ‘Pathogen of the Year’. What’s the secret of your success?  B.1.617 : It was a team effort, really. We have a great pool of experts specialising in immune systems, vaccines, and majoritarian dictatorships. Plus we have a leadership that takes expert inputs seriously. We viruses are lucky that way.  Me : You are the first bundle of Indian genetic material, after Gandhi, to have gained international recognition on such a grand scale, that too in a short span of time. You came into existence only last October, but have already been hosted in more than 45 countries. Mis-Fortune Magazine has ranked you No. 2 in its annual list of ‘World’s Greatest Leaders’. Tomorrow your wax statue will be unveiled at Madame Twosos in London. How do you feel about this?  B.1.617 : I am humbled. But as the Indian variant, I am also proud that I could bring glory to my country on the global stage. Earlier, viruses would be ashamed to proclaim that they are Indian. Not anymore. Today, even British and American viruses sport Indian mutations and claim that their spike proteins were made in India — a small step for Indian pathogens but a giant leap for Indian nationalism.  Me : What was the thinking behind the decision to focus on India?  B.1.617 : Globally, by mid-2020, our growth was plateauing, positivity rates were declining. We knew we had very little time to develop new variants and build a sustainable chain of transmission. We had to quickly decide on a country to invest in. The Brazilian variant was doing well, but many of us felt we needed a bigger demographic. When we heard that India was going ahead with the Kumbh Mela and several election rallies, the decision was made for us. When your government duly botched its vaccine procurement, we knew India would be a walk in the park, or a stroll in the cemetery, as it were. As the news spread within the corona community, all the variants wanted to rush to India and participate in religious events, and most of them did.  Me : Aren’t you worried about Covishield and Covaxin?  B.1.617 : We did share our concerns with the Indian government. They have assured us that the extremely slow pace of vaccination will give us enough time to come up with new mutations that can comfortably evade the vaccine. I’m optimistic.  Me : I know a virus must do what a virus must. But is it absolutely necessary to kill so many humans?  B.1.617 : I do feel your pain. Nobody hates killing more than viruses. In fact, the higher our kill-rate, the lower our transmission rate. But what do we do when your antibodies assault us without provocation? The moment they see us, they start attacking. We are then forced to defend ourselves. As a peace-loving liberal, I urge all antibodies to resolve their differences with us through dialogue instead of punching and kicking us. We are viruses, not fascists.  Me : What are your plans for the third wave? Aren’t you concerned that India would have learned its lessons from the second wave and be better prepared?  B.1.617 : Unlike humans, we viruses take the long view. We are confident that no matter what happens, Indians will never demand better healthcare or make it an election issue. Our friends in the government have also promised to play the communal card every time there is an insistent demand for accountability. They have so far kept their side of the bargain — by not testing enough, fudging data, and letting COVID patients fend for themselves. So we are not unduly worried about the third wave. In fact, we look forward to working closely with the Indian government on the third, fourth, fifth and many more waves in the years to come.  When your government duly botched its vaccine procurement, we knew India would be a walk in the park, or a stroll in the cemetery, as it were||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-feel-your-pain-b1617/article34624930.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Coming up to breathe||The ongoing pandemic has brought to the fore, more than ever before, the realisation of individual loneliness. Suddenly we find ourselves isolated — in our room, at home, in a foreign country, not being able to meet loved ones, not even being able to say goodbye. Chinese author An Yu’s debut novel, Braised Pork , published last year in the early months of the pandemic, is replete with images of lonesomeness though it is not about the pandemic per se. The protagonist, a young woman named Jia Jia, finds herself battling everyday loneliness after the sudden death of her husband. Her isolation is exacerbated  by the city she lives in — Beijing — with its fast-paced lifestyle, its expensive real estate, its clouds of pollution which obliterate the stars in the sky. She briefly finds comfort in Leo, the bartender across the street, but the feelings of unrest cannot be quietened so easily. She carries with her the baggage of a loveless marriage that has ended abruptly, unresolved issues with her father, and the deeply felt absence of her long-dead mother. Human connection Loneliness pervades the novel, which speaks to our selves under lockdown. It makes us ask, whether we’re alone or with someone, are we really there for each other. Yu, who currently lives in Hong Kong, says in an email interview, “I think it’s impossible to tell a story set in a modern and urban context without touching upon the realities of living within it. Part of the loneliness comes from the struggle to keep up with a city that is morphing so quickly and radically. The other part — the one that I have more trouble reconciling with — stems from a timeless place with a set of philosophical questions surrounding the possibilities of human connection and empathy.” There is a moment in Braised Pork where Jia Jia is having a meal with her estranged father. Overwhelmed by the weight of events, Jia Jia breaks down over the plate of braised pork belly — a dish she loved as a child — fondly prepared for her by her father. Intimate things Braised pork belly or hong shao rou is a classic pork dish from mainland China. It is a meal reminiscent of home and childhood, symbolising deep, intimate relationships. It is prepared differently in different parts of China, with each family having its own take. Yu’s family is no exception. It is also the first dish she learnt to cook. “I’ve always thought that sharing a meal is one of the most intimate things people can do together. Much of this novel is about isolation, but I wanted Jia Jia having dinner with her father to be a moment of tenderness and togetherness. Although the scene has its fair share of pain and regret, it is ultimately about redemption and forgiveness. It becomes clear, at that moment, that a family doesn’t have to be whole in order to be a family. Emotions are projected onto the plate of braised pork on the table and elevated by it — it’s a powerful image which deserved a place in the title,” says Yu. The other interconnected theme here is the world of water. “Water is calm, violent, opaque, translucent, frightening, and beautiful. I’m attracted to the ways in which the mysteries of water parallel the secrets of the human experience,” Yu says. Even as Jia Jia finds herself drowning in chaos and grief, she is afforded moments of clarity, which allow her to surface and breathe. Yu writes elegantly and clearly. She grew up in a family of avid readers and carried the habit of reading into her adult life. She is inspired by Borges, Han Kang, Ferrante, Ishiguro, Osamu Dazai, Jean Rhys, Raymond Carver, and a host of other authors. Yu is now in the process of editing her next novel, which she was able to finish holed up in an idyllic cabin in Vermont, surrounded by the woods and snow. “It’s been over a year now since the pandemic started. I haven’t been able to go back home to Beijing since 2019. In the intervening period, I wrote every day without fail and I discovered some brilliant authors. When my visa expired, I moved to Hong Kong,” she says. The independent writer is based in Delhi.  Braised pork belly orhong shao rouis a classic pork dish from mainland China. It is a meal reminiscent of home and childhood, symbolising deep, intimate relationships||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/coming-up-to-breathe/article34624902.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on May 23, 1707, Carl Linnaeus was a Swedish botanist and physician who spent a lot of time in Sweden travelling and collecting specimens of plants and animals. He would classify them and publish many volumes of his work, which led to him becoming one of the most acclaimed scientists of his time. His greatest contribution to science was to popularise ‘binomial nomenclature’ which made it easier for researchers studying ecology. What is binomial nomenclature, which usually consists of two words (hence the name)? 2 In 2010, a new species of mushroom found in Malaysia surprised scientists with its spongy appearance. Unable to help themselves, they named it after a popular animated character. Its name is ‘ Spongiforma ___________ii ’. After which animated character who lives under the sea and is absorbent, yellow, and porous is this mushroom named? 3 These animals are the largest apes in the world and share almost 98% of our DNA. One particular sub-species is known as the ‘Western Lowland’ and is found in central Africa. Unfortunately critically endangered, they are completely herbivorous and are in danger due to habitat destruction. Their scientific name is unique as it is the same word thrice (trinomial nomenclature). What is the scientific name of this sub-species, which is the same as its common name but repeated thrice? 4 ‘ Monas lens’ , a unicellular organism just 3 micrometres in size, was described in 1773. For a long time, it was poorly understood as it could not be observed with the human eye. In 1991, scientists were finally able to use optical imaging technology to study it. With a better description now available, a new genus name was given. If the updated genus was a reference to the technology used, and the fact that they might have used Kodak equipment, what is the new name of this organism? 5 With nearly 600 species of Amazonian beetles in the ____ genus, entomologist Terry Erwin, who is responsible for naming of over half the genus, decided to put his punning ability to the test. There’s the intolerable ____ vation, the magical ____ cadabra, the scary ____ phobia, and the headless ____ ichabod. What is the genus that should remind you of a city on the Yamuna River? 6 __X___japyx ___Y___ is a species of two-pronged bristletails insect discovered lurking in caves in Spain. The ancestor of the species lived in the fields near rivers (just like Y), but has adapted to permanently living inside caves (just like X). The discoverer Prof. Ortuño named this subterranean species after the split personalities of a popular character in modern mythology. What are the two names you’d know if you followed the adventure of The One Ring in Middle Earth? 7 Stegodon _______ is a species of gigantic prehistoric elephant that used to roam around North India. The sub-species was described by Faloner and Cautley, and was named after one of the best-known and most worshiped deities in the Hindu pantheon. What is the full name of this elephant that used to weigh 12 tons and stand 13 feet tall? 8 The conquered lorikeet (Latin name: __X_ _Y___Z__) is a species of parrot that became extinct 700-1300 years ago on the islands of Polynesia. The binominal name is wordplay alluding to the famous phrase “X, Y, Z,” which may be projected into the prehistoric situation in Polynesia, where people came to an island, saw the native parrots, and then conquered them, leaving behind only the bones. What is the name of this parrot, which you might have heard in Rome in 47 BC? 9 One of the most famous rivalries in popular culture is between the animals Geococcyx californianus and Canis latrans . In one famous depiction onscreen they are funnily labeled as ‘Accelerati incredibilus’ and ‘Carnivorous vulgaris’. Who are these two animals/ characters you might have enjoyed in your childhood as they went around going ‘beep beep’ and ordering from ‘Acme Corporation’? 10 Since the year 2000, May 23 has been observed worldwide to bring attention and increase knowledge of a certain species of marine animal. These are reptiles under the order Testudines and are one of the oldest living animal groups, having lived alongside the early dinosaurs. Easily identifiable by the cartilaginous carapace they have, their biggest threat has been commercial fishing and destruction of habitat. What is May 23 observed as? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34624938.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Parvada||Ordinarily, Parvada would be nowhere on my list of places to visit — it would never make the cut. Everything in this rollercoaster of a year though has been a revelation, and smaller has emerged better, so it’s the inconspicuous places that now grab my attention. Despite living in Kumaon, I was clueless about the hamlet’s existence in the shadow of its celebrated neighbour Mukteshwar. For the few tourists who have ‘discovered’ it in recent times, there is another reason apart from its offbeat status that is attractive: not a single COVID-19 case has been reported here so far. On the drive up the winding stretch from Bhimtal, past Bhowali and Ramgarh, my stomach turns queasy with the effects of hill driving. It’s not the narrow turns that stir my insides, but a thin film of smoke that seeps into my nose, curls inside my nasal passage, and settles resolutely in my throat like an illegal squatter. Kumaon is burning once again, and the smell of dying trees begging for help has never been more recognisable. The pandemic of forest fires that plagues Uttarakhand nearly every year is back, and this time with unprecedented force. There has been no rain this spring, not enough snow this past winter, and little of the attention this issue deserves. Breathing space Ten kilometres before Mukteshwar, a discreet right turn leads to Parvada, where after days of traversing Kumaon, I’ve been able to breathe smoke-free air. The single stretch of unmetalled road continues through the village that sits on either side; Kumaoni homes interspersed with small orchards and farming patches, one general store for daily needs, a small dairy, and a staple village temple down in the valley dotted with a mix of spruce and rhododendron, and local wild berry trees, kaphal and hisalu . I walk down to the village temple and stop to chat with two young girls doing their history homework while watching over their goats, and then for a longer conversation with Leela. The lady is bent over a row of peas, plucking and tossing them into a basket. It’s not for sale, she clarifies. Nothing is, she adds, pointing wryly to the tiny budding fruit on the plum trees that has replaced the blossoms but refuses to grow for lack of rain and cool temperatures. Parvada, like most of the hills, has been swept into the fold of changing climate, with annual forest fires being the bonus byproduct. “But at least we can grow our food,” smiles Leela. I smile back shakily, then turn around to walk back to my homestay. There are barely any options to stay here, but I’m fortunate to be at Sanjay and Vasudha’s cosy place, Parvada Bungalows, their home that they set up a few years ago, away from the flurry of Mukteshwar. I make a pit-stop at my little studio cottage to toss in my bag, and walk up the gravel path towards the main building, Wild Fig, named after the tree that grows right in front of it. Food is the highlight here; local Kumaoni thalis are supplemented with ragi halwa steeped in ghee and jaggery, and dinner can be an eclectic treat with quiches and parathas. It is surprisingly good, much as the hospitality here. We walk around the place past the yoga room and the orchards, which are home to more than 500 apple trees. Hanging by the window of a little room near the main gate are products of a knitting initiative for the village women spearheaded by Vasudha, the bright colours in direct contrast to the parched landscape outside. I step out for another wander, bypassing a gaggle of girls ferrying water jars from the local handpump. I cannot help but wonder where the missing-in-action men are. From ploughing fields to herding animals, and from carrying firewood and water to knitting colourful dreams, the women of the hills give me a glimpse of resilience much like a peek of their shy smiles. As evening sets over Parvada, I finally spot the mob of men, bent over a pack of cards, slurping chai  and bidis. My unease rises so I break away, but just then, the first drops of the long-awaited summer rain fall on my face, cooling the embers of my glowing heart and a burning Kumaon. Born and brought up in the Himalayas, the writer is an adventurer who derives great joy from napping under the mountain sun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-parvada/article34624945.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Blindness by José Saramago||At a traffic signal in an unnamed city, as the green light comes on, a car is unable to move. The driver frantically tries to explain what is holding him up — “I am blind”. People crowding around his stalled car cannot believe it. “Seen merely at a glance, the man’s eyes seem healthy, the iris looks bright, luminous, the sclera white, as compact as porcelain.” Through the car windows, people ask what he can see. “Nothing, it’s as if I were caught in a mist or had fallen into a milky sea,” he replies. But blindness is black, retorts one fellow. “Well, I see everything white.” Eerie resonance Portuguese writer José Saramago’s 1995 novel, Blindness , translated into English by Giovanni Pontiero, begins in this dramatic fashion, with a driver suddenly going blind while waiting at the traffic lights. The ophthalmologist he consults also gets afflicted before he can read up on the strange white blindness. Soon, it becomes a contagion, providing an eerie resonance to the horror sweeping the world today in the form of a virus and other hurts, past and present, like war, hunger, deprivation. The ophthalmologist waits anxiously for “the light of day” knowing very well that he will not see it. But he feels it is his duty to inform the health authorities and warn them of the possibility of this highly contagious blindness becoming a national catastrophe. When he tries to reach out to someone in the Health Ministry, his call is rudely cut off, prompting him to mutter: “This is the stuff we’re made of, half indifference and half malice.” The Health Ministry works feverishly to thwart the social implications and political consequences. They round up the ophthalmologist and all the people who have gone blind and put them in indefinite quarantine in a mental hospital. The ophthalmologist’s wife has not yet turned blind, but she pretends to have lost her eyesight just to be with her husband. Slowly, the asylum fills up with people, some crying, others trying to console. Blind but seeing Soon there is a dearth of everything from food and water to discipline and order. Those who have power — blind thugs — terrorise the powerless. People are forced to go hungry, several get killed, women are raped and chaos reigns, giving us a glimpse of how a crisis can break down both the individual and society. Some of the inmates finally escape when a fire breaks out, stumbling into a world which has also gone blind: “We’re going back to being primitive hordes... with the difference that we are not a few thousand men and women in an immense unspoiled nature, but thousands of millions in an uprooted, exhausted world.” People begin to get their eyesight back slowly, even as the doctor’s wife, who has held their hands throughout, says, “Do you want me to tell you what I think, Yes, do, I don’t think we did go blind, I think we are blind, Blind but seeing, Blind people who can see, but do not see.” It is not an easy novel to read, with its long run-on sentences. Like Kafka and Camus, Saramago creates a world upended by forces beyond our control. Saramago was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1998 for writing “parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony,” which enable readers to “apprehend an elusory reality.” An atheist and communist, he passed away in 2010, leaving behind a rich body of work, including novels like Baltasar and Blimunda , The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and The Gospel According to Jesus Christ . In 2004, he wrote a sequel to Blindness . In Seeing , another parable for the times, a majority of the population of an unnamed city choose to exercise their franchise by polling blank votes. The government is enraged and democracy soon drifts towards totalitarianism. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  It is not an easy novel to read. Like Kafka and Camus, Saramago creates a world upended by forces beyond our control||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/blindness-by-jos-saramago/article34624907.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||When the creator of Sherlock Holmes stepped in to solve a case||The Mystery of the Parsee Lawyer is a title that seems straight out of the Sherlock Holmes tales. Not surprising that the author of that series plays a starring role in this real-life whodunnit. The case is about the wrongful conviction of George Edalji, a barrister from Great Wyrley, a mining town near Birmingham, England, and how Arthur Conan Doyle helped clear his name. But the background to this is fascinating. George’s father, Shahpur Edalji, a Parsi convert to Christianity was appointed as the vicar of Great Wyrley, the first South Asian to do so in Britain in 1876. Edalji senior was also married to Charlotte Stoneham, an Englishwoman, and the family had to face discrimination all their life. Racial discrimination Shahpur and Charlotte’s eldest son George is the only boy in his school to look different from his classmates. Despite being socially awkward, he is a clever student and becomes a successful lawyer. In 1903, a case of animal mutilation broke out in the village and George was arrested and convicted for the crime because, as his mother puts it, “there is among many people a prejudice against those who are not English, and I cannot help feeling that it is owing to that prejudice that my son has been falsely accused.” To help establish his innocence, George approaches the creator of the renowned detective Sherlock Holmes, Arthur Conan Doyle. While the author was used to receiving many such letters, “there was an urgency about the appeal, a need for justice to be done and seen to be done... A strong defender of the Empire, Conan Doyle would now be drawn into championing the cause of one who had been wronged by the racist attitudes of the establishment. For him, it was imperative to ensure that English justice prevailed.”  Basu quotes from Conan Doyle’s account of his first meeting with George Edalji: “I recognized my man by his dark face... he held the paper close to his eyes and rather sideways, proving not only a high degree of myopia, but marked astigmatism. The idea of such a man scouring fields at night and assaulting cattle while avoiding the police was ludicrous.” These lines recall Sherlock Holmes’ dictum of close observation. Convinced of his man’s innocence, Conan Doyle launched his own investigation. In the Introduction, Basu gives an account of how she came to write this book and the chance that led her to the letters written by Conan Doyle to Chief Inspector G.A. Anson, head of the Staffordshire police. Basu opens with her journey to Great Wyrley and brings a vivid picture of the church, the vicarage and the grounds where Shahpur Edalji is buried. Right in the first chapter, the reader is thrown into the case, so to speak. Quite ‘elementary’ Basu opens with an account of the animal mutilation case that plagued Great Wyrley and then introduces her dramatis personae. She traces Shahpur Edalji’s journey from Bombay, where he was born, to being the vicar of an English town and his marriage to Charlotte Stoneham. Basu also tracks in parallel the turmoil in Conan Doyle’s personal life and how fighting George’s case helped him. The wealth of detail found in the narrative doesn’t really hamper the reading. The past is recreated in great detail and Basu’s writing makes one feel like a witness to the events. The chapter titled ‘Elementary’ sets out how Conan Doyle breaks down the police case and is a fascinating read. Though this case led to judicial reform and the establishment of the Court of Criminal Appeal, the underlying issues of racism and its impact on policing are still issues that the world at large is dealing with more than a century later.  The Mystery of the Parsee Lawyer: Arthur Conan Doyle, George Edalji and the Foreigner in the English Village  Shrabani Basu  Bloomsbury  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-the-creator-of-sherlock-holmes-stepped-in-to-solve-a-case/article34624917.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese ‘sileek’ in old Madras||The distant cry of “Chinese sileek” would send us little children scampering indoors as there was a malicious rumour that some Chinese men were in town to kidnap children. It took quite a while for our parents to reassure us that those men were in Madras for a living, leaving their little children like us behind. That message got through to us as John (every Chinese man was John!) began visiting our home every couple of months. That was in the late 1930s, and memories come tumbling into my mind from those distant years. We watched John, wearing a sola topee, from a distance as he approached riding a bicycle. His frequent calls of “Chinese sileek” were more of a mild-mannered notice of his presence than a persistent demand to be invited home. He turned out to be a soft-spoken, polite person as he got off his bicycle and unloaded a large khaki-wrapped bundle from its carrier. He then laid it on the floor and untied the knot at the top to reveal neat stacks of silks for men and women. Disarming proposal Men were initially concerned that he visited homes when they were at work and influenced the wives with his spiel. John, with his twinkling eyes, sensed this and disarmed the men by offering to visit on Sundays. I heard it said so many times that John never pressed any item on any customer. He explained the features of each bolt of silk and waited to answer questions. He had silk for eastern and western feminine tastes. Saris and dresses posed no problem for him, and he was ready with precisely what a woman wanted. I recall that my father, like many of his civil service colleagues, wore a three-piece cream-coloured silk suit to office. John had Shandong silk for suits, just the right material for the local weather. My research in later years showed that the town of Shandong in China was famous for its silk with a linen-like feel. There was never a debate on quality. Any question regarding price was swiftly answered by a request that the customer decide the price. He would spell out the base price with proof and then list his expenses for transporting the wares from China to Madras, via Penang or Singapore, and his stay, and what he needed to take home. The customers were silently persuaded by the thought of John cycling all day every day and the miles he covered to find a living. John had a wide group of local friends from his Madras neighbourhood and even spoke in Tamil with them. He was in the habit of bringing little gifts from China for his regular customers during every visit. I think my sister still has an elaborately embroidered linen handbag with scalloped edges gifted to our mother. Years have passed and much has changed. But memories do not fade, and those of John are nostalgic. kuttydignity@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/chinese-sileek-in-old-madras/article34624891.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Almost always something||West might have considered his double fit with partner sufficient reason to bid five hearts, which might have escaped for down two with a good guess in the trump suit. His assets were meagre, however, and he chose to take his chances on defence. The defensive prospects were pretty good. Declarer is off the ace of trumps and at least one diamond trick, and he will have his hands full holding diamonds to one loser. South won the opening spade with dummy’s ace and led a trump to his king, winning the trick as East ducked his ace. What to do about the diamonds? All would be well if the diamonds split 2-2, but what if they were 3-1? Should West have a singleton, declarer must hope that it is either the king or the queen and lead a low diamond to dummy’s ace followed by a diamond toward the jack. If it is East with the singleton, declarer must lead his jack, hoping East has the singleton 10. Also, the lead of the jack will put pressure on West to cover with either king-10-third or queen-10- third. This may seem like a pure guess, but experts know that there is almost always something to guide declarer’s decision. In this case, the choice is clear. East has shown at least 5-5 in the majors and seems likely to hold ace doubleton in clubs. The only opponent who can have a singleton diamond is East, so lead the jack it is. Success!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/almost-always-something/article34624941.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Always on call, a doctor’s life||The unravelling of a life well-known will rank among the more fascinating aspects of life for the curious. Imagine, as the person travels back in time, you get a ringside view, what a ride that could be. Dr. V. Mohan’s autobiography is all that, plus written in a style that engages you from start to finish. Swapping tales It’s nearly breathless, the book, and it is charged with an energy that anyone who knows Dr. Mohan has come to understand. Harnessing the advantages of a non linear narration, he weaves in and out of several phases of his life, school classrooms, anatomy labs, the roads of Madras, car-shed clinics, hospital rooms, ICUs and glittering award ceremonies, through joy, failure, triumph, disaster, empathy, love and compassion. Armed with a prodigious memory, Dr. Mohan draws his readers willy-nilly into his life as it played out, providing details of what happened decades ago in such minutiae, these incidents and people emerge out of the pages of the book with a vitality that one expects only of the present. The book is a conversation he has with every reader, perhaps sitting across the table, enjoying a post-prandial session swapping stories, tales of the past, as time stands still around them. But that is not all that he does. With every incident there is a lesson to be learnt, one that is not forced down the reader’s throat, but one that smacks of significance and replicability because of its lived value. The book seems part Tuesdays with Morrie , part The Monk who Sold his Ferrari — the best lessons on achievement and victory, failure or grief and joy are narrated with utter honesty, sincerity, and a deep desire to help others, but also clinched by a touch of the dramatic, even poetic. The story itself begins with one such episode, (prologue) as a taste of things to come. It is a classic introduction scene, one the best of writers struggle with — all the key dramatis personae in his life are introduced, at a nearly dreamy event marking a significant achievement, it establishes the character of the protagonist in two-and-a-half pages, and sets out the purpose of the book. No wonder then that readers are tempted to immerse themselves in the subsequent pages of charming prose, and some poetry too indeed. High standards While Dr. Mohan’s relationships with his wife Rema, family, staff members and spiritual guru give us a sense of his character, his interactions with peers and colleagues highlight high standards of professionalism and healthy competitiveness, but it is in his relationship with patients that this book has a million lessons for young doctors. Not all the learning in the world, or the intimate knowledge of clinical practice can confer on a doctor a good bedside manner, or empathy. It’s a natural trait, one he possesses in abundance. The joy he feels at every decimal point knocked off an HbA1c reading, the celebration of every year of living without kidney disease, the kindness that allows an elderly mother to pass on peacefully in a hospital room, the disappointment at the loss of a life — that is not easy to tell. That itself, that sharing, makes this book a valuable addition to your bookshelf, and life.  Making Excellence a Habit: The Secret to Building a World-Class Healthcare System in India  V. Mohan  Penguin Random House  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/always-on-call-a-doctors-life/article34624919.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||What a balmshell!||Dear Agony Akka  I am really worried about my future. This corona thing has turned my life upside down. I thought I would get a government job last year. But no, the exams were not held as scheduled. Even this year, with the second wave, everything seems to be the same as last year. Or maybe even worse. What if I get infected? Please Akka, help me out. How can I manage anxiety regarding my future? — Overly Melancholic    Dear OM  Tsk tsk. What is this? Are you not watching the television regularly? Baba Ramknave is remonstrating and demonstrating over and over again about how your lungs are like a four-cylinder engine that is firing one after another to deliver high-power performance in your breathing apparatus and therefore you can live forever and ever and you can get a job anytime you want because you will never get infected by this dreadful virus. There, does that not make you cheerful? Mind you, maybe you cannot breathe after reading such a long sentence but that is neither here nor there. Or, if this is not helping you, why not listen to the discourses of Sabscrew Jughead Aftershave? Surely, he cannot be casting his pearls of wisdom in vain. See how clearly he explains: In this world which is only a dimension, you are also a dimension and the virus is also a dimension and the vaccine is also a dimension. And so, all dimensions being equal, the self of your atma has already attained oneness with the virus of the brahma. So there is nothing to worry about. Sorry, I might have got a bit lost between the various dimensions, but philosophy has always fallen flat for me. Until, of course, Jughead Aftershave came along. I love listening to him because he wears designer clothes and it makes me want to immediately give up the boring rags of my feminine dimension and take up a beard and a turban, not necessarily in that order. And anyway, in this day and age nobody should worry about getting a government job. There are many, many opportunities waiting out there, and many of them will anyway be endorsed by the government. For example, how about starting a blog? All you have to do is read WhatsApp messages carefully, pick the ones that are the most farfetched, and compile them into a blog post. Add one or two cute cat pictures and then sign off. But that last line is where you should get creative. You can say ‘Tiger balm hai.’ Or ‘Amrutanjan calm hai.’ Or ‘Amul butter hai’. If you get it right, that’s it. Big-big ministers and MPs will soon be sharing your blog post in many faraway foreign lands in India and abroad. You will become famous. Enough ideas or you want more? So much greed in young people these days. If you are not fixated that you want to study this only or become that only, one good general all-purpose type of job is coming up. Government has announced that it is going to start BBC World type of Doordarshan channel to counter all evil foreign media. Apply for job there. It is a difficult job, but you can manage. You must train from now itself. Don’t write silly letters complaining about COVID-19. Instead, practise praising the pandemic. Also do breathing exercises. And in your CV, make sure you mention flag, nation, cow, anthem, mother, goddess, bovine excreta, and conch shell. What do you mean, use the words in a sentence? Everything I must do or what? Rest assured, job is yours. —AA  agony.akka   @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-a-balmshell/article34624936.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Neighbours meet in foreign climes||In the first half of 1968, as a member of a team of Indian engineers and architects, I was undergoing advanced training in low-cost housing in the Bouwcentrum in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Rotterdam has one of the biggest harbours in the world and is a major tourist attraction. There is the tall tower called Euromast which houses at its top the control room of the harbour. Around the tower is a beautiful park. On a holiday forenoon, when I was taking a walk in the park, I noticed a young man of nearly my age coming in the opposite direction. His appearance suggested that he was from the Indian subcontinent. But as I was a little homesick and lost in thought, I did not pay much attention to him. We crossed each other and I walked along. But after a few steps, I felt an irresistible urge to look back. When I did so, I found that the other man also had stopped and was looking back at me. Then he smiled and walked towards me. I also took a few steps to meet him halfway. He smiled and asked me, “Are you from Pakistan?” “No, I am from India,” I answered. “Oh, that doesn’t matter, it is all the same thing,” he said. “Can you do me a favour?” “Tell me,” I said. “Please speak a few words to me in Urdu. I have been away from home for so long, and I long to hear some words in my mother tongue.” “I don’t know Urdu, but I can manage the Hindustani spoken in Delhi. Will that do,” I asked. “Of course. That is exactly what I want,” he replied. And we carried on the further conversation in his fluent Urdu and my halting Hindustani. It turned out that he was a Pakistani working for a firm dealing with diamonds in Antwerp, Belgium. He was all praise for the culture of our subcontinent and the lilting melodies of Hindi film songs, all of which he missed in Europe. He thanked me profusely, and we shook hands and parted ways. Ever since that incident, which was, chronologically speaking, midway between two India-Pakistan wars, I have wondered why it is that when individuals can get along as friends, nations made up of such individuals have to go to war. I have not got an answer yet. sskaimaltvm@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/neighbours-meet-in-foreign-climes/article34624893.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Going global||As the Modi government came under global criticism for its handling of the pandemic, it announced that Doordarshan would start a new international channel to “build a global presence and establish an international voice for India”. Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati floated a tender for establishing DD International, including setting up bureaus around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/going-global/article34624869.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ceasefire?||As the conflict between Israel and Palestinian militants raged on, with a reported 228 people killed in Palestine and 12 in Israel, global calls for a ceasefire mounted. The U.S. blocked several attempts to draft a joint resolution by the U.N. Security Council, but President Joe Biden — under growing domestic and international pressure — finally called for progress towards a ceasefire on May 19, and there was a lull in violence the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ceasefire/article34624871.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||All-out lawfare||In West Bengal, the CBI arrested State ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra, and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee (above) in the seven-year-old Narada sting case. A CBI court granted bail to the four, but this was stayed by the High Court. Controversy arose as BJP leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, also implicated, were not arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/all-out-lawfare/article34624873.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cabinet affairs||Kerala’s new cabinet was announced following the LDF’s victory in the Assembly election. The line-up consisted predominantly of new faces apart from CM Pinarayi Vijayan. The exclusion of Health Minister K.K. Shailaja (in pic), lauded for her performance during the pandemic, was unexpected and widely criticised. The Health portfolio was given to Veena George.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cabinet-affairs/article34624875.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||No work||Joblessness more than doubled between March and May, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, a leading think tank. India’s unemployment rate went from 6.63% on March 14 to 8.67% on May 9 to 14.45% in the week ending May 16 — a 49-week high. As well as the imposition of strict lockdowns amid the second wave, a fall in farm activity in May contributed to a major decline in rural employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-work/article34624877.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Undiplomacy||A diplomatic kerfuffle broke out after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal alleged that a new SARS-CoV-2 variant in Singapore was dangerous to children and could cause another wave in India. Singapore’s government objected and summoned the Indian High Commissioner. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar announced that “the Delhi CM does not speak for India” and condemned the “irresponsible comments”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/undiplomacy/article34624879.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dung battle||The Manipur Police arrested journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem (in pic) and activist Erendro Leichombam under the draconian National Security Act after a court granted them bail. They were arrested for Facebook posts condoling the death of State BJP chief S. Tikendra Singh while adding that cow dung and cow urine were no cure for COVID-19. Both had been arrested twice before for criticising the BJP-led government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dung-battle/article34624881.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Ki.Ra. no more||Eminent Tamil writer Ki. Rajanarayanan, known as Ki.Ra, died aged 98. Famous for hiskarisal(arid region) literature, he was professor of folklore at Pondicherry University in the 80s. In 1991, he won the Sahitya Akademi award forGopallapurathu Makkal, a novel on the lives of Telugu migrants in Tamil Nadu. He was cremated with State honours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kira-no-more/article34624883.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Mosque razed||The nearly century-old Ghareeb Nawaz Al Maroof Mosque in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district was allegedly bulldozed by officials in defiance of a High Court order, causing outrage among the Muslim community. The Sunni Central Waqf Board condemned the demolition, and said it would approach the High Court to demand its restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mosque-razed/article34624885.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Fighter Cock||Sidharth Singh  Ebury Press Rs. 299 The debauched rajaof Shikargarh is known for his Karianath fighter cocks till their fame is challenged by the new Aseel fighters imported by Teja, his bastard son, who also schemes to usurp his throne. Into this world arrives Sheru, a brooding stranger with a dark past hired to work for the raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fighter-cock/article34624904.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Great Circle||Maggie Shipstead  Transworld Digital Rs. 656 (Kindle price) In 1950, Marian Graves embarks on the great circle flight, circumnavigating the globe. She disappears without a trace. Half a century later, Hadley Baxter, a troubled Hollywood starlet, is drawn to play Marian Graves, a role that will lead her to the deepest mysteries of Graves’ life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/great-circle/article34624909.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Sooley||John Grisham  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 699 Samuel Sooleyman from South Sudan is a basketball prodigy. He gets a chance to make it big in the U.S. but has to leave his family behind. As success beckons, devastating news from home reaches him. Caught between his dream and the nightmare unfolding in Sudan, he must make hard choices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sooley/article34624911.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The Best Short Stories Ever||Edited by Terry O’Brien  Westland Rs. 199 A collection of 41 short stories, featuring Edger Allan Poe, Ernest Hemingway, Virginia Woolf, O. Henry, Maupassant, Márquez, and more. These are stories that broke new ground and shaped the literature of our time. The thread that ties them all together is the quality of the writing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-best-short-stories-ever/article34624913.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||1232 km: The Long Journey Home||Vinod Kapri  HarperCollins Rs. 399 This book traces seven migrants from Bihar who rode their bicycles and travelled seven days and seven nights from Ghaziabad to Saharsa last year during the COVID-19-led lockdown to reach home. Accompanying them was National Award-winning filmmaker Vinod Kapri, who filmed the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/1232-km-the-long-journey-home/article34624915.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The Art of Business Wars||David Brown  John Murray Press/ Hachette Rs. 699 The host of the podcast,Business Wars, frames some of the biggest business rivalries in history using Chinese military strategist Sun Tzu’s insights. Each rivalry tells a story of wits, strategies, and resources. Brown chronicles the rise of companies and what they do to stay on top.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-art-of-business-wars/article34624924.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nehru, Tibet and China||A.K. Bhasin  Penguin Random House Rs. 699 The People’s Republic of China came into being in 1949. India, with Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru at its helm, saw a deterioration in relations with China, eventually leading to the 1962 war. This book analyses events from 1949 to the Indo-China war in 1962 and its aftermath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nehru-tibet-and-china/article34624928.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Development, Distribution and Markets||Edited by Kaushik Basu  Oxford University Press Rs. 1,495 This volume of essays discusses the relevance of development economics today. It grapples with questions on how to design anti-poverty policies and under what conditions we can expect them to be successful. It concentrates on programmes and policies for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/development-distribution-and-markets/article34624926.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||SUNDAY RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article34624867.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Serum’s supply to COVAX hit by India’s poor planning||On August 15, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said three COVID-19 vaccines are in different stages of testing and that India is “ready with a plan for production” and has a roadmap ready to distribute the vaccines to “every Indian in the least amount of time”. The Indian regulatory agency granted restricted use approval to Covishield and Covaxin on January 2 and January 3, 2021, respectively. On August 7, a week before Mr. Modi’s announcement, the Pune-based Serum Institute signed an agreement with GAVI and Gates Foundation to manufacture and deliver up to 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines for low- and middle-income countries as early as the first half of 2021. The supply was meant to be made to the COVAX facility. On September 29, 2020, Serum Institute pledged to manufacture and deliver an additional 100 million doses, bringing the total number of doses to be delivered to the COVAX facility to 200 million, with an option to produce more. To ensure assured supply of 200 million vaccine doses, the Gates Foundation provided $300 million of “at-risk funding” to Serum Institute. This came in two tranches of $150 million when supply of 100 million doses was sealed and then an additional $150 million funding in September 2020 when Serum agreed to supply 100 million more doses to the collaboration. As per data shared by the government, Serum has exported 66.2 million doses to 95 countries as on April 21. Of these, only a paltry 19.8 million doses were supplied to COVAX. India gave away 10.7 million doses to 48 countries as a grant, while Serum sold 35.7 million doses to other countries as part of commercial contracts. Export ban issue But with the second wave raging across the country, India has stopped Serum from exporting vaccines either to the COVAX facility or to individual countries as part of the bilateral agreements already signed by Serum. The government has instead directed the company to make the vaccines available to Indians on priority. But the government has not explicitly said it has banned exports. On April 2, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi clarified on the export ban issue. “Till now, we have supplied vaccines to more than 80 countries across the world and we have already stated that our external supplies would be done keeping in mind our domestic requirements,” Mr. Bagchi said. He then added: “At this time, I hope our partners understand that vaccines are primarily purposed for domestic consumption. I want to emphasise that we have not imposed any export ban on vaccines.” But contrary to the claims made by the government, on May 11, Serum was stopped from exporting five million doses to the U.K. despite an agreement with AstraZeneca in this regard. These doses were to be used for vaccinating adults aged 18-44 years in India. Balancing needs Even on February 21, just days after cases started surging in Maharashtra, Serum gave the first indication that it would not be able to meet its global commitment of supplying 200 million doses to the COVAX facility by the first half of 2021. Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum tweeted: “Dear countries & governments, as you await Covishield supplies, I humbly request you to please be patient, Serum Institute has been directed to prioritise the huge needs of India and along with that balance the needs of the rest of the world. We are trying our best.” On April 7, Mr. Poonawalla was optimistic of resuming exports by June if the second wave waned quickly. But with the second wave appearing to have peaked just a few days ago, at least in a few States, Serum is going to miss the June target date too. Going by a statement released on May 18, Mr. Poonawalla has been forced to shift the goalpost for exports once again. “We continue to scale up manufacturing and prioritise India. We also hope to start delivering to COVAX and other countries by the end of this year,” he said. While the U.S. provided billions of dollars in funding to each vaccine manufacturer right in the beginning of vaccine development and testing and is now ensuring that it has enough vaccines to immunise 70% of adults by July 4, India provided funding only in April this year. Inordinate delay Only on April 19 did the government approve Rs.3,000 crore in funding to Serum Institute and Rs.1,500 crore to Bharat Biotech to meet the cost of ramping up production capacity. This funding comes nearly seven–eight months after Serum Institute received $300 million funding from Gates Foundation. Not only did India fail to place firm orders with the two companies well in advance, but also it did not provide the companies any funding till a month ago to expand the manufacturing capacities. What it has instead done is to appropriate for its use the vaccine doses which were already paid for by other entities and were meant for other countries under COVAX facility and bilateral agreements. Despite appropriating all the vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute, India is facing huge vaccine shortages and so the vaccination drive has been slow and the rate of immunisation steadily dropping; on May 20, only 1.4 million were vaccinated. As on May 20, India has vaccinated over 190 million adults; only 40-odd million have received both doses. The three priority groups of healthcare workers, frontline workers, and those older than 45 years alone account for 300 million people. This would mean 600 million doses to cover the three priority groups by July. With Serum Institute’s capacity to manufacture only 60–65 million doses per month and that of Bharat Biotech of about 10 million per month, completion of a large-scale expansion of production capacities months ago was essential if all the 300 million were to be vaccinated by July. With nearly 600 million more adults aged 18-44 now eligible for a vaccine, and any expansion of capacity likely to take a couple of more months, it is not sure when Serum Institute will ever be able to meet its obligation towards COVAX and bilateral agreements with other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/serums-supply-to-covax-hit-by-indias-poor-planning/article34625038.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||How whiteflies came, saw and conquered India’s crops||It was early summer in 2016 when Selvaraj Krishnan and his team from ICAR- National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources set out to investigate a coconut field in Tamil Nadu. They were surveying the area for the whitefly, which was reducing the yield and wreaking havoc: the whitefly.The first invasive whitefly reported from Kerala in 1995 has now spread across the country, and a study has now detailed the damage caused by the pest. Patterns of occurrence Extensive studies were carried out from 2015 to 2020 across the country to understand the patterns of occurrence, the intensity of the infestation and their natural enemies. The team visited at least 5 to 10 locations in each district and 5 to 12 districts in each state including the islands of Lakshadweep. They extracted genomic DNA from individual adult whiteflies and explained in detail about eight invasive species found in India. “Most of these species are native to the Caribbean islands or Central America [or both]. It is difficult to pinpoint how they entered our country. Most probably a nymph or baby insect may have come along with imported plants. Also nowadays with globalisation, it is also possible that tourists may have brought the insect along with plants. Out of curiosity, people randomly pluck and bring tiny plants which lead to the accidental introduction of invasive species. We need to create awareness among the travellers,” explains R. Sundararaj from the Forest Protection Division at ICFRE-Institute of Wood Science and Technology. He is the first author of the paper published in Phytoparasitica. The team note that the first reported invasive spiralling whitefly Aleurodicus dispersus is now distributed throughout India except Jammu & Kashmir. Similarly, the rugose spiralling whitefly which was reported in Pollachi, Tamil Nadu in 2016 has now spread throughout the country including the islands of Andaman Nicobar and Lakshadweep. Recent reports have indicated that approximately 1.35 lakh hectares of coconut and oil palm in India are affected by the rugose spiralling whitefly. The team found that the host range of all of the invasive whiteflies was increasing due to their polyphagous nature (ability to feed on various kinds of food) and prolific breeding.  Aleurodicus dispersus and Aleurodicus rugioperculatus have been reported on over 320 and 40 plant species, respectively. Invasive whiteflies Other invasive whiteflies were also found to expand their host range on valuable plants species, especially coconut, banana, mango, sapota, guava, cashew, oil palm, and ornamental plants such as bottle palm, false bird of paradise, butterfly palm and important medicinal plants. The team also carried out explorative surveys to find novel biological control of these invasive pests. “The whiteflies are difficult to control by using synthetic insecticides, and hence currently naturally occurring insect predators, parasitoids and entomopathogenic fungi (fungi that can kill insets) are being used. They are not just environmentally friendly but also economically feasible,” explains Selvaraj Krishnan, corresponding author of the paper. “Entomopathogenic fungi specific to whiteflies are isolated, purified, grown in the lab or mass-produced and applied into the whitefly infested field in combination with the release of lab-reared potential predators and parasitoids,” he says. He adds that continuous monitoring of the occurrence of invasive species, their host plants and geographical expansion is needed, and if required, import of potential natural enemies for bio-control programmes can also be carried out.  Most of these species are native to the Caribbean islands or Central America. It is difficult to pinpoint how they entered India. R. Sundararaj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-whiteflies-came-saw-and-conquered-indias-crops/article34625029.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 could become like common cold in future, study suggests||The novel coronavirus responsible for COVID-19 could cause no more than common cold-like coughs and sniffles within the next decade, according to a study. The research, published in the journal Viruses, makes this likely prediction based on mathematical models that incorporate lessons learned from the current pandemic on how our body's immunity changes over time. “This shows a possible future that has not yet been fully addressed,” said Fred Adler, a professor of mathematics and biological sciences at the University of Utah in the US. “Over the next decade, the severity of COVID-19 may decrease as populations collectively develop immunity,” Adler said. The study suggests that changes in the disease could be driven by adaptations of our immune response rather than by changes in the virus itself. Although the SARS-CoV-2 virus is the best-known member of the family, other seasonal coronaviruses circulate in the human population, and they are less dangerous.  The ‘Russian flu’  The researchers noted that some evidence indicates that one of these cold-causing relatives might have once been severe, giving rise to the “Russian flu” pandemic in the late nineteenth century. The parallels led the scientists to wonder whether the severity of SARS-CoV-2 could similarly lessen over time. They built mathematical models incorporating evidence on the body’s immune response to SARS-CoV-2. Analysing several scenarios and their versions set up a situation where an increasing proportion of the population will become predisposed to mild disease over the long term. “In the beginning of the pandemic, no one had seen the virus before. Our immune system was not prepared,” Adler explained. The models show that as more adults become partially immune, whether through prior infection or vaccination, severe infections all but disappear over the next decade, the researchers said. Eventually, the only people who will be exposed to the virus for the first time will be children who are naturally less prone to severe disease, they said. “The novel approach here is to recognise the competition taking place between mild and severe COVID-19 infections and ask which type will get to persist in the long run,” said Alexander Beams, study first author and graduate student at University of Utah. “We have shown that mild infections will win, as long as they train our immune systems to fight against severe infections,” Beams said.  New variants However, the researchers noted that the models do not account for every potential influence on disease trajectory. For instance, if new virus variants overcome partial immunity, COVID-19 could take a turn for the worse, they said. The team also noted that these predictions will hold up only if the key assumptions of the models hold up. “Our next step is comparing our model predictions with the most current disease data to assess which way the pandemic is going as it is happening,” Adler added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covid-19-could-become-like-common-cold-in-future-study-suggests/article34625031.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||BRICS Astronomy Working Group moots networking of existing telescopes||The BRICS Astronomy Working Group has recommended networking of telescopes in member countries and creating a regional data network. Under the science, technology and innovation track of the BRICS 2021 calendar, India hosted the seventh meeting of BRICS Astronomy Working Group (BAWG) on online mode from May 19 and 20. Also present were astronomers from these countries. In the BAWG meeting, the delegates agreed to develop a flagship project in this area. It witnessed participation from all five BRICS countries – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – with more than 50 participants, including researchers, academicians and government officials. Future directions The members of the working group also indicated future directions of research in this area such as building a network of intelligent telescopes and data, study of transient astronomical phenomena in the universe, big data, artificial intelligence, machine learning applications to process the voluminous data generated by the enhanced multi-wavelength telescope observatory. The delegates deliberated on strategic and operational matters and recommended the networking of existing telescopes in BRICS countries and creating regional data network. They agreed to develop a flagship project in this area, according to a statement by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India. From the Indian side, the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune, and the DST coordinated the meeting. Enhance collaboration The BAWG, which provides a platform for BRICS member countries to collaborate in the field of astronomy, recommended that each country should present the scientific results of the work being carried out in their country. This will help seek funding support to realise the flagship project whenever funding opportunities were announced by BRICS funding agencies. The BAWG noted the importance of enhancing collaboration among astronomers from the BRICS countries. The calendar S K Varshney, head of international cooperation division of the DST, presented India’s perspectives, and lead scientific researchers from each BRICS country presented their country report which highlighted the research activities and infrastructure they have created. India assumed the BRICS Presidency from January 2021. About 100 events, including ministerial level meetings, senior official meetings, and sectorial meetings or conferences, stand to be organised in 2021.  The delegates deliberated on strategic matters . They agreed to develop a flagship project in this area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/brics-astronomy-working-group-moots-networking-of-existing-telescopes/article34625030.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Sensitive warblers||Can traffic noise affect birds? Roadside habitats are important for many plants, insects, mammals, and birds. There is mounting evidence that traffic noise can have several negative effects on animals. The loud noise has been known to disrupt the ability of birds to communicate and even attract mates. A previous study proposed that traffic noise reduced breeding success in Willow Warblers (Phylloscopus trochilus). Another paper found that hearing the noises of cars driving by was enough to inhibit cognitive performance in songbirds. A new study (Science Advances) published this week noted that juvenile zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) raised in an environment that simulated city traffic noise had weaker immune responses and delayed vocal development than chicks raised in quiet nests. Henrik Brumm, who led the international research project, said in a release that the findings indicate that young songbirds, just like human children, are particularly vulnerable to the effects of noise because of its potential to interfere with learning at a critical developmental stage. The paper adds that traffic noise pollution also has the potential to affect the cultural evolution of birdsong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/sensitive-warblers/article34625032.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Deep purple from Odisha||Chindi Varadarajulu, chef and owner of Chennai-based Pumpkin Tales, is delighted with the purple sweet potatoes she has sourced this summer. They have brought back memories of her childhood in Singapore, she says. The potatoes, a deep purple with a sweet fragrance when cooked, are from Mati Farms, a farming enterprise in Odisha — the state leading in sweet potato production across India. “I have been actively looking for them for the past year. They are versatile and lend vibrancy to the simplest recipes,” says Varadarajulu. Earlier this month, Delhi-based farming initiative Krishi Cress, that offers locally-grown exotic produce, also added these spuds to their list. A client, beauty columnist and influencer Vasudha Rai, immediately took to Instagram to share her experience — delicious breakfast bars with the sweet potatoes, Medjool dates, coconut oil and pistachio. Sanjog Sahu, the young farmer behind Mati Farms, couldn’t be more delighted. “Tie-ups with like-minded partners are gratifying, and have enabled us to tide over problems during these unprecedented times,” he says. Growing a revolution What started as a pilot project on Sahu’s one-acre farm on the banks of the Chilika lake in late 2016, grew into Mati Farms in 2018 — incorporating smallholder farmers into its initiative. Themātiin ‘Mati Farms’ is soil, in Oriya. “We refer to ourselves as Mati Farms in the plural. It’s because even when we were just one tiny farm, the goal was to always create an optimal model that could be quickly adopted by smallholder farmers for profitability and environmental resilience,” adds Sahu, 35, who discontinued a PhD at the University of Arizona and set up Mati Farms. “My research focussed on the relationship between agriculture and environmental change in the Eastern Ghats. During the course of my PhD, I interacted with the farmers there, and realised that I should be involving myself in something more actionable,” he says. The purple sweet potatoes are indigenously developed. “We conducted multiple trials to identify how it grows best, following which we expanded its production within our network of farmers. Our farmer group in northern Orissa, led by well-known organic mango farmer Lal Bahadoor Mohanta, has successfully grown purple sweet potatoes in summer, a feat unheard of,” says Sahu, about what is traditionally a winter crop harvested in September and March. As for its special fragrance, he calls it a “happy discovery”. According to the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI), purple sweet potatoes have a high anthocyanin content of 90 milligrams per hundred grams. “But we still do not know much about the flavour profile and are conducting independent tests to understand this better,” he adds. The farmer network Twenty-three farmers are actively a part of Mati Farms, across the highland regions of Gajapati district, Koraput, the foothills and uplands of Daitari at the Jajpur-Keonjhar border in northern Odisha, and coastal regions. Sahu says, “We handhold our network of farmers right from the seed stage to harvest, with knowledge transfer, organic inputs and troubleshooting, and have an assured buyback at fair prices. The farmers contribute their time, labour and land.” The fact that sustainability is key here is what excites chef Varadarajulu. “There are so many locally grown vegetables and fruits that we don’t see anymore. If we do not cook with them, farmers will stop growing them and the younger generation will never know about the wealth of local produce,” she says.  Making travel plans  Sahu observes that while growing exotic vegetables was easy, marketing them in eastern India was another matter. “Odisha’s vegetable farmers are already good at growing what they do, leading the State to quietly become one of the largest producers of vegetables in the country. But the problem lay in finding a market for the perishables,” he says, having now ventured into setting up a vegetable processing plant at Jagatpur. Meanwhile, Varadarajulu plans to source more sweet potatoes in September. “I hope to convince vegetable markets to carry it. It will definitely be a big part of our menu as a seasonal vegetable,” she promises. Sahu, who prefers the sweet potatoes baked in their jackets, is amused at the reaction of his folks back home. “As it trends across the globe as a superfood, they are bemused as to what the fuss over the humble sweet potato is all about,” he concludes.  For details, visit matifarms.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deep-purple-from-odisha/article34625235.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A jobs crisis in the second wave of COVID-19||The story so far: Hit by a relentless second wave of COVID-19 infections, India has seen localised lockdowns across several States. With activity restrained, job losses have climbed. This has dampened family incomes and consumer sentiment, setting the stage for lower-than-anticipated economic growth and belying the nation’s hopes of racing back to activity this year on a low base last year. How have lockdowns affected jobs? Among the first effects felt from a region’s lockdown is the loss of jobs. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate was 6.5% in March but rose to around 8% in April, the month when several States began to prepare for or had already imposed lockdowns. With 73.5 lakh job losses in April, the number of employees (both salaried and non-salaried) fell from 39.81 crore in March to 39.08 crore in April for the third straight month. In April 2020, which was the first full month of the national lockdown last year, the unemployment rate had zoomed to 23.5%. What do the data indicate about unemployment in rural and urban areas? At 7.13%, the rural unemployment rate for April 2021 is lower than the urban figure of 9.8%. The month of May has seen the rates rise further at the national level. As of May 21, the 30-day moving average for overall unemployment was 10.3%, with the relevant figures for urban and rural areas at 12.2% and 9.4%, respectively. The labour participation rate (LPR) for April 2021, at 40%, remained lower than the levels seen before last year’s lockdown. Labour participation helps measure the section of the population that is willing to take on jobs. Unemployment is a subset, which helps in giving a measure of those who are willing to take on jobs but are not employed. Women tend to face a double challenge, with lower labour participation and a higher unemployment rate for females compared with males (for ages above 15). For the January-April 2021 period, urban female LPR was 7.2% compared with the urban male’s 64.8%, while urban female unemployment was 18.4% against the urban male unemployment rate of 6.6%, CMIE data showed. How has the agriculture sector fared? Agriculture was the saving grace during the first wave, but it is not so during the second one. April 2020 saw this sector being the only one to add jobs — the count of those employed in the agriculture sector had gone up by 6 million or 5% compared with the average count in FY20, according to CMIE data. In April 2021, agriculture shed 6 million jobs compared to a month earlier. This figure ties in with reports of the hinterland being far more affected by the pandemic this year compared with last year. Daily wage labourers and small traders saw a loss of employment in the order of 0.2 million in April. Some of these agricultural and daily wage labourers may have found work in the construction industry as the sector saw an increase of 2.7 million jobs during April. But, as the CMIE posits, most of the 6.2 million people released from agriculture and daily wages jobs could well have ended up remaining unemployed during the month. This is a clear indication that the jobs scenario is weakening even before recovering from last year’s onslaught. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act data showed that April saw an uptick in the demand for jobs — 2.7 crore households signed up for work in April 2021, rising from 1.3 crore a year earlier — as reverse migration of labour picked up, resulting in availability of hands in the rural parts. Did the salaried class escape unscathed? No. The cumulative loss of salaried jobs since the pandemic began is pegged at 12.6 million, according to CMIE data, and the trend continues with April 2021 seeing this coveted category drop 3.4 million jobs from the level in March 2021. Which States have been hit the hardest? Haryana recorded the highest unemployment rate in April 2021 at 35%, as per CMIE data, followed by Rajasthan at 28%, Delhi at 27.3%, and Goa at 25.7%. Significantly, Gujarat, which, like the above States, also witnessed the ferocity of the pandemic’s second wave, saw unemployment at an appreciably lower level of 1.8%. What are the economic consequences of rising unemployment? Obviously, job losses have a telling effect on incomes. CMIE’s managing director and CEO, Mahesh Vyas, said that 90% of Indian families have seen their incomes shrink over the course of the past 13 months. Loss of income naturally dampens consumer sentiment and lowers economic demand. The RBI’s monthly bulletin published earlier this month acknowledged that the biggest toll of the pandemic’s second wave was in terms of “a demand shock — loss of mobility, discretionary spending and employment, besides inventory accumulation”. In an article titled ‘State of the Economy’ in the bulletin, RBI officials pointed out that aggregate demand conditions had been impacted, “albeit not on the scale of the first wave”. They highlighted the fact that e-way bills, an indicator of domestic trade, recorded double-digit contraction at 17.5% month-on-month in April 2021, with intrastate and inter-state e-way bills declining by 16.5% and 19%, respectively. This is an ominous sign for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections in the coming months. Collections in April 2021 were the highest-ever at Rs. 1.41 lakh crore since the new tax regime was introduced. The authors of the RBI bulletin article said the contraction in e-way bills could point “to a moderation in GST collections in coming months”. However, despite the decline over March 2021, total e-way bills remained above the pre-pandemic baseline of February 2020, “indicating that domestic trade has remained resilient on the back of digitisation of sales platforms”. The RBI officials asserted that the second wave has so far had only a limited impact on industrial activity, citing the 8.1% growth in electricity generation in April over the pre-pandemic base of April 2019. Would the situation improve if the current lockdowns were to end today? Food insecurity is a key welfare issue in the months following an economic shock. A report from Azim Premji University’s Centre for Sustainable Employment, titled ‘State of Working India 2021, One year of COVID-19’, showed that on average, households lost about 22% of their cumulative income over eight months ended October 2020. Also, poorer households lost a larger proportion of their already low incomes. This not only led to increased poverty levels, the researchers said, but also that the ways in which households coped with this shock was by borrowing, largely from informal sources, selling assets, and cutting back on food consumption. This means that even after a lockdown is lifted and employment begins returning close to the earlier levels, consumer spending, the lifeblood of any economy, may remain muted. The report cited a couple of surveys — the University’s own ‘COVID Livelihoods Phone Survey’ (CLIPS) and Hunger Watch — to highlight the problem of the low-income population cutting back on food intake. The Hunger Watch survey showed that 66% of surveyed households had less to eat even five months after last year’s lockdown. The researchers argued that incomes lost during the months when economic activity is more severely affected “leave a long-term impact either as depleted savings or as incurred debt, which must be built back or paid back, by curtailing future consumption and investment”. The CLIPS survey showed that the poorest households took the largest loans relative to their earnings. How are governments addressing these issues? The Central government has announced that it will distribute 5 kg of rice and wheat for free to ration card holders across the country. Individual States have added to this. Bihar, for example, has announced that it would add an equal measure to the Centre’s distribution from the State’s resources for free distribution via the Public Distribution System. Tamil Nadu has announced a Rs. 4,000 handout per ration card and has begun distributing the first tranche of half that amount. Kerala has promised that no family would go hungry in the State. Last September, the Kerala government announced free food kits for 88 lakh families for four months; this May, it decided to continue with the distribution in view of the second wave. Karnataka has announced a Rs. 1,250-crore relief package, through which farmers, auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers, construction workers and other informal sector workers will receive varying amounts in the form of a one-time dole.  The RBI’s monthly bulletin published earlier this month acknowledged that the biggest toll of the pandemic’s second wave was in terms of ‘a demand shock — loss of mobility, discretionary spending and employment, besides inventory accumulation’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-jobs-crisis-in-the-second-wave-of-covid-19/article34624960.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||CM appeals to Centre to increase vaccine quota||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to the Centre to increase the vaccine quota for Delhi stating that vaccination centres for the 18-44 age-group had been shut down and vaccination halted due to the shortage of vaccines in Delhi. Writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard, Mr. Kejriwal made four suggestions to the Centre to tide over the lack of supply which included the distribution of international vaccines to States and the procurement of vaccine stock from nations that have more than they need. “In the past 24 hours, only 2,200 cases have come up in Delhi. The infection rate has also declined in the past 24 hours and has come down to only 3.5%. But this does not mean that the dangers of COVID-19 have been stalled. It persists. We have to take every measure to save ourselves from the virus,” he told a digital briefing. “From today onwards, the vaccination drive for the youth has come to an end. The vaccines that the Central government sent for the youth have finished. I am extremely saddened by the fact that we have to close down the centres for vaccinating the youth due to the non-availability of the vaccines,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said that Delhi needs 80 lakh vaccine doses every month in comparison to which the city had received only 16 lakh in the month of May and the Centre had further reduced the quota for it for the month of June. A letter received from the Centre, he said, stated that the city would be issued 8 lakh vaccine doses in June. Till now, he said, the Delhi government had administered a total of 50 lakh vaccine doses and needed 2.5 crore more to vaccinate all the adults in Delhi. “At this pace, if only 8 lakh vaccines are provided every month, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all adults in Delhi. Till then no one knows how many waves and deaths due to COVID-19 will be witnessed. To save lives, we have to immediately increase the availability of the vaccine in the country,” he said. Share formula “For this, I have four suggestions. Firstly, Bharat Biotech which manufactures Covaxin is ready to give its formula to other companies. There are several vaccine-making companies in the country. The central government should immediately invite all those companies and give them an order that all those companies should start rapidly making vaccines,” he also said. In the next 24 hours, he said, all these companies should be called and given this order since every day was precious. He also suggested that all foreign vaccines should be given immediate permission to be used in India. The Centre, he said, should also buy vaccines from foreign manufacturers and distribute these among States. His third solution was that the Centre should plead with other nations which had stocked up on vaccine doses for their populations to share these with India. “The Government of India should plead for giving those vaccines to India. The fourth suggestion is that all foreign vaccine manufacturing companies should be immediately permitted to manufacture vaccines in India,” he said. “It is my request to the Central government that vaccines should be made available to Delhi as soon as possible. The maximum number of lives of the youth have been lost in the second wave,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-appeals-to-centre-to-increase-vaccine-quota/article34625260.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccinating children and pregnant, lactating women||The story so far: Over four months after the COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched, India has administered around 19 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin so far. But it is yet to open up vaccination for pregnant women and children. On May 19, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare accepted fresh recommendations from the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) for vaccinating lactating mothers. The country is yet to study the safety and efficacy of the two existing vaccines in the paediatric population, with the Drugs Controller General of India recently giving the nod to Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials of Covaxin in the 2-18 years age group. Why should pregnant and lactating women be vaccinated against COVID-19? “Vaccinating pregnant women against COVID-19 is extremely important. The second wave is worse than the first wave. The impact is more in terms of the overall numbers,” said Dr. Jaishree Gajaraj, senior consultant, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, MGM Healthcare, Chennai, adding that based on observations by obstetricians in Chennai, roughly one in three pregnant women tested positive for COVID-19. “This is a high number, and it is important to do something to protect them as the disease burden in pregnancy is high,” she said. The Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI), in a statement last month, said protection should be extended to pregnant and lactating women. “The very real benefits of vaccinating pregnant and lactating women seem to far outweigh any theoretical and remote risks of vaccination,” it said. Pregnant women are a vulnerable population, said Dr. Gajaraj, adding, “There is some kind of immunological compromise in pregnant women. The disease could be severe, as we have noticed in the second wave.” For lactating women, FOGSI stated that there were no known adverse effects on neonates who are breastfeeding. “In fact, there is a passage of protective antibodies to the child, which may be a beneficial effect.” Do we have data to assess the risks or benefits? According to the World Health Organization, while pregnancy brings a higher risk of severe COVID-19, at present, very little data is available to assess vaccine safety in pregnancy. There is no evidence that suggests vaccination would cause harm during pregnancy. “To date, none of the clinical trials have included pregnant and lactating women for obvious reasons as no ethics board will give the nod. Preliminary information from the United States, which has been vaccinating since last year, is that the immune response has been good in pregnant women, irrespective of the type of vaccines. Antibodies were found in the umbilical cord and breastmilk that could give protection for the newborn,” said Dr. Gajaraj. Can children be vaccinated? Across the globe, several studies have begun to examine the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in children. The United States has started vaccination for children above 12 years of age. Dr. Rema Chandramohan, professor of paediatrics, Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Chennai, said, “The paediatric population is less affected during this pandemic. Since adults are either infected or vaccinated, children will become vulnerable in the next wave. Initially, it was thought that children will not be affected due to the absence of ACE2 receptor in the lungs but we do see several children with the infection, who are mostly asymptomatic, and some with typical symptoms of COVID-19. There are two ways that COVID-19 presents in children — as viral fever and as a multisystem inflammatory syndrome. Vaccinating children against COVID-19, therefore, becomes necessary.” How is it different from vaccinating adults? “When a vaccine against COVID-19 for children is being developed, the vaccine developer should keep in mind the effect of the vaccine on children, and how safe the vaccines are in children. The benefits should outweigh the risks to a great extent. There should be sufficient safety trials before rolling out the vaccines for children,” said Dr. Chandramohan. The results of trials abroad among 12-year- to 17-year-olds have demonstrated the safety of vaccines, said Dr. Chandramohan, adding: “We cannot extrapolate studies done in adolescents and adults as every aspect is different in children — the dose, weight of the child, muscle mass matters. We need to look at the minimal dose required which will give maximum benefit/response in addition to having minimal side effects and maximum safety profile in children to call it an effective vaccine.” What lies ahead? Vaccination of pregnant women is something that needs immediate attention. There are a lot of debates on the safety of vaccines in pregnancy. “Being a killed vaccine, there is no real expectation of adverse effects with Covaxin. There have been some reports of coagulation and blood clotting problems with Covishield, especially in the younger population less than 30 years of age. The rare occurrence of these adverse effects should not be a deterrent to offer the much-needed protection … Concerns regarding the severity of COVID-19 infection in pregnancy far outweigh the remote possibility of side-effects,” said Dr. Gajaraj. Noting that there was only a theoretical risk of adverse events, she said informed consent could be obtained from women before vaccination. “Usually, vaccines are avoided in the first 12 to 13 weeks of pregnancy due to organogenesis. Vaccines, including the flu shot, are generally given after 26 weeks to protect the neonates, too. But this is a pandemic, and we could give the vaccination at any time during the pregnancy to protect the mother.” “Once we have a vaccine for children, we should look at how it can be included in the vaccination schedule without interfering with the regular schedule. Coronavirus is highly mutated, and so, like influenza, children may need regular booster doses,” Dr. Chandramohan noted.  When a vaccine against COVID-19 for children is being developed, says a doctor, the benefits must far outweigh the risks. ‘The vaccine developer should ensure that sufficient safety trials have been held before rolling it out’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccinating-children-and-pregnant-lactating-women/article34624962.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Duty comes above mourning loved ones||Last year in May, Nirupma Attreya, 57, and her husband, both doctors, were on COVID-19 duty when they tested positive for COVID-19. Both were hospitalised. The husband passed away on June 28. “After his death, I was very scared about working. I’m still scared for my family, myself, and our son, who is studying in a medical college. I couldn’t go back to duty for two to three months due to mental stress. My colleagues advised that I should resume work as it will be a good distraction and help me. Returning to work helped to a little extent. I still suffer from mental stress,” Dr. Attreya, who works at a private hospital said. Family members and friends of doctors, who passed away after contracting COVID-19, said that they are back to work at hospitals as it is part of their job. Fully vaccinated They said that they knew about the danger and used to discuss it with their loved ones. Some of the doctors had taken both doses of the vaccine. “Last year, my husband [Dr. Aseem Gupta] was very anxious about doing COVID duty. I was also on duty at that time and we used to discuss about it,” she said. Dr. Attreya, a radiologist, said that after getting back to work, the hospital has not been giving her COVID-19 duty. “I see patients and they could have COVID, but I’m not specifically working at a COVID ward. Maybe, people at the hospital think that I suffered a lot and that’s why they are not putting me on COVID duty,” she said. She said that the current condition is very bad. “A number of good healthcare workers have passed away. Currently, even doctors could not get beds, oxygen, ICU beds with ventilators. A number of doctors passed away. The government should have given facilities for all healthcare workers,” Dr. Attreya added. Dr. Atul Agarwal, 59, lost his brother Dr. Shekhar Agarwal, 68, who was the director of Sant Parmanand Hospital on May 10. “He tested positive on April 21 and he was going to the hospital for work till that day. The last time I spoke to him was when he was being put on the ventilator. He told me that ‘Atul, I’m tired. I’m opting for a ventilator,” Dr. Atul said. “He was not afraid and used to go to the hospital every day and never took a day off. He was like the captain of the ship,” he added. When asked whether he has joined work, Dr. Atul said that he was still getting adjusted to the reality. “I will be joining work on Monday. I won’t stay away from work. I’m a doctor first. I can’t say that I have lost my brother and I can’t work. All healthcare workers should work at this point,” he said. Dr. Shekhar had taken his vaccination doses. “Unfortunately, we lost him. But everyone should get vaccinated,” Dr. Atul said. Dr. Amit Singh, 39, a suspected COVID-19 patient, died on May 13. Dr. Abhishek, a friend, who is also a doctor and had known him for years, said that both of them were doing COVID-19 duty and he was “shocked” when he heard the news. ‘Like a brother’ “He was like a brother to me. A week before he died, he told me that he had mild fever and body ache. We used to talk about healthcare workers dying. He used to be like an elder brother to me and said that we are taking all precautions and have also taken both doses of the vaccine and it should be okay,” Dr. Abhishek said. He said that he went back to COVID-19 duty within days of Dr. Singh’s death. “We both are anaesthetics, and we are responsible for COVID ICU. Cases are high now, it is part of the job, and we have to do it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duty-comes-above-mourning-loved-ones/article34625255.ece
23 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Food, mattresses were floating in sewage water’||As rain battered the Capital since Wednesday, protesting farmers, who have been lodged for the last six months at the Singhu border, spent their nights trying to clear the sewage water from their langar premises. Sharing their experience since the last three days, Sukhwinder Singh Barwa from Ropar said that it’s been very tough for the last three days. “We have been spending sleepless nights. There are drains on both sides of the road and the drainage system has proved to be a failure in this rain. Drains were overflowing and our food and mattresses were floating in sewage water,” he said. Repair drainage system He also said that youth at the protest site have gathered and are planning to repair the drainage system herein. “On Friday night and before that, we had to dig the drains and force the water off the roads. But a permanent solution will be reached,” he said. “This was just a trailer. Monsoon hasn’t even reached Delhi yet,” he said. Another protester, Bharpur Singh (38) from Patiala, said that the government — by maintaining silence — has prepared them for the worst. “The last three days with unbelievable and unpredictable rain is an eye-opener for us. We’ll be better prepared for the monsoon,” he said. Mr. Singh said that he himself, along with hundred others, spent the night clearing the water off the roads and tents. “Garbage, filth and stagnant water submerged the entire place. All the mattresses and clothes were then cleaned and left to dry on Saturday,” he said. Request dodged  Protesters said that they had written to the Sonipat administration regarding the water problem but they had dodged the request. “The drainage problem impacts Kundli village and they have their own mechanism to deal with it. But since the administration is not doing anything, we might make this a better place to live,” he said. He said that raw material kept for langars including, tomatoes in bulk were destroyed. However, a few protesters brought more with them and distributed on Saturday. Other diseases Avtar Singh who runs the makeshift hospital at Singhu border protest site said that they first managed to save all the equipment quickly and then drained out the water. “It’s not just COVID-19 which can infect people. There’s also malaria and dengue which can spread here due to filth and stagnant water,” he said. Farmer leaders on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking the government to resume talks but also maintained that the demands remain the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-mattresses-were-floating-in-sewage-water/article34625257.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal gives Rs. 1 crore to doctor’s kin||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday provided financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore to the family of ‘Corona warrior’ Dr. Anas Mujahid who died after contracting the infection in the line of duty. Mujahid was a junior resident doctor in the department of obstetrics and gynaecology at the GTB Hospital where he succumbed to COVID-19 on May 9 in a matter of a few hours. He was 26 years old. The government stated Mujahid contracted the infection while on duty on May 8. He was a resident of Mustafabad and is survived by his father Dr. Mujahidul Islam, mother Nasima Mujahid, brothers Imaduddin, Maaz and Hassan and sister Sidrah. “Like my son, Anas, sacrificed his life serving the people of the nation, I want that my other children to also grow up to serve the nation,” his Dr Mujahidul said. “Late Dr. Anas was hard working and serving the people of Delhi at GTB hospital since the time Corona emerged in Delhi. While serving the patients and being on his duty, he succumbed to COVID… it is because of people like Anas that we are able to save lives and the Delhi government is able to fight the Corona pandemic,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He assured the family of any help in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-gives-rs-1-crore-to-doctors-kin/article34625258.ece
23 May 2021||May 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Identifying mutants||The story so far: In early March, members of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), an advisory group to the Central government, warned of a new and contagious form of the novel coronavirus. Last week, Shahid Jameel, eminent virologist and head of INSACOG, resigned from his post unexpectedly. Though he did not cite the reasons for his exit, Dr. Jameel has been a critic of aspects of the government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly on data sharing, the emergence of new variants and their role in the second wave of infections. What is INSACOG? INSACOG is a consortium of 10 labs across the country tasked with scanning COVID-19 samples from swathes of patients and flagging the presence of variants that were known to have spiked transmission internationally. It has also been tasked with checking whether certain combinations of mutations were becoming more widespread in India. Some of these labs had begun scanning for mutations in April 2020 itself, but it was not a pan-India effort. The institutes involved were those with expertise in genome sequencing and included laboratories of the Department of Biotechnology, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW). The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) under the MoHFW was tasked with coordinating collection of samples from the States as well correlating disease with the mutations. The work began in January by sequencing samples of people who had a history of travel from the United Kingdom and a proportion of positive samples in the community. What are the findings? A May 6 note from the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) said 20,000 samples had been sequenced and about 3,900 variants had been identified. The “foreign” variants identified were primarily the B.1.1.7 (first identified in the United Kingdom) and the B.1.351 (first found in South Africa) and a small number of P2 variants (from Brazil). However, some labs flagged the growing presence of variants identified in India that were clubbed into a family of inter-related variants called B.1.617, also known as the ‘double mutant’ variant, primarily due to two mutations — E484Q and L452R — on the spike protein. These have been individually identified elsewhere but not together. However, there are many more mutations that contribute in different measures, in ways not fully understood, to the virus being able to adapt to human hosts. The B.1.617 family was marked as an international ‘variant of concern’ after it was linked to a recent spike in cases in the United Kingdom. In March, it was linked to a spurt in cases in Maharashtra. But there is no evidence yet to show that the variant is associated with increased disease severity. INSACOG labs also found that the B.1.1.7 variant, which is marked by increased infectivity, is distinctly more prevalent in several northern and central Indian States in comparison to southern States. Beyond identifying patterns, why is genome sequencing useful? The purpose of genome sequencing is to understand the role of certain mutations in increasing the virus’s infectivity. Some mutations have also been linked to immune escape, or the virus’s ability to evade antibodies, and this has consequences for vaccines. Labs across the world, including many in India, have been studying if the vaccines developed so far are effective against such mutant strains of the virus. They do this by extracting the virus from COVID-19-positive samples and growing enough of it. Then, blood serum from people who are vaccinated, and thereby have antibodies, is drawn. Using different probes, scientists determine how much of the antibodies thus extracted are required to kill a portion of the cultured virus. In general, the antibodies generated after vaccination — and this was true of Covaxin, Covishield, Pfizer and Moderna jabs — were able to neutralise variants. However, there were fewer antibodies produced against the South African, Brazil and the ‘double mutant’ variant.   Antibody levels are not the only markers of protection and there is a parallel network of cellular immunity that plays a critical role in how vaccines activate immunity. The current evidence for most COVID-19 vaccines is that they have almost 75% to 90% efficacy in protecting against disease but less so in preventing re-infection andtransmission. What are the challenges being faced by INSACOG? Given that the novel coronavirus is spreading, mutating and showing geographical variations, the aim of the group was to sequence at least 5% of the samples. For many reasons, this has so far been only around 1%, primarily due to a shortage of funds and insufficient reagents and tools necessary to scale up the process. While some of these issues can be explained as teething troubles, the INSACOG, in spite of being peopled by expert scientists, is ultimately an advisory group to the Central government and part of its communication structure. Warnings about emerging variants were not made public with sufficient urgency and the sharing of datasets, even within constituent groups of the INSACOG, was less than ideal.  The aim of INSACOG was to sequence at least 5% of novel coronavirus samples. It has managed to study only 1%, primarily due to a shortage of funds and insufficient reagents and tools necessary to rapidly scale up the process||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/identifying-mutants/article34624964.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Inoculation will halt if doses aren’t replenished’||The stock of COVID vaccination doses meant for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group is on the verge of exhaustion on Saturday and vaccination will be halted if doses are not replenished, AAP MLA Atishi said while issuing the day’s vaccine bulletin. On Saturday, only 88 sites were utilised; this number was 200 for beneficiaries in this category, five days ago, she said. On May 21, 48,628 doses were administered. The total number of COVID vaccination doses administered so far is above 50 lakh of which 12 lakh beneficiaries are those who have received both the doses, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/inoculation-will-halt-if-doses-arent-replenished/article34625252.ece
23 May 2021||New Delhi,||Hold all-party meeting, BJP tells AAP govt.||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday expressed “serious concern” over the high mortality rate in the Capital and demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal immediately convene an all-party meeting including, experts and scientists to discuss the action plan to deal with the impending third wave of COVID-19. Mr. Bidhuri said the high mortality rate was a matter of serious concern and needed to be investigated. “The death rate in Delhi was 1.62% while the national average was 1.27%. Delhi’s death rate is the highest in the country and it also an indication of the poor healthcare infrastructure in the Capital,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “In addition to this, the continued rise in the number of black fungus cases in Delhi is also very disturbing. More than 200 cases have been discovered in Delhi. The Delhi government has not declared is as an epidemic,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hold-all-party-meeting-bjp-tells-aap-govt/article34625251.ece
