24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre, majority of States opt to hold Class 12 board exams||A broad consensus has been reached among the Centre and most States that Class 12 board examinations must be held this year despite the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to senior officials who attended Sunday’s online consultation on the issue. However, the exams are likely to be shorter in duration, exam centres may be expanded, and schedules may be staggered. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who chaired the meeting, has given State governments three more days to offer feedback, asking them to respond in writing by Tuesday, after which a final decision will be announced. With regard to the Central Board of Secondary Education, students will be informed by June 1. A vocal section of parents and students have been demanding that the exams be cancelled, and a plea has been filed at the Supreme Court seeking cancellation. However, speaking at the meeting, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ pointed out “the importance of the Class 12 board exams and the All India Entrance exams in shaping the future and defining the careers of students”, a statement said. An “informed, collaborative decision” would be taken soon, he said. The Centre recommended that exams be only held in about 20 major subjects. It also proposed the duration be halved to 90 minutes with only multiple choice or short answer questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-majority-of-states-opt-to-hold-class-12-board-exams/article34630079.ece
24 May 2021||Kolkata,||Very severe cyclone Yaas to hit north Odisha coast||The depression over east-central Bay of Bengal is very likely to move in a north-northwest direction and intensify into a cyclonic storm. The system Yaas is expected to cross the coast in north Odisha-West Bengal between Paradip and the Sagar islands by the evening of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm. Officials at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata on Sunday issued warnings that squally winds of 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph are very likely to prevail over North Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha–West Bengal–Bangladesh coasts from the evening of May 24. “It would gradually increase further becoming 90-100 gusting to 110 kmph from 26th morning and increase thereafter becoming 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph at the time of landfall till 26th afternoon,“ a special bulletin issued by the IMD late on Sunday evening said. PM holds review meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday directed senior officers to work in close coordination with the States to ensure safe evacuation of people from high-risk areas. “The Prime Minister instructed all concerned departments to ensure timely evacuation of those involved in offshore activities. He spoke about the need to ensure that time duration of outages of power supply and communication network are minimum and are restored swiftly,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement after a review meeting to oversee the preparedness with senior officials.  The weather office has issued an orange warning of extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jhargram, Medinipur, North & south 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata in West Bengal and Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore in Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/very-severe-cyclone-yaas-to-hit-north-odisha-coast/article34630077.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Cumulative fatalities cross 3 lakh||India’s cumulative COVID-19 fatalities crossed the three lakh mark on Sunday. With 3,897 deaths till 9.50 p.m. on Sunday, the country has recorded 3,03,196 overall deaths. Only the United States and Brazil have registered more cumulative fatalities than India. India also recorded 2,09,168 new cases on Sunday. Tamil Nadu reported 35,483 infections, followed by Karnataka (25,979) and Kerala (25,820). Maharashtra recorded 894 casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (624) and Tamil Nadu (422). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. As many as 21,23,782 samples were tested on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday), the highest-ever number of tests carried out in a single day in the country. This is the fourth instance when the daily tests have crossed the 20-lakh mark. India’s average daily test positivity rate (TPR, positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and reduced to 13.4% as on May 22. Vaccine doses Around 16.04 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is 1.4 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. Also, it is 1.3 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. As of 9 p.m. on Sunday, in India, 16.1% of the adult population, 36% of the 45+ population and 41.5% of the 60+ population have been vaccinated with at least one dose. In Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, only about 9% of the adult population has been vaccinated with at least one dose. Among the 60+ age-group, 18.2% in Tamil Nadu and 25.4% in Uttar Pradesh have been vaccinated with at least one dose. While 67% in Chhattisgarh and 80% in Rajasthan have been done so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cumulative-fatalities-cross-3-lakh/article34630081.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||India to push for WHO, EU approval for Covaxin||Faced with concern that Indians receiving the Covaxin vaccine may not get relaxation in travel restrictions, the government has decided to help ensure that Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech receives clearances from both the World Health Organisation (WHO) and subsequently, the EU’s European Medicines Agency (EMA). According to sources, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has been tasked with studying the matter, given both the need for recognition for the Indian-made vaccine, as well as the desire to push for more export orders in the future, and a team led by Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and officials from the Health Ministry are expected to meet with Bharat Biotech representatives on Monday. “There is certainly an interest in getting Covaxin on WHO’s Emergency Use List (EUL),” said an official familiar with the matter, adding that the European regulatory procedures are likely to take longer but are also being pursued. The decision comes as 27 EU member countries on Thursday approved a proposal to allow “fully vaccinated” tourists from countries outside Europe under certain criteria. While the travellers getting AstraZeneca’s Covishield would be included on the WHO and EU’s listings, if travel from India is accepted, those who have taken Covaxin would not. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and members of the Cabinet are amongst those who have taken Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-to-push-for-who-eu-approval-for-covaxin/article34630083.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Olympian Sushil Kumar arrested in murder case||Two-time Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar was on Sunday arrested in connection with the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankhar at the Chhatrasal Stadium here. A Delhi court sent Mr. Kumar to six-day police custody. The police had announced a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on Mr. Kumar and Rs. 50,000 on his associate and co-accused Ajay. The Delhi police special cell arrested Mr. Kumar and Mr. Ajay from Delhi on Sunday morning. Mr. Kumar was physically produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Divya Malhotra who said the allegations against the accused were “grave in nature.” The Delhi police sought a 12-day custody to interrogate him. The police said the scene of the crime needed to be recreated. Two others were injured in the brawl that took place at the stadium over an alleged property dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/olympian-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-murder-case/article34630463.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||First session of 15th Assembly begins today||The first session of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly will commence on Monday amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. Pro-Tem Speaker P.T.A. Rahim will administer the oath of office to the newly elected legislators. The 14-day session will be held in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. Mr. Rahim was sworn in on Friday by the Governor at the Raj Bhavan. The swearing-in of the legislators will be completed by noon. Congress legislator M. Vincent has tested COVID positive and will not attend the swearing-in function. On the request of legislators, a maximum of four members of each family will be allowed to watch live the swearing-in from the R. Sankara Narayanan Thambi Members lounge. Budget on June 4 The Governor will make the customary policy address on May 28 and this will be followed by three days’ discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s Address from May 31. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal will present the revised 2021-2022 Budget and vote on account on June 4. The election of the Speaker is scheduled on May 25 at 9 a.m. The last date for filing of nominations is 12 noon on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-session-of-15th-assembly-begins-today/article34630272.ece
24 May 2021||Belagavi,||Two die of black fungus; Belagavi reports white fungus cases also||“Black fungus has claimed two lives in Belagavi district. Doctors have identified seven more cases of black fungus in the district. Two cases of white fungus have also been detected. All of them are COVID-19 positive patients,’’ District Health and Family Welfare Officer Shashikant Muiyal said in Belagavi on Sunday. “Two patients from Athani and Gokak died of black fungus in the last two days. They were both aged above 70. Cases of black fungus and white fungus have been reported in the last two weeks, in the second wave of COVID-19,’’ Dr. Muniyal said. Creating awareness Health Department is trying to create awareness about the fungus infection. It is likely that it is spreading from the use of impure water in humidifiers in oxygen concentrators and the use of dirty or infected masks. “We are asking people to use pure and distilled water in concentrators and to change masks every day and to use masks after washing them in hot water and drying them in the sun,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-die-of-black-fungus-belagavi-reports-white-fungus-cases-also/article34630207.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. has raised Rs. 9,000 crore so far this fiscal||Tamil Nadu has so far raised Rs. 9,000 crore during the fiscal 2021-22 through market borrowings, according to data from the Reserve Bank of India. The State has indicated that it plans to borrow Rs. 23,450 crore in the first quarter of this fiscal (April-June 2021). This is less than the Rs. 28,000 crore it had borrowed in the same period of 2020-21. However, amid intense lockdowns to fight the second wave of COVID-19, States, including Tamil Nadu, have to borrow more, rating agencies say. Tamil Nadu has been raising money through the issue of bonds, known as State Development Loans (SDLs). Interestingly, the State has so far raised Rs. 6,000 crore or nearly 66.7% of its total borrowings this year through long-tenure bonds of 30 years or more. On May 18, it raised Rs. 1,500 crore each by issuing bonds of 30 years and 35 years, respectively, with the same cut-off interest of 6.96%. On May 11, the State raised Rs. 3,000 crore through the re-issue of bonds with a tenure of 30 years and 35 years with the same cut-off interest of 6.93%. The remaining Rs. 3,000 crore was raised through 10-year bonds with the interest ranging from 6.75%-6.77%. Tamil Nadu has announced an intense lockdown for a week, starting today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-has-raised-rs-9000-crore-so-far-this-fiscal/article34630146.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Olympian Sushil Kumar arrested in murder case||Two-time Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar was on Sunday arrested in connection with the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankhar at the Chhatrasal Stadium here. A Delhi court sent Mr. Kumar to six-day police custody. The police had announced a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on Mr. Kumar and Rs. 50,000 on his associate and co-accused Ajay. The Delhi police special cell arrested Mr. Kumar and Mr. Ajay from Delhi on Sunday morning. Mr. Kumar was physically produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Divya Malhotra who said the allegations against the accused were “grave in nature.” The Delhi police sought a 12-day custody to interrogate him. The police said the scene of the crime needed to be recreated. Two others were injured in the brawl that took place at the stadium over an alleged property dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/olympian-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-murder-case/article34630071.ece
24 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||104 people succumb to COVID-19 in a day||The State has again reported over 100 deaths due to COVID-19. In the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, 104 deaths and 18,767 infections were reported. The toll increased to 10,126 and the cumulative case tally jumped to 15,80,827. The number of active cases remained at 2,09,237 even as 20,109 patients recovered in the past day. So far, 13,61,464 patients have recovered, registering a recovery rate of 86.12%. The daily positivity rate came down to 20.48% from 22.05% on Saturday. In the past day, 91,629 samples were tested. The overall positivity rate of the 1.862 crore samples is 8.49%. Chittoor reported 15 deaths in 24 hours while West Godavari registered 13 and Vizianagaram 11. Other districts reported less than 10 deaths – Visakhapatnam (9), Anantapur (8), East Godavari (8), Guntur (8), Krishna (8), Kurnool (8), Srikakulam (7), Nellore (6) and Kadapa (3). Prakasam reported zero deaths. District-wise numbers The district-wise tally was as follows: East Godavari (2,887), Chittoor (2,323), West Godavari (1,972), Anantapur (1,846), Visakhapatnam (1,668), Guntur (1,249), Kurnool (1,166), Prakasam (1,162), Nellore (1,045), Srikakulam (971), Kadapa (883), Vizianagaram (821) and Krishna (774).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/104-people-succumb-to-covid-19-in-a-day/article34630072.ece
24 May 2021||Pune,||‘Curbs likely to be eased in districts with dip in cases’||With the third extension of Maharashtra’s lockdown-like restrictions ending on June 1, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope hinted that COVID-19 curbs in districts reporting a significant decline in cases could be eased. Mr. Tope said restrictions could be lifted in a phased manner next month if the case positivity rate drops below 10%, and 50% of beds in the State are vacant. “A decision will be taken after a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray,” Mr. Tope said. 29,177 more recoveries The State on Sunday saw 29,177 more patients being discharged as opposed to 26,672 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s active case tally has now dipped to 3,48,395. Over 1,200 deaths were added to the toll, of which 594 occurred during the last week. Of these, 398 were recorded over the last 48 hours. The death toll has risen to 88,620. The State’s tally has reached 55,79,897, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 51,40,272, with the recovery rate at 92.12%. Lockdown in Satara With no significant decline in cases, a strict lockdown will be imposed in Satara district from May 25 to June 1. Pune reported more than 3,000 new cases to take its tally to 9,99,168, while 93 deaths took the toll to 11,414. Mumbai reported 1,427 new cases, while 49 more fatalities took its toll to 14,565.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-likely-to-be-eased-in-districts-with-dip-in-cases/article34630545.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Cumulative fatalities cross three lakh||India’s cumulative COVID-19 fatalities crossed the three lakh mark on Sunday. With 3,897 deaths till 9.50 p.m. on Sunday, the country has recorded 3,03,196 overall deaths. Only the United States and Brazil have registered more cumulative fatalities than India. India also recorded 2,09,168 new cases on Sunday. Tamil Nadu reported 35,483 infections, followed by Karnataka (25,979) and Kerala (25,820). Maharashtra recorded 894 casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (624) and Tamil Nadu (422). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. As many as 21,23,782 samples were tested on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday), the highest-ever number of tests carried out in a single day in the country. This is the fourth instance when the daily tests have crossed the 20-lakh mark. India’s average daily test positivity rate continues to decline. It was 22.7% on May 9 and reduced to 13.4% as on May 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cumulative-fatalities-cross-three-lakh/article34630464.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,||State records a high of 626 COVID-19 deaths||Karnataka recorded 626 COVID-19 deaths on Sunday, the highest in a single day since the onset of the pandemic. But officials said the rise in numbers was due to a backlog and reportingdelay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-a-high-of-626-covid-19-deaths/article34630108.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Minister favours simplified II PU exam||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar batted for the need to conduct the second PU board examination in a simplified way in the interest of the future of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-favours-simplified-ii-pu-exam/article34630109.ece
24 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Passengers skip COVID test in Assam station||A train that traverses the longest route across India became the cause of a major COVID scare in Assam on Sunday as passengers stampeded out of a station evading the COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/passengers-skip-covid-test-in-assam-station/article34630243.ece
24 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam folk singer helps lift spirits of patients||A folk singer based in southern Assam’s Silchar, Bikramjit Kar, took to social media six days ago offering COVID-19 patients uplifting songs on call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-folk-singer-helps-lift-spirits-of-patients/article34630244.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown in Delhi extended till May 31||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week, saying the process of unlock will start from May 31 in a phased manner if the number of COVID-19 cases continued to decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-in-delhi-extended-till-may-31/article34630465.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,||People throng shops ahead of lockdown||Chaotic scenes prevailed at markets and shops in Madurai on Sunday as people scrambled to stock up vegetables, fruits, groceries and other items ahead of the imposition of intense lockdown from Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-throng-shops-ahead-of-lockdown/article34630147.ece
24 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Number of bodies found in Raigad touches eight||With four more bodies found on two beaches in Raigad, the number of bodies suspected to be from sunken barge P-305 spotted on the district coast has gone up to eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/number-of-bodies-found-in-raigad-touches-eight/article34630546.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vardhan slams Ramdev’s view||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday condemned Patanjali promoter Baba Ramdev’s comments last week, deriding medical science and its role in the pandemic. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday demanded that the Health Ministry take strong action against Ramdev for allegedly misleading the public through his statements. In a statement, the Association said Ramdev should be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as “untutored” statements are “a threat to the literate society of the country as well as to the poor people falling prey to him”. The association, citing a video circulating on social media, said Ramdev was seen saying “ allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwaliya science hai … [allopathy is a stupid, bankrupt science]”. The Yoga guru also claimed “lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines”, the association said, adding that Ramdev claimed Remdesivir, Faviflu and all other drugs, which were approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, have failed in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The Patanjali Trust, in a statement on Saturday, denied the IMA’s allegation and claimed that Ramdev was merely “reading out” a WhatsApp forward and that the Yoga guru had “utmost regards” for doctors. Mr. Vardhan, in a letter in Hindi and issued via the Ministry, said he ‘hoped’ Ramdev would withdraw his comments on doctors and the role of ‘allopathy’. “You should be aware that like in India, several medics and healthcare professionals around the world have sacrificed themselves in their fight against the virus. Your comments have not only hurt doctors but also people everywhere and your explanations are unsatisfactory.” The letter to Ramdev, which was not translated to English, while sharp was considerably more polite. “Ramdev deserves to be prosecuted for causing danger to the lives of many by making them believe not to take the advice of allopathy doctors. If Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is not taking suo motu action, we will be forced to resort to democratic means of struggle to propagate the truth to the common man and knock on the doors of the judiciary to get justice,” the association had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vardhan-slams-ramdevs-view/article34629993.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Minor ‘face-off’ in Galwan Valley||There was a minor face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the no-patrolling zone at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in the first week of May, a senior government official told The Hindu . However, no clash occurred and the two sides disengaged quickly. A no-patrolling zone extending to around 3 km, around 1.5 km each on either side of the clash site near the Y-junction of the Galwan Valley, was created after June 15, 2020, when 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in clashes with Chinese troops. A 30-day moratorium was also applied on foot-patrolling then. It was not known if it had been extended. The Army, however, said no such “minor face-off” took place. “The article seems to be inspired by sources who may be trying to derail the ongoing process for early resolution of issues in eastern Ladakh,” it said in a statement. Regular patrols “After the no-patrolling zones were created last year, the two sides occasionally conduct reconnaissance to see if the other side has crossed the line. The patrols are sent at different times. On the particular day, the Indian and Chinese patrols reached the area at the same time, a minor face-off happened, but they returned quickly,” the senior official said, adding that China still had camps beyond the no-patrolling zone and there had not been any reduction in troop deployment since last year. The official said that both sides sent periodic patrols “out of suspicion”. Prior to April-May 2020, when China massed troops at the particular location in Galwan, claiming it to be Chinese territory, Indian troops regularly patrolled the area that is said to be within India’s perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Earlier, the Chinese Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) used to patrol the area and leave, but since April-May 2020, it made a permanent presence within 600-800 metres of India’s perception of the LAC. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh informed the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha that India and China had reached an agreement for disengagement in the Pangong Lake area to cease their forward deployments in a “phased, coordinated and verified manner”, which would “substantially” restore the pre-April 2020 status. Since April 2020, Chinese troops blocked Indian troops from reaching at least 10 patrolling points, running from the Depsang plains in the north to Pangong Tso (lake) in the south in eastern Ladakh. In all, there are more than 65 patrolling points from the base of Karakoram to Chumar. India and China have held 11 rounds of talks so far after the clashes last year. While the troops partially disengaged on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, phased disengagement is yet to take place at the other friction areas in eastern Ladakh — Gogra, Hot Springs, Depsang and Demchok. No pullback “There has been no reduction in the number of troops on either side. China is currently doing some exercise so they have enhanced their presence along the LAC. There was some talk to pull back Indian troops to deploy them on COVID-19 duty. However, that was later ruled out,” the official said. On April 2, the Ministry of Defence in a communication to Konchok Stanzin, councillor, Chushul, said that “due to the present operational situation in Ladakh, grazers have been asked to restrict their cattle movements”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-face-off-in-galwan-valley/article34630018.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Single dose only 33% effective against B.1.617.2: U.K.||A single dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine, in the United Kingdom, was only 33% effective in protecting against symptomatic COVID-19 coronavirus involving the B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India, as compared to a 59% efficacy from two doses of the vaccine, a study by scientists at Public Health England (PHE) and multiple institutions in the U.K. has found. The finding is significant for India, which is not only heavily reliant on Covishield — the AstraZeneca vaccine — for about 90% of vaccination but also because the scientists who analyse genome variants in India report that the B.1.617.2 is increasingly becoming the dominant variant in India. The variant has multiple mutations on the spike protein region, a portion on the coronavirus that helps it to infiltrate the human body. Laboratory studies testing the potency of Covishield and Covaxin have shown that fewer antibodies are produced against the B.1.617 variant (related to the 617.2) though the numbers are sizeable to trigger immunity. No similar studies, however have been publicly reported on the B.1.617.2. Anurag Agrawal, Director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said that while the dominance of the 617.2 strain was concerning and required investigation to improve future versions of available vaccines, the study’s import for India was that all the groups at greatest risk — healthcare workers, frontline workers and those over 60 years — must be given two shots. “The Centre’s current guidelines are to continue masking up even after getting vaccinated. These numbers from the PHE only reinforce that. The vaccines’ protection against severe disease continues to be fairly high and so after two doses to those most at risk, we should ensure a single dose for as many as possible,” he told The Hindu . India, while posting over 350,000 new cases a day, battles a vaccine shortage with demand exceeding supply across age groups and some increase in supply expected only around August. Health authorities in the U.K. have been reporting a rise in infections involving the 617.2 strain. Two vaccines predominantly — the Pfizer (BNT162b2) mRNA vaccine and the AstraZeneca vaccine — are being administered in the country, and from increasing the length between doses, from the original 4 weeks to 12 weeks, the U.K. has now reduced the gap between doses — to four weeks — for those above 60 years, given the rise in cases fuelled by the India variant. Before the second wave hit India, the policy here was to administer doses 4-6 weeks apart and has now — for Covishield — been extended to a 12-16 week interval. The latest U.K. study sought to analyse if being infected with the 617.2 variant in the vaccinated reduced the vaccine’s effectiveness at protecting against symptomatic disease compared to the B.1.1.7, or the variant first identified in the U.K. The scientists reported that effectiveness (which in vaccine terminology refers to real-world efficacy) was “notably lower” after one dose of vaccine with B.1.617.2 compared to B.1.1.7 cases at 51.1%. One dose of the Pfizer vaccine also saw similar reduction in efficacy when the two variants were compared. However, two doses of the Pfizer vaccines saw effectiveness reduced from 93.4% with B.1.1.7 to 87.9% with B.1.617.2. In the case of AstraZeneca, it was a seven percentage point drop from 66% to 59% The analysis included data for all age groups from April 5 to cover the period since the B.1.617.2 variant emerged in the U.K. It included 1,054 people confirmed as having the B.1.617.2 variant through genomic sequencing. The PHE said that the difference in effectiveness between the vaccines after two doses could be explained by the fact that the roll-out of second doses of AstraZeneca was later than for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, and other data on antibody profiles showed that it took longer to reach maximum effectiveness with the AstraZeneca vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/single-dose-only-33-effective-against-b16172-uk/article34630026.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cairn Energy verdict ‘highly flawed’: Ministry||The Union government is “vigorously defending” its case against an international arbitration order asking it to refund $1.2 billion to Cairn Energy over a retrospective tax dispute, the Finance Ministry said on Sunday, asserting that India had never “agreed to arbitrate” a national tax dispute. The Ministry’s statement comes over a week after Cairn Energy filed a lawsuit in a U.S. court against Air India, seeking to make the national carrier liable to pay the damages awarded to it, but which are not yet honoured by the Indian government. Sharing details of its application in The Hague Court of Appeal against the arbitration tribunal verdict for the first time since it was filed on March 22, the government termed the tribunal’s December 2020 decision “highly flawed”. “The government has raised several arguments that warrant setting aside of the award including but not limited to the arbitral tribunal improperly exercised jurisdiction over a national tax dispute that the Republic of India never offered and/or agreed to arbitrate,” the Ministry pointed out. ‘Solution under law’ The statement said the government remains open for an amicable solution within the country’s legal framework and is challenging the arbitration tribunal’s award as the claims underlying it “are based on an abusive tax avoidance scheme that were a gross violation” of Indian tax laws. Such a violation, it argued, “deprived Cairn’s alleged investments of any protection” under the India-U.K. bilateral investment treaty. ‘Double non-taxation’ “The award improperly ratifies Cairn’s scheme to achieve Double Non-Taxation, which was designed to avoid paying taxes anywhere in the world, a significant public policy concern for governments worldwide. This proceeding is pending. The government is committed to pursuing all legal avenues to defend its case in this dispute worldwide,” the Ministry said.  The government is committed to pursuing all legal avenues to defend its case in this dispute worldwide Union Finance Ministry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cairn-energy-verdict-highly-flawed-ministry/article34630000.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul overrules veterans to hand Satheesan the baton||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stood firm on appointing V.D. Satheesan as the party’s legislature party leader in Kerala, in the face of stiff resistance against the move from the incumbent Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. Rivals-turned-allies, Mr. Chennithala and Mr. Chandy have been in control of the Congress in Kerala for more than five years now. As the defeat of the party in the recent Assembly elections is being attributed to a series of steps taken by the duo, many of their own supporters now want a “generational shift” in the leadership. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran will also be replaced soon, according to party functionaries familiar with the developments. Mr. Chandy has proposed 74-year-old K.C. Joseph for the post, who is not finding favour with several MLAs, MPs and other party workers who spoke to The Hindu . “Sentiments of the workers will be the determining factor. Mr. Gandhi is clear that the current level of factional favouritism cannot be allowed in the party,” said an AICC functionary. “The message is clear. At all levels, people who are willing to work, who have the merit and public acceptance must be given leadership. That is the only way the party can rebuild in Kerala,” the functionary said. Mr. Gandhi is, however, eager to hold both leaders close. Mr. Chandy, at 78, is frail; Mr. Chennithala, 64, will likely be given a responsibility at the national level. As a former president of the National Students’ Union of India and Indian Youth Congress, he has a national network. Mr. Satheesan has been asked to work closely with these leaders and build a new unity of purpose in the Congress. Many signs “The party used to work on the premise that we don’t need to do anything to return to power after a five-year hiatus,” said a Congress MLA. “The danger was visible as early as 2011, when the United Democratic Front (UDF) barely won the election. The CPI(M) did not want a second consecutive term for V.S. Achuthanandan and but for that factor, we would have lost that election.” Mr. Chandy became Chief Minister in 2011, and mid-term, Mr. Chennithala’s demand to be inducted as Home Minister strained the relations between the two. But they soon closed ranks. They began to watch out for each other, and promoted their loyalists, as more and more leaders and social groups were alienated from the party and younger and meritorious hopefuls found their paths blocked. Collapse in Travancore A Congress leader pointed out the collapse of the party in the central Travancore region, which was once a stronghold, to illustrate the point. The Congress had no Hindu Ezhava candidate in Pathanamthitta district, pushing the community, entirely, to the Left Democratic Front that won all five seats. “At one point, the UDF used to win all. The candidates that we fielded offered little more than their factional loyalties,” the leader said. Gifting berths The Congress also established a practice of gifting seats to allies in order to cut out internal rivals of the leadership. In the last six years, it gave two Rajya Sabha seats to UDF constituents, who crossed over to the LDF soon after. Kerala Congress (Mani) leader Jose K. Mani was fielded as a Rajya Sabha candidate, blocking the path for another term for P.J. Kurien, former Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. The party’s young leaders, who were publicly calling for a fresh Congress candidate in place of Professor Kurien, who had finished three terms in the Upper House, were stunned by the gifting of the berth to Mr. Mani. “Mr. Mani had not even asked for it,” a Congress MP said. Within months after gifting a Rajya Sabha berth to the Kerala Congress (M), the Congress leadership began to push for its exit from the UDF. “This time, factional leaders began to calculate that they could contest more seats and more convenient ones, and the Mani faction was expelled. The impressive performance of the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha election gave a false sense of invincibility,” the leader said. Several senior leaders, such as K.V. Thomas, called for efforts to keep the Mani faction within the UDF, but to no avail. This time, the party high command has decided to keep allies out of the internal party deliberations. KPCC president Mullapally Ramachandran is facing the wrath of the party workers who are populating social media sites with emotive outbursts. “Once it so happened that he locked his front door and stayed inside the house to avoid meeting party workers,” said a party MLA. He refused to resign after the defeat but has changed tack now and has offered to quit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-overrules-veterans-to-hand-satheesan-the-baton/article34630016.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anxiety, depression top concerns||Anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress have been among the most common problems reported by callers to the Social Justice Ministry’s mental health helpline, with many States seeing an increase in calls during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to officials. A senior official from one of the regional centres of the helpline said the increase in number of calls could be partially because the helpline is being promoted as a COVID-19-related mental health resource during the second wave. The official, who wished not to be named, said most of the callers in the past month had raised concerns regarding the second wave of the pandemic after being diagnosed with COVID-19. Some also enquired about vaccination and emergency services, the official said. According to the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities data, a total of 26,047 calls were received by the KIRAN helpline till April 30 from September 16, 2020. Rise in Gujarat, Kerala While the number of calls overall saw a decrease from March (3,617) to April (3,371), there was an increase in some States, including Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Haryana, where the number more than doubled from 73 in March to 170 in April. The helpline — 1800-599-0019 — was launched by the Ministry on September 7, 2020 as a mental health rehabilitation service. Callers are counselled first and are connected with psychiatrists and other experts depending on the need. The majority of the callers had been men and in the age-group of 15 to 40, the Ministry’s report on its functioning from September 16, 2020 to January 15, 2021 had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anxiety-depression-top-concerns/article34630023.ece
24 May 2021||Kolkata,||India’s deep seas are home to 4,371 species of fauna: ZSI||India is home to 4,371 species of deep-sea fauna, including 1,032 species under kingdom Protista and 3,339 species under kingdom Animalia, a recent publication by the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) has revealed. The deep-sea ecosystem is considered to be below a depth of 200 metres, where solar energy cannot support primary productivity through photosynthesis. This publication is the first detailed work on deep-sea organisms of the country. Published by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the book ‘Deep Sea Faunal Diversity in India’ is the work of five authors and several contributors. India is surrounded by the Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal, the Andaman Sea and the Laccadive Sea. Of the 4,371 species, the maximum of 2,766 species has been reported from deep sea areas of the Arabian Sea, followed by 1,964 species from the Bay of Bengal, 1,396 species from the Andaman Sea, and only 253 species from the Laccadive Sea. RIMS ship investigator The authors behind the book point out that India is one of the countries that made a pioneering exploration in the deep Indian Ocean region in 1874 by commissioning a RIMS (Royal Indian Marine Survey) ship investigator, which conducted enormous studies in seas around India. “This RIMS investigator continued to work till 1926. After that, several other vessels, including vessels of the Indian Navy and scientists from the ZSI and other institutions, conducted deep sea explorations, gathering information about the fauna. This publication is a result of the work put together by several scientists across three centuries,” C. Raghunathan, ZSI Acting Director, one of the authors of the publication, said. The marine biologist said deep sea fauna had a vast diversity, starting from unicellular eukaryotes, sponges, corals, echinoderms and fishes, and also mammals. Kailash Chandra, former ZSI director, said that the deep sea ecosystem was the most unexplored ecosystem across the world. It included hydrothermal vents, submarine canyons, deep sea trenches, sea mounts, cold seeps, and mud volcanoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-deep-seas-are-home-to-4371-species-of-fauna-zsi/article34630256.ece
24 May 2021||Srinagar,||Two who strayed in from Pakistan sent back: BSF||Two Pakistani nationals who crossed the International Border (IB) “inadvertently” into Punjab’s Ferozpur Sector on May 22 were handed over to Pakistani Army on “humanitarian grounds”. “On May 22, alert Border Security Force troops on duty observed that two Pakistani nationals crossed the International Border and entered inside India and moved towards border fencing. Sensing the threat and to stop the misadventure, they were subsequently apprehended,” a BSF spokesman said. The spokesman said nothing objectionable was recovered from them. “During questioning, it came to notice that they had crossed over to Indian territory inadvertently,” the spokesman said. The BSF said it lodged a protest with Pakistan rangers over the incident. “On humanitarian grounds, the two Pakistan nationals were handed over to Pakistan rangers around 7.30 p.m.,” the BSF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-who-strayed-in-from-pakistan-sent-back-bsf/article34629998.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition parties back farmers’ protest on May 26||Twelve Opposition parties on Sunday issued a statement backing the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) call for a national protest on May 26 to mark six months of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. “We demand the immediate repeal of the farm laws and the legal entitlement to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of C2+50 per cent as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission. The Central government must stop being obdurate and immediately resume talks with the SKM on these lines,” the statement read. The statement was signed by leaders of several political parties, including Sonia Gandhi (Congress), H.D. Deve Gowda (Janata Dal-Secular), Sharad Pawar (Nationalist Congress Party), Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress), Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), M.K. Stalin (DMK), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha), Farooq Abdullah (Jammu and Kashmir National Conference), Akhilesh Yadav (Samajwadi Party), Tejashwi Yadav (Rashtriya Janata Dal), D. Raja (Communist Party of India), and Sitaram Yechury (CPI-Marxist). The leaders reiterated what they had conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12: “Repeal farm laws to protect lakhs of our annadatas becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-parties-back-farmers-protest-on-may-26/article34630008.ece
24 May 2021||Pune,||Vaccination for 18-44 age group will pick up in June: Uddhav||With Maharashtra compelled to suspend the third phase of COVID-19 inoculation owing to a paucity of vaccines, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday expressed confidence that the drive for the 18-44 age group would pick up pace from June once the State received adequate doses. Mr. Thackeray, during a videoconference with paediatricians and members of the COVID-19 task force, said his government was relentlessly pursuing the issue of vaccine supply. “The State government is ready to make a one-time payment for the 12 crore doses required by beneficiaries in the group. They account for six crores of the Maharashtra’s total population…I am confident the vaccination drive will pick up after June once we get more supplies,” the CM said. Cautioning about a possible third wave, Mr. Thackeray said the State would be well-equipped in terms of oxygen supply and that steps had been mooted to redress the problems encountered during the ongoing second wave. “There is speculation about whether the third wave will infect children more. So, we must be careful. In the first wave, senior citizens were hit the hardest and in the second, more young people became infected. So, it appears that the age of the patients is coming down with each successive wave,” he said. At the same time, the CM urged parents not to panic in the face of speculation but to consult doctors immediately in the event of symptoms. “I urge parents not to remain ignorant about possible symptoms in children. They must see a doctor on time. At the same time, I request doctors to ensure that they do not make the treatment worse than the disease, but know exactly what to do and what not to do. Doctors must reassure parents and give them proper guidance,” Mr. Thackeray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-will-pick-up-in-june-uddhav/article34630033.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Concern over new norms for appointment of auditors||Banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have red-flagged a ‘retrospective’ central bank diktat on the appointment of statutory auditors as it requires many of them to get rid of auditors already appointed for this year and replace them with new firms, posing implementation challenges amid the pandemic. Last month, the RBI introduced new norms for auditor appointments, requiring immediate rotation of audit firms if they had completed three years at a particular entity. Joint auditors have been mandated in banks and NBFCs with assets of Rs. 15,000 crore or more, and the eligibility criteria for auditors have been tightened. “The circular, while issued on April 27, 2021, has been made applicable for the financial year 2021-22 itself, except that the NBFCs may implement it in the second half of the financial year. It is a widely accepted principle that, to reduce uncertainty and implementation challenges, such significant policy measures are not applied retrospectively and allow a reasonable transition period for a better understanding, planning and compliance,” the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said in a statement on Sunday. In its current form, the RBI directive may require mid-term resignation of auditors, breaking the previously contracted terms in a large number of cases and creating disruption in the sector, the CII said. “Change in auditors in the middle of the year will not be looked at favourably by the investors including FPIs, OCBs, MFs and other institutions. This also may adversely affect the image of the country in the international market,” it said, adding that identifying suitable new audit firms is neither a quick nor a mechanical process. The process involves the identification and evaluation of three or four firms, for each vacancy, by the audit committee, followed by an approval of the shortlisted firms by the board and a final approval by the shareholders, besides an okay from the central bank itself. The three-year tenure specified by the RBI is relatively short and inconsistent with the Companies Act, which specifies a minimum engagement term of five years, the CII said, urging the central bank to rethink several components of the circular’s provisions. “The RBI may consider deferment of implementation of the circular by at least two years for the industry to assess and prepare for its implementation,” the industry body suggested, adding that a phased operationalisation will help “avoid immediate disruption”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/concern-over-new-norms-for-appointment-of-auditors/article34630001.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Safety and health of Class 12 students matter, says Priyanka||On a day when the Centre convened a high-level meeting to decide on holding the Boards exams for Class 12 students, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra questioned the Narendra Modi government for stretching the decision for months. She pitched for cancelling the exams by stating that the safety and health of students matter. The high-level meeting, convened by the Education Ministry, will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and will include Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar. Education Ministers and Secretaries of all States and Union Territories have been asked to attend the meeting Ms. Vadra said on Twitter it was insensitive to expect children to take their exam “wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch, day after day”. “Students studying for the CBSE 12th grade examinations have been sharing their concerns about these exams being held during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Their health and safety MATTER. Why are we not learning our lessons? Gatherings in closed spaces promote the spread of COVID. This wave has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains,” Ms. Vadra said on Twitter. Ms. Vadra pointed out that many students were likely to have family members who were affected with COVID-19, and that would add to their stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/safety-and-health-of-class-12-students-matter-says-priyanka/article34630012.ece
24 May 2021||Kolkata,||2 more defectors seek Trinamool return||A day after four-time MLA Sonali Guha, who had joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), wrote to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urging that she be allowed to return to the Trinamool Congress, two other former Trinamool leaders, Sarala Murmu and Amal Acharya, expressed their wish to leave the BJP and rejoin the State’s ruling party. Sarala Murmu was given ticket by the Trinamool to contest the Habibpur Assembly seat in Malba, but she turned down the offer and joined the BJP. “ Didi [Ms. Banerjee] has given a message to all those who left the party out of anger or hurt that they can return to her party. I am responding to that call. If she accepts us back then, most certainly, we will stay with Didi and work with Didi ,” Ms. Murmu told journalists on Sunday. Two-time MLA Amal Acharya had also quit and joined the BJP just two weeks before the elections after being denied a ticket by the Trinamool. “I joined the BJP and worked for them for a few days out of anger and frustration after being denied a ticket; it was not out of any ideological shift,” he said. The Trinamool leadership on Sunday reacted to the developments. Senior party leader and MP Saugata Roy said that there should be a moratorium for at least six months for leaders from the BJP to return to the party. Spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said at present, the party was busy tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and no decision on their return had been taken as yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-more-defectors-seek-trinamool-return/article34630014.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Explain dip in vaccination: Chidambaram||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Sunday said the Centre should explain to the people why the number of daily vaccinations was going down if the States had adequate vaccine stocks. In a series of tweets, he took on the Centre for claiming that States had been provided with vaccine doses. “The Centre says that there are 1.6 crore doses of Corona vaccines available with the States. Several States, including Karnataka and Delhi, have stopped vaccinating the 18-44 age group citing shortage of vaccines,” he said. “What is the distance between the residences of the Union Health Minister and the Delhi Chief Minister? Why can’t the two meet and any one convince the other that his data is correct? Why are they talking across each other?” he asked. Mr. Chidambaram said that the fact the number of daily vaccinations was declining could “only be attributed to the shortage of vaccines”. “If that is not the cause, then the Union Health Minister has a responsibility to tell the people why is the number of vaccinations administered daily declining,” added the senior Congress leader. He pointed out that no shots had been administered in 29 out of 33 districts of Telangana. Mr. Chidambaram demanded that the Health Ministry should put out a daily statement of the number of vaccinations administered district-wise every day as data for the entire State “hides many alarming facts”. “Will the ‘no shortage’ Union Health Minister please answer the facts emerging from Delhi and Telangana,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explain-dip-in-vaccination-chidambaram/article34630031.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Small businesses need more time for GST compliances’||The compliance relaxations offered by the government under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime are inadequate, according to a survey of small and medium businesses affected by the lockdown and mobility restrictions in most States. Around 89% of small businesses have demanded that the government waive the penalty on late payments and defer GST return filings for the March to May period till June 30, as per a survey conducted over the past week by LocalCircles of 2,456 such enterprises located in 122 districts. On May 1, the government had notified some relief measures for businesses to cope with the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, allowing delayed filing of some returns, waiving penalties for 15 to 30 days, and reducing the interest on delayed tax payments in a graded manner. While returns related to computing input tax credits were granted 15 more days, the due date for filing the GSTR-3B and remitting taxes was not extended. The interest levied on delayed tax payments was not waived, prompting accountants to advise firms to comply without waiting for the input tax credits to firm up. “Small businesses from across the country have been raising the issue of their inability to meet the GST payment deadline as most have been shut due to local lockdowns and curfew restrictions. A visit by the accountant or a visit to them is not an option for most businesses since early April and hence the majority are unable to make their GST payment. Similarly, most have been unable to file the return for quarter ending March 31,” LocalCircles said in a note on the rationale for the survey. “Overall, 73% small businesses want no penalty and interest on March GST payment and return filing till June 30, while 78% want no penalty and interest on April and May GST payments till June 30. Overall, 89% small businesses want no penalty and interest relaxations on GST late payments and return filing till June 30,” said the survey. The platform had escalated the need for relaxation of the March 21 GST payment and return to the Finance Ministry on April 23, but the relaxations granted by the Ministry on May 1 were not enough, the survey noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/small-businesses-need-more-time-for-gst-compliances/article34630019.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Children at limited risk for severe COVID-19’||Children are at limited risk for severe COVID-19 though they will continue to be susceptible to the infection as well as be transmitters, say the latest guidelines from the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, a 32,000-member association of paediatricians in India. In recent days, there have been concerns that a ‘third wave’ of the pandemic would hit children harder, largely on the presumption that they were proportionally more likely to be unvaccinated than adults were. The academy statement, however, notes that the third serology survey (by the Indian Council of Medical Research) had found that the percentage of infected children in the 10-17 age group was around 25% which was similar to that of adults. Two factors that favour children, the academy statement suggests, is that they have fewer chemical receptors that facilitate viral entry and their immune systems are more primed. However, were a large number to be affected in future waves, that would also result in a substantial proportion of children being afflicted with severe and moderate disease, they add. “As per data collected in waves 1 and 2, even instances of severe disease in children are less likely to require admissions in intensive care units,” the statement notes. “However, we need to be watchful about how mutant strains are likely to behave.” Other experts too have opined that children are not more susceptible but steps must be taken to get them vaccinated. “I have no reason to think that infections in children in absolute numbers or in the form of a severe disease will rise. We need to prepare but try to avoid any unnecessary concern or alarm. One of the discourses which is largely missing is the vaccination of children. Aspects such as which will be the most appropriate vaccine for children? What will be the purpose of vaccination in children? In my opinion, while selecting a vaccine for children, preference should be given to one which shows a role in preventing transmission. Maybe, nasal COVID-19 vaccines could be the best option for children, as those will have an advantage in quick scale up as administration of those vaccines will be easy,” Chandrakant Lahariya, epidemiologist and public health analyst, told The Hindu in a recent interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/children-at-limited-risk-for-severe-covid-19/article34630028.ece
24 May 2021||Kolkata,||Narada case: Dhankhar shocked at TMC MP’s claims||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was shocked on Sunday when Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Kalyan Banerjee launched a tirade against him, claiming that it was at his behest that three TMC leaders and a former city mayor were arrested in the Narada case. Mr. Dhankhar said he was stunned to have heard such an allegation, but stressed that he would leave the matter to the discretion of the people of Bengal. “The governor is hounding the TMC from morning to evening. He played an instrumental role in the arrest of the four leaders,” Mr. Banerjee told reporters in Hooghly district. He urged people to lodge complaints against the Governor at police stations. “I know about the constitutional provision that says no criminal proceeding can be initiated against the Governor, but I will request each and everyone to lodge police complaints in areas where the Governor is found provoking crimes, violence and religious divide,” he said. The TMC MP said that the cases filed against him “can be taken up” for legal action, as and when Mr. Dhankhar ceases to be the Governor. Mr. Dhankhar had on May 7 sanctioned prosecution of Ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra, and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee on a request by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the sting operation that had purportedly caught on camera the politicians accepting bribes. All four of them, arrested by the CBI amid high drama on May 17, were State Ministers at the time of the alleged commission of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narada-case-dhankhar-shocked-at-tmc-mps-claims/article34630253.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Cumulative fatalities cross 3 lakh||Around 16.04 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is 1.4 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. Also, it is 1.3 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the same period, one week ago. As of 9 p.m. on Sunday, in India, 16.1% of the adult population, 36% of the 45+ population and 41.5% of the 60+ population have been vaccinated with at least one dose. In Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, only about 9% of the adult population has been vaccinated with at least one dose. Among the 60+ age-group, 18.2% in Tamil Nadu and 25.4% in Uttar Pradesh have been vaccinated with at least one dose. While 67% in Chhattisgarh and 80% in Rajasthan have been done so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cumulative-fatalities-cross-3-lakh/article34630466.ece
24 May 2021||Patna,||Tejashwi seeks immediate action in Purnia incident||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday urged the Bihar government to take stern action against those guilty in the Purnia incident and award compensation to victim families. Nearly a dozen Mahadalit households were set on fire in a village in Purnia district allegedly by a raging mob on May 19. “Households of poor and Mahadalits were set on fire and they were beaten up by a rampaging mob in Purnia. This painful and shameful incident is a blot on the Nitish Kumar government. No one has got right to take law into their hands. The government should take immediate action against those guilty and provide pucca houses and compensation to victims,” tweeted Mr. Yadav. A Hindu outfit, Vishwa Hindu Organisation, later said members of the minority community were “carrying out atrocities towards Dalits with the tacit support of local administration”. Land grab bid The incident is said to have happened for a land grab bid by the dominant members of the minority community in the area. The Mahadalits had been residing on the land for long, which they claimed, belongs to the government but they have been refusing to vacate the place for the members of minority community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejashwi-seeks-immediate-action-in-purnia-incident/article34629989.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Very severe cyclone Yaas to hit north Odisha coast||Heavy to very heavy rainfall is predicted at a few places over Nadia, Bardhaman, Bankura, Purulia, Bhirbhum and heavy falls at isolated places over Murshidabad, Malda and Dakshin Dinajpur Districts on May 26. The Indian Air Force (IAF) has airlifted 950 NDRF personnel and 70 tonnes of load from Jamnagar, Varanasi, Patna and Arakonnam to Kolkata, Bhubaneswar and Port Blair in 15 transport aircraft, the Defence Ministry said. IAF has also kept 16 transport aircraft and 26 helicopters on standby. Navy and Coast Guard have deployed ships and helicopters for relief, search and rescue operations while Engineer task force units of Army, with boats and rescue equipment, are on standby for deployment. Navy has also pre-positioned diving and flood relief columns at Kolkata, Bhubaneswar and Chilika to aid the civil administration at short notice. Gearing up Chastened by the experience of cyclone Amphan which battered West Bengal almost exactly a year ago, killing more than 100 people, the Kolkata Police convened a joint co-ordination meeting with representatives of the Civil Defence, Army, Kolkata Municipal Corporation and National Disaster Response Force to gear up for cyclone Yaas. Keeping the predicted path in mind, Odisha’s Special Relief Commissioner P. K. Jena, too, rushed to Balasore to fine-tune preparedness. With the districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore likely to be impacted most, district administrations have been asked to make evacuation process foolproof.  (With inputs from Dinakar Peri and Satyasundar Barik)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/very-severe-cyclone-yaas-to-hit-north-odisha-coast/article34629990.ece
24 May 2021||Chennai,||Webinar on importance of cloud computing||As part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, held in association with The Hindu , the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) hosted a webinar on ‘Future World with Cloud Computing Technology’ on Saturday. Dr. Meenakshi S. Arya, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, SRMIST, opened the session by tracing the evolution of data storage. Abishek Gupta, Founder and CEO of Hex N Bit, also discussed the need for cloud computing and the important parameters in this domain. He also highlighted the practical aspects of the industry in the future. Pointing out that “the [hardware] essentials are the same, whether it is traditional servers or computer-based servers and storage in a cloud,” Narayanan Subramaniam, Senior Director of Engineering & Principal Architect Hybrid Cloud Management, Nutanix, said they provide computing, storage and connectivity. He also touched upon the crucial dimension of ethical behaviour — taking into account humanity, social sciences, the environment and so on — when developing future products. The webinar can be watched at https://youtu.be/DLcS66EP7K8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-importance-of-cloud-computing/article34629995.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre, most States to hold Class 12 exams||The Centre also suggested that students could be allowed to write the examination in their own school premises, officials said. The State governments of Delhi and Maharashtra have called for alternatives to examinations. “Keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic situation and the projection that children are vulnerable to new strains of coronavirus, option of a “NON-EXAMINATION ROUTE” for class 12th students should be actively examined,” tweeted Maharashtra Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. She suggested evaluation through retroactive grading, and urged a uniform assessment policy. However, the State is yet to take a final decision. Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia pushed for all students and teachers to be vaccinated before examinations are held and suggested that students be graded based on historical references of the past few years and be given an option of taking the examination at a later date. However, as all Delhi government schools are affiliated to the CBSE, the Centre’s decision is likely to be implemented in the capital. Several States wished for the option to delay their examinations by several months, if needed. Kerala and Bihar have already held their State board examinations. Chhattisgarh has announced an open book examination to start on June 1, but Central officials warned that the validity of the results may not be accepted by universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-most-states-to-hold-class-12-exams/article34629999.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Olympian Sushil Kumar arrested in murder case||Delhi police sought a 12-day custody to interrogate him and said the scene of crime needed to be recreated. Two others were injured in the brawl that took place at the stadium over an alleged property dispute. The FIR registered in the case included Sections 302 (murder), 308 (culpable homicide), 325 (causing grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 365 (kidnapping), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police said Mr. Kumar never spent a day at a single location and travelled to various locations outside Delhi to hide. While seeking his custody, Delhi police stated in the court that Mr. Kumar and his associates thrashed victims like animals as he wanted to establish terror in the area. After the brawl, he took away DVRs of CCTVs in the stadium. He was OSD at the stadium and he had access to CCTV room. The property (flat) in the Model Town area that was subject of dispute was allegedly owned by Mr. Kumar’s wife but criminals used to stay or visit the flat regularly. Sonu, a nephew of gangster Kala Jatheri, used to stay at the flat along with Sagar and few others. They had an altercation and later Sonu vacated the flat and rented another one in the same area. Mr. Kumar wanted to teach them a lesson as they tried to grab his flat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/olympian-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-murder-case/article34630002.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||INS Jalashwa brings oxygen to Vizag||In the largest consignment of liquid medical oxygen, the Indian Navy’s INS Jalashwa arrived in Visakhapatnam with 300 metric tonne of oxygen and more than 3,600 oxygen cylinders from Singapore and Brunei under the ongoing Operation Samudra Setu II, the Navy said on Sunday. “The consignment includes 300 metric tonne of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and more than 3,600 oxygen cylinders from Singapore and Brunei. The COVID-19 medical equipment also includes ventilators and empty cryogenic containers.” The INS Trikand brought 40 MT LMO from Qatar, it said. The INS Trikand with two LMO containers of 20 MT each and 100 oxygen cylinders arrived at Mumbai. In the first week of May, the Navy had diverted nine warships deployed on the high seas to various ports in the region extending from Kuwait in the west to Singapore in the east to pick up emergency medical oxygen and other supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ins-jalashwa-brings-oxygen-to-vizag/article34630004.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||India to push for WHO approval for Covaxin||In addition, explained officials, getting Covaxin on the WHO’s EUL would be a big boost, and a first for an Indian-developed and produced vaccine. Officials stressed that the EUL processes are “technical” in nature, and the MEA and the government were only interested in facilitating any enquiries on the Covaxin application already made with the World Health Organisation. Sources also pointed out that the WHO’s processes don’t allow for “diplomatic” or “political” inputs, and are based entirely on the vaccine manufacturer’s ability to provide the documentation required by the international agency and to validate its claims. Bharat Biotech did not respond to The Hindu' s  query on the planned meeting. According to the WHO’s latest status report, published on May 18, Covaxin is one of 19 vaccines for which applications have been submitted. Seven other applicants including vaccines made by Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson’s ‘Janssen’ vaccine, Chinese Sinopharm, and three versions of the Astra Zeneca vaccine, including Indian-made Covishield from the Serum Institute of India, have all received the green-light for the Emergency Use Listing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-push-for-who-approval-for-covaxin/article34630005.ece
24 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Recorded COVID-19 cases continue to drop in U.P.||The number of COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh continued to drop as the State recorded 4,844 new cases on Sunday. But the number of recorded deaths were 234. U.P. now has 84,880 active cases, of which 54,646 patients are in home isolation, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary (Health). This was the 23rd consecutive day of a drop in active cases, said Mr. Prasad, and a fall of over 72% from 3.10 lakh, the number of peak active cases recorded on April 30. The State tested over 3.17 lakh samples in 24 hours, its highest count. Amid reports that people in some rural areas were hesitant to get vaccinated, Mr. Prasad appealed to them to not fall for any propaganda. “Vaccine is fully safe and effective,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recorded-covid-19-cases-continue-to-drop-in-up/article34630006.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Significance of ‘Jayanthi’||Krishna’s avatara day is celebrated as Sri Krishna Jayanthi. The word ‘jayanthi’ has a special significance. It is not a reference to one’s birthday. It is a word to be used exclusively for Krishna’s time of birth, because He was born at a very special time, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Krishna was born in an auspicious muhurtha, with a rare combination of factors. Krishna was born in the month of Sraavana, in Ashtami tithi, in the star Rohini, and the time of birth was midnight. This muhurtha is called Jayanthi. This coming together of various factors at a particular time is called Jayanthi. Since Krishna was born in the muhurtha known as Jayanthi, His avatara day is celebrated as Sri Krishna Jayanthi. Jayanthi does not mean birth. It is the name of the very special muhurtha in which Krishna was born. It was such a good muhurtha that it would cause even poison to turn into nectar! And we see this in the life of Krishna. Putana tried to kill Him through her poisoned milk, but Krishna remained unharmed, and it was she who paid with her life for her wicked attempt. Rama was born in a palace, while Krishna was born in a jail. Rama was born in day time, while Krishna was born in the night. Rama was born in the month of Chaitra, when the season was spring (Vasantha rtu). Krishna was born during the monsoon season (Varsha rtu). We offer simple fare to Rama on His avatara day. But for Krishna, the offerings are rich and varied. In Melkote, thirty types of delicacies are offered to the Lord on Sri Krishna Jayanthi. The reason for the difference in grandeur between the two celebrations is perhaps because Rama, as a prince, had the best of everything. But Krishna never had such luxuries, and so grand celebrations for Him become justified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/significance-of-jayanthi/article34630024.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hundreds stranded at Telangana-AP border||“We have been stuck in traffic since morning. Police are not allowing us to enter the State even after getting a pass from AP to travel till Hyderabad,” said D Suresh, a techie returning to the city from Bengaluru. He said that several persons, especially natives of Kurnool and Kadapa, who were not permitted to cross the border returned to their places. “But, I am a native of Hyderabad working in Bengaluru,” Mr. Suresh said, adding that police asked him to stay till 6 a.m. on Monday and travel home during the lockdown relaxation time. Server down “They are not letting us in and asking to apply for the e-pass from Telangana police portal, which is down since morning,” said another traveller on the border. When contacted, Gadwal SP Ranjan Ratan Kumar did not respond to the calls by this correspondent. The e-pass dashboard of Telangana police website has been down since Sunday morning. Sources in the department maintained that the IT team was upgrading the dashboard by adding some more category passes, including Medical Emergency — go to hospital and two more options — as a result people were unable to access the dashboard. The police were not even able to approve or reject the passes of those who applied since Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hundreds-stranded-at-telangana-ap-border/article34630497.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Volcano eruption in Congo: Army lends hand||As the active volcano in Congo, Mount Nyaragongo, erupted again, the Indian Army contingent under the United Nations peace keeping mission (MONUSCO) assisted in protecting civilians and U.N. officials as well as assets during the evacuation, the Army said on Sunday. Mount Nyaragongo which overlooks Goma town, erupted spewing lava, gases and sediments around 6.30 p.m. on Saturday resulting in panic among the civilians, the Army said. Most of the lava, however, has flowed towards Rwanda and only a small stream is trickling towards Goma, it said. While the U.N.’s internal security system calculated that evacuation will not be required and asked various country contingents to be on alert, a majority of them including aviation contingents evacuated immediately, the statement said. “The Indian Brigade headquarters held their ground and thinned out 70% of the strength of the camp and sent them to the Himbi company operating base for safety. A minimum strength continued to hold onto the camp ensuring no threat to U.N. and national assets as also providing security to empty aviation base.” An observation point was also established which is giving real time updates of the lava flow to the Brigade headquarters, enabling them to pass it to the U.N.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/volcano-eruption-in-congo-army-lends-hand/article34629991.ece
24 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||6 extremists killed in Assam encounter||Six members of the outlawed Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) were killed in an encounter with security forces near the Assam-Nagaland border early on Sunday, officials said. A large number of arms and ammunition was recovered from the militants after the gunfight with a joint team of the paramilitary and State police. “In an early morning operation by @assampolice and Assam Rifles, six DNLA terrorists were neutralised in Dhansiripar area of Karbi Anglong district,” tweeted State’s Special Director General of Police G.P. Singh. Counter-insurgency operations in the Dhansiripar area of the district were intensified after suspected DNLA extremists killed one Sanjoy Ronghang of Daojingphang village on May 19. Organisations such as the Dimasa Students’ Union condemned the killing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-extremists-killed-in-assam-encounter/article34629996.ece
24 May 2021||Raipur,||Raipur police serve notice to Patra||The Raipur police asked BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra to appear before it in person or through video-conferencing on Sunday in connection with an FIR lodged against him and colleague Raman Singh over an alleged fake “toolkit”, officials said. The FIR was filed on the complaint of an NSUI functionary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raipur-police-serve-notice-to-patra/article34630009.ece
24 May 2021||Surat,||Gujarat BJP MLA draws flak over video||A Gujarat BJP MLA, V.D. Zalavadiya, was flayed by Congress after a video showed him filling a syringe with Remdesivir and transferring it to a drip bottle, for a patient at a COVID care centre in Surat. Congress spokesperson Jayrajsinh Parmar said the State Health Minister should train BJP workers in administering injections, which would also address the issue of acute shortage of medical staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-bjp-mla-draws-flak-over-video/article34630010.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||SII distances itself from staffer’s remark||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has disassociated itself from its executive director’s remark that the Central government began the vaccination of multiple age groups against COVID-19 without taking into consideration the available stock. In a letter to the Union Health Ministry on May 22, Prakash Kumar Singh, director of government and regulatory affairs at the Pune-based SII, said the statement by its executive director, Suresh Jadhav, at a recent event was not the view of the company. “On behalf of our CEO Adar C. Poonawalla, I want to inform you that this statement is not issued on behalf of SIIPL and the Company completely dissociates itself from this statement.” he said in a communique.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-distances-itself-from-staffers-remark/article34630020.ece
24 May 2021||Lucknow,||Four doctors stopped from meeting Yogi||Four junior doctors who had gone to hand over a letter of demands to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during his visit to Jhansi were allegedly briefly detained by police.  Jhansi District Magistrate Andra Vamsi said the doctors were stopped to ensure that law and order was not disrupted at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-doctors-stopped-from-meeting-yogi/article34630029.ece
24 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Moderna refused to send shots: Punjab||The Punjab government on Sunday said vaccine manufacturer Moderna had refused to send vaccines directly to the State govern- ment as according to its policy, the company can only deal with the Government of India and not with any State or private parties. The State had approached Moderna for direct purchase of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/moderna-refused-to-send-shots-punjab/article34630034.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai sees huge crowds at markets||Vegetable markets across the city saw huge crowds on Sunday morning, ahead of the intensified lockdown from Monday. Since the government had announced that all shops would be closed and that fruit and vegetables would be supplied through mobile vehicles, residents flocked to vegetable, fruit shops and grocery stores to stock up. Following the announcement, several shops, which were shut, opened at 4 p.m on Saturday. Since many essentials went out of stock in some stores by Saturday night, people made a beeline for grocery stores early on Sunday. Crowds thronged the Koyambedu and Kothaval Chavdi markets and the local markets at Mandaveli, Mylapore and Tambaram. The prices of vegetables shot up inviting criticism in the social media. Many took to Twitter to blame the DMK government for introducing the total lockdown in a hurry making Sunday shopping a “super spreader” event. Shops opened as early as 6 a.m. and many residents began to stand in queue soon after. V. Nirupama, a resident of Velachery, said there was a queue at a supermarket in her locality at 6.30 a.m. itself. As time progressed, shops in several localities got extremely crowded. In some markets, the police had barricaded the entrance preventing the entry of vehicles but could not control the crowds. “While I was able to get into a supermarket, the long queues at the billing counters were unmanageable and I had to leave,” said V.Vinaayak, a resident of Adyar. The same was the case in Nandambakkam. “There were long queues outside even small grocery shops here. Some people also came without masks and I did not want to stand in a queue which was chaotic,” said a resident. Delivery services too had an influx of orders for vegetables and other groceries right from 6 a.m. R. Kalyani, a resident of Mylapore, said it almost took two hours for her to place an order for groceries and get them delivered. The crowds gradually lessened towards evening in many localities. Purpose lost Several stand-alone textile and jewellery showrooms, electronic shops too were crowded. “What the government wanted to achieve through the complete lockdown was lost as the authorities had allowed all shops and establishments to function. What was the necessity for textiles and jewellery shops to remain open?” asked V.S. Jayaraman, a resident of T.Nagar. He said the crowds at market places looked like it was a shopping festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-sees-huge-crowds-at-markets/article34630168.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3,980 cases booked in Chennai for lockdown violation||The police registered a total of 3,980 cases for violating the lockdown norms and seized 3,446 vehicles on Saturday. On Sunday, in many parts of the city, the police pressed into service patrol vehicles to control the crowd as they thronged the markets. Though the lockdown was enforced from May 10, many people were seen roaming around the city. Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, therefore, made the restrictions stringent. From May 18 the city was divided into 348 sectors and to move from one police station limits to another, the public were supposed to carry a e-registration proof with them with a valid reason. In Chennai, there are 12 police districts and 13 check-posts were set up in their borders. Similarly, 153 check points were set up at the borders of each police station’s jurisdiction. These points were barricaded and those with valid reasons and documents were allowed. Among the total cases, 2,410 were registered by the traffic police against those who were roaming around without any reason. They had seized 907 vehicles, including 39 autorickshaws. The law and order police also registered 1,570 cases and seized 2,539 vehicles. In addition to this, 3,243 cases were registered against people for not wearing masks and 348 for not following personal distancing on Saturday. A total of 55 shops were closed for violating lockdown norms and a fine amount of Rs. 8.97 lakh was slapped on them. “We have 320 patrol vehicles, including the pink patrol, used by All Women Police stations. They went around their jurisdiction asking people to maintain personal distance and wear masks,” said Mr. Jiwal. In Tambaram, the police made announcements using the public address system and asked people to maintain personal distance and warned vegetable vendors against fleecing customers. Stringent measures He said that from Monday, the sector-wise lockdown measures would be re-enforced. A total of 20,000 police personnel and some from the Tamil Nadu Special Police and special units of the city police will be deployed to enforce the lockdown strictly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3980-cases-booked-for-lockdown-violation/article34630158.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile shops to hit the road||Starting today, Greater Chennai Corporation will permit 2,635 mobile shops to sell essential commodities in all residential areas of the city between 6 a.m. and noon. Zonal level officials will issue permit for these shops. The government will regulate the prices of commodities. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi held a meeting with traders’ associations at Ripon Buildings on Sunday in the presence of senior police officers, CMDA and horticulture department officials to finalise the number of shops and regulations for them. Mr. Bedi stressed on the need to sell all items, including vegetables, fruits, flowers, eggs and bread in 15 zones during the lockdown. As many as 2,635 mobile shops would sell essential commodities along 40,000 streets of the city, said Mr. Bedi. The traders’ representatives, however, said only vegetables, fruits, and flowers would be sold. “The sale of egg and bread may not give adequate profits, like vegetables and fruits. Eggs are perishable, causing a loss to the trader. So we may not sell eggs and bread. But we may sell eggs if we are forced by the government,” said a trader. Residents can call 9499932899 or 044-45680200 if mobile shops did not visit their area or for any other grievances pertaining to essential commodities. Mobile shops will be sent to the areas and their number might be increased after a few days based on demand. Door delivery of groceries by Big Basket, Sunny Bee, Reliance and Pazhamudir will be permitted from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Traders who attended the meeting said the prices of vegetables were expected to fall this week. Y. Edward, president of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu, South Chennai North District, said the traders had requested the police to allow mobile shops without any hindrance. “The police should not punish those who sell essential commodities in vehicles. This will determine the success of the initiative,” said Mr. Edward.  The police should not punish those who sell essential commodities Y. Edward President, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu, South Chennai North District||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-shops-to-hit-the-road/article34630148.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases inch towards 3 lakh||The total number of active COVID-19 cases inched towards 3 lakh in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with 35,483 more persons testing positive. The total number of cases has gone up to 18,42,344. The number of active cases stands at 2,94,143. Across the State, 422 persons died, taking the toll to 20,468. The discharge of 25,196 persons after treatment took the total to 15,27,733. The daily case count continued to drop in Chennai district where 5,169 persons tested positive and 5,139 persons were discharged. The district recorded 81 deaths, taking the toll to 6,379. The number of active cases fell marginally to 49,055. So far, 4,78,710 persons have tested positive, of which 4,23,276 have been discharged. After Chennai, Vellore and Chengalpattu recorded the most number of deaths: 31 and 29. So far, 2,59,294 senior citizens and 66,270 children aged below 12 have been infected. According to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health, 1,983 beds in Chennai district were vacant. These included 636 oxygen beds; 1,317 non-oxygen beds; and 30 beds in the intensive care unit. Of the 9,206 oxygen beds, 8,570 were occupied. Of the 2,177 intensive care unit beds, 2,147 were occupied. Across the State, 2,031 oxygen beds were available, and the total bed vacancy stood at 11,707, including 251 in the intensive care units. There were 33,101 vacant beds at COVID Care Centres. The bulletin said 114 of those who died had no co-morbidities. Among those who died without co-morbidities was a 31-year-old man from Salem who tested positive on May 4. He was admitted the next day to the government hospital at Attur with complaints of fever, cough and breathlessness for two days. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 8. As many as 28,149 people were vaccinated in the State on Sunday, taking the total coverage to 72,40,508. On day one of the vaccination drive for those aged 18 to 44, 8,532 people in the age group were inoculated. They were administered the first dose of Covishield. As many as 9,655 beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group with co-morbidities and 4,342 senior citizens were also vaccinated on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-inch-towards-3-lakh/article34630177.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM distributes aid in Kolathur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday distributed 12 essential commodities, including rice, to about 1.20 lakh people in Kolathur Assembly constituency. The assistance was distributed among 40,000 people each in wards, 64, 65 and 67. In ward 8, the Chief Minister distributed assistance and COVID-19 preventive equipment to 1,785 sanitation workers. Mr. Stalin also honoured the DMK men who worked for the party’s victory in the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-distributes-aid-in-kolathur/article34630151.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK tells members to strictly follow party rules||The AIADMK, on Sunday, warned of severe action against those involved in anti-party activities or acting against its bylaws or principles. It warned of action against floating peravais named after party leaders, portraying names and portraits of some leaders in a bad light, posting anti-party content on social media, among others. In a joint statement, AIADMK leaders O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the party would never allow praises on any individual or attempts to use the party for anyone’s personal gains. Those who intend to work for the party should focus on serving the people and should develop their interest in science and improve their talents, the leaders contended. None of the party functionaries or those in the party should air his or her comments either in any public space or on social media over the next course of action of the AIADMK or the party’s positions on various issues or criticise the party, they insisted. “If anyone is found involved in activities, violating the party’s directives in the future, they will be removed from primary membership and legal action will be resorted to against them,” they warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-tells-members-to-strictly-follow-party-rules/article34630160.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People across State throng shops ahead of intense curbs||Ahead of the intense lockdown for a week from Monday, huge crowds thronged markets, grocery shops and meat stalls across Tamil Nadu on Sunday. Even after the government made it clear that shops would operate till 9 p.m., people gathered at shops from as early as 6 a.m. As the hours passed, physical distancing went for a toss. Crowded markets, long queues in front of grocery outlets and meat stalls, traffic congestion and vendors putting up stalls on roadsides were common in the cities of the western region. In Coimbatore, people lined up at retail outlets from 6 a.m. Vegetable prices sky-rocketed in Coimbatore and Erode. However, the prices dipped in Coimbatore by evening. People thronged markets and commercial establishments in major towns in the Nilgiris district. In Salem, roads leading to market places were crowded as vendors put up stalls, leading to congestion near the Suramangalam market, the Hasthampatti market and the Anandha Bridge market. People flouted COVID-19 safety norms at almost all places. In Tiruchi district, people thronged vegetable markets, meat stalls and even clothing stores ahead of the lockdown. Traffic jams occurred on Madurai Road and near the Gandhi Market, even as vendors sold their ware at inflated prices. People thronged clothing stores as the day passed. “We did not expect the clothing stores to open. We needed some clothes for our children...,” a customer said. Vegetable prices sky-rocketed in Madurai. P.S. Murugan, president of the Central Market Wholesale Vegetable Vendors Association, said one kilogram of tomato went for Rs. 50 as against Rs. 10 earlier. “All the vegetables cost at least three times higher,” he said. Mutton stalls at Gomathipuram increased the price of meat from Rs. 900 a kg to Rs. 1,200. Traffic jams on arterial roads, cramped parking lots and crowded shops and markets were a common sight in different areas of Madurai city. “The bustle on East Veli, East Masi and East Marret Streets was similar to what it would be on the eve of Deepavali,” said K. Rahman, a businessman. In Vellore, health officials set up a vaccination centre and COVID-19 testing centre at the market entrance. Many vendors and members of the public were vaccinated and some of them were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-across-state-throng-shops-ahead-of-intense-curbs/article34630171.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on vulnerable segments for 18+ vaccination||The Tamil Nadu government has prioritised some segments of the population for vaccination against COVID-19 in the 18-44 age group. The decision was taken in view of the limited stock of vaccines, a government order said. Vulnerable groups such as newspaper boys, milk vendors and distributors; street vendors, pharmacy and grocery staff; autorickshaw and taxi drivers; bus drivers and conductors; EB staff and local body employees; workers in the e-commerce sector and essential industries; construction workers; other State labourers; government staff and transport employees; school and college teachers; and mediapersons will be given priority. Volunteers who serve food to COVID-19 patients in containment areas, members of NGOs that help out at hospitals, seafarers working in shipping industries and airport employees will also be given priority. Differently-abled persons will have to produce a certificate to get the vaccines without waiting in queue. The order said that based on the Chief Minister’s announcement on vaccination of people aged 18-44, the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine had sent a proposal to administer vaccines at government COVID-19 vaccination centres/government medical college hospitals/district headquarters hospitals and one PHC per block. The government also directed the Department/Commissionerate for Welfare of Differently Abled to organise special camps for vaccination. Clarity sought The government has said persons with disabilities will be vaccinated at their doorstep. But the measure has not been mentioned in the government order on the inoculation of the priority group of people aged 18-44. Hence, activists have sought clarity. S. Nambu Rajan, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers, said: “The plan is that the Department of Medical and Family Welfare will coordinate with the Department for Welfare of Differently Abled. We would like the Department for Welfare of Differently Abled to issue a statement. Now the scheme is restricted to the Chennai Corporation limits, but the helpline is of the Department for Welfare of Differently Abled. We don’t know how the two Departments will coordinate. It is good that a disability certificate would mean we don’t have to wait in a queue. But what about those who are immobile? We have raised the issue with the Commissioner for the Disabled, but have not received any response.” “There are 13 lakh persons with disabilities, and some are severely disabled with high support needs. The option of doorstep vaccination must be available to them. In some rural areas, the primary health centre is 12-13 km away. Without access to public transport, how would such a person go to the vaccination centre?” said T.M.N. Deepak, president, December 3 Movement. The toll-free number for registration is 18004250111. The video helpline is 9700799933. Sources in the Department for Welfare of Differently Abled said the protocol was set by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare or the Collectors. “The Department’s helpline is always open to register any request for help in vaccination. We will inform the district administration,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-vulnerable-segments-for-18-vaccination/article34630178.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AUTA welcomes re-exam||Anna University Teachers’ Association has welcomed the State government’s move to conduct a re-examination for the odd semester of 2020. The association affirmed that many students with good academic record had performed poorly in the multiple-choice question format. The association said it was not in agreement with the views expressed by former Vice Chancellor E. Balagurusamy and that teachers were willing to take up the examination process. ‘Not prepared’ “The fact is that Anna University had not prepared the students to face Multiple Choice Question examinations; neither are our teachers trained to set question papers the MCQ way,” it said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auta-welcomes-re-exam/article34630161.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Selvaperunthagai is CLP leader||Congress MLA Selvaperunthagai, elected from the Sriperumbudur constituency, has been appointed as the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader in the Assembly. The two-time MLA from Killiyoor, S. Rajesh Kumar, will be the deputy leader. Mr. Selvaperunthagai, who had a stint in the Puthiya Tamizhagam of Dr. K. Krishnasamy, joined the Viduthalai Chiruthaikal Katchi (VCK) and was its MLA between 2006 and 2011. He quit the party after differences with Thol. Thirumavalavan. His appointment has come as a surprise to the Congress leaders who expected Colachel J.G. Prince or Mr. Rajesh Kumar to be elected the CLP leader. Party sources said Mr. Rajesh Kumar had the support of 11 MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selvaperunthagai-is-clp-leader/article34630166.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Banks will function from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC)-Tamil Nadu has said that business hours of banks will continue to be from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., from May 24 to 30, and the branches will function with one-third staff strength, on rotation basis, following the government’s announcement to enforce an intense lockdown in the State. Working hours of branches will be from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Administrative/zonal/regional/back offices will function as per normal working hours, it said in a communication to banks. Bank branches will provide basic essential services — cash transaction (accepting deposits and cash withdrawals), remittances, NEFT, RTGS and government business and clearing of cheques, among other things, it said. Banks need to ensure that all alternate delivery channels like bank ATMs/cash deposit machines/cash recyclers and banking correspondent services are kept fully functional. All other COVID-19 norms shall be strictly adhered to, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-will-function-from-10-am-to-2-pm/article34630169.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles to sell 3,838 tonnes of veggies, fruits||The Tamil Nadu government has taken steps to sell 2,228 metric tonnes of vegetables and fruits all over the State, except in Chennai, through 2,270 vehicles, every day between May 24 and 31. In Chennai, 1,610 vehicles will sell 1,610 metric tonnes of vegetables and fruits. On Sunday, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam met officials and discussed ways to reach out to people during the lockdown. Vegetables and fruits will be sold between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. The daily requirement of vegetables and fruits in the State is 18,000 metric tonnes. People can know about the supply by dialling 04422253884. Officials of the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture and Agriculture Marketing will monitor the sale. For the sale, the government has also roped in Ninjacart, India’s largest fresh produce supply chain company; WayCool, an agri-tech company; Palamudhir Nilayam, a fruit and vegetable chain; Tamilnadu Banana Producer Company Ltd. and Ahimsa Farmers Club. The government said there were cold storage units that could store 18,527 metric tonnes of vegetables and fruits. Only 3,000 metric tonnes were stored at present, and farmers could make use of them. Local bodies will help out in the supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-to-sell-3838-tonnes-of-veggies-fruits/article34630172.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Helplines for complaints about excess charges||Complaints about private hospitals overcharging for COVID-19 treatment may be made by calling toll-free numbers 18004253993 or 104. Complainants must provide required evidence for the government to take action, a government order has said. The order applies to hospitals empanelled to treat COVID-19 patients. The government has also issued an order stating the new pricing for various categories of treatment for the infection by private hospitals, under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. Cardholders can directly approach the hospital for admission, the G.O. says. The scheme will also cover the cost of investigation and medical expenses. For non-critical care — without oxygen support — a hospital may charge Rs. 5,000 a day. For a bed with oxygen support, it can be Rs. 15,000 a day. For a person requiring ICU with invasive ventilation the cost is Rs. 35,000 a day, and the cost of admission to an ICU with oxygen, only as stepping down, will be Rs. 25,000 a day.  The government has also issued an order stating the new pricing for various categories of treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helplines-for-complaints-about-excess-charges/article34630173.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Implement lockdown strictly, Collectors told||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday called upon Collectors to ensure that the lockdown is strictly implemented, saying that it was necessary to break the chain of infection spread. “You should take it to the people that the objective of the lockdown is to create a safe society. We have lost lives. On the one hand we have medical problems, and on the other we are facing a financial crisis. We have to put an end to COVID-19, as early as possible,” he said, addressing the Collectors. He said Collectors should make use of their experience, energy and skills to arrest the spread of infection. “The world has witnessed a lot of disasters and pandemics, and have overcome them. When a society is affected, a light will emerge from an individual. I see you as the light,” he said. Expressing hope that Collectors would eliminate COVID-19, Mr. Stalin requested them to ensure the proper supply of essentials like fruits, vegetables, milk and water during the week-long lockdown in the State. “You should speed up COVID-19 screening by conducting door-to-door visits during the lockdown. You must also ensure that patients get transportation to reach private and government hospitals,” he said. Mr. Stalin said Collectors should also take forward the vaccination programme, without any laxity, while ensuring that there are adequate stocks of oxygen and medicines in hospitals. “You can rope in NGOs keen on working with district administrations and appoint a special officer for that coordination,” he said. Mr. Stalin also appealed to his party members to distribute food to the elderly, the differently-abled and those not able to move out during the lockdown. In a letter, he said they could get permissions from the Collectors for food distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-lockdown-strictly-collectors-told/article34630174.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 special buses operated||To help people reach their native places ahead of the total lockdown, the Transport Department operated over 1,000 special buses from the city to various parts of the State for two days — May 22 and 23. Till Sunday evening, it had operated 1,331 buses, transporting a total of 65,746 passengers. Transport Minister Raja Kannappan inspected the Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR bus terminus at Koyambedu. The special buses were operated till 11.45 p.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1000-special-buses-operated/article34630155.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway delivers over 1,000 tonnes of oxygen||The Southern Railway has delivered more than 1,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical Oxygen (LMO) to the State through the operation of 18 Oxygen Express trains. Having already operated 14 Oxygen Express services, it received four more Oxygen Expresses on Sunday, delivering a total of 1,024.18 MT. According to a press release, the four Oxygen Expresses which arrived in the State included three trains, proceeding from Rourkela and reaching the Inland Container Depot, Tondiarpet, and one train reaching Madukkarai in Coimbatore. Earlier, the State received 785.87 MT of LMO through 14 Oxygen Expresses of which nine were received at Tondiarpet, one each at Madukkarai, Vadipatti, Milavittan and Tiruvallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-delivers-over-1000-tonnes-of-oxygen/article34630165.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No change in stand on NEET’||The State government on Sunday reiterated that there was no change in its stand that it was against conducting the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions. An official release cited some media reports and clarified that there was no change in the State government’s stand against conducting NEET. It was for conducting medical admissions based on marks obtained in Plus Two. Taking part in the virtual high-level meeting on Sunday to discuss pending Plus Two Board Exams and entrance examinations for professional courses, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi and School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi put forward the State government’s stand over these issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-change-in-stand-on-neet/article34630164.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches 130-bed facility in Saidapet||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday inaugurated a 130 oxygen-bed facility in Saidapet in the presence of Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian. The initiative was taken by CREDAI as part of its CSR activities. The oxygen beds will be managed by the staff of government hospitals in Chennai and other cities. According to sources in CREDAI, the initiative to develop 4,000 oxygen beds has been taken to show solidarity with the government during the pandemic. Mr. Stalin has also inaugurated 200 scalable oxygen bed facilities at Madurai Government Hospital. The facilities have been developed in a record time of 72 hours. CREDAI had set up 100 more oxygen beds in Omandurar Government Hospital and Anna Nagar GH in Chennai. Each oxygen bed costs around Rs. 20,000. The cost will be incurred by G Square Realtors. CREDAI has planned to set up government hopitals at Kilpauk (200 beds), Chengalpattu (300 beds), Kanchipuram (250 beds), Tambaram (200 beds), and Chromepet (200 beds). Suresh Krishna, president, CREDAI, Tamil Nadu, said, “this CSR initiative of G Square inspired many corporates like Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Ltd., Lifestyle (Chennai), Olympia, TN Ispat Parishad Ltd., and Tiruppur Exporters’ Association.” G Square Realtors planned to expand this model of oxygen bed facility in other parts of the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-launches-130-bed-facility-in-saidapet/article34630156.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No two-wheeler commute for essential industries staff||Employees of industries manufacturing essentials and medical supplies and continuous processing units will not be allowed to commute on two-wheelers from Tuesday, even with e-registration, the Tamil Nadu government clarified on Sunday. In an official release, the government said e-registrations already provided for four-wheelers such as buses, vans, tempos and cars of these industries would be renewed. “From May 25, employees [of these industries] will not be allowed to commute for official work on two-wheelers,” it said. These industries are requested to arrange transportation for their employees on four-wheelers like buses, vans, tempos and cars, it said. “The four-wheelers can be e-registered through https://eregister.tnega.org/,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-two-wheeler-commute-for-essential-industries-staff/article34630175.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Easing of curbs caused crowding’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss said the relaxations allowed by the State government over the weekend had resulted in crowding, defeating the purpose of the intense lockdown starting Monday. In a tweet, he said the relaxations had proven dangerous and people were crowding in shops and markets Mr. Ramadoss also said allowing long-distance bus services was unnecessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/easing-of-curbs-caused-crowding/article34630180.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50 crore for RT-PCR kits||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered the use of Rs. 50 crore from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) for procuring RT-PCR kits. As of Sunday, Rs. 181 crore had been collected in the CMPRF. An unprecedented 1.6 lakh RT-PCR tests are conducted in a day, an official release said. It may be recalled that the Chief Minister had already ordered that Rs. 25 crore be used to source Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs for the State, and another Rs. 25 crore for liquid oxygen for hospitals in Tamil Nadu from other States. Earlier this month, Mr. Stalin had appealed to the people and corporates to donate generously to the CMPRF to help the State government fight the pandemic. To know how to donate to the CMPRF, click the following link:http://bit.ly/ mkstalinrequest Donations to fund Matrimony.com has donated Rs. 50 lakh to CMPRF. Its founder and CEO Murugavel Janakiraman presented the cheque to Mr. Stalin at the Secretariat on Sunday. In a release, the company said it had earlier donated Rs. 20 lakh to the State Disaster Management Fund and the Rotary Club for donating non-invasive ventilators. The WHO has donated 100 oxygen concentrators to the newly-formed COVID-19 care centre at the Government Hospital in Saidapet. K.N. Arun Kumar, sub-regional team leader, Chennai, WHO, gave the oxygen concentrators to Mr. Stalin in Saidapet. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-50-crore-for-rt-pcr-kits/article34630181.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop T he Family Man 2 ’||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Sunday urged Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar to stop the release of web series The Family Man 2 on Amazon Prime, saying it depicted Tamilians as terrorists and ISI agents. In a letter, Mr. Vaiko said: “Tamil speaking actress Samantha is shown as a terrorist having connections with Pakistan terrorists. This has hurt the sentiments of Tamil people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-t-he-family-man-2/article34630159.ece
24 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 86-cr. aid for fishermen||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has sanctioned Rs. 86 crore to be distributed among 1.72 lakh families of fishermen affected by the fishing ban. Fisheries Minister Anita R. Radhakrishnan said the 61-day ban on the east coast, which began on April 15, would be in force till June 14. On the west coast, the ban would be in force be between June 1 and July 31, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-86-cr-aid-for-fishermen/article34630154.ece
24 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Traders asked to approach Corporation to sell vegetables||Coimbatore Corporation has asked traders to approach its officers to obtain permit to sell vegetables and fruits during the lockdown period that starts Monday. According to a release from the civic body, traders in T.K. Market, Ramar Kovil Market, Gandhipuram Market, Anna Market on Mettupalayam Road could approach the zonal assistant commissioner if they wished to sell vegetables using their vehicles. Those desirous of selling vegetables in East Zone should approach Assistant Commissioner in-charge Gnanavel (94421-04113), West Zone AC Sundarraj (94421-04146), North Zone AC Mahesh Kanagaraj (98940-99024), South Zone AC Saravanan (94425-01877) and Central Zone AC Sivasubramaniam (94892-06055). Assistant Commissioner, Revenue, M. Annadurai (94437-99212) would coordinate the entire operation. The release also said that volunteers willing to sell vegetables during the lockdown were also welcome and they would do well to approach officer Senthilkumar Rathinam (94437-99201) for further details. Sources said that the civic body had worked out the operational details with the Agriculture Marketing Department that managed the farmers’ markets. The civic body had given 50 vehicles to the Department, which would identify and authorise the farmers or traders to sell vegetables. Likewise, the Corporation would authorise the traders from the aforementioned retail vegetable markets. This would be after verifying the identity of the traders and the vehicle to be used. They also said that the Corporation had planned to deploy a vehicle with vegetables and fruits for every two wards and there would be a minimum of 50 vehicles. The civic body was welcome to having more vehicles to supply the vegetables and fruits but each vehicle would sell only within a specified area. This was to ensure that vehicles reached all the 100 wards. Besides, the Corporation would also make public the price at which the vegetables or fruits should be sold, the sources said and added that for the price fixation mechanism, the civic body had approached the Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-asked-to-approach-corporation-to-sell-vegetables/article34630183.ece
24 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness needed on triaging to treat COVID-19 positive patients||Though a majority of the COVID-19 treating hospitals in Coimbatore district are running at their full capacity, awareness among the public on the need to follow triaging – deciding the order of treatment - seems to be low. The city has four triage centres - ESI Hospital (ward 64) at Singanallur, Ramanathapuram Corporation Mandapam (ward 69) near Olampus, St. Francis Convent School (ward 73) on Trichy Road, and GCT College (ward 21) on Thadagam Main Road. Corporation sources said a person who has turned COVID-19 positive after having given sample in a private lab or a government health establishment is contacted by the Coimbatore Corporation. Staff from the ward or zone concerned, upon receiving the list of positive persons in the city, call every person on the list advising them to visit a triage centre, preferably the nearest one. At the triage centre, doctors test the positive persons oxygen saturation level, respiratory rate, blood pressure and sugar. Depending on the results of the above tests and the symptoms narrated by them, the doctors ask them to remain in home quarantine or go to a COVID Care Centre or get admitted to a hospital. If the positive persons preferred admission in a government hospital, then the staff at the triage centres arrange for an ambulance and send them to the hospital that showed bed availability. If persons who had turned positive preferred to go to private hospitals without turning up at triage centre or if they wished to avail of medical service in private hospitals after visiting triage centres, the triage centre staff clearly indicated to the positive persons that they would have to find hospitals with free beds. The triage centres referred positive persons to only government health establishments or COVID Care Centre, the sources added. In areas outside the limit of Coimbatore Corporation in the district, triaging is currently done by the block primary health centres and the field staff according to G. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services. The PHC staff either do house visits for the triage based on the COVID-19 test result they receive from testing facilities or do the triaging over phone. “COVID-19 cases in rural areas are scattered in nature. Health inspectors are able to track cases in their limits and ensure the triaging. The public can seek advice by dialling 1077 if they are not contacted by the Health Department,” says a senior official with the Health Department. According to the official, calls received at 1077 are now being categorised as green (home isolation), yellow (referral to nearest triage) and red (immediate hospitalisation). The COVID-19 war room can also be reached at 0422 2301114 to get advice of experts after getting tested positive for the disease. Two major COVID Hospitals (CHO- for severe cases) in the government sector namely the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital had been running at their full capacity, especially ICU and oxygen beds, in the last several days. Hospitals say that patients with mild or moderate COVID-19, without complaints of comorbidities and alarming drop in oxygen saturation level (SpO2), are being brought, mainly due to the anxiety of family members. This leads to unwanted crowding and occupancy of beds in hospitals, reducing the number of beds which could otherwise be used for severe cases of COVID-19, they say. A senior doctor from CMCH said that several patients brought to the hospital are being referred to COVID Health Centres (CHC- for moderate cases) and COVID Care Centres (CCC – meant for mild cases) as they do not meet the criteria for admission in the current situation. Some patients are advised to remain in home quarantine. “Such patients can ideally be taken to the nearest triage to seek advice on the treatment instead of rushing them to CHOs like CMCH or ESI Hospital,” the doctor says. A few private hospitals said that their doctors were offering tele-consultation too for patients who are in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-needed-on-triaging-to-treat-covid-19-positive-patients/article34630185.ece
24 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||People flock shops to buy essentials in Coimbatore||Markets and shops in the city witnessed a huge rush after the State government announced that all shops will remain open from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Sunday ahead of a total lockdown for a week from Monday. Right from morning, the city’s residents were everywhere as multi-brand retail shops, single brand retail shops, vegetable shops, grocery shops, bakeries, garment stores, sports goods shops, fancy stores, stationery shops, home furnishing shops, electrical goods shops, hardware shops and almost every other type of shop remained opened, a few right from 6 a.m. Farmers’ markets (uzhavar sandhai) were also open. On R.G. Street, Thomas Street, Edayar Street, Oppanakara Street, Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street all shops remained opened. In front of all grocery stores people waited in long queues for their turn to buy goods and in many of those shops customers failed to adhere to the physical distance norms. The Coimbatore Corporation and Coimbatore City Police urging the people to maintain physical distance seemed to have had no effect as the shoppers were busy shopping. On several streets in the busy shopping area and in other parts of the town as well, small-time traders set up makeshift shops on road margins, selling mostly vegetables and fruits. As traders and shoppers returned to the busy shopping areas, there were traffic jams. Coimbatore City Police personnel had a tough time regulating vehicle movement. On 100 Feet Road, Cross Cut Road and in Gandhipuram area almost all retail shops were open, including those selling mobile phone, electronic goods, home appliances, jewellery and garments. Customers were seen outside shops selling computer peripherals like printer cartridge as well. As the State government had permitted the State-run transport corporation and private bus companies to ply vehicles on Sunday, all city bus stands saw a good turnout of commuters who wanted to return home before the next lockdown. There was heavy crowd in Gandhipuram bus stands as the transport corporation operated with only a depleted fleet, said a source. Commuters complained that they had were waiting for over an hour for bus to Salem, Erode and Sathyamangalam though they were told that there would be a service every half-an-hour. On Dr. Nanjappa Road, all hardware and tools shops were open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-flock-shops-to-buy-essentials-in-coimbatore/article34630193.ece
24 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries to remain shut for a week||Almost all industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts will remain shut for one week from Monday because of complete lockdown in the State to control the pandemic. Just about 10 % of MSMEs in Coimbatore are in essential and healthcare sectors and only these will operate, said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. While the foundries in the MSME sector will not operate, the larger foundries are expected to decide individually. Spinning mills will not function as the government had not given permission even to those units that house the workers on the premises. Garment exporting units will also remain closed. “Lockdown for a short period is expected bring down the COVID cases. Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and Erode are industrial clusters and have a large number of COVID cases too. Probably that is the reason why the units have not been given permission to operate. If the lockdown extends beyond a week, we may appeal to the government for exemptions,” said Prabhu Dhamodharan, covener of Indian Texpreneurs Association. “What is different this year from last year’s lockdown is that last year, the entire world was under lockdown. Now, only India is affected. Hence, it is imperative to take swift action to bring down the cases. If not, the economy and exports will be hit,” said Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. The Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association said its members will extend full cooperation to the lockdown. However, the government should grant time to pay mandatory taxes and also extend interest-free loans to the micro units, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-to-remain-shut-for-a-week/article34630196.ece
24 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps held in Coimbatore||Special camps were held on Sunday at a few locations in the district to vaccinate industry workers, staff and owners. At a camp held on the premises of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association, about 500 people took the vaccination. At another camp held for goldsmiths, jewellery manufacturers and their workers, almost 1000 people were inoculated. They were all aged between 18 and 44. With the government launching vaccination for industry workers aged above 18, camps are held across the district at industries and industry associations since Saturday. The camps are organised by the industries, Health Department, the District Industries Centre and the district administration. Similar camps were held at some of the industries, too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-held-in-coimbatore/article34630195.ece
24 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Provisions distributed to tribal families||Around 35 families of Koomatti tribal settlement, around 25 km from Valparai, heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday after volunteers of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association arranged for them provisions for over a week through a sponsor. After coming to know that the families were struggling without provisions due to the lockdown, the association tried to pool money through donations. Arun Balaji of Kalvi Sevai Arakattalai sponsored provisions for the families worth Rs. 45,000. Each family was given rice, grocery, vegetables and other provisions worth Rs. 1,250, according to V.S. Paramasivam, district president of the association. As the settlement is located inside deep forest, Manombolly forest range officer Manikandan arranged a vehicle for the transportation of the provisions. Frontline workers of the Forest Department cleared trees that had fallen onto the forest path in the recent rain and gale, said Mr. Paramasivam. The association was taking efforts to arrange similar relief packages for other tribal families living in the forests of ATR during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provisions-distributed-to-tribal-families/article34630198.ece
24 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable markets to remain shut for a week||Wholesale and retail vegetable markets in the city will remain shut for a week from Monday because of total lockdown in the State. to control the spread of COVID-19. At Anna Market, the traders said that 150 vegetable shops will remain closed. It will not be possible to sell vegetables in vehicles as the traders will not be able to purchase vegetables from other markets, unload and distribute it to different areas in the city, said a trader. At MGR market, which is the wholesale market, the traders said there was hardly any option available. Either the markets should be opened or it will remain totally shut. TK Market saw people rush for vegetables since early Sunday morning and the vegetable supply to the market continued till evening. Most of the vegetables were sold at more than Rs. 100 a kg in the morning. The prices dropped in the evening. During the lockdown period, some vegetables can be sourced from farmers in and around Coimbatore. However, the government should support the traders to sell vegetables in vehicles during the lockdown, said a wholesale trader at the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-markets-to-remain-shut-for-a-week/article34630189.ece
24 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure availability of essential commodities’||Minister of Forests K. Ramachandran had asked officials here to ensure availability of essential commodities to the public during lockdown. A release said the Minister held a meeting on Sunday to review the arrangements for the lockdown. Officials should ensure that members of the public faced no shortage of milk, vegetables, fruits, water and medicines. He also appealed to the public to not venture out unless they faced emergency. And, to the police, he said that they should strictly enforce lockdown while warning members of the public to not venture out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-availability-of-essential-commodities/article34630190.ece
24 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express reaches Madukkarai||An Oxygen Express with two tankers carrying 19.54 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) arrived at Madukkarai at 12.45 p.m. on Sunday. Wagons were placed at 1 p.m. and rolling out of tankers were completed at 1.15 p.m. It was the 18th Oxygen Express to Tamil Nadu and the second one to Madukkarai. On May 20, three tankers with a load of 29.24 MT of LMO had reached Madukkarai as part of the 10th Oxygen Express service to Tamil Nadu. The Southern Railway has, so far, delivered 1,024.18 MT of LMO for Tamil Nadu through 18 Oxygen Express trains. On Sunday, the Southern Railway handled four Oxygen Express rakes for Tamil Nadu, including one that arrived at Madukkarai. For Kerala, two Oxygen Express trains delivered 246.56 MT of oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-reaches-madukkarai/article34630186.ece
24 May 2021||DUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile sale of vegetables begins||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Sunday inaugurated mobile sale of vegetables in Pudukottai town on the eve of a week-long intense lockdown. Mr. Regupathy said steps had been taken to conduct the sale at 60 places across over the district through the Cooperative Department. Vegetables would be made available to the general public through mobile units. The move was aimed at ensuring supply of vegetables at a lesser cost and without any interruption during the lockdown. He appealed to the people to strictly adhere to safety guidelines and to stay at home during the stringent lockdown that had been announced in their interest. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and district officials participated, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-sale-of-vegetables-begins/article34630564.ece
24 May 2021||Erode/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Roads jam-packed with vehicles in Erode, Salem||Crowded vegetable markets, long queues outside provision stores and roads jam-packed with vehicles were the scenes witnessed in Erode city and in rural areas on Sunday. People in large numbers thronged Nethaji Daily Vegetable Market, uzhavar sandhai, grocery stores, fruit shops, meat and fish stalls, provision stores in Kongalamman Kovil Street and Manikoondu, to purchase and stock items for a week. Physical distancing went for a toss as people crowded shops and moved in close proximity with others in market areas while many had their masks on their jaws. “The crowd thought that the city is free of COVID-19”, said a police official monitoring the crowd movement. At the corporation’s Central Bus Terminal, less than 50 mofussil buses were operated to other cities while a minimum number of town buses was operated to various destinations in the district which saw poor patronage. In Salem, ever since the announcement on relaxations came on Saturday, supermarkets, grocery shops and even non-essential businesses raised shutters. Roads outside market places were crowded as vendors set shops on road sides leading to even traffic congestion near Sooramangalam Market, Hasthampatti Market and near Anandha Bridge Market. Huge crowd was also present at the fish market here. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation and SETC operated buses to neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-jam-packed-with-vehicles-in-erode-salem/article34630202.ece
24 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Lathika Subash to join NCP||After her unsuccessful bid to represent the Ettumanur Assembly segment as a Congress rebel, Lathika Subash, former president of the Kerala Mahila Congress, has decided to join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Confirming the move, Ms. Subash said a formal announcement would be made soon. She had announced her resignation from the Congress after she was denied a party ticket in the Ettumanur seat in the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lathika-subash-to-join-ncp/article34630049.ece
24 May 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in ambulance outside GH||A 34-year-old man died in the ambulance outside the government hospital after a four-hour wait for want of a hospital bed with oxygen support at the Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Ventilator support The deceased Prem Kumar was under treatment at MGM nursing home for the last five days. However, on Saturday, the family was reportedly told that the patient could be moved out for ventilator support since his oxygen demand was increasing. Following this, Prem Kumar was brought in an ambulance to the hospital. However, there were no beds at the government headquarters hospital forcing the patient to use the oxygen support in the ambulance. After a four-hour wait, Prem Kumar died.  Bed availability On Friday, the government had issued Unified Command Centres and War Room numbers to help public plan COVID-19 care based on the availability of beds. However, there are allegations of private hospitals guiding decisions of families of patients to discharge them once the condition of the patient gets critical even without availability of beds at the government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-ambulance-outside-gh/article34630187.ece
24 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rush ahead of intense lockdown||Chaotic scenes prevailed at markets and shops in Madurai on Sunday as people scrambled to stock up vegetables, fruits, groceries and other products ahead of the imposition of intense lockdown from Monday morning. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced that all shops, including provision stores and grocery shops, would be shut from May 24. Hence the government had allowed all standalone shops, except malls, to function till 9 p.m. on Sunday. As a result, residents crowded vegetable and meat markets from Sunday morning. Mohamed Najumudeen, a resident of Nelpettai, said customers thronged Nelpettai meat and fish market with poor compliance to mask usage and physical distancing norms. “There was hardly any space inside the market. It would have been better had the shops been segregated and ordered to function across the city,” he said. The vegetable market at Mattuthavani was also heavily crowded on Sunday morning. The prices of vegetables sky-rocketed. President of Central Market Wholesale Vegetable Vendors Association P.S. Murugan said that a kilogram of tomato, which was earlier sold at Rs. 10, was sold as high as Rs. 50 on Sunday. “All the vegetables were sold at at least three times higher than the previous rates,” he added. Big textile showrooms in the core city area were also crowded with customers. Nitesh Kothari, a wholesale trader, said people wanted to complete their wedding shopping as they were unsure when the textile showrooms would open again. K. Jeyaprakash, a resident, said the crowding in shops and markets on Sunday would have a disastrous result as it would lead to rapid spread of coronavirus infections. “East Veli, East Masi and East Marret streets wore a bustling look, as seen on Deepavali eve,” said K. Rahman, a businessman. “Vehicular traffic was so high that traffic jam was witnessed on Albert Victor bridge. It took five minutes to cross Yanaikkal junction,” said K. Balachandar of Gomathipuram. “Though the government has announced that vegetables and fruits will be sold through mobile vendors during the lockdown, people were thronging markets, despite the high prices of vegetables,” he said. Mutton stalls in Gomathipuram had increased the price of meat from Rs. 900 a kg to Rs. 1,200 following the high demand.  Storm before calm Some did wedding shopping, unsure of when the showrooms will open again  Vehicular traffic was so high that traffic jam was witnessed on Albert Victor bridge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rush-ahead-of-intense-lockdown/article34630293.ece
24 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||20,000 medicine kits to be distributed to boost immunity||Finance Minister P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan and Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy distributed medicine kits that were funded by Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan’s MPLAD fund, at MADITSSIA hall here on Sunday. Mr. Venkatesan sponsored 20,000 medicine kits that will help boost the immunity of the public. While 15,000 kits are earmarked to be distributed within Madurai Corporation limits, the rest will be distributed in rural areas. The MP said that out of the 15,000 earmarked for Corporation limits, 3,000 kits will be given to those who have been infected by coronavirus in the last five days and are under home isolation; and 6,000 kits for those who will be infected by COVID-19 in the next 10 days and will be under home isolation. The remaining 7,000 will be given to the frontline workers of Madurai Corporation. The MP said that the kits will be distributed by the government workers. The Finance Minister said that steps will be taken to ensure that conservancy workers are given full protection against COVID-19 while they are at work. Mr. Moorthy said that consuming kabasura kudineer, and having the medicines to boost immunity are some of the preventive measures against COVID-19. He stressed the importance of vaccination as an effective preventive step against coronavirus infection. The Minister said that a meeting was held with the local body representatives and anganwadi workers, instructing them to do door-to-door screening to identify COVID-19 positive patients. He praised the conservancy workers for their selfless service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20000-medicine-kits-to-be-distributed-to-boost-immunity/article34630544.ece
24 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable bags to be sold to public at their doorsteps: Collector||Arrangements have been made to sell vegetable bags to the public at their doorsteps during the intensified complete lockdown which will be imposed from Monday morning, said Collector Aneesh Sekar. The Collector told The Hindu that officials had arranged around 200 vehicles to sell vegetable bags to the public both in rural as well as urban areas, similar to what was done during the first wave of the pandemic. Traders of Paravai vegetable market have agreed to make vegetable bags. Similarly, the local body representatives will coordinate with Uzhavar Sandhais to prepare and sell these bags. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that vehicles had been arranged to sell vegetable bags to the residents of all the 100 wards. The Collector said that while a limited number of vehicles would be deployed on Monday, the number will be scaled up gradually. Steps had also been taken to sell bags containing grocery items to the public at their doorsteps, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-bags-to-be-sold-to-public-at-their-doorsteps-collector/article34630539.ece
24 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A mid-air extravaganza||Families of two businessmen organised marriage of their wards on board a chartered flight that hovered over southern districts with around 130 relatives and friends cheering. “Both families are close relatives and they planned for this extravaganza a few months back to fulfil the wish of an elder member of the family,” a friend of father of the bride K. Jayaprakash, 53, said. Though the reception and feast was planned at a resort in the suburb, the families decided to change the venue in Anna Nagar owing to the pandemic situation. “Only those who did not have any symptoms of COVID-19 were asked to participate in the mid-air ceremony,” he added. All of them arrived at the airport early in the morning and the charted flight took off around 6.50 a.m. The nuptial knots were tied at the chosen time amid chanting of slogas by a priest. After hovering for over 90 minutes, the flight returned to Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-mid-air-extravaganza-businessmen-style/article34630540.ece
24 May 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 129.40 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 658 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.35 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 760 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,244 mcft. Tirunelveli The level in Papanasam dam stood at 110.85 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 2,262.96 cusecs and a discharge of 254.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 84.60 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 109 cusecs and a discharge of 250 cusecs. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in various places in southern districts in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Papanasam 40, Kodaikanal 35.6, Periyar dam 22.2, Adavinainar dam 21, Servalar dam and Radhapuram 15 each, Tenkasi 12.6, Thekkadi 10.6, Karuppanadhi dam 10, Gudalur 9.3, Gundar dam 8, Kalakkad 7.4, Nanguneri 6.5, Ayakudi 6.4, Cheranmahadevi 5.2, Kodumudiyar dam, Ramanadhi dam, Shencottah, Sankarankoil and Sivagiri 5 each, Palayamkottai and Gadana dam 4 each, Manimuthar dam and Tirunelveli 3.2 each, Moolakaraipatti 2, Shanmuganathi dam 1.4, and Uthamapalayam and Manjalar dam 1 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34630291.ece
24 May 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district records 13 deaths, Virudhunagar 9||Madurai reported 13 COVID–19–related deaths on Sunday, when the district’s case tally went up by 1,139 to reach 55,726. A total of 909 persons who recovered from the viral infection were discharged from different hospitals in the district. The district’s overall death toll stands at 798. Nine persons died of COVID-19 in Virudhunagar district, which reported 569 fresh cases and 569 discharges on Sunday. Among the deceased were two women. Three of the victims were aged less than 50. The youngest was a 32-year-old man. With these fresh cases, the district’s toll rose to 334. The district has recorded over 11,000 fresh cases till date in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-district-records-13-deaths-virudhunagar-9/article34630286.ece
24 May 2021||Mangaluru,TAMIL NADU||Mangaluru doctor files complaint on video clip||A doctor, who went to a supermarket here without a mask and was booked by the police for violating COVID-19 norms, has filed a complaint against the shop owner for circulating the CCTV footage of his argument with the staff there. The video clip had gone viral. In the complaint, Dr. B. Srinivas Kakkilaya said the shop owner had illegally circulated the footage on social media, which led to defamatory statements and articles against him.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mangaluru-doctor-files-complaint-on-video-clip/article34630051.ece
24 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Task force set up to provide support to orphaned children||District Collector K. Megraj has set up a seven-member task force committee to provide support to children orphaned after the death of their parents due to COVID-19 disease. Mr. Megraj said in a release that the members include District Child Protection Officer, Joint Director, Medical and Rural Health Services, Additional Superintendent of Police, District Social Welfare Officer, Chairman or member of Child Welfare Committee and an operator of children home recommended by Collector. He said the committee would provide necessary assistance for these children. The district administration requested the public to inform the committee if there are any such children. Mr. Megraj warned that stern action would be taken against persons who indulge in conducting child marriages, employing children for work or sexually assaulting them. Contact numbers Public can contact the committee in phone numbers 04286 233103, 7904716516 or in Childline helpline 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/task-force-set-up-to-provide-support-to-orphaned-children/article34630188.ece
24 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry extends lockdown||The lockdown has been extended till May 31 in Puducherry. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan announced on Sunday that while there had been some success in lowering the incidence of new COVID-19 cases, following the regulations in force from May 10 to 24, the extension of the lockdown by another week was required to bring the situation under control. Only essential shops would be allowed to function from 6 a.m. till noon during the lockdown. The night curfew will continue. Detailed guidelines would be issued shortly, the Lt. Governor added. The Union Territory registered the highest single-day toll yet in the second wave with 34 fatalities on Sunday, even as new infections continued to decline for the second successive day. Puducherry recorded 24 deaths, Karaikal six and Yanam four to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,359. The patients, including nine women, were in the 23 to 92 age range, and 18 of them had no recorded comorbidity. The region-wise cumulative toll was 1,106 in Puducherry, 146 Karaikal, 81 Yanam and 26 Mahe. The Union Territory saw new cases drop for the second straight day with 1,448 cases. For only the second time since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic, recoveries (1,903) exceeded new cases. Puducherry accounted for 1,160 of the cases followed by 198 in Karaikal, 56 in Yanam and 34 in Mahe. The test positivity rate dropped to 16%. The case fatality rate was 1.41% and recovery rate improved marginally to 81%. The Union Territory had 16,851 active cases, of which 2,026 were in hospitals and 14,825 in home isolation. The cumulative caseload to date was 96,060, with 77,850 recoveries. While 529 and 437 beds were occupied in the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute respectively, COVID-19 Care Centres had an occupancy of 655. As of 6 p.m. on Sunday, Puducherry had a reserve of 33 isolation beds, though not a single one of the 212 allotted ventilator beds was available. Meanwhile, 75 healthcare workers, 99 frontline staff and 2,147 members of the public were vaccinated in the last 24 hours. The number of persons vaccinated stood at 2,41,657, including 34,208 healthcare workers, 21,020 frontline personnel and 1,35,992 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-government-extends-lockdown-till-may-31/article34630163.ece
24 May 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two women die as car overturns||Two women died after the car in which they were travelling met with an accident on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai national highway at Mathur on Sunday. Police identified the victims as A. Arokia Malarvizhi (36) and M. Leena Paul Iniko Mary (38) both from Kadukkakaadu village near Alangudi. The women were travelling in the car along with four others from Kadukkakaadu to Tiruchi to attend a wedding when the accident occurred. Police sources said Aruldas (40), the husband of Arokia Malarvizhi, who was driving the car noticed a light commercial vehicle coming in the opposite direction in a berserk manner after a rear tyre had got deflated causing wheel detachment. Aruldas had reportedly tried to avoid the vehicle, but the car swerved and toppled into a wayside waterbody. While Arokia Mary died on the spot, Leena Paul Iniko Mary succumbed to injuries at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. Aruldas and three others including two minor girls aged nine years and six years were injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-die-as-car-overturns/article34630565.ece
24 May 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Three persons struck dead by lightning||Three persons, including a woman, were struck dead by lightning at three different places in the district, which witnessed widespread rain coupled with thunder and lightning since 4 p.m. on Thursday. Police said Palanivel, 50, who was grazing goats in Vaduganathapuram village near Parthibanur, died on the spot when lightning struck him. In the second incident, Kunjaram, 48, wife of Govindaraj, met the same fate while returning home from her agricultural field in R.S. Mangalam. Another victim, identified as Murugan, 43, of Mandur under Tirupalaikudi police station limits, died when he was grazing his goats in the open field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-struck-dead-by-lightning/article34630538.ece
24 May 2021||Salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||50 pulse oximeters distributed||P. Ramalingam,MLA, distributed 50 pulse oximeters to volunteers engaged in door-to-door screening in Namakkal. The oximeters was donated by a person named Pulliyappan. The Thiagarajar Polytechnic College and Sona Colleges has offered to provide five meals a day to 500 patients who would undergo treatment at the COVID-19 treatment centre near Salem Steel Plant at cost of Rs. 1 crore. C. Valliappa, Chairman of the Group, handed over a letter of willingness to Minister of Electricity V. Senthil Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-pulse-oximeters-distributed/article34630203.ece
24 May 2021||Staff Reporter UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 cases registered for not wearing masks in the Nilgiris||With a total lockdown set to come into force across the State from Monday, major towns in the Nilgiris district witnessed people thronging markets and commercial establishments on Sunday. Personal distancing norms were flouted with impunity as exasperated police personnel tried their best to enforce some semblance of order, as people flocked to shops and stores to purchase essential commodities before the lockdown. R. Jayanthi, who visited one of the major supermarkets in Udhagamandalam town, said that store shelves were almost empty by the time she went to purchase rice, pulses and eggs on Sunday afternoon. “People are panic buying in large quantities, and depriving others of commodities,” she said. Another visitor to the municipal market in Udhagamandalam, said that he was forced to come to the shop as he feared his family would be left without provisions till the end of the lockdown. “I am 70-years-old, and I did not want to come to the store today. But if the shops close, then my family and I will have nothing left to eat till the lockdown ends. The government should have kept the shops open, and said that people can walk to their nearest shops. This would have ensured that people stayed home, and only visited shops which were within walking distance, and ensured that there is no panic buying,” he said. Shops selling meat witnessed brisk business, and many reported running out of stock by afternoon. Police had to put up roadblocks and divert traffic to prevent gridlocks in Udhagamandalam town. Similar rush was reported in Coonoor and Gudalur towns as well. Cases were also registered against shopkeepers and patrons who failed to follow COVID-19 protocols. According to officials, more than 300 cases were registered against people for failing to wear masks and for not maintainingsocial distancing till Sunday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-cases-registered-for-not-wearing-masks-in-the-nilgiris/article34630206.ece
24 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Physical distancing goes for a toss||All thoroughfares in Thoothukudi and its peripheries were abuzz since 6 a.m. on Sunday. Unmindful of physical distancing, people thonged the shops. On the one hand, in a bid to cash in on the opportunity, a majority of the shopkeepers had jacked up the prices of vegetables. For instance, brinjal was sold at Rs. 100 a kg, tomatoes at Rs. 90 to Rs. 120, shallots at Rs. 80 and Bellary onions at Rs. 60 to Rs. 80. Beans was sold at Rs. 300 a kg and Cauliflower at Rs. 100 a piece. All the vegetable markets, including the makeshift ones at the new bus stand, were packed. Though the police personnel kept announcing through public address system to prevent crowding, nobody was in a mood to listen. Health officials threatened to pull down the shutters of shops, after which there was some order which lasted for an hour or so. And again, the people thronged the shops. Poor strength of senior officials proved to be a major disadvantage as the very few officials who were present remained mute spectators. The arterial roads, including Palayamkottai Road, WGE Road, VE Road, Jayaraj Road were busy throughout the day. Many shoppers did not wear face masks. Meeting Even as the markets were overflowing with shoppers, the district administration conducted a consultative meeting in the presence of two Ministers - Geetha Jeevan and Anitha Radhakrishnan, MLAs from the district and senior officials from the Corporation, police and other departments. A press release said the officials explained the steps taken to distribute essential goods such as vegetables through vehicles across the district at the doorstep of people during the next seven days when the curfew would be intensified. The police would issue vehicle pass to those selling vegetables. They will procure vegetables from the wholesale market. There was no need for panic to rush to hospitals. A special control room was functioning and residents could check for availability of beds with oxygen facility. Steps were being taken to establish 500 more beds with oxygen in the Government Hospital. Pavoorchatram The Kamarajar daily vegetable market at Pavoorchatram was also jam-packed on Sunday with a large number of retail vendors also coming in for purchase through auction. The market, which gets essential goods from Maharashtra, Karnataka and other parts of Tamil Nadu, would be procured by wholesale merchants from southern districts and Kerala. In turn, the wholesale merchants would sell the produce to retailers in their territory. Many farmers, who raised vegetable crops, also brought in their produce for sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-distancing-goes-for-a-toss/article34630295.ece
24 May 2021||Thrissur,TAMIL NADU||‘Tuber Man’ wins India Biodiversity Award||Shaji N.M., fondly called ‘Tuber Man of Kerala’ has been awarded the India Biodiversity Award 2021 in the individual category of ‘Conservation of domesticated species’. Mr. Shaji, who conserves a wide array of around 200 tuber crops, including greater yam, lesser yam, elephant foot yam, arrow root, colocasia, sweet potato, cassava and Chinese potato, at his farm in Wayanad, has received State awards seven times for his efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tuber-man-wins-india-biodiversity-award/article34630050.ece
24 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown triggers panic purchase||Following the announcement that vegetable and grocery shops too would be shut during the week-long total lockdown, people resorted to panic purchase in Tiruchi on Sunday. Long queues formed in front of supermarkets when they opened at 6 am. Customers complained that certain products were not available and the price of perishables, especially fruits and vegetables, was inflated. “Bread, biscuits and packaged food has been flying off the shelves. People are buying food which they can stock for more than a week,” a vendor at a shop in Thillai Nagar said. The prices of vegetables at the temporary market on West Boulevard Road were jacked up by at least twice the usual cost. Personal distancing norms were flouted as buyers flocked to shops and stores, while police personnel tried to control the surging customers. Some customers said they felt compelled to stock essential commodities due to fear that the lockdown might be extended. “Many bought wheat flour, rice and pulses in bulk. They expect the lockdown to be longer,” a salesperson said. Shops selling meat witnessed brisk business and many reported running out of stock by afternoon. At a fruit shop in Win Nagar, crowds were visible throughout the day. However, stocks ran dry by noon and those who came after that were forced to buy only leftovers. Many took to social media to blame the government for mismanagement and not learning from mistakes made by the previous government. “This one day of shopping could lead to a ‘super spreader’ event, further stressing the healthcare infrastructure,” said city-based technologist M. Kalaiselvan.  This one day of shopping could lead to a ‘super spreader’ event, further stressing the healthcare infrastructure M. Kalaiselvan Technologist, Tiruchi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-lockdown-triggers-panic-purchase/article34630559.ece
24 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop extends closure till May 30||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi, which has been closed since May 10, has extended the shutdown until May 30. The move comes after the State government’s announcement of intense lockdown for a week. An official communication has conveyed the decision to employees after approval for closure from May 24-30 was given by the Chief Workshop Manager. The workshop is involved in periodic overhaul of diesel locomotives and passenger coaches besides manufacture of wagons. During the extended lockdown, emergency/essential works relating to general safety, electrical maintenance, water supply and sanitation, fire safety, security and measures for prevention of COVID-19 will be undertaken by departmental supervisor with specific approval of controlling officer. A skeletal staff will be deployed for emergency/essential activities on rotation basis. All remaining staff and supervisors have been asked to work from home as directed by their controlling officer. They have been asked not to leave the headquarters without specific prior approval of the controlling officer. Also, they must be prepared to attend duty as and when called by the workshop administration in event of exigency. A communication issued earlier this month announced closure of the workshop from May 10 to 23 in view of the complete lockdown (with a few relaxations) announced by the State government. The decision to continue to remain closed till May 30 comes in the wake of the latest announcement, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-extends-closure-till-may-30/article34630566.ece
24 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||All roads lead home||A large number of people thronged the Central Bus Stand on Sunday to proceed to their home towns in view of the week-long total lockdown to be enforced from Monday by the Government as a preventive measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Several hundreds of buses were operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses to destinations across the State, as also Bengaluru. “We did not report any overcrowding as there were enough number of buses for customers to travel comfortably. The move was to ensure that workers in the city, especially labourers and daily-wage labourers, were safeguarded from the pandemic,” a TNSTC employee said. S. Kalaichelvi, who had been working at a supermarket in Thiruverumbur, boarded a bus to Thanjavur after the lockdown was announced. “I worked the morning shift at the supermarket, and am now going home for a week. We will not have work, but at least I will meet my parents and spend some time with them,” she said. The travelling public could manage to maintain personal distance in the buses as there was no overcrowding. However, some cautioned that there could still be increase in the number of cases in the coming days. “We do not know how many asymptomatic people travelled. They could infect those residing in their home towns too. We will know in a few weeks,” a resident in Thillai Nagar said. Meanwhile, operators of omni buses were not in a position to ply their vehicles. “We heard from our counterparts in other districts that there was no patronage,” R. Balakrishnan, president, Tiruchi Omni Bus Operators Association told The Hindu . The bus operators had incurred losses and did not plan on starting their services until the government provided some relief by way of loan waivers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-roads-lead-home/article34630561.ece
24 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||55 papers presented at legal history congress||The second All India Legal History Congress on May 21 and 22, on the theme: ‘Pursuit of Legal History of India in the 21 st century’, hosted virtually by the Tamil Nadu National Law University (TNNLU) witnessed presentation of 55 select papers by faculty, research scholars and students from India and China. The event, funded by the State Government, was inaugurated by the Chief Justice of High Court of Madras, and Chancellor of TNNLU, Justice Sanjib Banerjee. The Chief Justice released the edited book containing select papers presented in the First All India Legal History Congress, hosted by the Gujarat National Law University in 2020, and addressed the gathering. Anthony Musson, Professor and Head of Research at the Royal Palaces, U.K, delivered his keynote address on ‘Making Legal History in India'. V. S. Elizabeth, Vice-Chancellor, TNNLU, a specialist in Feminist Jurisprudence and Professor of History for nearly three decades, presided over. The Registrar of TNNLU, K. R. Leela, who is also a Senior Judicial Officer, spoke. The eight technical sessions were on the topics: Legal History from 600 BC to 600 AD; Legal History from 600 AD to 1200 AD; Legal History from 1200 AD to 1700 AD; Legal History from 1700 AD to 1947 AD; Constitutional History; Legal History of South Asia; History of Women and Law in India; and Teaching of Legal History. Radhika Singha, Professor, JNU, New Delhi, an eminent scholar and Bhavani Raman from University of Toronto, Canada, addressed the valedictory session. Vice-Chancellor Elizabeth announced on the occasion that the third All India Legal History Congress would be hosted by National Law Institute University, Bhopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/55-papers-presented-at-legal-history-congress/article34630554.ece
24 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drive against liquor hoarding continues||Karur district police have seized 6,624 liquor bottles illegally stocked in various parts of the district since the complete lockdown came into force on May 10. The liquor bottles were confiscated during raids conducted by special teams of the district police. A total of 127 cases were booked from May 10-22 and 128 people arrested. Eight two-wheelers and a four-wheeler were confiscated. A police press release said during the drive conducted on Sunday, special teams seized 20 litres of fermented wash and 66 liquor bottles. Four hoarders were arrested. In the last one month, police registered 7,731 cases against mask defaulters in the district. Fine amount realised from the violators was Rs. 15.46 lakh. Around 1,834 cases were registered against those found moving around in public places on vehicles in violation of lockdown guidelines, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-liquor-hoarding-continues/article34630567.ece
24 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.77 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,455 cusecs and the discharge 1,999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34630568.ece
24 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister helps patient to get bed in hospital||A youth from Salem on Sunday appealed to Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan seeking a hospital bed for his sibling, who had tested positive for COVID-19. Sources said that he made the appeal when Mr. Saminathan along with District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan visited the COVID-19 care centre at Chikkanna Government Arts College. He said that he had come to Tiruppur after being unable to find a hospital bed for his brother in Salem. The Minister assured action, following which the patient was admitted at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-helps-patient-to-get-bed-in-hospital/article34630191.ece
24 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Alleging humiliation by Collector, Dean says she will quit||Newly-appointed Virudhunagar Government Medical College Dean R. Suganthy Rajakumari has written to Director of Medical Education stating that she would tender voluntary retirement from service alleging humiliation and harassment by Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan. However, Mr. Kannan said that he had sent only a show-cause notice to Dr. Suganthy after she failed to attend two meetings on May 19 the day she joined Virudhunagar GMC, under construction. In his notice, the Collector said that the Dean had not attended a video-conference of Health Secretary on COVID preventive measures. Later, the Collector had organised a meeting with health officials to discuss the instructions of the Health Sectary, which she had not attended either. Meanwhile, in her letter to the DME, Dr. Suganthy said that after having joined on May 19, she had gone to her residence in Madurai the same evening to make arrangements for shifting to Virudhunagar. After being informed that the Collector wanted to meet her, the Dean called him expressing her inability to travel to Madurai without a driver as it was raining. Later, her husband, Isaac Mohanlal, a senior advocate in Madras High Court, called the Collector to explain her situation. The next day, she was served the notice seeking explanation as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against her for having failed to attend the meetings. However, she clarified that she was not invited for the Secretary’s meeting. In his notice, the Collector said that Dean’s husband had threatened him over phone with “consequences” if he insisted that she should meet him, since the Dean was not working under the Collector. Dr. Suganthy has been charged with violating Tamil Nadu Government Servant’s Conduct Rule 18 for having threatened him with a private person. She has also been charged with negligence and disregarding instructions of her superiors during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alleging-humiliation-by-collector-dean-says-she-will-quit/article34630541.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report over 5,000 fresh cases for the first time||The central region accounted for 5,000 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday continuing to report a steep increase in the number of patients reporting positive. The region recorded 59 deaths, with all of the eight districts reporting at least one death, while Thanjavur district reported the highest number of casualties. In Thanjavur district, 20 patients succumbed to the viral infection, and in Tiruchi, there were 13 casualties. Karur reported a sudden increase in the number of deaths with eight persons succumbing to the infection. Ariyalur reported six deaths, Tiruvarur, five, while Nagapattinam reported three, and Perambalur and Pudukottai reported two deaths each. Tiruchi district reported 1,407 patients testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Thanjavur district reported a marked spike with 1,176 fresh cases and Tiruvarur, 572. Perambalur district recorded a sudden increase with 475 patients reporting positive. This was over twice the extent of cases reported the previous days. On Saturday, the district recorded only 219 cases. Nagapattinam districts reported 461, reflecting a notable decline in cases. while Pudukottai reported 415. Ariyalur district, too, reported an increase with 293 patients testing positive, while Karur reported 275 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-over-5000-fresh-cases-for-the-first-time/article34630562.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports all-time high of 3,944 cases||A total of 3,944 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, registering the highest single day caseload. The district had 31,578 active cases of the disease on Sunday and around 19,600 patients were remaining in home isolation. Meanwhile, 2,454 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. The district’s death toll increased to 1,020 after 21 more persons died of COVID-19 in the last few days. Different hospitals in Coimbatore district together had 489 beds reserved for COVID-19 patients vacant as of Sunday evening. COVID Care Centres (CCCs) in the district had 574 vacant beds. Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) Coimbatore has created a 200 oxygen bed facility at Government Arts College campus at a total cost of Rs. 2 crore, with the support of Acsen and other sponsors. Coimbatore Medical College Hospital will provide the doctor and healthcare team to treat COVID-19 patients at the facility. The basketball court and auditorium at the college were converted to meet the oxygen bed requirement. Gugan Ilango, president CREDAI Coimbatore, said, “CREDAI Coimbatore has always been committed to social causes and is glad to provide the fully equipped infrastructure with full oxygen beds which is the need of the hour.” Coimbatore district administration on Sunday said 12 persons were undergoing treatment for mucormycosis at different hospitals in the district. Tiruppur district reported 1,446 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 763 persons from the district recovered from the disease on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 11,504. Tiruppur district’s death toll increased to 334 after 11 more persons died of COVID-19. A total of 100 beds at different hospitals and 787 beds at CCCs in the district were vacant as of Sunday evening. Erode district reported 1,352 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 43,346. While 621 persons were discharged, 11,198 continue to be under treatment. Four persons died, raising the death toll to 240. The daily load of positive cases crossed 1,000-mark at Namakkal on Sunday, highest ever in the district. A total of 1,032 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Namakkal and as per bulletin all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, four deaths were reported, including a 75-year-old woman patient. In Salem, 966 cases were reported. According to officials, all cases were indigenous and 361 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, in Salem, 15 deaths were reported, including four women patients. In Krishnagiri, 818 cases and two deaths were reported, all cases were indigenous. A total of 351 cases were reported in Dharmapuri. A 67-year-old woman died in the district. In the Nilgiris, 401 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 15,216. The number of deaths in the district increased from 67 to 70 on Sunday while 2,846 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-all-time-high-of-3944-cases/article34630200.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has raised Rs. 9,000 cr. so far this fiscal||According to the rating agency ICRA, the issuance of SDLs has shrunk by 45.8% to Rs. 48,200 crore in the first quarter of this fiscal (so far) from Rs. 89,000 crore in the same period last year. This was due to an unexpected additional Central tax devolution of Rs. 45,000 crore to the States at March-end. However, if the restrictions are required to be continued, there may be a larger impact on the States’ revenue and borrowings from June, it said. Lockdown factor Given the resurgence in the COVID-19 pandemic, restrictions and lockdowns are likely to be imposed for an extended period across regions. This will hamper the revival of the region’s economy and can impact revenue collections. The States’ reliance on market borrowings is likely to continue this fiscal too, says CARE Ratings, another firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-has-raised-rs-9000-cr-so-far-this-fiscal/article34630179.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||TVS Nagar has street name boards everywhere but not on arterial Lakshmi Road for the past 15 years. Recently one can see new signboards installed on the main thoroughfares of Madurai. I request the Corporation Commissioner to install such boards on both ends of Lakshmi Road.  S. Bala, Madurai    VOC Port, NPCIL Thermal Power Station and big industrial units like SPIC, Sankar Cements, which employ thousands of employees can join hands with the government in its efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in the southern districts. They can carry out massive inoculation drive and provide manpower to ease the load on government’s shoulders.  Murugesan,  Radhapuram    I refer to the news report, ‘Health workers go in search of COVID-19 cases.’ It is a welcome step, but unlike rural areas, people in towns such as Tirunelveli are not forthcoming and hide the fact if there are any sick people at home. Only when the sickness gets serious do they rush to the hospitals and add to the burden and death rate. So the government must employ its means to ensure that the infection is identified at the preliminary stage itself and cured.  Rajakumar Arulanandham,  Palayamkottai   It is learnt that the local bodies are entrusted to ensure that vegetables are available at the doorstep of people during the sterner lockdown from Monday. As reported in The Hindu about a practice in Sivaganga where women self-help groups are assigned the task of selling vegetables, fruits and greens at the doorstep of people using vehicles provided to them, I request Thoothukudi Corporation to replicate this model. It will also give the SHGs a source for earning.  R. Donjeba, Nazareth   The slow pace of road overbridge work, which commenced two years back on the eastern end of the Ramanathapuram railway station to link Kilakkarai Road, causes much hardship to the public. There are frequent traffic jams in front of PWD Travellers Bungalow due to the narrow passage available for vehicles. I request the officials concerned to inspect the site and speed up the work.  Asmabagh Anvardeen,   Ramanathapuram    Farmers are told to approach the Union Agriculture office and Tamil Nadu Agriculture University in Madurai to procure azotobactor and bio-pesticides to control white fly in coconut trees. But, as azotobactor is mostly used in Coimbatore region, it is not produced here. Farmers were told to wait and it will be procured from there, but even after one month, no action has been taken. I request the Collector to make efforts to redress this important farmers’ grievance.  S. Saravanakumar,   Tiruppachethi    Owing to lack of right equipment and expertise, many people have died of COVID-19 in Government Headquarters Hospital in Ramanathapuram. It is the general complaint of relatives who looked after the patients. I appeal to the higher authorities to set right the deficiencies and save lives.  V. Rajendran,   Paramakudi    Just before the recent elections, the Highways Department dug up few culverts in and around Kodaikanal. Though the elections are long over, the work has not resumed. A few that resemble completion have been done in a haphazard fashion. The new government must institute an enquiry against the slipshod work.  G. S. Mani,   Kodaikanal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34630287.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||A damaged stretch of road linking Kinathoor and Silaiyur hamlets in Vannadu Panchayat of Pachamalai Hills causes daily discomfort for vehicle users. The road has not been re-laid for years and vegetation on the sides have shrunk the width, hindering movement of buses and lorries. As farmers on the hills are mostly dependent on two-wheelers to transport their produce, the residents of these hamlets look for black-topping of the damaged stretch to a length of about two kilometres. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   The population of pig has been on the rise in Bharathi Nagar, Kumaran Nagar and Srinivasa Nagar residential areas. The movement of the pigs across roads frighten motorists and pedestrians. Overgrowth of bushes in vacant plots provide the pigs an ideal environment for breeding. The presence of pigs is a major reason for mosquito menace. An urgent response on the part of the city corporation is necessary to prevent outbreak of epidemics. Officials have a responsibility to act on the repeated representations. V. Sundararaju Srinivasanagar South   As regards the new scheme launched by Aavin, procuring additional one lakh litres from farmers will hardly make any difference unless all forms of adulteration is checked before it is supplied to customers. People are now more concerned about the quality of milk. An analysis needs to be made to determine if there is an erosion in customer base. While the Chief Minister’s announcement on reduction in the cost of milk is appreciable, the quality factor needs to be addressed. For, milk is a vital commodity that has a direct bearing on the health of the people. J. Eden Alexander Thanjavur   In the midst of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, it would be prudent for the government to credit the relief amount of Rs. 2,000 directly into the bank account of eligible family card holders. Else, the crowding at fair price shops could lead to further spread of the pandemic. The State Government also ought to toe the line of the Centre for transferring benefits of welfare schemes to the targeted beneficiaries. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34630557.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Saranathan Vidhyalaya Senior Secondary School (CBSE): Path Forward Series, talk on 'Empowering students to crack JEE' by Viswanadham, Formerly Professor, Banaras Hindu University and Director of SScheme Academy Pvt. Ltd., Google Meet, 10.30 a.m.  Saranathan College of Engineering: AICTE-sponsored Short-term training programme on 'Rudiments and Practices of Computational Fluid Dynamics in Thermo Fluid Analysis, Sudhakar Yogaraj, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT-Goa, inaugurates, Google Meet, 9.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article34630569.ece
24 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lockdown extended in North Karnataka dists||Acting on the State government’s orders, officers in North Karnataka districts have extended lockdown till June 7. Belagavi Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath issued prohibitory orders, effective till June 7, restricting movement of people. In Dharwad, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil announced on Sunday that strict lockdown will be enforced till June 7. He said that the people had extended cooperation for the lockdown till May 23 and hoped they will continue to do so till June 7. The State government has asked officers to extend lockdown from 6 a.m. on May 24 to 6 a.m. on June 7. This will be stricter than the one that ends on Monday, Mr. Patil said in a virtual video conference. Only essential commodities will be permitted to be stocked, transported sold and bought. Goods transport, ambulances and hearse vans will be allowed. Groceries and meat shops will be open between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. Liquur shops and hotels will not be allowed to operate, even for parcel services. Indira canteens will serve free food. Hotels near hospitals will be allowed to function against application. They are expected to follow guidelines. All events such as marriages, house warming ceremonies, birthdays and others are prohibited. Perishable farm produce, essential industries, Defence-related units and other permitted industries and logistics units will be allowed to work. Officers and vehicles on duty, milk and other essential goods vehicles, newspapers vendors and journalists will be allowed to travel. All of them should have pass or essential documents. Hubballi and Dharwad have five containment zones. Residents will be tested and medicine will be given to them. Police Commissioner Labhu Ram said that the police will not issue pass but will allow movement of vehicles based on photo identity cards of commuters. Vehicles of those who are on the road without a proper reason will be seized, he said.  Perishable farm produce, essential industries, Defence-related units and other permitted industries and logistics units will be allowed to work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-extended-in-north-karnataka-dists/article34630214.ece
24 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Weekend lockdown in Belagavi near total||The three-day weekend lockdown in Belagavi district was near total. Roads were deserted as people preferred to remain indoors. Only a few vehicles were seen on the roads. They included ambulances and hearse vans and a few other private vehicles carrying essential goods such as newspapers, milk and medicine. The police had taken up positions at traffic circles and street corners to stop unnecessary movement of vehicles. They stopped each vehicle and asked occupants why they were out on the streets. They seized 116 vehicles in three days, for non-emergency movement. They filed 578 cases against those who were not wearing masks in the three days. Teams led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe, Assistant Commissioner of Police Narayan Baramani and other officers were on rounds checking violatons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-lockdown-in-belagavi-near-total/article34630216.ece
24 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Hamlet in Belagavi sealed after large crowd gathers at horse cremation||The district administration sealed on Sunday Maradimath, a hamlet in Belagavi district, after a large crowd gathered to pay last respects to a horse dedicated to the local deity on Saturday. The crowd gathered at the cremation of the divine horse attached to the Kadasiddeshwar Ashram in Maradimath village, near Konnur, on Saturday. Photos and videos of the event were shared widely on social media. This alerted officers who visited Maradimath and sealed the hamlet of around 400 houses. Movement of people will be restricted. Residents of all houses will be tested for COVID-19, SARI and ILI, Tahsildar Prakash Holeppagol told journalists in Konnur on Sunday. The villagers had released the ashram horse with a prayer to Sri Kadasiddeshwar to rid the world of COVID-19. It had gone around grazing in the village, unhindered, for two days. But it died suddenly on Friday night. An elaborate cremation was held on Saturday, where the seer, Sri Pavadeshwar Swami, conducted the rituals. Officials sealed the hamlet on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hamlet-in-belagavi-sealed-after-large-crowd-gathers-at-horse-cremation/article34630218.ece
24 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shivaraj Kadode, writer, dies of COVID-19||Shivaraj Kadode (72), writer and Left wing ideologue, died of COVID-19 related complications on Friday at a private hospital in Solapur in Maharashtra. He was shifted to the private hospital after being treated in the district hospital in Bidar for a week. He had retired as a government school teacher in Bidar. He had also served as a journalist, columnist and community organiser.    The Old Hubballi Police have arrested three persons and recovered 22 mobile phones worth Rs. 2.78 lakh from them. The arrested have been identified as Ravi alias Ravindra B. Bhovi and Rangappa Thimmanna Bhovi, both residents of Shikaripur in Shivamogga district, and Raghavendra Aswathnarayan of Pavagada in Tumakuru district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivaraj-kadode-writer-dies-of-covid-19/article34630227.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals procure vaccine stock||Many private hospitals that had stopped vaccinating people onApril 30 are set to resume operations on Monday after they managed to procure stock directly from manufacturers. Hospital managements are offering the vaccine to anyone who is above the age of 18 who has registered on the CoWIN portal. “We have a week’s worth of stock of Covishield and will resume vaccination from Monday. We will vaccinate anyone over 18 years of age, but appointments have to be booked on the CoWIN app,” said Vikram Sreeram, managing director of Mallige Hospital. A few hospitals are reserving 50% of the shots they administer every day to those aged above 45 and those who are due for their second dose. The rest will be kept aside for people in the 18-44 age group. Until April 30, the State government was supplying vaccine doses to private hospitals. However, after the Centre announced that the vaccination drive would be open to people in the 18-44 age bracket, hospitals were instructed to make their own arrangements from May 1 and procure vaccines directly from manufacturers. R. Ravindra, medical director, Suguna Hospital, said the hospital had resumed the vaccination drive last week itself. “We had asked for 10,000 doses of Covaxin, but were able to get 2,500 only. So we decided to only vaccinate 50 people a day. Although we have the capacity to vaccinate more people, we want to restrict it to 50 so that people who have taken the first dose at our hospital are able to get the second dose as well,” Dr. Ravindra said. Prasanna H.M., president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) and managing director of Pristine Hospital, said that they would also resume vaccination from Monday as they had managed to get 5,000 doses of Covaxin. “We at PHANA are trying to help small- and medium-scale hospitals get vaccines and are trying to make bulk purchases to ensure that hospitals get adequate stock,” he said. The demand for vaccines at private hospitals is high as government hospitals and primary health centres are only vaccinating those older than 45. People in the 18-44 age group will be vaccinated only if they have been identified as frontline workers or as being from vulnerable/priority groups. But citizens are finding it difficult to get a vacant slot. Shruthi S., 25, who works for a private firm in Bengaluru, said hospitals seem to have a very limited supply of stock. “Every time someone tells me that a particular hospital has stock, I log in to the CoWIN portal, only to find the slots already booked,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-procure-vaccine-stock/article34630127.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister favours simplified II PU exam when second wave eases||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar batted for the need to conduct the Second Pre-University (PU) board examination in the interest of the future of students. At a virtual meeting of State Education Ministers from across the country, organised by the Centre on Sunday, he pointed out that XII standard students will be seeking admission to professional courses and thus, holding examinations seems inevitable. After the COVID-19 situation eases, some form of simplified examination process will be necessary, he said. Question papers for a simplified II PU examination have already been prepared, and the number of examination centres are being increased for the conduct of a safe examination, the release said. According to Mr. Kumar, the department would require 45 days to complete the examination process. “In case they are held in July, the results may be declared in August. Thus, the various competitive examinations, such as NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test), JEE (Joint Entrance Examination), CET (Common Entrance Test), may be scheduled on suitable dates in August,” the Minister said. PU exams were initially scheduled to be held on May 24, but were postponed after the COVID-19 caseload in the State spiked. Mr. Kumar said that while the State has yet to announce new days, it will ensure that students are notified 15-20 days in advance after the second wave eases. The government has also decided to provide another opportunity for students who failed to appear for the exam due to COVID-19 by holding another round in the same academic year. The State government had successfully conducted the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination last year during the first wave of COVID-19. “Taking that experience of conducting examination during COVID-19 times, we are confident of conducting the II PU exams. However, a suitable decision will be taken after taking into account the students’ future, parents’ opinions and mindset, suggestions of the centre and examination preparations,” the release quoted the Minister. At the meeting, State Education Ministers and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) weighed on the conduct of board examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-favours-simplified-ii-pu-exam-when-second-wave-eases/article34630145.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown violators garlanded||While the Bengaluru police continued to strictly enforce the lockdown on Sunday, their counterparts in Madanayakanahalli, on the outskirts of the city, adopted a novel approach in the hope of shaming violators: they garlanded motorists caught breaking the rules. The police garlanded 32 bikers and two autorickshaw drivers as well as performed an aarti. “This is the only option left as motorists are not listening to us,” said Inspector Manjunath B.S., Madanayakanahalli police station. The police set up barricades near Navayuga toll on Tumakuru Road and intercepted motorists. “We have resorted to canning, booking cases, seizing vehicles and even launching awareness drives and making public announcements, but nothing seems to be working,” he added. As part of the strategy, they decided to garland violators in the hope that the lesson will stick this time around. Photos of the garlanded violators were taken while senior police officers tried to counsel them on how COVID-19 spreads and the risk they were exposing themselves and their families to by violating the rules. “Of course, we also seized their bikes and issued notices,” said Mr. Manjunath. In Bengaluru, the police seized 1,488 vehicles of which 1,308 were two-wheelers. Cases were registered against 413 persons for flouting lockdown rules. They were booked and later released on station bail. The police also booked 184 cases against shops and commercial establishments. According to senior police officials, most people did not have valid reasons for taking their vehicles out. “Many claimed they were going to get vaccinated but had no documents to corroborate their claim. Motorists, who had genuine reasons, were allowed to pass,” said a senior police official. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant requested citizens to stay at home during the lockdown and cooperate with the police. “The enforcement is to contain the spread of COVID-19, and we request people to be responsible and help the police make the lockdown successful,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-violators-garlanded/article34630120.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Clamour for beds from patients outside city||When 64-year-old Tumakuru resident Gangamma’s condition deteriorated after being diagnosed with COVID-19, her relatives were unable to find a government-quota bed for her in the district. The family cannot afford a private hospital. In a desperate move, they brought her to Bengaluru hoping to get a bed in the BBMP’s government quota. But even though beds were available, she couldn’t be assigned one. “Only city-based patients with a Bengaluru Urban (BU) number are allotted government beds in the city,” said her son Ramesh. He eventually got a Rapid Antigen Test for Gangamma using the address of a relative who lives in Bengaluru. With COVID-19 cases rising in other districts, people from neighbouring Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagaram and Bengaluru Rural districts, where healthcare infrastructure is not robust, are landing up in Bengaluru seeking beds. Those who can afford it are seeking treatment in the city’s multi-specialty hospitals, but a majority are helpless. Several volunteer helplines are flooded with calls from patients in other districts seeking beds in Bengaluru. As a result, there has been a growing demand for the authorities to allow patients from other districts to also be allotted government-quota beds. “There are beds available under government quota in the city that are lying unoccupied, even as the poor from neighbouring districts are struggling to get government beds in their districts. Securing treatment in private hospitals is not even an option for them. It is high time the government starts allotting government quota beds in the city for out-of-district patients as well,” argued Dr. H.V. Vasu, co-ordinator, Karnataka COVID-19 Volunteers Team and BMC-92. A month ago, Bengaluru accounted for almost 80% of the COVID-19 cases in Karnataka. With the trajectory of the pandemic changing, this has dropped to less than 30% in the last two weeks, indicating a rise in cases in other districts. Down from a peak of 25,000+ cases, the city has been reporting 8,000-13,000 cases per day over the last one week. This, along with a massive ramp up of COVID-19 Care Centres with several oxygenated beds, has added several beds to the city’s healthcare infrastructure, but most are lying unoccupied. On Sunday evening, 601 High Dependency Unit (HDU) beds, essentially oxygenated beds, were unoccupied in the city's hospitals under the government quota, and over 700 oxygenated beds were available in CCCs – a critical resource for COVID-19 patients. Apart from this, 4,829 general beds in hospitals, and nearly 1,500 general beds in CCCs were also available. That said, not a single ICU and ICU ventilator bed was available in the government quota. However, senior civic officials said allotting government quota beds for out-of-city patients is a call that has to be taken by the Health Department and the Chief Minister, who also holds charge of the Bengaluru Development portfolio. “The cases seem to have plateaued in the city. We expect numbers to go down further over the next two weeks. Keeping a buffer for the city in the event that COVID-19 cases rise again in Bengaluru, beds can be allotted to out-of-city patients as well,” said a civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clamour-for-beds-from-patients-outside-city/article34630115.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DRI team seizes 9.3 kg of gold||Officials with the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Friday caught two persons who were carrying 9.3 kg of gold. Acting on a tip-off that gold was being smuggled by road, a team of officials intercepted a Kerala-registered vehicle near Hiriyur in Chitradurga district. The suspected vehicle crashed into the barrier put up on the road. The occupants tried to mow down the DRI team before speeding away. Officials pursued the vehicle for over 30 minutes before pinning down the accused. On searching the vehicle, the team found 9.3 kg of gold in crude form concealed ingeniously in a custom-made cavity under the co-passenger’s seat. The two passengers, in their statement, claimed that the gold had been smuggled into the country through international airports in the form of paste. The accused, whose names have been withheld, were arrested. “Further investigations are in progress,” said the DRI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dri-team-seizes-93-kg-of-gold/article34630116.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||626 deaths in State||Karnataka on Sunday recorded 626 COVID-19 deaths, the highest in a single day since the onset of the pandemic. However, officials said the rise in numbers was due to a backlog and delays in reporting. An analysis of the data showed that though the fatalities were recorded in the State’s bulletin on Sunday, a large number of those people had succumbed to the virus back in April and in the first half of May. “There is a spike in the number of deaths as there was a delay in reporting them. There is no need for people to panic,” said an official working with the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The total number of COVID-19 deaths in the State currently stands at 25,282. With 362 deaths reported in Bengaluru Urban on Sunday, the district accounted for more than half the fatalities. The neighbouring Bengaluru Rural district reported 30 deaths. As many as 25,979 new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded across Karnataka. The total number of positive cases in the State is currently 24.24 lakh. According to the bulletin, 35,573 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total discharges to 19.26 lakh. There are 4.72 active lakh cases in the State. The positivity rate for the day was 20.76%, while the case fatality rate was 2.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/626-deaths-in-state/article34630128.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surge in rural areas: Govt. to focus on door-to-door testing||As the number of COVID-19 cases in hinterland have increased posing a huge challenge to the State administration, government efforts are now focused on identifying and testing through door-to-door testing. While funds are being allocated to the districts and local administrations empowered to implement stricter measures, government sources said that the surge in rural areas remain a concern with more than 70% of the new cases reported daily are coming from places outside Bengaluru. “It is becoming difficult to track persons in villages. Because of stigma attached, people with mild to moderate symptoms are not coming forward for testing or in many places testing centres are not close by. Finally it goes undetected and the virus spreads faster. People are going for testing only when the situation worsens,” sources said. On Monday, the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa will start his two meetings with the chief executive officers and senior health officials of zilla panchayat to review the ground situation and preparedness to handle the pandemic in villages. He will be meeting officials from districts in Mysuru and Bengaluru divisions on Monday and officials from districts in Belagavi and Kalaburagi divisions on Tuesday. “Now that the situation in Bengaluru is easing up, focus is on the villages. A similar pattern panned out in Maharashtra too. While Mumbai has reported far less number, the villages and semi-urban locations continue to show higher numbers,” sources said. Even the order issued on Sunday by the State government formally extending the lockdown from May 24 to June 7, refers to a steep increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in rural and semi urban areas in the State.  The order also states that the priority has to be now given for testing by the teams of doctors and nurses by approaching individual homes where people show symptoms of the virus through rapid antigen testing. Stating that the focus was now on “path of doctors towards villages,” the order said that final year medical and para medical students are being deployed to testing and providing treatment in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surge-in-rural-areas-govt-to-focus-on-door-to-door-testing/article34630139.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Act like soldiers to fight COVID-19, Karnataka CJ tells legal fraternity||The devastating second wave of COVID-19 has taken the lives of 190 advocates and 16 staff members of various courts in the State within 48 days, said Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka, on Sunday. As many as 50 judges of the district and taluk-level courts, and 616 staff of various courts, including the High Court, were infected during this period from April 1 to May 18, 2021, he said while addressing advocates of the State in a webinar. titled ‘Challenges before the legal fraternity during COVID-19 times’ organised by the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru. The roles of judges, lawyers, and staff of the courts are as important like doctors, nurses, and other frontline workers as members of the legal fraternity are required to render justice for people waiting in queue even during these difficult times, he said, while emphasising the need to keep courts functioning, as far as possible, during the pandemic. Pointing out that judiciary is facing more difficulties than the challenges posed during first wave last year, Chief Justice Oka said that difficulties faced last year was mainly due to lockdown norms but this time it is due to huge surge in COVID-19 positive case as Karnataka now has highest number of COVID-19 active cases in the entire country. He said that the legal fraternity will have to act like soldiers to fight battle with unseen virus by adopting strategies like wearing of double masks (preferably one surgical and one N95), utilising digital facilities to file cases, pay court fees, get certified copies of orders, and arguing through video conference mode, to ensure functioning of justice delivery system. Though keeping courts at minimal functioning was the best option during pandemic, the Chief Justice said that it may not be the correct step as it would deny access to justice to various vulnerable sections of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/act-like-soldiers-to-fight-covid-19-karnataka-cj-tells-legal-fraternity/article34630129.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. aims to complete vaccination by Nov.-Dec.||The government is working towards a comprehensive plan to ensure that every citizen is vaccinated by November-December 2021. Health and Family Welfare Minister and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar made this announcement on Sunday. A statement from his office said that as on May 22, a total of 1.2 crore doses have been administered to people across Karnataka. In addition to the 1.3 crore doses supplied by the Centre, the State has already received 14.94 lakh doses, which it had ordered. Black fungus With more instances of black fungus being detected in other parts of the State, all government college hospitals and district hospitals have been instructed to allocate beds to treat patients. In an order issued on Sunday, the Department of Health and Family Welfare also stated that treatment facilities could also be set up at taluk hospitals where infrastructure is available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-aims-to-complete-vaccination-by-nov-dec/article34630124.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Move to curb Remdesivir sale in black market||The Karnataka government on Sunday announced that Remdesivir would be issued to hospitals in a patient’s name based on their SRF ID, which is assigned at the time of testing itself. Patients would receive a text alert and could also check their allocation online using their SRF ID. This way, they would know what their dose was and whether they had received it. The measure had been introduced in the wake of increasing cases of persons, including healthcare professionals, selling the antiviral drug in the black market for as much as Rs. 30,000. The Drugs Control Department would send a SMS to the patient in whose name the hospital had allocated Remdesivir. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said the system aimed to bring in transparency in the allocation of Remdesivir. If the drug was allocated against a particular SRF ID and the hospital had not provided it to the patient, a facility would be provided in the same link to report it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/system-to-curb-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir-karnataka/article34630055.ece
24 May 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination costlier now||The price for a single dose of vaccine has shot up this month as hospitals are directly procuring it from manufacturers. Many hospitals are charging as much as Rs. 850 for Covishield, while Covaxin is priced at Rs. 1,250. Earlier, private hospitals had to charge people Rs. 250 per dose as the gover- nment was supplying them with vaccine at the rate of Rs. 150.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-costlier-now/article34630122.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Release honorarium for ASHAs’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday urged the State government to immediately release the three months honorarium of ASHA workers, who are among the frontline workers. “The lives of ASHA workers who are dependent on the honorarium has become very difficult over the non-payment for three months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/release-honorarium-for-ashas/article34630137.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Diagnostic centre booked||The Hoskote police have booked Vipraa Diagnostics Centre under the Epidemic Diseases Act for allegedly charging customers more than the prescribed amount for COVID-19 tests. A case was registered after a lecturer Naveen Kumar, 33, registered a complaint with the police on Friday. He claimed the centre charged him and his brother Rs. 5,300 each for a COVID-19 test. After consulting health officials, he realised that he had been overcharged. He filed a police complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diagnostic-centre-booked/article34630117.ece
24 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||PSI facing harassment allegation suspended||Police sub-inspector Arjun H.K., who has been facing allegations of harassing a Dalit youth and making him drink urine, has been suspended and the case handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) for further probe. Akshay M. Hakay, Superintendent of Police of Chikkamagaluru, on Sunday, informed presspersons that Western Range IGP Devajyoti Ray suspended the PSI and transferred him (on suspension) to Udupi district. The complaint registered against the police officer would be probed by the CID, he said. Besides that, the State government ordered a departmental inquiry into the incident by the Deputy Superintendent of Police of Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district. Mr. Hakay told The Hindu that the matter had been handed over to the CID to ensure a fair probe into the incident. The PSI attached to Gonibeedu police station in Mudigere taluk allegedly harassed Punit K.L., a Dalit youth, on May 10. Following this incident, Punith had complained to senior police officers demanding action against the PSI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/psi-facing-harassment-allegation-suspended/article34630131.ece
24 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi in third place in giving loans to street vendors||Kalaburagi district bagged the third place under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme by disbursing 90% of loans to street vendors. Mysuru stood first with 8,455 applications cleared, followed by Hubballi-Dharwad with 4,823 applications. The Kalaburagi City Corporation received 6,030 applications of which 5,766 applications were approved. The government has disbursed Rs. 3.34 crore involving 3,342 (90%) loan applications as on May 19, 2021, out of the 3,695 sanctioned applications involving Rs. 3.69 crore, according to data provided by city corporation. Besides nationalised banks, even regional rural banks have disbursed loans to a large number of street vendors. Under this scheme, street vendors are eligible to avail themselves of a loan of up to Rs. 10,000 with a tenure of one year, to be repaid in monthly instalments. Loan disbursement in other districts of Kalyana Karnataka is as follows (as on May 19, 2021): In Bidar district, of the 1,388 applications sanctioned, banks disbursed loans to 836 beneficiaries. In Yadgir district, 535 street vendors received loans against the 601 total sanctioned applications. In Raichur district, of the 3,010 applications sanctioned, 2,040 street vendors have got loan. In Ballari district, banks have disbursed loans to 2,809 beneficiaries against the 3,045 total sanctioned applications. As many as 379 street vendors received loan against 410 sanctioned applications under the AtmaNirbhar Nidhi Scheme in Koppal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-in-third-place-in-giving-loans-to-street-vendors/article34630220.ece
24 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Saxophone artiste Machendranath Pandeshwar dead||Senior saxophone artiste Machendranath Pandeshwar (66) passed away in the city on Sunday. Machendranath Pandeshwar was infected with COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment for the last few days at a private hospital in Deralakatte. He died in the afternoon. His wife, who had also contracted COVID-19 infection, died three days ago. Machendranath Pandeshwar and Kadri Gopalnath, who passed away in 2019, made saxophone popular in this region. He gave a lot of concerts across the country and abroad. He regularly played the saxophone at the Mangaladevi Temple here during the puja in the morning, afternoon and evening hours, for over 25 years. He was holding saxophone classes in a room adjoining the temple. He was awarded the District Rajyotsava Award. His daughter Sindhu Bhairavi is a well-known saxophone artiste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saxophone-artiste-machendranath-pandeshwar-dead/article34630225.ece
24 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Now, doctor files complaint||Senior physician B. Srinivas Kakkilaya, who has been booked for entering a super store without wearing a face mask, has filed a police complaint accusing the owner of the super store of selectively leaking CCTV footage in the social media and causing him harm. In a complaint filed with Mangaluru East Police, Dr. Kakkilaya has accused the owner of Jimmy Super Mart of illegally and unlawfully circulating CCTV footage of the incident in the social media which, according to the doctor, had led to defamatory statements and articles against him. The audio conversation of a person named Pai with the owner of the super mart has gone viral in which the former is heard instigating the latter to file a complaint. Pai has defamed him and also his father, B.V. Kakkilaya, a freedom fighter and two-time MLA from Mangaluru, who has sacrificed his life for the country, the doctor said. Dr. Kakkilaya said that the audio clip indicates that the owner of the mart conspired with Pai, who is believed to be his (Dr. Kakkilaya’s) neighbour, to commit an act of threat, intimidation to his life and reputation. Pai has falsely made a claim during the conversation that he has been arrested, which has caused anguish to his family, Dr. Kakkilaya said in his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-doctor-files-complaint/article34630226.ece
24 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu gets medical aid from U.S.-based doctor||Medical help is pouring in for Kodagu, not just locally but also from overseas, for its fight against COVID-19. With medical oxygen becoming vital for saving the lives of those battling the infection, Chottera Shobha Tuttu, a psychiatrist of Kodagu origin who is settled in New Jersey, and the United States’ gofundme.org have joined hands to support the battle against the virus in the district. The 5-litre and 10-litre oxygen concentrators donated by Dr. Tuttu were handed over to the district COVID-19 hospital in Madikeri on Sunday. Cariappa, Dean of Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Sunnavunda Kaverappa of Napoklu village, and others were present when KIMS received the equipment.  In a note from the Information Department, Dr. Kaverappa said doctors in the U.S. had created a WhatsApp group and discussed with the Kodagu Deputy Commissioner ways to help the district. Accordingly, the oxygen concentrators were donated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-gets-medical-aid-from-us-based-doctor/article34630121.ece
24 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minor girl writes to authorities to help find deceased mother’s phone||The story of a young girl in Kodagu, who lost her mother to COVID-19 recently, has gone viral on social media as she waits for her mother’s missing mobile phone to recollect memories. Along with her mother and her father, Hrithiksha, of Gummanakolli village near Kushalnagar, had also tested positive for COVID-19 recently. She and her father, Naveen Kumar T.R., a daily wage worker, were home isolated but her mother had to be shifted to the ICU ward at the district COVID-19 hospital, Madikeri, for treatment. However, Hrithiksha’s mother succumbed to the infection on May 16. However, her mother’s phone went missing after her death. The girl wrote a letter to the Deputy Commissioner, Kodagu, local legislators, and the hospital authorities seeking their help to trace the missing phone. The appeal went viral, forcing the district administration to intervene and ask the police and the Health Department to trace the phone. “The phone has memories of my mother. If anybody has taken it or anybody finds it, please return it to us,” the girl said. The girl’s father also lodged a complaint with the Kushalnagar police stating that his wife’s mobile phone along with the SIM card was lost in the district COVID-19 hospital in Madikeri and requested them to locate it. Kushwant Kolibail, of the district hospital, said efforts are being made to trace the phone. “Usually, the belongings of the deceased are packed and returned to their family members. We have many phones with us as the relatives haven’t collected them yet. If we find it, we will hand it over to the family,” he said. However, the girl’s relative, T.K. Santosh, said all 10 phones were checked and none belonged to the girl’s mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-girl-writes-to-authorities-to-help-find-deceased-mothers-phone/article34630136.ece
24 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Increase in COVID-19 cases in Bylakuppe||There is a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the Tibetan settlement at Bylakuppe as a result of which the district administration has barred the entry and exit of people to the camp. There were 144 active cases as on Sunday and hence the Bylakuppe Gram Panchayat decided to clamp down on all non-essential activities till the situation eases. A local health coordinator from the Bylakuppe camp said that there have been two deaths so far forcing the residents to adopt stringent measures, and there is no window for purchase of essential commodities. Only medical shops will be opened to cater to emergency, he added. Bylakuppe is the largest Tibetan settlement in India housing nearly 20,000 Tibetans who have been living here since 1959 and is known for its monasteries all of which have been shut since 2020 due to the outbreak of the pandemic. The Tibetan settlement had come in for praise for strict lockdown and conforming to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour during the first wave. Even during the peak of the second wave, Bylakuppe had very cases but has seen a surge in recent days. There are three COVID Care Centres in the settlement and the local health coordinator said serious cases tend to be shifted to hospitals in Mysuru. But there was no shortage of oxygen or medicines, he said. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also in charge of Mysuru district, took stock of the situation in Hunsur and Periyapatana taluks on Sunday. The Minister said arrangements will be made to ensure that all requirements for the people within the settlement at Bylakuppe are supplied at their doorsteps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-in-covid-19-cases-in-bylakuppe/article34630140.ece
24 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Make 5-year rural service mandatory for medicos’||In a move to mitigate scarcity of doctors in rural areas, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar has sought compulsory rural service of five years from medical graduates who have studied under the government quota. He has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to discuss the issue in the Cabinet and introduce a clause that will be binding on students seeking admission to medical courses under the government quota, to serve in villages for five years after completion of their studies. Mr. Somashekar said the government spends at least Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh on each medical student but the State was unable to secure their services as they practise in urban areas while some prefer to go abroad. As a result, there was a growing dearth of doctors in the State and it was imperative to curb this trend and take remedial measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-5-year-rural-service-mandatory-for-medicos/article34630141.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP yet to send Budget to State government for approval||It’s been nearly two months since the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) 2021-22 Budget was approved by the then Administrator Gaurav Gupta, who is now the Chief Commissioner. However, it has not been accorded approval by the Karnataka government. The civic body is yet to send the Budget to the State government. On March 27, BBMP Special Commissioner (Finance) Tulasi Madineni presented a surplus budget with an outlay of Rs. 9,291.33 crore. In the absence of an elected council, Mr. Gupta had approved the ‘realistic budget’ that prioritised decentralisation and fiscal discipline. Conceding the delay, Ms. Madineni said the approved budget would be tabled first before the Chief Commissioner on Monday and later the new administrator Rakesh Singh, who is also the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Urban Development. “The civic body’s major spends had only been on salaries of its workforce, including pourakarmikas and workers in the crematoria, and COVID-19 related expenses,” she said. She pointed out that though the budget is yet to be approved, the civic body is empowered to utilise 30% of the outlay as per the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976. “We are confident that the government will approve the civic budget as soon as possible,” she said. ‘No time to follow-up’ Commenting on the delay, Mr. Gupta said that given the emergency situation that had arisen from the spike in COVID-19 cases in the second wave, civic officials did not have the latitude to pursue the matter. Among some of the projects mentioned in the budget are the 291 works amounting to Rs. 1,000 crore for restoration of roads where BWSSB’s water and sanitary line works have been completed in 110 villages. Though it was slated to be completed in this fiscal, it is unlikely the work will be taken up now. This is because the civic body has decided not to take up any new works. “We have decided to only take up COVID-19 related works and flood relief works, such as those pertaining to stormwater drains and equipping the zonal control rooms this fiscal given the extraordinary situation following the second wave,” said Ms. Madineni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-yet-to-send-budget-to-state-government-for-approval/article34630113.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Children learnt new skills during pandemic: Report||Information was collected under eight categories: play, art, use of electronic media, household chores, new skills learned, nature-related activities, formal learning and economic activities. Commissioner for Public Instruction V. Anbu Kumar, whose idea it was to conduct the survey, said while children were missing out on social interaction in the classroom, they made “significant gains and enjoyed their time” during the lockdown. “We instructed surveyors not to bombard children with questions, but to allow them to speak,” he said. During the interviews, children also expressed joy that they could spend more time with family. They received guidance from their parents, grandparents, friends and relatives and were involved in multiple activities during the pandemic, stated the report. Gender stereotypes Surveyors, however, observed that when it came to choice of extracurricular activities, traditional gender stereotypes are still at play. A majority of the girls surveyed were involved in art-related and household activities like cooking with the support of their mothers and grandmothers. Only a few boys took up these activities. “The issue of continuation of gender stereotypes at home may have to be discussed at parent-teacher meetings,” the report pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-learnt-new-skills-during-pandemic-report/article34630118.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Evening sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/evening-sky/article34630112.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helping-hand/article34630143.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Readers Mail||Sir, - The financial relief for people affected by the pandemic is a good gesture. However, the quantum of relief is very meagre for those who lost their income during the lockdown period. It would be better if the government increased the amount. V.N. Subramanyam Bengaluru    Sir, - To make the lockdown more effective and remove inconvenience for the people, the government could think of modifications in rules like allowing shops to open on alternate days from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. The police, along with the local residents, should ensure that there is no crowding. G Padmanabhan Bengaluru  Readers can write to letters.bangalore @thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/readers-mail/article34630110.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of Power||Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gujarat seems to be getting a bigger share of the pie. Cricketer-turned-politician and Congress MLC Prakash Rathod (in picture) questioned Mr. Modi’s decision to announce compensation of Rs. 1,000 crore to cyclone Tauktae-hit Gujarat, after he conducted an aerial survey. Other coastal states of Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, and Maharashtra too have been hit by the cyclone but there is no word on compensation. Irked by this and the alleged step-motherly attitude towards Karnatka on previous occasions too, the MLC said, “Modi is prime minister of Gujarat and not India.” He said that only Gujarat-cadre IAS officers have been appointed in the PMO and heads of several top institutions. Further, he said that under Mr. Modi’s leadership only Gujarat-based businessmen such as Gautam Adani and Mukesh Ambani have made it big, even during lockdown. He urged Karnataka’s 25 BJP MPs to seek justice.   The principal Opposition Congress’s 14-month coalition partner and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy (in picture) ran a campaign blaming the party for allegedly discouraging the people from taking COVID-19 vaccines when they were introduced nationwide a few months ago. In a video message, the JS(S) leader ridiculed the Congress leaders, saying that Congress, which is protesting against the BJP governments at the State and Centre for not supplying enough vaccines, had “asked people not to take jabs when they were introduced.” He held that the Congress was equally responsible for the present situation. Mr. Kumaraswamy further hit out at the Congress for its plan to mop up Rs. 100 crore from the Local Area Development (LAD) scheme funds to procure vaccines. “The Congress MLAs are not bringing money from their homes. They get funds from the government under the LAD,” the JD (S) leader said.   Elected representatives seem to be in no mood to prepare action plans for utilisation of funds. In the latest case, the Planning and Statistics Department of Karnataka has directed Rajya Sabha members to utilise the unspent Rs. 2.84 crore for management of the COVID-19. The amount remained unspent because laxity on the part of recently retired Rajya Sabha members who did not prepare action plan . When officials informed Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda about the unspent amount, the Minister allocated Rs. 23.74 lakh each to 12 members representing the State in the Upper House of the Parliament. He asked them to utilize funds for COVID-related work . Unlike their predecessors, one hopes these MPs judiciously utilise funds. Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article34630134.ece
24 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,727 positive cases in Alappuzha district||The district reported 1,727 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. As many as 1,709 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of infection of 18 others has not been identified. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 19.78%. Of the fresh cases, 191 were logged from Alappuzha. Others were Mannancherry (83 cases), Ezhupunna (75), Chengannur (74), Arattupuzha (58), Thuravoor (56) and Thekkekara (50). Meanwhile, 386 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district slightly increased to 22,139. Kottayam As many as 1,322 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, all but two contracted the disease through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate for the day was 23.51%. With 98 cases each, Thrikkodithanam panchayat and Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pallikkathodu with 81 cases. As many as 1,467 recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases in the district to 11,069, while 54,969 people are under observation. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 815 people tested positive for the disease during the day. With 44 cases, Pandalam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Koyipram with 42 cases. As many as six persons died due to COVID-19 related illness. With 1,442 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 12,512 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1727-positive-cases-in-alappuzha-district/article34630550.ece
24 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Lockdown spells doom for houseboats||The Punnamada Lake looks still and serene. There is no jostling of vessels or chugging sound of engines. In the interior, the palm-fringed backwaters wear a deserted look amidst an uninspiring quietude. This calmness comes at a price. The Statewide lockdown to tackle the spread of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has put the houseboat sector in the doldrums. The backwater tourism sector as a whole has faced several major setbacks in recent times in the form of Cyclone Ockhi, the Nipah outbreak, and back-to-back floods. The houseboat operations were among the first to come to a grinding halt after the pandemic started to sweep the world in early 2020. The vessels remained anchored for more than six months before resuming operations in October 2020. “It is back to square one,” says Varghese K.T., a houseboat owner from Alappuzha. “After all the troubles, the sector was slowly on the path to revival. But the second wave and the subsequent lockdown have dashed all hopes. I have been doing business after raising a bank loan. The repayment has become irregular since the first lockdown. The second lockdown has exacerbated the situation,” Mr. Varghese says. Thousands of people allied with the sector including houseboat owners and employees are staring at an uncertain future. The crisis caused by the pandemic has pushed several of them into a debt trap. Vinod V., president, All Kerala Houseboat Owners Association says it will take another two years for the sector to achieve normality. The stakeholders have sought the intervention of the government to tide over the crisis. “Although the government has announced a financial package for the tourism industry in August 2020, not many in the houseboat sector received its benefits. Ninety percent of applications for aid under the subsidized loan assistance scheme have been rejected by banks. While a few hundred owners have become eligible for the one-time maintenance grant, others have been left out of it too. A large number of operators have already wound up the business and migrated to new pastures. Those who resumed operations after spending huge amounts for the maintenance of boats that remained anchored for several months last year have found themselves in the lurch with the second lockdown,” Mr. Vinod says. Waive fees Jobin J. Akkarakalam of the Kerala Houseboat Owners Federation urged the government to at least waive the license and pollution control fees during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-spells-doom-for-houseboats/article34630549.ece
24 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cyclone Tauktae: Alappuzha MP seeks Central assistance||A.M. Ariff, MP, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting interim assistance for Kerala for meeting losses suffered due to torrential rains and the sea erosion triggered by cyclone Tauktae. Mr. Ariff said that incessant rain and sea erosion had caused massive loss to the property along the coast apart from damaging both agricultural and horticultural crops. “It is pertinent to note that after the 10th plan period, no central assistance has been made available to the State of Kerala, for the construction of sea-walls crucial for checking sea erosion. It is disappointing that even after this issue being raised several times by people's representatives in the Parliament including me, the Union government has turned a blind eye to the genuine demand. Against this background, the Union government is duty bound to extend necessary assistance to the State for rehabilitating those who have lost their houses and livelihood due to the calamity,” the Alappuzha MP said. He criticised the Centre for overlooking other States while announcing aid for Gujarat. Federalism “This is against the principles of federalism upheld by the Indian Constitution and highly condemnable. The Union government should realize the need for helping the people of this country in a non-partisan way,” Mr. Ariff said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyclone-tauktae-alappuzha-mp-seeks-central-assistance/article34630552.ece
24 May 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Chennithala: not disappointed||Congress leader and former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday said that he would abide by the party high command’s decision to appoint fellow partyman V.D. Satheesan as the new Leader of the Opposition in Kerala. Mr. Chennithala told reporters here on Sunday that he was not disappointed by the party’s decision. He wished Mr. Satheesan success in his new endeavour. “It is a highly challenging time. Everyone should come together to strengthen the Congress and the United Democratic Front,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-not-disappointed/article34630329.ece
24 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||A sandalwood success story in Marayur||Marayur Sandalwood Division has turned a role model on how participatory management and sustainable efforts for tribal empowerment could prevent poaching, theft and illegal activities in a forest division. Sandalwood theft has considerably dropped over the years with no cases so far registered this year in this regard. Since the division was created exclusively for the protection of naturally grown sandalwood in 2006, various sustainable livelihood programmes were launched for the tribespeople living in 16 settlements inside the division and nine other settlements in the fringe areas. Earning power The aim was to increase the earning power and thereby preventing the tribespeople from falling prey to the sandalwood lobby from outside. It was found that without local support anti-social elements from outside would not survive, said M.G. Vindokumar, Marayur Range Officer. The State government in 2006 took up the protection of the reserve with more staff and vehicles provided exclusively to the sandalwood division. By that time, the natural sandalwood reserves had almost disappeared in South India. Sandalwood were either smuggled out or the government itself cleared them in view of the large amount required for their preservation. Marayur Sandalwood Division faced the highest level of sandalwood theft and poaching from 2001 to 2003 with over hundreds of cases reported each year. In 2005 the High Court of Kerala ordered for the creation of the exclusive reserve and efforts to protect it. Since 2006, the forest related crimes declined simultaneously with the launching of tribal empowerment and livelihood programmes. “Now 200 forest watchers and 100 permanent staff are employed in the division. The watchers are not only from the tribal communities but also from those on the fringe forest areas,” said Marayur Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) B. Ranjith. As the community participation in preservation efforts increased, they became part of it. In addition it earned them a regular income. Efforts to protect traditional seeds were launched and the farmers inside the forest settlement were given support for cultivating raggi, their staple food and vegetables. A large quantity of vegetables now arrive in the weekly market `Chilla' and are sold at a high price in the auction. The Forest Department does not intervene in any livelihood or welfare programmes. It is done by the VSS (Vana Samrakshana Samithy) which comprises only the tribespeople. “It ensured transparency and democratic functioning at the grassroots,'' said Mr Vinodkumar. The counter measures against sandalwood theft also proved successful with mafias involved in it being booked through a sustained campaign. All the works connected to the sandalwood division were given to the tribespeople. 56,700 trees There are 56,700 sandalwood trees in the reserve and they are given geo-tag and a number. When a tree is lost, it is easy now to know the age, details and its location. Every three years, enumeration is done and preservation activities are controlled by a State level monitoring cell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marayurs-sandalwood-success-story/article34630039.ece
24 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Plea to allow opening of pepper dealers’ shops||The Indian Pepper and Spice Traders, Growers, Planters Consortium (IPSTPC), Kerala chapter, has sought the intervention of the Spices Board to open pepper dealer shops in Wayanad and Idukki, two major pepper growing districts in the State. Lockdown In a letter to the Spices Board Chairman, IPSTPC coordinator Kishore Shamji said aggregators and dealers in spices in the two districts were not permitted to open shops owing to the lockdown. As spices fell under the food industry and are export-related, the Industries Department had permitted processing units to function even during the lockdown, Mr. Shamji said. Domestic demand However, without raw materials being available to processing units across the State, they will find it difficult to meet domestic demand from masala manufacturers and exporters, he said. Hence, the Spices Board should raise the matter with the District Collectors of Idukki and Wayanad to allow opening of pepper dealer outlets, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-allow-opening-of-pepper-dealers-shops/article34630299.ece
24 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Bamboo restoration drive begins in Wayanad||While the ‘gregarious flowering of bamboo’ inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) and adjacent tiger reserves in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu is posing a threat to wildlife in the forest complex, a major tiger and elephant habitat in the country, sanctuary officials began an innovative bamboo restoration drive to mark the International biodiversity day on Saturday. The bamboo plant dries up and dies after it flowers once in its life cycle. Bamboo groves in the Wayanad forest are the mainstay of herbivores in the Nilgiri biosphere during summer. With the advent of the season, migration of wild animals starts from nearby sanctuaries in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to Wayanad. In bloom Bamboo groves, which grow in over 500 hectares of the 344.44 sq.km. of the sanctuary, have fully bloomed, a phenomenon said to occur once in the life cycle of bamboo plants. Moreover, pointing to a threat to wildlife as well as ecology of the Nilgiri biosphere, it is reported that over 25% of bamboo groves in WWS and nearby sanctuaries have bloomed since 2010, and the phenomenon is continuing. However, sanctuary officials launched the innovative restoration drive on Saturday by broadcasting bamboo seed balls to restore the past glory of bamboo clusters, ensure the fodder for wildlife, and mitigate man-animal conflict in the area. “We have prepared 25,000 seed balls by using soil, sand, and compost mix,” said S. Narendra Babu, wildlife warden, WWS. A few bamboo seeds will be inserted in each ball, and it will be broadcast to selected areas in four forest ranges under the sanctuary by frontline forest staff and watchers while performing field perambulation, Mr. Babu said. The drive will continue till June 5, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bamboo-restoration-drive-begins-in-wayanad/article34630302.ece
24 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Unaccounted money seized||The police on Sunday seized Rs. 4.30 lakh unaccounted cash stacked inside the cabin of a lorry during a regular check from Aanoor at Kalikadvu on the Kannur-Kasaragod border. The police have apprehended the driver Subbair, 40, and the helper, Sulaiman, 36, both hailing from Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unaccounted-money-seized/article34630315.ece
24 May 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Missing rigger’s body identified||Saneesh Joseph, the 35-year-old who went missing after he jumped from the barge that sunk during Cyclone Tauktae, has been declared dead. The body was identified on Saturday by his friend Mampuzha Sibi of Chemperi, who worked with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-riggers-body-identified/article34630307.ece
24 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Active caseload continues to remain high in Ernakulam||With 2,823 new COVID cases on Sunday, Ernakulam saw a test positivity rate (TPR) of 24.02%. A total of 11,751 samples were collected for testing. The district’s active caseload stands at 44,181. Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission, said that the number of new cases were dipping in the district, but the active caseload continues to remain high, straining health care facilities. The test positivity rate continues to remain high in some areas, and it could take another two weeks for the caseload to fall, he said. Ten local bodies in Ernakulam have a TPR of over 40%, according to figures available with the District Surveillance Unit. TPR fluctuations Kadungalloor panchayat has the highest TPR with a rate of 50%. This was followed by Udayamperoor with a TPR of 45.15%, Manjalloor with 44.95%, Elamkunnapuzha with 43.92%, Edavanakkad with 43.8%, Mulavukad with 43.29%, Chellanam with 43.22%, Chittatukara with 42.63%, Kumbalangi with 42.37%, and Chendamangalam with 40.91%. The surveillance unit notes that the fluctuations in TPR could be due to a testing pattern that is not uniform, and suggests increasing testing in local bodies with a TPR over 20%. In terms of the number of active cases, the Kochi Corporation has 6,944 active cases, followed by Thrikkakara with 965, Karumaloor with 919, Thripunithura with 880, Vengola with 814, Elamkunnapuzha with 690, Kalamassery with 624, Choornikkara with 623, Pallipuram with 616, and Kizhakkambalam with 574. Children in ICUs Of the 542 people admitted in ICUs in Ernakulam, the highest number (134) is in the 51 to 60 age bracket, followed by 117 patients in the 61 to 70 age bracket. Three kids below the age of 10, and five between 11 and 20 years are also admitted in ICUs, along with 17 patients in the 21 to 30 age category. A total of 169 patients were on ventilator support on Sunday. Mucormycosis cases The surveillance unit also anticipates that more mucormycosis cases could be reported in the next few weeks, and suggests that medical officers be trained to detect the fungal infection at an early stage. SARS-CoV-2 infections Nine health workers and one police officer tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. The highest number of new cases was recorded from Manjalloor, where 155 people tested positive. Thripunithura recorded 90 new cases, Cheranalloor 88, Elamkunnapuzha 86, Palluruthy 85, and Thrikkakara 82. Fort Kochi saw 53 new cases, Chengamanad 50, Alangad 47, Udayamperoor 46, Kumbalangi 45, and Kadungalloor and Varapuzha 42 each. Chellanam has recorded 37 new COVID cases. A total of 4,016 people were considered to have recovered, and 243 people were discharged from treatment centres. As many as 314 patients were newly admitted to treatment facilities. Of the people recovering from the infection, 542 are admitted in ICUs. A total of 36,441 people are recovering at home, 2,334 are admitted at private hospitals, 64 are admitted at INHS Sanjivani, 683 patients are recovering at government hospitals, and 1,836 people are being monitored at FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres. Vaccination After a three-day hiatus, vaccination is set to continue in the district on Monday. The drive was halted after the district ran out of stock. On Saturday, 9,000 doses of Covishield arrived here and stock was distributed to vaccination centres. Doses are being administered only to people who have already scheduled a session online. So far, 9,63,246 doses of the two vaccines have been administered in the district.  The TPR continues to remain high in some areas, and it could take another two weeks for the caseload to fall Dr. Mathews Numpeli District programme manager, National Health Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-continues-to-remain-high-in-ernakulam/article34630326.ece
24 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4 die of black fungus infection in State||Four of the six patients diagnosed with mucormycosis (black fungus), a fungal infection seen in COVID-19 patients, recently in Ernakulam district, have died of the infection. Of the four patients who succumbed to the infection, a 50-year-old and 77-year-old were natives of Ernakulam. The other two deceased patients were natives of Pathanamthitta. Two patients are currently under treatment for the fungal infection — a 45-year-old at a private hospital here and a 58-year-old North Paravur native at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. Details on how they contracted the secondary infection were not available, though it is known to develop in patients who have other conditions that compromise their immunity, said N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer (DMO). A team of specialists, comprising doctors from the Ernakulam General Hospital, has been constituted to handle cases of mucormycosis, Dr. Kuttappan said. Dr. A. Anitha, Superintendent at the Ernakulam General Hospital, said the team comprises doctors from the ophthalmology, neurology, ENT and general medicine departments. Anti-fungal medication is available for such instances, she said. More cases in MCHs More cases of mucormycosis are being reported from government medical college hospitals (MCH) in Kozhikode and Thrissur, a majority of them COVID-19 patients with diabetes. Doctors, however, said there was no need to panic as it was a commonly found fungus. According to sources, 13 patients are now undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode MCH and two at the Thrissur MCH. Three suspected cases There are three suspected cases in Thrissur as well. One patient from Palakkad, who died at the Kozhikode MCH on Friday, was later diagnosed to be infected. He tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. Among the patients in Kozhikode, seven are from Malappuram, three from Kozhikode, and one from Thrissur. Another patient is from Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu and one from Bengaluru in Karnataka. Two of them have no history of COVID-19 infection. Thrissur District Medical Officer K.J. Reena said both the patients at Thrissur MCH were from Palakkad. She said that the infection occurs in immuno-compromised conditions. Symptoms Blackening or discolouration over nose, breathing difficulties and coughing blood, chest pain, and blurred or double vision are some of the symptoms in COVID-19 patients the health-care workers need to watch out for, the sources added.  (With inputs from Kozhikode and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-die-of-black-fungus-infection-in-state/article34630330.ece
24 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Lockdown helped control spread of COVID-19 disease, says Minister||Ernakulam had hit a test positivity rate (TPR) of 35% once, but the figure has been brought down to around 24% now, and the aim is to bring it down to 10% soon, said Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Sunday. The fatality rate in the district is 0.2%, which is less than the State average of 0.4% and the national average of 1.8%, Mr. Rajeeve said. While 17 panchayats had, till recently, been reporting a high test positivity rate, only one panchayat has a TPR over 50% now, he said. Mobile testing teams will be deployed in areas with a high TPR. The lockdown has helped control the spread of the disease, but strict restrictions will have to continue in areas that are recording a TPR of over 25%, he added. Most panchayats have already readied local-level care centres. Private hospitals have been cooperating with the administration and are providing beds with oxygen supply and ventilators. There are no issues with oxygen supply in the district, he said. Mr. Rajeeve held a meeting with District Collector S. Suhas and health officials to assess the district’s COVID situation. He also visited the Government Medical College Hospital and the COVID hospital on the BPCL refinery campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-helped-control-spread-of-covid-19-disease-says-minister/article34630324.ece
24 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Meet on Chellanam in capital today||Issues related to sea erosion and flooding of homes in the coastal village of Chellanam in Ernakulam district will be discussed at a meeting in the State capital on Monday. Minister for Irrigation Roshy Augustine and Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will be among those participating in the meet. K.J. Maxi, MLA, said the meeting was being convened in the wake of serious problems being faced by people after heavy rain and swell waves caused by cyclone Tauktae hit the region. The meeting assumes significance as rains have always brought unbearable sufferings to people in the panchayat. With pre-monsoon rain causing serious problems already, people are worried that the situation may worsen when the monsoon sets in. “Lives of the coastal residents are under threat. Continuing sea erosion and frequent flooding of homes have rendered life almost impossible in the village,” said T.A. Dalphine of the Pachima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithi, which is working to protect the coast between Fort Kochi and South Chellanam. Opposition leader-designate V.D. Satheesan had said on Saturday that he wanted the government to address Chellanam issues in a holistic manner to find a permanent solution to the problem. He said that he would meet Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to convey the seriousness of the problem. Meanwhile, the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council appealed to the government to take appropriate action to ensure the safety of people in the Chellanam panchayat. The council expressed hope that the statement of Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian that the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies would adopt the Chellanam village would come true. It also hoped that the meeting in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday would chalk out a plan to find a lasting solution to issues being faced by people of Chellanam.  Continuing sea erosion and frequent flooding of homes have rendered life almost impossible in the village T.A. Dalphine Pachima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samithi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-on-chellanam-in-capital-today/article34630320.ece
24 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Auto ambulances set to ferry COVID patients to hospitals||The Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Drivers’ Cooperative Society (EJADCS) and the Kochi Corporation will launch AuSa on Monday, an emergency ambulance service to help ferry COVID patients to hospitals in autorickshaws equipped with portable oxygen cans and PPE kits. The service took its name from AuSa, the society’s ride app. Each autorickshaw can hold three cans having sufficient quantity of oxygen to ferry patients to hospitals. The 24x7 service available in eight zones of Kochi Corporation is being introduced since ambulances are sometimes tough to get, Binu Varghese and Simon Edapally, office-bearers of the society, said. They will also be deployed for delivery of medicines, pulse oximeter, infrared thermometer etc., to patients. Sixteen driver volunteers, including a woman driver, who will operate in two shifts, attended a training programme held in this regard. Safety kits and medical equipment, including portable oxygen cans, were handed over to them. The location of all the 16 autos and their movement to FLTCs with patients on board can be tracked from the control room of the National Health Mission (NHM). The nearest auto can thus be sent to the patient’s location. The driver would wear the PPE kit in case he needs to ferry a person who is COVID positive. The number of autos could be scaled up if needed, said Nishant Ravindran of Technovia Infosolutions Private Ltd. which provided technological help and operational support to EJADCS to roll out the initiative, and earlier for the AuSa app. The initiative is expected to lessen the workload of NHM and the Kochi Corporation in providing timely medical aid to patients. This free service for patients is funded by GIZ - a German agency which is helping implement the Integrated Sustainable Urban Transport Systems for Smart Cities (SMART-SUT) project under the umbrella of Green Urban Mobility Partnership between India and Germany. The other stakeholders include NHM, the Motor Vehicles Department, Corona Safe Network and the Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auto-ambulances-set-to-ferry-covid-patients-to-hospitals/article34630322.ece
24 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||AIYF activist files complaint against Satheesan||A youth political activist has moved a complaint against V.D. Satheesan, the Opposition leader-designate, for allegedly violating the COVID protocol. Complainant M. Arun, district secretary of the All India Youth Federation (AIYF), said Mr. Satheesan and his supporters took out a rally in Ernakulam district on May 22. The procession, which was held in violation of the COVID protocol, would result in the spread of the disease, according to the AIYF activist’s complaint submitted to the Chief Minister and the Director General of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aiyf-activist-files-complaint-against-satheesan/article34630318.ece
24 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Horticorp steps in to buy farm produce||Procurement of farm produce by the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) has picked up momentum in Ernakulam and Idukki districts. The corporation procured around 16 tonnes of pineapple, eight tonnes of Nendran variety banana, 10 tonnes of ash gourd, three tonnes of snake gourd, and 12 tonnes of tapioca in Ernakulam. In the neighbouring Idukki district, Horticorp has been engaged in procuring potato, cabbage, and carrot along with around 100 tonnes of tapioca. It has also been procuring pineapple and snake gourds from farmers in the district. Sources said three truckloads (around 10 tonnes) of vegetables were being moved to Alappuzha, Kottayam, Muvattupuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kollam. The products were also procured from Palakkad district. In Kottayam, procurement is on, but the availability of vegetables is poor, though there appears to be a glut in tapioca production. Around 400 kg of snake gourds have been procured from farmers in the district, sources said. One of the key reasons for slowdown in procurement is that only around 25% of Horticorp outlets are operational owing to lockdown restrictions. Besides, public institutions like schools and college hostels to which Horticorp supplies products have been shut. Sources said mostly tapioca and pineapple farmers were in great distress because of a glut-like situation. Besides, several farmers have been forced to do harvesting in the wake of fields getting flooded in heavy rains triggered by cyclone Tauktae last week. Farmers usually stagger harvests in keeping with the market demand. However, rain and lockdown have forced them to go in for harvesting bulk of crops despite the market prices ruling low.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/horticorp-steps-in-to-buy-farm-produce/article34630316.ece
24 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mariners demand vaccination on priority||Hundreds of seafarers, who were recently designated as frontline COVID warriors, are waiting for vaccination to get back to work. It is apprehended that the delay in vaccinating mariners will lead to a fall in the number of ships calling at Indian ports. The avoidance of Indian ports by foreign vessels may result in disruption of trade, including import and export of essential commodities, cautioned a communication from the Ministry of Shipping. It is estimated that there are around 46,000 seafarers in Kerala, and half of them need to be vaccinated in the first phase, the communication noted. The delay in vaccination may disrupt the supply of seafarers for crew change and their unrestricted movement. Several countries have imposed strict restrictions on ships with Indian crew or those with a history of ports of call in India. Crew change at foreign ports may also be affected due to such restrictions, the communication to the State authorities pointed out. The Ministry has also urged the State authorities to include seafarers and port workers in the list of frontline workers and consider them for priority vaccination. Meanwhile, Kochi-based Merchant Navy Officers Cricket Club has initiated steps for getting their members vaccinated on their own following complaints of vaccine shortage at government hospitals. The Chennai Port is offering vaccination facilities for seafarers three days a week. The Cochin Port Trust authorities informed mariners that they were willing to offer similar facility, if necessary clearance was issued by the State Health authorities, said Tijo Joseph, secretary of the club, who is also a mariner. The Cochin Port Trust has offered to provide a vaccination facility at the hospital managed by it once it gets approval, and mariners can be vaccinated in batches, he said. Meanwhile, Dr. R. Ramesh, Director, Health Services, said the vaccination drive would have to be coordinated by the designated nodal officer in each district. Vaccines will be made available to those who have registered themselves with the mobile app introduced for the purpose and through the network, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mariners-demand-vaccination-on-priority/article34630276.ece
24 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2 held on cheating charge||The Ernakulam North police have arrested two persons on the charge of cheating nursing job aspirants. They allegedly cheated each aspirant to the tune of Rs. 2.50 lakh on promising jobs to treat COVID patients in Dubai. The arrested are Firoze Khan, 42, of Netoor and Sathar, 50, of Kombanamury, Cherthala. The duo who were into selling used cars did not have recruiting licence but operated a firm named Kaloor Take Off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-held-on-cheating-charge/article34630317.ece
24 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode adds 1,917 cases to COVID tally; TPR falls to 18.69%||Karassery grama panchayat in Kozhikode district reported a daily test positivity rate (TPR) of 58% on Sunday when 36 of the 62 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district had 1,917 fresh COVID-19 cases and 4,398 recoveries, while the cumulative daily TPR stood at 18.69%. In Azhiyoor  According to Health Department sources, Azhiyoor reported a daily TPR of 55% when 41 of the 74 samples tested positive for the virus. This panchayat is the only local body in the district that has a weekly TPR of over 30%. Other local bodies with a high daily TPR are Kodiyathur, Thalakkulathur, Kodanchery, Olavanna, and Eramala grama panchayats, and Vadakara municipality. Thiruvambady, Kakkur, Kakkodi, Changaraoth, and Vanimel panchayats registered a daily TPR of below 5%. Maruthonkara had no new patients and Kayanna and Kavilumpara had one new patient each. The District Medical Officer said 1,886 of the fresh cases in the district were due to local transmission of the infection. The source of 31 others is not known. A total of 10,658 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation reported 538 cases of locally acquired infections, Vadakara 53, and Chathamangalam 51. The active case pool dropped to 27,246 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-adds-1917-cases-to-covid-tally-tpr-falls-to-1869/article34630304.ece
24 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Panchayat member drives ambulance to help patients||The first time she was in the driver’s seat of an ambulance, Fathima Jaslin was too excited. “The siren and the power of the ambulance were too overwhelming. It took me some time to get over that,” she said. A member of the Kunnamangalam grama panchayat, Ms. Jaslin became an ambulance driver by accident. But then she discovered her advantage and has since been on call for women patients for a few weeks now. Ms. Jaslin has been active in COVID-19 management activities in her ward, including food distribution, fogging and distribution of pulse oximeters to patients, ever since the second wave began. As a former Kudumbasree worker, she is familiar with most families in the ward and this helped her victory in the last local body polls. “I got a call from some women I knew, who said they had COVID-19 symptoms, but could not find any vehicle to go for check-up. I tried to get an ambulance for them, but there was shortage of drivers. Hence, I took it upon myself to drive them to and from the checking centres,” she said. Women’s safety Ms. Jaslin soon realised that there was much scope for a woman ambulance driver. “Women would feel comfortable and safe when I was the driver. And I decided to help them as much as possible,” she said, adding that her services would be limited to women patients. The ambulance she drives was donated to the Indian Union Muslim League local committee for COVID-related requirements by the Bafaqui Thangal Charitable Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-member-drives-ambulance-to-help-patients/article34630312.ece
24 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Link passport with vaccination certificate’||M.K. Raghavan, MP, has appealed to the Union government to introduce reasonable changes in the existing COVID-19 vaccination portal and the associated software to add the passport numbers of all vaccinated Non-Resident Indians (NRIs). In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Mr. Raghavan pointed out that several expatriates needed such an option in view of the imminent expiry of their visas and urgent travel requirements for jobs. “A large number of NRIs who were back home when the COVID-related travel ban was in force could not leave India owing to the new guidelines to include passport details on vaccination certificates. Several countries have denied entry to Indian citizens who could not meet the formality,” said Mr. Raghavan. NRIs who previously used their Aadhaar numbers for vaccination should be given a fresh opportunity to add the passport numbers as well, he said. According to Mr. Raghavan, only those who were vaccinated in the second phase were allowed to use their passport numbers for registration purposes and get them included in the certificates as demanded by various countries. “||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-vaccination-papers-with-passport-numbers/article34630301.ece
24 May 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Ecstasy drugs worth over Rs. 1 crore seized||The police arrested five youngsters and seized ecstasy drugs valued at over Rs. 1 crore at Kalpakanchery in the district on Sunday. The police said they recovered 100 gm MDMA (methylenedioxy-methamphetamine) from the youngsters belonging to Kalpakanchery. The seizure was made at Vailathur. One of the five arrested is a merchant navy officer. According to the police, the drug was brought from Delhi for use among elite persons in the district. An Excise squad had seized 40 gm MDMA during a raid at Tirurangadi last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ecstasy-drugs-worth-over-rs-1-crore-seized/article34630308.ece
24 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kathakali legend turns 84||Kathakali maestro Kalamandalam Gopi celebrated his 84th birthday on Sunday. The 84th birthday is considered most auspicious for a person as they have witnessed 1,000 full moons in their life cycle. Endearingly called Gopi Asan, the maestro celebrated the birthday along with his children and grandchildren in the quiet of his house at Mundur in Thrissur district. People from different walks of life greeted him on the occasion. Among them were Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve, actors Mohanlal, Manju Warrier, and Edavela Babu, filmmakers Jayaraj and Shaji N. Karun, Speaker-designate M.B. Rajesh and former Minister A.C. Moideen. Mr. Rajesh and Mr. Moideen visited Asan and greeted him in person. Gopi Asan has achieved a covetous place in the hearts of people through his astounding dedication to Kathakali. A maestro who has taken Kathakali to countries across the globe, Gopi Asan has been bestowed with many awards, including Padma Sri, Kendra Sageet Natak Akademi Award, and Kalidas Samman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kathakali-legend-turns-84/article34630310.ece
24 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fording obstacles to save people’s lives||The health officials of Pudur Family Health Centre (FHC) in Attappady have won the praise of the entire State for risking their lives to reach out with crucial medical care to a remote tribal hamlet afflicted with COVID-19. A four-member health team led by FHC Medical Officer Sukanya K.A. travelled more than 30 kilometres through hilly jungles to reach Murugala hamlet. Although Dr. Sukanya and team used to conduct monthly camps at Murugala, their journey to the tribal hamlet on Friday was the toughest ever. Accompanied by Health Inspector Sunil Vasu, Junior Health Inspector Shaiju and driver Sajesh, Dr. Sukanya covered much of her journey by ambulance. They risked their lives by crossing River Bhavani, which had a fairly strong current after continuous rain in the region. “It took nearly an hour for us to cross the river. We had no alternative to reach the hamlet. With the slippery rocks and a strong undercurrent, it was really tough and risky,” Dr. Sukanya told The Hindu . In the middle of the river, the water was chest deep, she added. Seven positive cases The 40-odd members of seven families in the marooned hamlet were in the grip of fear after they developed COVID-19 symptoms. Seven of them tested positive, and Dr. Sukanya and her team had a tough time convincing them of the necessity of isolation and treatment. “It took a long time to convince them about the importance of preventing the spread of the disease. We shifted all the affected members to a domiciliary care centre at Pudur, and we are monitoring them now,” said Dr. Sukanya. The health team’s risky outing became a topic of discussion on social media with the newly appointed Health Minister Veena George calling Dr. Sukanya and congratulating them on the good work. In her Facebook post, Ms. George went on to describe the health team’s efforts as an example of total commitment to service. She said tests would be intensified among tribespeople across the State. “We never thought that it would fetch so much attention when we ventured out to the hamlet. We were just doing our duty. I am happy that it will help the tribespeople get better attention in this time of crisis,” said Dr. Sukanya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-team-lauded-for-reaching-out-to-covid-hit-tribespeople/article34630314.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Race on to clear drains before monsoon||With monsoon rains hardly a week away from hitting the Kerala coast, the city Corporation as well as the various departments have been racing against time to clear up the canals and drains in the flood-prone regions in the city. The uncharacteristically extended rains during the summer has hampered some of these efforts. After addressing the immediate concerns within the coming week, the engineers of the Corporation and the Irrigation department are scheduled to meet within a month to prepare a detailed estimate of the long-term works to be taken up in the flood-prone regions in the city. This will be submitted to the State government to be considered as a special case for fund allocation in the budget, in a manner similar to Operation Anantha flood mitigation programme that was taken up in the capital in 2015. Silt removal One of the ongoing works is the silt removal from a drain that passes under the Ponnara Sreedhar park in Thampanoor. This had come to a halt recently after a 66-Kilo Volt line was partially damaged during the cleaning process. Another major work is the cleaning of the drain that passes under the railway lines. “During a meeting chaired by the Chief Secretary recently, the Irrigation Department officials agreed to take up the work of silt removal from this drain, but they will be able to do this only after there is a reduction in flow. This can happen only after the monsoon. It was last cleaned during Operation Anantha. If there is a high volume of rainfall in a short period, as had happened recently, this bottleneck area can cause flooding in the Thampanoor region. The waste removal from the rest of the major canals and drains is progressing well,” said a Corporation official. “We have given a list of drains to be cleared by the various departments within the next week. This work has been progressing. I have also apprised the Minister for Public Works regarding the issues here. He has agreed to chair a meeting within this week,” said Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/race-on-to-clear-drains-before-monsoon/article34630280.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 2,700 fresh cases, 24 deaths||The daily COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district dipped significantly to 2,700 on Sunday as the number of active cases fell to 18,504. As many as 4,869 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 22.06% when 12,239 people were tested. The death toll, however, showed no signs of lessening as 24 recent deaths were attributed to COVID-19 on the day. These include deaths that were reported between May 7 and 21 of people whose ages ranged from 15 to 86. The pandemic has claimed 1,444 people in the district, the highest in the state. Among the fresh cases, the source of infection is unknown in 117 cases. Eleven health workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 5,609 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 87,945. As many as 7,374 people concluded quarantine during the last 24 hours. District Collector Navjot Khosa reviewed the COVID-19 situation in 43 grama panchayats and 11 block panchayats where the TPR remained over 30%. Interacting with representatives of local bodies through video conference, Dr. Khosa issued instructions to step up testing, intensify contact tracing, and expand quarantine facilities to bring the situation under control. The activities of rapid response teams (RRTs) must be strengthened in each ward with more volunteers deployed for COVID-19 management. Stressing the need to establish more domiciliary care centres (DCCs) and COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) for those who did not have adequate facilities to self-isolate, Dr. Khosa also called for setting up more community kitchens for the benefit of the public during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-2700-fresh-cases-24-deaths/article34630278.ece
24 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A steady decline in active cases||Kerala reported 25,820 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, when 1,13,205 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) which has stabilised around 22% for the past few days, registered 22.81% on Sunday. COVID-19 deaths continue to rise in the State. The State added 188 new COVID deaths to the official list on Sunday, taking the cumulative number to 7,358. These deaths had occurred over the past few days. The active case pool is steadily declining and has come down to 2,77,598 patients, with the recovery of 37,316 patients on Sunday. The cumulative case burden now stands at 23,47,966 cases. Hospitalisation up However, hospital admissions continue to rise, indicating that the proportion of those with moderate or serious COVID-19 remains high. This means that the hospitals and health system will continue to be stressed. On Sunday, 3,606 persons were newly admitted in hospitals, a higher figure than that on Saturday. The number of hospitalisations has been almost steady and as on Sunday, 39,067 persons are being treated for COVID-19 in hospitals. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-18 patients in public and private hospitals has risen to 3,972, while 1,501 are on ventilator support. In Thiruvananthapuram, the active case pool has been declining rapidly but hospitalisations are at the highest, with 6,123 persons undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Most in Malappuram Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 4,074, Ernakulam 2,823, Palakkad 2,700, Thiruvananthapuram 2,700, Thrissur 2,506, Kollam 2,093, Kozhikode 1,917, Alappuzha 1,727, Kottayam 1,322, Kannur 1,265, Idukki 837, Pathanamthitta 815, Kasaragod 555, and Wayanad 486.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-steady-decline-in-active-cases/article34630335.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Praises pour in for pilot from capital||Appreciation has poured in from all corners for Jeni Jerome, the 23-year-old who co-piloted the Sharjah-Thiruvananthapuram Air Arabia flight which landed here early Sunday morning. Ms. Jerome, who flew her maiden flight, has fulfilled a childhood dream of becoming a pilot. In spotlight In the process, she also swung the spotlight on a coastal village in Thiruvananthapuram district. The young woman, who has been living in Ajman with her parents and brother for over two decades now, is a native of Kochuthura here. Ms. Jerome’s achievement is a source of great pride for Kerala and an inspiration to women and the society in general, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Ms. Jerome’s family, who stood by her and helped her achieve her dream, serves as a model for the society, Mr. Vijayan says. Social media has been flooded with praise for the young commercial pilot since Saturday. Jeni’s father Jerome has been employed abroad for over three decades. Ms. Jerome has realised a childhood dream she has harboured since she was in Class eight, Health Minister Veena George wrote on Facebook on Sunday, congratulating the young pilot. She is an inspiration for other youth to fulfill their own dreams, Ms. George, who spoke to the pilot’s mother Beatrice, has said. ‘Big moment’ A big moment for the coastal community in Thiruvananthapuram and women, Transport Minister Antony Raju says. Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor, in a Facebook message, called the achievement the realisation of a childhood dream.  The 23-year-old, who has been living in Ajman with her parents, is a native of Kochuthura||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/praises-pour-in-for-pilot-from-capital/article34630282.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Many Delhi Malayalis return to the safety of their home||An increasing number of Keralites who have settled in the national capital are returning to the State following a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases and strict lockdown measures there. With Delhi’s health-care system under severe strain and reports of a mad scramble for hospital beds and oxygen coming out, Kerala is seen as a safer place by Malayalis who had moved to the national capital for work or business. “I had returned to Delhi after vacation on April 18 from my native place at Ambalapra, Ottappalam in Palakkad, only to rush back on the 26th following the spike in COVID-19 cases and deaths, non-availability of beds, medicines and mobility issues,” says Sreehari S. Nair, who works in an automotive company and has been staying in East Delhi, for 21 years. Mr. Nair, who returned with his wife and two children, says many others have returned to the State. “Many in Delhi are not even stepping out into the balcony of their apartments. It is only the risk of travelling and the quarantine regulations that deter many Keralites from returning temporarily to their home State,” he says. Latha Srinivasan, a former teacher at Mothers International School, near IIT Delhi, who has been staying for 45 years in Patparganj, says she decided to return to her daughter’s home in Kochi after her bad experience in the first wave of the pandemic. “Faced with old-age ailments, I was worried about getting medical aid, as things are pretty bad in the second wave,” says the 69-year-old. “We hear that medicines and food are in short supply. Even neighbours whom we knew for years were reluctant to open their doors. My son is working from home and asked me to be with my daughter.” Ms. Srinivasan says she does not have any concern over getting medical aid here as in Delhi. All praise Mr. Nair, who is now working from Kerala, is all praise for the implementation of the COVID-19 protocol and health workers’ support in the State. “In Delhi, physical distancing is often not practical for those staying in apartments. There is no guidance and no one knows whom to contact in Delhi if you are infected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-delhi-malayalis-return-to-the-safety-of-their-home/article34630274.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Public transport will be strengthened: Raju||Transport Minister Antony Raju has said priority will be to strengthen public transport and ensure all road users are treated equally while implementing motor vehicle rules. Ensuring financial discipline in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which is in the red with the fleet confined to depots following the lockdown, is another priority area for the Minister . The ‘uncertainty’ over the newly formed KSRTC-SWIFT, a legally independent company, for operating long-distance buses will be ended at the earliest, says Mr. Raju. It was launched hours before the Assembly elections were announced, and trade unions and employees have objected to the initiative that will function independently within the KSRTC. “A final decision about the KSRTC-SWIFT will be taken in consultation with all stakeholders and the Chief Minister,” he says. The KSRTC has also been asked to complete all ongoing construction works for bus terminals and take up new civil works only after their completion. This will end the hurdles in taking up new civil works on KSRTC land and ensure financial discipline. Cargo through boats The Water Transport Department will be strengthened and movement of cargo through boats operated by the department will be encouraged, says Mr. Raju, who has also been entrusted with the Water Transport and Motor Vehicles Departments. Better and speedy water transport facilities will be provided to the public. The Minister has firm plans for solving the transportation problems faced by people in the capital. “A circular bus service will be rolled out linking all offices on an experimental basis,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-transport-will-be-strengthened-raju/article34630328.ece
24 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel wants Varghese’s family compensated||The State Commissionerate of Persons with Disabilities has directed the government to take steps to give financial assistance of minimum Rs. 5 lakh to the dependants of Varghese, a differently abled man of Kunnathukkal who succumbed to injuries sustained after petrol bombs were allegedly hurdled at him. State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities S.H. Panchapakesan directed that if the court ordered compensation to the dependants of Varghese, the government could request the court to incorporate the compensation given by it. Mr. Panchapakesan also directed that charges, including those related to murder, be added in the case registered against the accused at the Marayamuttom police station in connection with the death of Varghese. Home Secretary, State Police Chief, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural), and the Marayamuttom station house officer (SHO) should take steps to submit a report to the court urgently, he said. The commissioner directed the State Police Chief and the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) to entrust the investigation to determine if there was a conspiracy behind the incident to an officer not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. The probe should be completed soon so that a final report could be submitted to the court. The commissioner also asked the government to consider giving employment to the dependants of Varghese in a government or public sector institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-wants-vargheses-family-compensated/article34630275.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe on into burglary in Bevco warehouse||The Attingal police have received leads in the burglary case in which Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth nearly Rs. 20 lakh were stolen from a warehouse of Kerala State Beverages Development Corporation (Bevco). Following stock taking, the Excise Department had found 130 cases of bottles, containing 1,170 litres of liquor, to have gone missing from the warehouse a day ago. From a car The incident came to light after the Excise officials seized 54 litres of IMFL from a car near Varkala on May 20. The alleged smuggler, identified as Shanu Alex, had managed to evade arrest. However, the sleuths unearthed the burglary after they cross-checked the batch number with the existing stock at the warehouse. CCTV visuals According to the police, CCTV visuals recovered from the warehouse showed two people trespassing in the property on six days between May 9 and 20. The police officers also received information that the bottles belonging to the same batches were illegally distributed by the gang in various parts including Kaniyapuram and Chathannoor during the period. Efforts were also on to obtain the call details records of the burglars by undertaking a ‘tower dump’ on mobile phone towers close to the warehouse.  Excise Department had found 130 cases of bottles, containing 1,170 litres of liquor, to have gone missing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-burglary-in-bevco-warehouse/article34630279.ece
24 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ready to conduct CBSE exam: Minister||The CBSE Class 12 board examinations and entrance examinations to professional courses will be held in compliance with COVID-19 protocol if the Union Education Ministry decides to go ahead with them, the State government has said. The government conveyed its stance during a videoconference that the Union government had with State Education Ministers here on Sunday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh presided over the meeting that was attended by Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty, who represented the State, informed the meeting that opinion was divided in Kerala, over the conduct of the CBSE Class 12 examinations. In the State, the Class 10 and 12 public examinations had been conducted in April. All steps had been taken to begin the answer script valuation in the first week of June, and declare the results in July. On higher studies He said apprehensions about higher studies should be addressed. The State pressed the need for administering COVID-19 vaccination to all schoolchildren. Director of General EducationJeevan Babu K. also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-conduct-cbse-exam-minister/article34630337.ece
24 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Beach road to be rebuilt soon: Minister||The Shangumughom-Airport road that was destroyed by coastal erosion will be rebuilt as quickly as possible, Public Works Minister P. A. Mohammed Riyas has said. Mr. Riyas toured Shangumughom accompanied by Transport Minister Antony Raju and Mayor Arya Rajendran on Sunday. Repairs The Public Works Minister said he had directed officials to carry out the necessary repairs. It was expected the sea erosion in the region would ease in two days’ time, after which the work could be taken up, the Minister told reporters. Shangumughom was among the coastal stretches in the district that experienced heavy sea erosion triggered by Cyclone Tauktae earlier this month. The district administration had closed the coastal road to motor and pedestrian traffic on May 15 after it sustained heavy damage and was rendered unusable. The public had been directed to use the Eanchakkal-airport road to access the domestic terminal. Funds Rs. 6.74 crore had been earmarked in the Rebuild Kerala Initiative for constructing a protection wall in the region and Rs. 1.6 crore for the road. Meanwhile, a number of coastal areas reported waterlogging following the heavy rainfall on Saturday. The district was in for a wet spell in the days leading to the start of the southwest monsoon, the IMD indicated. The district had been put on yellow alert till May 27 given the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall, the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beach-road-to-be-rebuilt-soon-minister/article34630283.ece
24 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||2,506 cases, 4,874 recoveries in Thrissur||The district reported 2,506 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday. As many as 4,874 patients have recovered from the infection. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 26.56%. Six local bodies recorded a TPR higher than 50% on Sunday. The local bodies with high TPR are Chovvannur (53.52%), Eriyad (51.85%), Punnayoorkkulam (53.16%), Kandanassery (63.16%), Paralam (63.27%) and Panjal (50%). There are 18,756 active cases in Thrissur and 86 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 2,21,794 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 2,01,727 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 2,493 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 353 people are above the age of 60 and 212 are below the age of 10. In all, 12,542 people are under home care. As many as 9,435 samples were taken for testing on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2506-cases-4874-recoveries-in-thrissur/article34630306.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Shatabhishekam’ for Kathakali maestro||One need not be a connoisseur of Kathakali to find Kalamandalam Gopi delectable on stage. The master may be a purist’s delight, yet it actually takes only minimal sense of beauty to sense the extraordinariness of his performance. This sweet irony of being both the entry-level charmer and the ultimate virtuoso of the dance-theatre makes Gopi special. That remains unchanged even as he turned 84 this week. Pleasant paradoxes At least a couple of more pleasant paradoxes decorate Gopi’s career spanning seven decades. Both have contributed to his stardom for half a century now. One, the painted face that presents an ideal mix of masculine and feminine features. Adding, Gopi’s grammar which uniquely blends method acting with the right dose of realism. Ask him, and the patriarch would laugh off such observations. “These are for viewers to bother,” he would say. Likely he cannot reason. For two factors: one, self-analysis is typically not the artiste’s forte; two, Gopi has not been purposely trying to establish a school. Sometimes a mere three minutes can betray the exact sources of his absorptions and inspirations. One set of CDs a cultural body brought out in 2002 slotted Gopi in all the four weighty Kottayam plays considered the bedrock of Kathakali’s classical Kalluvazhi style. There, a particularly slow-paced love song he essays tends to reproduce seconds of movements that are unmistakably a cue from four icons — Kalamandalam Krishnan Nair, Ramankutty Nair, Padmanabhan Nair and Keezhpadam Kumaran Nair. Well, the first and last on the list never formally taught him. Organic acting Gopi’s kind of eclecticism is seldom a piecing together of his predecessors. So organically have their stock movements got ingrained in him that the successor is oblivious of any. No different have been instances of Gopi smartly borrowing trades in melodrama generally attributed to the Kaplingadan idiom of Travancore. If his visage fuses male and female looks intriguingly, the ‘abhinaya’ treads an unwittingly tight ropewalk. A bit more of natural acting can make the show look less like Kathakali; a bit less of that can erase his signature. Gopi has been off his busy schedule for the past 15 months. The pandemic has made his life home-bound. On his 84th birthday, fans did wish him over the phone and social media, hiding their anguish over the ‘shatabhishekam’ not turning festive as did his 80th birthday. One factor why the world of Kathakali is waiting for the pandemic to end is to see Gopi return to the circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shatabhishekam-for-kathakali-maestro/article34630343.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Assembly session begins today||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has already selected M.B. Rajesh, elected member from the Thrithala Assembly constituency, as the Left Democratic Front nominee for the post. After completing the listed business, the House will adjourn on June 14. In view of the prevailing pandemic situation, official sources said there was a likely chance for the session to be curtailed. Detailed guidelines have been issued by Legislature Secretary S.V. Unnikrishnan Nair to ensure that all who step into the Assembly premises follow the COVID-19 protocol. Seats have been rearranged to ensure social distancing. No visitors’ pass will be issued. Anglo Indian member There will be no nominated Anglo Indian member in the 15th Legislative Assembly as the Constitution (126th Amendment) Bill, which Parliament passed on December 12, 2019, has ended the provision from January 25, 2020. Thus, CPI(M) leader John Fernandez, who was the nominated MLA of 14th Assembly, has become the last representative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-session-begins-today/article34630344.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Houses attacked||A CPI(M) worker’s house was allegedly attacked by miscreants using country bombs at Perod near Nadapuram on Saturday. The incident took place around 4 a.m. According to the police, no one sustained injuries. A portion of the veranda of P. Ashokan’s house was damaged in the attack. In another incident, the house of an Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) worker came under attack. The windowpanes of the house of K.M. Sameer were destroyed in the incident which took place on Friday. The Nadapuram police are investigating the incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houses-attacked/article34630300.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The waste conundrum||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-waste-conundrum/article34630537.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka records 626 deaths in a day||Kerala reported 25,820 new cases on Sunday, when 1,13,205 samples were tested. The TPR, which had stabilised around 22% in the past few days, registered 22.81%. Deaths continued to rise and 188 new fatalities were added to the official list on Sunday. The active case pool was declining and came down to 2,77,598. On Sunday, 3,606 persons were admitted to hospital, a higher figure than on Saturday. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in public and private hospitals rose to 3,972, while 1,501 were on ventilator support. In Thiruvananthapuram, active cases were declining but hospitalisations were at the highest, at 6,123. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 4,074, Ernakulam 2,823, Palakkad 2,700, Thiruvananthapuram 2,700, Thrissur 2,506, Kollam 2,093, Kozhikode 1,917, Alappuzha 1,727, Kottayam 1,322, Kannur 1,265, Idukki 837, Pathanamthitta 815, Kasaragod 555, and Wayanad 486 Andhra Pradesh again reported over 100 deaths. On Sunday, 104 more deaths and 18,767 infections were added. The number of active cases remained at 2,09,237. The daily TPR dropped to 20.48% from 22.05% on Saturday, and 91,629 samples were tested. Chittoor district reported 15 deaths, West Godavari 13, Vizianagaram 11, Visakhapatnam (9), Anantapur (8), East Godavari (8), Guntur (8), Krishna (8), Kurnool (8), Srikakulam (7), Nellore (6) and Kadapa (3). The district-wise new infections were as follows: East Godavari (2,887), Chittoor (2,323), West Godavari (1,972), Anantapur (1,846), Visakhapatnam (1,668), Guntur (1,249), Kurnool (1,166), Prakasam (1,162), Nellore (1,045), Srikakulam (971), Kadapa (883), Vizianagaram (821) and Krishna (774). Telangana’s cases went down by about 1,100 on Sunday compared to the previous day, while about 21,000 fewer tests were done. A total of 2,242 new cases and 19 deaths were reported, the lowest daily cases since April 11. The Public Health department said 42,526 tests were done on Sunday against 63,120 on Saturday. The total number of active COVID-19 cases inched towards 3 lakh in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with 35,483 more persons testing positive. The total number of cases has gone up to 18,42,344. The number of active cases stands at 2,94,143. Across the State, 422 persons died, taking the toll to 20,468. The discharge of 25,196 persons after treatment took the total to 15,27,733. The daily case count continued to drop in Chennai district where 5,169 persons tested positive and 5,139 persons were discharged. The district recorded 81 deaths, taking the toll to 6,379. The number of active cases fell marginally to 49,055. So far, 4,78,710 persons have tested positive, of which 4,23,276 have been discharged. After Chennai, Vellore and Chengalpattu recorded the most number of deaths: 31 and 29. So far, 2,59,294 senior citizens and 66,270 children aged below 12 have been infected.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-counts-626-more-deaths-cites-data-lag/article34630042.ece
24 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff crunch cripples care centres||Chittoor has emerged as the worst-affected district in the second wave with it reporting the highest number of COVID-related deaths in the State and the daily average cases numbering around 3,000. The district logged 1.73 lakh confirmed cases since the beginning of the pandemic, including 27,000 active cases at present, and 1,166 casualties. Chittoor is the only district in the State to have seen more than 1,000 deaths. The administration, which has been working away to arrange beds for increasing number of patients, had set up more than 25 COVID Care Centres in various mandals during the second wave, started in April. But their efforts are stymied by severe shortage of health workers and nursing assistants at the centres. The centres are set up at Kuppam, Palamaner, Madanapalle, Valmikipuram, Piler, Chandragiri, Srikalahasti, Satyavedu, Nagari, Karveti Nagaram, GD Nellore. While the organisers, in coordination with the NGOs and outsourcing agencies, are making frantic efforts to get more temporary staff, the existing workers are quitting the job due to delayed payment and safety concerns. A workforce of at least 1,000 is needed to maintain hygiene and attend to the patients and pooling up even 10% of the requirement has become difficult, says a member of a Tirupati-based NGO. The NGO, which took up the assignment to pool up temporary field staff for the centres, admitted that right from March till date, close to 50% of the workforce had dropped out. A week after joining a care centre at Tirupati as a temporary worker, a 23-year-old B.Tech graduate stopped reporting to duties. “I joined here as I wanted to contribute my mite by serving the patients. I was also jobless at the time. But later, I found that the staff was neither provided with PPE kits and masks nor did they have any insurance. The virus was wreaking havoc on all sections of people, irrespective of age. We are scared too. I had to quit on the advice of my parents,” he said. ‘Overburdened’ A 60-year-old man, who joined as a health worker at a centre in Madanapalle, deplored that he was forced to do the job of four workers. He claimed that he had quit the job as he had not received his wages for two months. He said a dozen of new joinees left within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staff-crunch-cripples-care-centres/article34630085.ece
24 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHO, constable booked for ‘abetting’ suicide of woman||Nagarampalem Station House Officer Y. Mallikarjunarao and constable Mani, along with some others have been booked on the charge of abetting the suicide of a 59-year-old woman. The victim was working as an attender in the soil testing laboratory of the Agricultural Department. According to the FIR filed at the Nagarampalem police station, Umadevi allegedly ended her life by pouring acid on herself on May 22. Her daughter-in-law Baby Naganjali alleged that Umadevi had been harassed by her in-laws and the SHO over the settlement of a property disupute following the death of her son Bajikiran. Bajikiran, who was working in Germany, arrived in Guntur to attend the wedding of his younger brother. He died of COVID-19 on May 8. The following day, his wife Anjana Devi lodged a complaint at the Nagarampalem police station, accusing Umadevi of harassment. A complaint by Naganjali stated that the SHO and the constable had been harassing Umadevi and perstering her to transfer the property in her daughter-in-law’s name. The police even forcibly took away their car, the complaint said. Umadevi ended her life on the day of the ceremony of her son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sho-constable-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-woman/article34630086.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chaos again at entry points in Telangana||As the Telangana police refused to honour the ePasses issued by their Andhra Pradesh counterparts, hundreds of vehicles were queued up near the Pullur toll gate on AP-Telangana border in Jogulamba-Gadwal district here on Sunday. Similar scenes were witnessed at Ramapuram check-post in Suryapet district of Telangana where police did not allow vehicles without e-passes coming from Andhra Pradesh over Garikapadu in Krishna district. The check-posts en route at Mathampalli and Pulichintala within Telangana borders were also closed, but the traffic into the State was allowed from Kodad. Suryapet SP R. Bhaskaran said that they were allowing only vehicles from AP with valid e-passes to enter Telangana. The police denied entry of vehicles into the State, stating that e-passes issued by the AP police were not valid in Telangana and they did not receive any instructions from higher-ups. As a result, several ambulances carrying COVID-19 patients who required immediate medical assistance were also stuck in the traffic jam. However, a few metres towards Kurnool, things were normal as AP police were allowing vehicles with e-passes issued by the TS police. “We have been stuck in traffic since morning. Police are not allowing us to enter the State even after getting a pass from AP to travel till Hyderabad,” said D Suresh, a techie returning to the city from Bengaluru. He said that several persons, especially natives of Kurnool and Kadapa, who were not permitted to cross the border returned to their places. “But, I am a native of Hyderabad working in Bengaluru,” Mr. Suresh said, adding that police asked him to stay till 6 a.m. on Monday and travel home during the lockdown relaxation time. Server down “They are not letting us in and asking to apply for the e-pass from Telangana police portal, which is down since morning,” said another traveller on the border. When contacted, Gadwal SP Ranjan Ratan Kumar did not respond to the calls by this correspondent. The e-pass dashboard of Telangana police website has been down since Sunday morning. Sources in the department maintained that the IT team was upgrading the dashboard by adding some more category passes, including Medical Emergency — go to hospital and two more options — as a result people were unable to access the dashboard. The police were not even able to approve or reject the passes of those who applied since Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chaos-again-at-entry-points-in-telangana/article34630036.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||New land grab charge against Eatala’s family||Continuing to train guns on expelled Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered an inquiry into yet another charge of land grabbing by the former and his family. He ordered the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to institute the probe by Anti-Corruption Bureau of police and vigilance and revenue departments. The Chief Minister took the step on the basis of a complaint received from a villager of Ravalkol in Medchal district who claimed that his 10.11 acres of agricultural ceiling land was illegally transferred in the name of Mr. Rajender’s son Nitin Reddy. This is the third instance of land grabbing charges levelled against the former Minister’s family since April 30 when the first probe was ordered into purchase of assigned lands for weaker sections by Jamuna Hatcheries owned by his wife and son at Atchampet and Hakimpet villages of Masaipet mandal in Medak district. The next day Medak Collector and a team of officials surveyed the lands and submitted a report to the government saying 66.01 acres of assigned land was under occupation by the hatcheries. Some sheds and buildings were constructed and a road was laid through assigned lands. Mr. Rajender’s health portfolio was transferred to the Chief Minister the same day and subsequently he was removed from the Cabinet. Within a couple of days, another probe into construction of warehouses by Mr. Rajender’s family on six acres in disputed lands of Sri Sitaramaswamy temple over 1,521 acres at Devarayamjal in Shamirpet mandal was ordered by the Chief Minister. This time the government appointed a four-member committee of IAS officers headed by Panchayatraj Commissioner M. Raghunandan Rao. Even as the panel was proceeding with the probe, Jamuna Hatcheries filed an urgent petition in the High Court seeking relief from the government’s move. By a house motion, the court ordered the government not to initiate any action based on the report of Medak Collector but follow due process of law by issuing notices to the hatchery. In the latest instance, the Chief Minister acted on a petition to him by Peetla Mahesh that his 10.11 acres of agricultural ceiling land was shown as sold to Mr.Rajender’s son Nitin Reddy. Fake documents were created to classify it as Inam land. However, he had inherited rights to the land under tenancy and ceiling Acts from his grandfather since 1954.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-land-grab-charge-against-eatalas-family/article34630037.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||After complaints of police high-handedness, govt. swings into action||Taking a serious view of the police using the stick and the rude behaviour of the force with public in enforcing the lockdown, the government swung into action to rein in the top police brass. Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali held a teleconference with Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, after which Mr. Rao tweeted “Discussed with Home Minister @mahmoodalitrs Garu & @TelanganaDGP Garu on today’s incidents. They will issue a statement shortly.” This was after both Ministers took to social media stating they have received several complaints on how police stopped the vehicles of food delivery executives and others in distress. “Received several complaints on the police stopping the food delivery services & others in distress. Will discuss with @TelanganaDGP and resolve asap,” Mr. Rao tweeted. Hours after receiving much criticism on how police in Telangana enforced COVID-19 lockdown with the use of lathis and stopped hundreds of delivery executives of various e-commerce platforms on Saturday, the DGP in a late-night tweet said that he held a review meeting with three commissioners of police. “Held a review meeting with 3 commissioners of police, regd, the several requests flagged with ‘Disruption of essential services including food deliveries etc,. eCommerce, while tightening of LockDownToday’. Directed to ensure a seamless supply ahead, while executing #StrictLockdown,” Mr. Reddy tweeted at 12.20 a.m. on Saturday. He further said that all three commissioners of police have been instructed to get in touch with all stakeholders and redress their grievances at the earliest for smooth supply of essential services while tightening lockdown enforcement. On Saturday, the DGP himself took to the road in a widespread crackdown on lockdown violators. Meanwhile, several videos of police beating motorists and delivery executives in the presence of one of the commissioners went viral on social media. In one such video, a boy riding a scooter without a helmet was beaten up by the Cyberabad police for reportedly violating the lockdown norms. In another video clip, police were showering lathis on the delivery executives of a service company while checking their IDs. The executives were let off as they were on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/after-complaints-of-police-high-handedness-govt-swings-into-action/article34630035.ece
24 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishermen told not to venture into sea||The authorities have warned the fishermen against venturing into the sea as the wind speed is expected to blow between 60 km to 80 km per hour till May 26, owing to depression formed over the Bay of Bengal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the system may intensify into a cyclonic storm by Monday morning. On Sunday, the wind speed off Andhra Praqdesh coast reached 40 km to 60 km per hour. Despite the annual fishing ban is in force, traditional boat operators are allowed to venture into the sea for fishing. In East Godavari district, Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that control rooms had been set up to monitor the impact of the rainfall . The farmers have been advised to store their paddy and speed up the harvesting operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishermen-told-not-to-venture-into-sea/article34630585.ece
24 May 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employ PharmaD graduates in COVID-19 hospitals, govt. urged||The Private Pharmacy College Managements’ Association (PPCMA-Andhra Pradesh) has appealed to the State government to utilise the services of nearly 6,000 PharmaD graduates in the wake of shortage of healthcare staff to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. PPCMA president T.V. Narayana said the services of the nearly 6,000 graduates, who completed the six-year course, could be used. Karnataka and Kerala were deploying them at the Primary Health Centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employ-pharmad-graduates-in-covid-19-hospitals-govt-urged/article34630587.ece
24 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready to make concoction under govt. supervision, says Anandaiah||B. Anandaiah, whose “herbal preparation” is touted as a cure for COVID-19 and which drew a large number of people to Krishnapatnam, on Sunday offered to produce the concoction on a mass scale under government supervision on getting approval from the Central government. The government had halted the distribution of the preparation for want of scientific evidence to prove its efficacy. Mr. Anandaiah thanked Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for commissioning a scientific study of his preparation by the ICMR and the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS). “I need the support of the government in mobilising the ingredients on a large scale if it decides to go for mass production of the preparation,” Mr. Anandaiah said a day after the TTD offered assistance for mass production if the preparation got the approval of the Centre. Faculty members from the Sri Srinivasa Ayurveda Pharmacy, Tirupati, on the direction of the CCRAS, had started retrospective study by compiling data from those who had taken the preparation. ‘No side effects’ Denying that he had been arrested as reported in a section of the media, Mr. Anandaiah said he and his followers had not been put to trouble by the police, who had only stepped up security to him. “My movements have not been restricted in any manner,” he added. A preliminary study conducted by AYUSH doctors had found that there were no side effects on those who had consumed the herbal concoction, Mr. Govardhan Reddy said, and underscored the need for decentralised distribution of the preparation for those seeking it to avoid crowding of people at Krishnapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-to-make-concoction-under-govt-supervision-says-anandaiah/article34630576.ece
24 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries improve in Nellore district||Six more patients in SPSR Nellore district died of coronavirus in a span of 24 hours taking the toll in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh to 1,509 even as 2,200-plus persons contracted the disease during the period. The number of active cases in the region rose to 42,586, with Prakasam accounting for 24,877 cases and SPSR Nellore district for 17,709. Meanwhile, Prakasam district reported 1,295 new cases and Nellore 1,045, according to a bulletin released by the government on Sunday night. For the first time during the second wave of the pandemic, SPSR Nellore district registered more recoveries than new cases in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday as the relentless efforts of the health professionals paid dividends. At least 1,410 patients recovered during the period in the district where 2,200 patients were provided treatment in designated COVID hospitals and 964 others in COVID Care Centres(CCCs). The rest of the positive patients were treated from their homes. In Prakasam, the number of recoveries was low as only 436 patients were discharged from the hospitals. Taking note of the increase in cases of patients requiring oxygen therapy, Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar took steps to set up on a war-footing a German shed with a bed strength of 160. He said piped oxygen supply would be ensured to 80 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-improve-in-nellore-district/article34630088.ece
24 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior ophthalmologist succumbs to COVID-19||A senior ophthalmologist, Alluri Bhaskar Rao, from the city died while undergoing COVID treatment in a private hospital in Vijayawada on Saturday, according to his family members here. He was 67 and is survived by his wife and two sons. Bhaskar Rao had been treating patients, including those suffering from COVID-related complications till recently, Indian Medical Association Andhra Pradesh chapter immediate past-president R. Jaya Sekhar said. Bhaskar Rao, a prominent member of the District Blindness Control Society, harvested thousands of corneas by founding the Ongole Eye Bank in his long innings of service. He led the Ongole chapter of the Indian Medical Association(IMA) and also steered Indian Red Cross Society(IRCS) as its Prakasam unit Secretary and used all his persuasive skills to impress upon the members of GenX to come forward to donate blood, noted IRCS president Prakash Babu. Thanks to his efforts in raising awareness, more people in the district had come forwarded to donate their organs said a fellow doctor Mani Babu. Bhaskar Rao performed many cataract surgeries for people from the downtrodden sections free of cost, Mr. Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-ophthalmologist-succumbs-to-covid-19/article34630090.ece
24 May 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Production of oxygen begins in Rajamahendravaram||The production of medical oxygen has commenced at the Andhra Paper Mill campus in Rajamahendravaram of East Godavari district on Sunday. The facility will supply 12 kilolitres of oxygen per day to the 100-bed ESI hospital and other COVID facilities in the city. “There will be no shortage of medical oxygen in the city in coming days as the production capacity of the plant at the AP Paper Mill will meet the requirement of the hospitals,” Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat said on Sunday. The MP had persuaded the A.P. Paper Mill authorities to resume the oxygen production and lay a 1-km pipeline to the ESI Hospital for the supply of oxygen. “The pipeline has been commissioned and oxygen is being supplied. The trial run of the plant was done successfully on Saturday,” said the MP.  COVID Care Centre On Sunday, Mr. Bharat instructed the medical and health authorities and Rajamahendravaram civic body to examine the two-acre CTRI campus to set up a 500-bed COVID Care Centre. Meanwhile, the health officials conducted COVID-19 tests to 350 destitute persons in the city. Only one person among those tested was confirmed positive for coronavirus infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/production-of-oxygen-begins-in-rajamahendravaram/article34630586.ece
24 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No politics during pandemic’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader V.D. Satheesan on Sunday said politics would temporarily take a back seat in Kerala’s arduous fight against the pandemic. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) would throw its weight behind the struggle against the rising tide of infections, swelling hospitalisations and worrying death rate, Mr. Satheesan said. The Opposition would support the administration’s attempt to curb the pandemic. Political parties should cooperate for the common good. Mere politicking amid the raging pandemic would only prompt the public to view politicians with cynicism and contempt, Mr. Satheesan said. The Opposition would point out gaps in the government’s pandemic response. The UDF would rally its supporters to bolster the community’s efforts to fight the pandemic, he added. The UDF would not oppose the government blindly. Instead, the Opposition would scrutinise the government’s actions in minute detail and highlight anomalies, if any, he said, adding that it would serve as a corrective force. Mr. Satheesan held forth the concept of “creative opposition”. A UDF insider said the Opposition was likely to entrust individual legislators with the close tracking of actions of respective departments. Its legal and political response to flawed policies, maladministration, instances of nepotism and fallacious actions would be immediate and robust. The UDF would engage the government and the public in policy debates and flag official corruption, if any. The Opposition legislators would actively participate in various Assembly oversight committees and use the Right to Information (RTI) Act and other sources to mine for information relevant to the public, he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Satheesan was also in consultation with UDF MLAs to outline a floor strategy for the 15th Legislative Assembly, which will be convening for its inaugural session on Monday. Mr. Satheesan called on All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal at his residence. He also called on UDF convener M.M. Hassan, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committe (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran and former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran, and sought their support. Former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala urged Congress workers to rally behind Mr. Satheesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-politics-during-pandemic-satheesan/article34630044.ece
24 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Herbal preparation’ has no side effects: TTD Ayurvedic experts||After TTD Trust Board member Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy visited Krishnapatnam to find the efficacy of B. Anandaiah’s “herbal preparation” administered for COVID-19 patients, the Ayurvedic experts from the TTD have announced that the preparation has no side effects. ‘Immunity booster’ They have also certified that it is a great immunity booster, which helps in the recovery of the patients. The team that had visited Mr. Anandaiah’s residence on Saturday brought to Tirupati several herbs and leaves used in the preparation of the concoction. The team of professors, led by Sri Venkateswara Ayurveda College Principal P. Muralikrishna, made a careful study of the ingredients and announced that the drug could be prepared on a large scale at the TTD’s in-house pharmacy at Narasingapuram, near Chandragiri. “The mixture, containing 18 ingredients, is safe for administration to the patients having COVID-19 symptoms,” Dr. Muralikrishna observed. Mr. Bhaskar Reddy, who addressed the media after the meeting on Sunday, announced that the drug could be promoted as immunity booster and produced on a large scale by the TTD. “The TTD has the infrastructure to produce the medicine on a large scale, and will take it up after the preparation gets the appropriate nod from the ICMR and AYUSH departments,” he added. ‘Complete study at the earliest’ Staff Reporter in Nellore writes: Meanwhile, CPI national secretary K. Narayana urged the ICMR to complete its study early and give its nod for the “herbal concoction” based on its findings. Visiting Krishnapatnam for an interaction with those who had used the preparation made by Mr. Anandaiah, the CPI leader said that over 60,000 people had consumed the preparation provided free of cost. “They have not experienced any harmful side effects,” Mr. Narayana claimed, and added that Mr. Anandaiah, who served the society without any profit motive, should be encouraged. Fearing a threat to the life of Mr. Anandaiah, allegedly from the corporate sector that had invested huge sums on the manufacture of drugs and production of vaccines, Mr. Narayana urged the police to step up security for him. Mr. Narayana felt that the Indian system of medicine, which had been in vogue for centuries, was “time tested.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/herbal-preparation-has-no-side-effects-ttd-ayurvedic-experts/article34630578.ece
24 May 2021||VIAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State intensifies sourcing of oxygen from Odisha amid cyclone threat||With cyclonic storm Yaas brewing over the Bay of Bengal, the State government has intensified the sourcing of medical oxygen from Odisha in the last two days using the Oxygen Express trains to maintain buffer stocks in all the districts. The decision was taken considering the possible disruption in the supply of oxygen owing to the cyclonic storm from the steel plants at Angul, Kalinganagar and Rourkela in Odisha, on which Andhra Pradesh largely depends on In a statement on Sunday, M.T. Krishna Babu, who heads the ‘State Oxygen War Room’, said almost 100 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) had been sourced from Rourkela in Odisha and 100 MT more was expected to reach Andhra Pradesh by Monday (May 24) through Oxygen Express. In view of the forecast over the cyclonic storm, the Centre has also directed five States, including Andhra Pradesh, to effectively manage the people affected by coronavirus by ensuring adequate supply of food, medicine and the other necessary infrastructure. The government has also launched measures to ensure regular supply of almost 200 MT of oxygen using tankers from Angul, Kalinganagar and Rourkela without interruption due to the cyclone. “We are coordinating with the local administration of Odisha for seamless supplies,” said Mr. Krishna Babu. The International Committee of the Red Cross, through Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), is handing over 120 MT of LMO through six cryogenic tankers of 20 MT each to the State government at Visakhapatnam port, which would be placed as a reserve stock in Guntur and Tirupati as a buffer for emergency. Uninterrupted power supply The government has also alerted the Energy Department to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the three important LMO sources in the State—Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) and Ellenbarrie Industries Limited in Visakhapatnam and Liquinox Gases Private Limited at Srikakulam, which account for supply of 210 MT of liquid medicaloxygen. Besides the primary sources, there are 49 refillers which convert the liquefied oxygen into gaseous form and distribute it through cylinders for last-mile use to various hospitals. “All the Collectors have been instructed to ensure uninterrupted power supply to all hospitals by making power generators available,” said Mr. Krishna Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-intensifies-sourcing-of-oxygen-from-odisha-amid-cyclone-threat/article34630581.ece
24 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covishield first dose for 45+ age group from today||After a long gap, the State government will resume administration of the first dose of Covishiled vaccine for people aged 45 and above across the State on Monday and continue the drive up to Wednesday. With the increase in the supply of doses and deferment of the second dose for many as per revised ICMR guidelines, the Health Department has announced that it will administer the first dose for persons belonging to all sections of people engaged in public activity. Some of them include employees of banks, transport organisations, educational institutions, press, temples, private shops and establishments, function halls, government offices and others. Beneficiaries should carry their office identity cards, along with the government-issued identity documents to the vaccine centres. Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal, in a press conference on Sunday, said the State had 11.58 lakh Covishield doses, which would be used for the first dose. “There are 1.55 lakh Covaxin doses that will be used for the second dose, and no first dose of the vaccine is available in the State,” he said. By June 15, the State would have 28.15 lakh vaccine doses, which include the ones bought by the State, apart from the vials sent by Centre, he added. ‘Not an Ayurvedic drug’ Referring to the “herbal preparation” of Anandaiah at Krishnapatnam in Nellore district, Mr. Singhal said, “It doesn’t qualify as an Ayurveda medicine. It is a traditional local medicine ( natu mandu ), which does not require any permission.” However, the preparation was still being tested and reports were awaited, he added. Mr. Singhal said that the COVID-19 infections were showing a declining trend. He said the fever surveys were going on in the districts, and those identified were being tested immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covishield-first-dose-for-45-age-group-from-today/article34630573.ece
24 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State keen on conducting exams, govt. tells Centre||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Sunday said the State government was in favour of conducting Intermediate and other entrance examinations as they were important milestone in the academic career of students. Participating in a national consultation chaired by Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that discussed the conduct of Intermediate and entrance examinations for admission to professional courses, Mr. Suresh informed that Andhra Pradesh government had conducted Intermediate examinations last year during the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic in strict adherence of the norms and if the situation permitted, it was ready to go ahead with the exams this year too. “The State is all set to introduce CBSE syllabus in all government schools as part of the reforms in the education sector. The idea is to provide exposure to the students of government schools on a par with the private institutions,” he said and urged the Centre to organise training for teachers in online teaching and assessment and create separate vertical for conduct of examinations and teacher training programme. Vaccines for teachers Mr. Suresh also appealed the Central government for allocating a separate quota of COVID vaccine to the State to inoculate all the teachers, before reopening of the schools. The consulation meeting was also attended by Union Ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar and Sanjay Dhotre. Union Secretary, Higher Education Amit Khare; Secretary, School Education Anita Karwal and senior officials of the Ministry were also present .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-keen-on-conducting-exams-govt-tells-centre/article34630130.ece
24 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to contain spread of virus: Veerraju||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has demanded that the government allocate Rs. 3,000 crore for containing the spread of COVID-19. Leading the State-wide protests against what he called the government’s failures, at the State party office on Sunday, Mr. Veerraju said the government was preoccupied with taking political vengeance, and had its priorities wrong even as the pandemic wreaked havoc. The government’s approach to containing the spread of the virus lacked transparency, and it failed in checking exploitation of patients in private hospitals, he alleged. Mr. Veerraju further alleged that the Chief Minister was least bothered about the plight of the COVID-19 patients, even as the number of positive cases was increasing and the vaccination programme was progressing at a sluggish pace. Far worse is the situation arising from the attacks on those who criticise the government. Many TDP were victims of such attacks. The arrest of YSRCP MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju was untenable. He was even roughed up in police custody, Mr. Veerraju alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-contain-spread-of-virus-veerraju/article34630582.ece
24 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers seek vaccine before school reopening||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) have demanded that all teachers in the State be administered COVID-19 vaccine before the reopening of schools. In a statement on Saturday, the federation president K. Bhanu Murthy and general secretary P. Panduranga Varaprasada Rao criticised the government for its ‘adamant’ stand on the 10th class examinations. They said there was no improvement in the pandemic situation and yet the government maintained that it wanted to go ahead and conduct the 10th class exams and reopen schools from June 1. Last month, many teachers on election duty contracted the virus, and more than 300 of them had succumbed to the pandemic so far, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-seek-vaccine-before-school-reopening/article34630091.ece
24 May 2021||VILLUPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film on Auroville’s afforestation project to be screened in Paris||Aurovillian Christoph Pohl’s documentary Ever Slow Green, which tells the story of Auroville’s unique afforestation project that took root on an eroded desert plateau at Villupuram district in Tamil Nadu, has been officially selected for screening at the prestigious ChangeNow summit in Paris. It will be screened along with four specially selected films, including David Attenborough’s Breaking Boundaries : The Science of Our Planet , at the ChangeNow film festival in the summit from May 27 to 29. “I am excited and proud that my film will be screening alongside Sir David Attenborough’s new documentary, Breaking Boundaries.. . The documentary tells the story of Auroville’s 50-years-young forest through some of the diverse characters who have dedicated their lives to bringing it to fruition” Mr. Pohl said. Mr. Pohl, who studied media technology engineering in Germany, had been dreaming of making a feature-length film for many years. In 2017, his passion for film-making and forestry came together and he started working on the concept for the documentary on Auroville’s unique afforestation work. The project was supported by Auroville and funded by the 50th Anniversary celebrations in 2018. The documentary premiered at the Auroville Film Festival 2020. The documentary is available on online streaming platforms like iTunes/Apple TV, Google Play and Cinemapreneur (a new platform for independent Indian films).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-on-aurovilles-afforestation-project-to-be-screened-in-paris/article34630053.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Egg prices on the boil with ban on meat sale||The Fishing Harbour, which usually witnesses huge crowds on Sundays, wore a deserted look this Sunday and many meat and chicken stalls in the city were also closed in view of the ban imposed by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to prevent overcrowding in view of the pandemic situation. Fish market at RTC Complex near Assilmetta was also deserted. However, some meat sellers came up with innovative ideas to beat the ban and sold chicken and mutton in residential areas. The corporation officials have also booked cases against some violators. Several butchers made home delivery of meat based on the orders received, provided they place a minimum order of 2 kg. A few meat stall organisers prepared meat at their homes after receiving orders and delivered them to known persons. GVMC officials conducted raids at several places. The Sanitary Inspector of Ward No. 47 has caught a person who was allegedly selling meat on the terrace of his house at Kapparada, here on Sunday. The GVMC official seized the meat. Meanwhile, there was a huge demand for eggs, as non-vegetarians opted for them as an alternative to meat on Sunday. Shops selling eggs, at wholesale rates, witnessed long queues. Some shopkeepers also sold eggs at higher rates in view of the surge in demand. Meanwhile, wine shops at several areas witnessed huge rush with people forming long queues from 7 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/egg-prices-on-the-boil-with-ban-on-meat-sale/article34630595.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure intensifies into depression over Bay||The well-marked low pressure area over east central Bay of Bengal, concentrated into a depression and lay centered about 560 km north northwest of Port Blair (Andaman Islands), 590 km east southeast of Paradip (Odisha) and 670 km south southeast of Digha (West Bengal) on Sunday. It is likely to move in a north northwesterly direction and intensify into a cyclonic storm by Monday. It would continue to move in a north northwesterly direction, intensify further reach northwest Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by the morning of May 26, according to a statement issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre(CWC), Visakhapatnam. It is likely to cross north Odisha and West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Islands by the evening of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm. The CWC has advised fishermen of Andhra Pradesh coast not to venture into the sea till May 27 as squally winds, with speed reaching 40 to 50 km/hr, gusting to 60 km/hr, are likely along and off the coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-intensifies-into-depression-over-bay/article34630584.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. failed to tackle pandemic: BJP||The State government has failed to initiate timely measures for the control of COVID-19 due to which the number of cases and deaths increased in the State, BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju have alleged. The BJP leaders staged a protest at the party office here on Sunday. BJP Parliamentary district president Medapati Raveendra presided. Meanwhile, the party Srikakulam district unit president Attada Ravi Babji asked the government to set up isolation centres in all 38 mandals and provide ambulance services during night time .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-failed-to-tackle-pandemic-bjp/article34630589.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||President condoles Simhadri’s death||President Ram Nath Kovind has condoled the death of Y.C. Simhadri, former Vice Chancellor of Andhra University. In a letter to his wife Naoko Simhadri on Sunday, the President described Simhadri as a ‘bright academic and university administrator par excellence’. He was fondly called as walking library, Mr. Kovind said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/president-condoles-simhadris-death/article34630590.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 10K COVID patients recover in five days||As many as 2,151 persons, who were infected with COVID-19, recovered in the last 24 hours ending on Sunday morning, while 1,668 new infections were reported during the same time period in Visakhapatnam district. The cumulative tally has increased to 1,27,166. This is for the fourth time in the last one week, the number of daily recoveries outnumbered infections in the district. The death toll has increased to 838 after nine more persons succumbed to the coronavirus. The total number of persons died due to infection till date this May is 227. The number of recoveries has also increased to 1,06,518. As many as 10,810 persons recovered from the virus in the last five days. The number of active cases stands at 19,810.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-10k-covid-patients-recover-in-five-days/article34630593.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID patient ‘jumps’ off third floor of VIMS, dies||V. Sudhakar (45) from Sujatha Nagar, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), has allegedly ended life by jumping from a window on the third floor of the hospital on Saturday afternoon. This is said to be fourth such incident in city. This is the first alleged COVID-19 suicide reported at the VIMS. Sudhakar was admitted to VIMS on May 20 and was put on ventilator. He was an employee of the steel plant.  Helpline Earlier, KGH reported three such incidents. Those who are in distress can contact the police helpline no. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-patient-jumps-off-third-floor-of-vims-dies/article34630597.ece
24 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant stir: relay hunger strike tent gutted||The relay hunger strike tent at the Gandhi statue, near the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), set up to protest against the move to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), was gutted in a fire at around 5 a.m. on Sunday. The fire was brought under control by the fire service personnel. The cause of the fire is not yet known. Police reached the spot and gathered details. Alleging that it was the handiwork of some anti-social elements, leaders of various trade unions demanded police action against the culprits. They said the agitation could not be stopped by such cheap gimmicks. INTUC leader Mantri Rajashekhar, INTUC district general secretaries Nagabhushanam and K. Easwara Rao, district youth INTUC general secretary Parupudi Ravi, CITU district general secretary I.V.G.R. Kumar and city general secretary Jaggu Naidu were among those who participated in the protest . The CPI(M) leaders wondered as how the fire had occurred when there was heavy rain on Saturday night. Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) general secretary A. Aja Sarma demanded an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-stir-relay-hunger-strike-tent-gutted/article34630583.ece
24 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online activities to beat boredom||Meecons, in association with Vizag Komedians, has launched The Good Vibes Project (TGVP) to keep citizens engaged during the restrictions on movement, due to the pandemic situation, through online cultural performances and health talks by expert doctors on COVID-19 treatment. The zoom sessions will be held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. till May 30. Interested can visithttp://goodvibes.meecons.org/for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-activities-to-beat-boredom/article34630591.ece
24 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||Members of Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) expressed grief over the death of D. Kamaraju, one of the forum members, here on Sunday. FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma said that Kamaraju has been suffering from cancer for the last few months. Kamaraju was from Srikakulam district and had been a very active member in fighting on various issues pertaining North Andhra, he said expressing deepest condolence to family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article34630596.ece
24 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tekkali officials alerted over Cyclone Yaas||The Tekkali division is expected to be affected under the impact of cyclonic storm Yaas in the next few days, according to the weather report of the Indian Meteorological department. Although the storm is likely to cross the coast between Bengal and Odisha, its impact could be severe as Tekkali division is very close to Odisha border. Itchapuram, Sompeta, Kanchili, Mandasa, Vajrapukotturu and Santabommali mandals are expected to witness heavy gales and rain. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas, who reviewed the situation on Sunday, directed officials to be on alert. He directed revenue officials to set up control rooms in all coastal mandals immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tekkali-officials-alerted-over-cyclone-yaas/article34630588.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crowds at bank branches pose risk of virus spread||At a time when the positivity rate of coronavirus has gone up significantly in vilages, the bank branches in rural areas are witnessing heavy crowd as farmers make a beeline for availing themselves of the crop loans, increasing the possibility of the spread of the virus. Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah has requested Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and district in-charge Minister Botcha Satyanarayana to direct the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) to stop the renewal of crop loans. The MP told The Hindu that he had got a positive response from the Ministers in this regard. “People coming from far off places are waiting in long queues at the bank branches much ahead of the opening time. However, they are not able to getting their work done owing to the restricted working hours of the banks. The number of staff available are also not adequate to process the requests by many farmers at a time,” Mr. Rangaiah said. With the kharif season approaching, farmers are repaying their old loans somehow or other so that they can availa of fresh loans. Others are approaching the banks for new loans as the distribution of groundnut seed has already started, pointed out Praja Science Vedika president M. Suresh Babu. ‘No social distancing’ Moreover, due to restrictions on public movement and difficulty in timely sale and receipt of payment for their produce, farmers are facing difficulties in repayment. Customers, in their eagerness to meet the deadline, are not maintaining the social distance and some are not even wearing masks, Mr. Suresh Babu said. “Sanitisers are not available in many rural bank branches and it is a risky for the bank employees. Ten bank employees have died of teh virus during the second wave of pandemic in Anantaopur district alone,” he said. The government was not providing the 2% per annum interest subvention to the banks and 1% prompt repayment incentive which amounts to 3% additional benefit on timely repayment to farmers, thus providing loans up to Rs. 3 lakh at 4% interest per annum on timely repayment, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crowds-at-bank-branches-pose-risk-of-virus-spread/article34630575.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. and TS governments playing with lives of people, says Atchannaidu||Condemning the lathicharge on the people seeking to cross the inter-State border at the Pondugula check-post by the Telangana police, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State president K. Atchannaidu has alleged that the Andhra Pradesh government is not doing enough to resolve the issue. In a statement on Sunday, the TDP leader said that the Telangana police were not allowing vehicles to cross over to the other side and threatening the vehicle users if they tried to do so. “The lathicharge on the road users by the Telangana police at Pondugula check-post is highly condemnable,” he said. He strongly objected to the Andhra Pradesh government for not immediately taking steps to resolve the problems of the patients from the State, who were being prevented from entering Telangana for treatment. “The Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are playing with the lives of the people at a time when the pandemic is forcing them into untold miseries. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is behaving as if these border problems are not his concern.Is not Telangana a part of India? Why are people of Andhra Pradesh being denied entry to the neighbouring State? he asked. The TDP leader asked how the Andhra Pradesh government would react if the Telangana officials would stop any YSRCP MLA or Minister on the borders. “The Andhra Pradesh officials are not talking to their Telangana counterparts when such untoward incidents are happening ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-and-ts-governments-playing-with-lives-of-people-says-atchannaidu/article34630579.ece
24 May 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||Children acquired new skills during pandemic, says survey||Over the past year, governments and organisations conducted multiple surveys to assess and quantify the learning losses that students incurred due to the pandemic and the multiple lockdowns. The Karnataka government has conducted a similar survey, but one that focused on what students did with their spare time, and found that a majority of them developed new skills or honed existing ones. The Department of Public Instruction surveyed 3,672 students from Classes 2 to 10, and found that many learnt new skills such as singing, dancing, art work, swimming and gardening. Some took to knitting, cooking, cycling and engaging in reading and writing for leisure. Many children in rural areas said they enjoyed outdoor activities. The Department interviewed students from rural and urban areas, including those from government, aided and unaided private schools. Information was collected under eight categories: play, art, use of electronic media, household chores, new skills learned, nature-related activities, formal learning and economic activities. Commissioner for Public Instruction V. Anbu Kumar, whose idea it was to conduct the survey, said while children were missing out on social interaction in the classroom, they made “significant gains and enjoyed their time” during the lockdown. During the interviews, children also expressed joy that they could spend more time with family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/children-acquired-new-skills-during-pandemic-says-survey/article34630047.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cases come down by 1,100 in a day as tests slip by 21,000||The daily COVID-19 cases went down by about 1,100 on Sunday compared to the previous day as the screening tests for novel coronavirus infection were fewer by about 21,000. A total of 2,242 new positive cases and 19 deaths were reported due to COVID-19 infection during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday in Telangana, taking their cumulative total to 5,53,277 and 3,125, respectively. It is the lowest daily positive cases since April 11, when 2,251 cases were reported. According to a bulletin issued by the Public Health department on the status of COVID-19 cases in the State, the tests done for coronavirus infection on Sunday were 42,526 against 63,120 tests done on Saturday. Results of another 2,231 tests were still awaited as at 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. The positive cases reported on Saturday were 3,308. With a total of 4,693 infected persons declared recovered on Sunday the total recoveries have also gone up to 5,09,663 and the active cases stood at 40,489. Based on the active cases in a locality, there were 89 active micro containment zones in the State as of Sunday with a highest of 17 in Warangal Urban district followed by 13 in Hyderabad and 12 in Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-come-down-by-1100-in-a-day-as-tests-slip-by-21000/article34630503.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State faced with tight financial situation||The State is faced with s tight financial situation right from the commencement of the current financial year, thanks to night curfew and subsequent lockdown clamped to contain the spread of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Though the financial year started on an optimistic note with key revenue earning departments like Excise and Registration and Stamps departments showing signs of strong recovery, imposition of restrictions has hit the revenues adversely. The Registration and Stamps department, for instance, reported revenue of Rs. 717 crore during April from its earlier lows of around Rs. 400 crore a month. The imposition of the lockdown since May 12 led to closure of all activities on the registration front hitting the revenues totally. Imposition of night curfew since April 20, leading to closure of shops, establishments, hotels and other businesses before 8 pm, hit the revenues and this was followed by the lockdown from May 12, which will continue till May 30. “The situation is tight obviously because of absence of economic activity on account of the pandemic. There is 25% drop in the e-way bills and overall economy likely to take a hit between 20% and 25%,” a senior official told The Hindu . The actual impact on the economy will be known once the numbers are reconciled and the Finance department is in the process of gathering the details. RBI report The tight financial condition through which the State passed the previous financial year could be seen from the figures relating to States’ Finances released by the Reserve Bank of India. According to the RBI bulletin, the State’s investment in Auction Treasury Bills, considered a key liquidity management element was Rs. 17,414 crore at the end of March 31. The gross market borrowings were to the tune of Rs. 43,784 crore and net borrowings Rs. 37,365 crore during the fiscal 2020-21. The State availed of Rs. 962 crore through the special drawing facility for 25 days during March and Rs. 1,147 more crore through overdraft for 18 days. The government did not resort to the ways and means advances for more than five years since the State’s formation owing to its double digit economic growth. But the RBI release said the State availed the facility for 23 days during March amounting to Rs. 1,556 crore primarily to maintain the prescribed cash balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-faced-with-tight-financial-situation/article34630523.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||136-year-old theatre company hits e-way to survive pandemic||Laughter, claps, whistles, tears and the excitement in the eyes of the audience is what the artistes of Surabhi Drama Theatre, a company with a 136-year-old legacy, are missing these days. The country’s oldest and largest surviving group of traditional theatre has gone online to survive in the COVID-19 pandemic and there is enough uptake for their online plays. Although they are performing just as before, the Surabhi Kaḷākārulu have no access to the most endearing aspect of their life — the ability to revel in the reactions of the audience. And they are certainly sad about missing them! The delightful expressions from the audience have been converted into digital reactions of emoticons and comments. Stagecraft and acting is the bread and butter for hundreds of these artistes, whose ancestors served in the army of Maratha Emperor Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. In the age of OTTs, they are aware that a strong presence online is their need of the hour, and they're doing everything they can to adapt. Last time they performed on stage was in November 2019. Now, they must perform or perish. “These days when entertainment is just a fingertip away, we find it very difficult to save and carry forward our tradition, which is the only source of income for us,” said 26-year-old Jayanand Rekandar, a eighth generation Surabhi family member. In September last, Mr. Jayanand came up with the idea to go online for their survival, after the students of a private university in Guntur asked them to perform virtually in the International Cultural Festival, which got over 3,000 views and was well received. “The play was shared widely and we were happy to read all comments and reactions to the video. We tried it for the first time and were successful,” he said. Ever since the group has performed 28 plays on the digital platform, mostly for Telugu population settled across the globe, including the United States of America, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Singapore and Qatar among others. “With a few plays on digital platforms, the NRIs are approaching us in large numbers to perform for their audience. On May 30 we are performing for South Africa Telugu Association,” Mr. Jayanand, who is making efforts to bring back their former glory, said. According to him, each play engages at least 60 artistes, who double up as lightsmen, make-up artists, singers, musicians and voiceover, and these days there is not much patronage. In the early 1880s the Surabhi group began with puppet shows at Sorugu (renamed as Surabhi), a tiny village in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa district. Gradually, the leather marionettes were replaced with humans when Krishna Ji Rao along with his fellow artistes presented their first play Keechaka Vadha (The Slaying of Keechaka) in 1885. Since then several generations of this theatre family have performed a great number of shows in India and abroad. Their popular plays include Maya Bazaar , Bhaktha Prahalada and Ramayana .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/136-year-old-theatre-company-hits-e-way-to-survive-pandemic/article34630499.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pink’ masks distributed in 10 villages of Siddipet district||The Ushalakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation and KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases here have taken up a novel campaign of distributing multi-layered cloth masks in 10 villages of Narayanraopet mandal in Siddipet district. Foundation director P. Raghu Ram said the aim is to ensure much-needed protection from COVID-19 in rural areas and also to create awareness about importance of early detection of breast cancer through ‘pink’ cloth masks (the colour represents breast cancer awareness). About 20,000 masks would be distributed to residents in Narayanaraopet, Ibrahimpur, Banjerpalli, Kodandaraopalli, Laxmidevipalli, Gurralagondi, Malyala, Jakkapur, Gopulapur and Matindla villages over the next two days. Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao launched the initiative and patted Dr. Raghu Ram for his contribution to his adopted village, Ibrahimpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pink-masks-distributed-in-10-villages-of-siddipet-district/article34630500.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Scribes roughed up||Journalists who were on the road to report on implementation of lockdown had a bitter taste of police high-handedness in the city on Saturday and Sunday. Media is exempted from lockdown restrictions. However, some journalists were allegedly roughed up and abused by the police despite showing their identity cards. At Chintal Basti, a young journalist of a popular Telugu daily, who recently tested positive, was stopped and threatened by the police. He went out to take the meal box brought by one of his colleagues. “Despite showing my ID card and telling them that I cover crime, they stopped and started abusing me. An officer also threatened to seize my scooter,” he said. Another journalist of a Telugu newspaper was stopped and allegedly abused at Ramanthapur by Uppal police. While returning home on his bike, he felt humiliated and fell off the two-wheeler. He suffered severe injuries. On Saturday, a journalist of a news channel was beaten up at Erragadda. The issue was brought to the notice of Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar. During a video conference, Mr. Kumar directed police not to ‘manhandle’ journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scribes-roughed-up/article34630512.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth fulfils COVID centre vow||A promise made has been fulfilled and that too, in a record time when people needed it the most to deal with the most disturbing disease. Malkajgiri MP and Telangana Congress Committee working president A. Revanth Reddy inaugurated the 50-bed COVID hospital on Sunday after refurbishing the Cantonment Bolarum PHC. It is now a full-fledged COVID hospital with all facilities and medical staff. Mr. Reddy, who had decided to adopt the PHC a few weeks ago, and is apparently the only MP to have created a COVID hospital, ensured that it was equipped with facilities like ICU, refurbished wards with oxygen pipelines and oxygen cylinders apart from all the medicines required for COVID treatment. The PHC, which is in his Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency, was converted into a COVID special with money raised from his well-wishers and philanthropists apart from Rs. 1 crore from the MPLAD funds. “My friends donated beds, equipment needed for ICU and all other facilities needed for the hospital,” Mr. Reddy said after inaugurating it along with the Cantonment Board CEO. Mr. Reddy, who is a member of the Parliamentary Defence Committee, lobbied with the DRDO for 50 oxygen cylinders and also sought help from the Defence Ministry to set up an oxygen plant at the 100-year old hospital. He had earlier written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy for an oxygen plant from the PM-CARES fund. He said that another 50 beds would be added soon and he was seeking funds from companies located in his constituency under the CSR. Efforts are also on to recruit additional para-medical staff for the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-fulfils-covid-centre-vow/article34630516.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Post-COVID facility by Cyberabad police||A large number of recovered persons are consulting post-COVID oxygenation facility set up by the Cyberabad police at Gachibowli here in the city. The centre, which came into existence recently, supports the needy and poor patients who don’t have access to or cannot afford to buy or rent oxygen concentrators for post-COVID sustenance of saturation levels till full recovery. “OxyCare Centre provides oxygen support which is the most sought after service now,” Cyberabad ACP G. Hanumantha Rao said, adding that it is a 50-bed facility. Citizens can call on 080-45811138 to avail the services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-covid-facility-by-cyberabad-police/article34630509.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman kills alcoholic son||Suspecting that her 25-year-old son learnt about her alleged illicit affair, a woman from Ramakrishnapur village in Kothakota mandal of Wanaparthy district killed the former and buried his body in deep sand adjacent to their house. Though the offence took place in the night of May 16, it came to light only on Sunday morning when the accused, Chinnapaga Nagamma (45), confessed to committing the crime with the sarpanch after villagers questioned the whereabouts of her son, who was not seen in the village for more than a week. According to Kothakota in-charge Circle Inspector A. Seethaiah, around 11.30 p.m. on May 16, the woman stabbed her son, Chinnapaga Shiva Kumar, while he was asleep in an inebriated condition and hanged him from a tree. Later, she buried his body in the sand next to their house. While Nagamma was a daily wager, Shiva Kumar was an unemployed youth addicted to alcohol. Shiva Kumar used to demand money from his mother to buy liquor, and had frequent altercations when she refused. Recently, Shiva Kumar came to know about his mother’s illicit relationship with another man and confronted her on several occasions. “Vexed by his ‘torture’, the woman killed her son,” police said. However, the woman told the sarpanch and police that she resorted to the extreme act after the victim tried to sexually assault her. Nagamma was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-kills-alcoholic-son/article34630513.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy donates three ambulances||TS Congress made available three free ambulances at Gandhi Bhavan from Sunday to help COVID patients. The ambulances donated by Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy were flagged off by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy in the presence of TPCC working president Kusum Kumar, former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah and Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy’s daughter Jaya Reddy. People can reach the helpline desk at Gandhi Bhavan on 040-24601254 and services would be available in the 50 km range from the city. The TPCC president appreciated Mr. Jagga Reddy for the financial assistance and asked other public representatives to respond in a similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-donates-three-ambulances/article34630520.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police again stop power staff on duty||Police threatened electricity employees on duty again on Sunday at two places in Rajanna-Sircilla and Jagtial districts. They were let off with a warning not to come on the road after 10 a.m. According to officials of the Telangana State NPDCL, a lorry laden with electric poles from the poles-making unit at Sircilla was on the way to a few tribal habitations in Mancherial and Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad districts for electrification of tribal hamlets. The lorry with some staff on duty were stopped at Gutta Nallagonda checkpost near Vemulawada and also at the checkpost at bypass road outside Jagtial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-again-stop-power-staff-on-duty/article34630518.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy worth Rs. 9,886 crore procured||Procurement of paddy in Telangana during the current rabi (yasangi) season is going on unhindered despite the lockdown and untimely rains and about 52.41 lakh tonnes of the produce worth Rs. 9,886 crore has been purchased from 7.45 lakh farmers so far. Chairman of the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) M. Srinivas Reddy stated here on Saturday that of the paddy purchased from farmers, 48.86 lakh tonnes had already been moved to rice mills. Against the estimated production of about 1.3 crore tonnes of paddy this season, the corporation was ready to procure 80 lakh tonnes keeping aside the remaining produce for local consumption and seed needs. “In spite of the coronavirus pandemic, lockdown and untimely rains the Civil Supplies Corporation has overcome odds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-worth-rs-9886-crore-procured/article34630521.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp at gated community||A blood donation camp was organised jointly by Telangana Real Estate Developers Association (TREDA), Seva Bharthi in association with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), Cyberabad Commissionerate of Police, in Green Grace, a gated community at Khajaguda on Sunday. “We have taken this initiative to organise these camps starting today as there is shortage of blood as donors have not been coming to hospitals in the last 15 months. Going to their doorstep eliminates their travel time and will enable them to overcome their fear of contracting COVID-19. We wish to make blood readily available to patients through these camps,” said TREDA vice-president Vijaya Sai Meka. SCSC secretary general Krishna Yedula said they have been successful in contributing 10,500 blood units to 17 blood banks in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp-at-gated-community/article34630504.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More Oxygen Expresses||The 10th ‘Oxygen Express’ to Telangana arrived at the container terminal of railways at Sanathnagar here, transporting 118.93 tonnes of LMO in six tankers on Saturday. The train was loaded at Roukela in Odisha. Two other Oxygen Express reached Krishnapatnam and Guntur in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-oxygen-expresses/article34630505.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Child marriage foiled||A child marriage was foiled by Keesara police of Rachakonda on Sunday. Police rescued the 16-year-old girl, whose marriage was fixed with her cousin. Acting on a tip-off, police raided the groom’s house at Raghavendra Nagar Colony in the area just when the elders of the family were about to perform the marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/child-marriage-foiled/article34630514.ece
24 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Runners pay rich tributes to ex-AP DGP||Runners across Telangana paid rich tributes to former DGP of united Andhra Pradesh Dr. B. Prasada Rao on Sunday. Over 400 runners participated in 10-km virtual runs, following all COVID-19 protocols. Secretary of Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society RS Praveen Kumar, a marathon runner himself for the past 35 years, too, participated in the event by running for 10 km, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/runners-pay-rich-tributes-to-ex-ap-dgp/article34630519.ece
24 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||No Muslim V-C, says Shabbir Ali||Accusing Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao of pursuing a communal agenda, former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir questioned non-inclusion of a Muslim among 10 Vice-Chancellors appointed on Saturday. Shabbir Ali, in a statement on Sunday, said KCR made tall claims about him being a secular leader but was implementing the communal agenda of BJP and RSS by denying top positions to people belonging to minority communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-muslim-v-c-says-shabbir-ali/article34630526.ece
24 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Subabul harvesting hit by COVID||Scores of subabul and eucalyptus farmers are bearing the brunt of the COVID-19 impact as the coronavirus-induced lockdown has aggravated the labour shortage in the prime harvesting season of the pulpwood plantation crop. Many farmers are spending anxious moments worried over the economic fallout of the delay in harvesting their matured subabul and eucalyptus crops owing to the non-availability of labour. There are an estimated 12,000 subabul and eucalyptus farmers in the district. The pulpwood tree plantations were raised on a little over 1.10 lakh acres in the erstwhile Khammam district. The pulpwood plantations are mainly spread in Bonakal, Madhira, Yerrupalem, and Enkoor mandals in the district. Many small and medium farmers had taken up subabul and eucalyptus plantations several years ago mostly encouraged by social forestry initiatives of the ITC Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division unit at Sarapaka near Bhadrachalam, now in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. At the beginning of the main harvesting season last month, the exodus of labourers from Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh started following the second wave of the pandemic. Before the announcement of lockdown, many labourers from other States had returned to their homes. “We are grappling with acute shortage of labour in the midst of the harvesting season and any delay in harvesting the plantations (three years and above age) will cost us dearly,” said V Srinivas, a subabul grower of Bonakal mandal. “We mostly depend on labour from Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh for harvesting the plantation crop,” Mr Srinivas, who is president of the Telangana Subabul and Eucalyptus Farmers' Committee said, adding that they were anxiously waiting for the pandemic situation to end and return of the migrant workers to resume harvesting of the crop. “Though the ITC paper mill at Bhadrachalam increased the price of the pulpwood from Rs. 5,200 to Rs. 5,500 per tonne recently, we are unable to harvest our pulpwood in time,” said another subabul farmer from Yerrupalem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/subabul-harvesting-hit-by-covid/article34630532.ece
24 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two hospitals sealed in Khammam||District health authorities on Sunday sealed two private hospitals for flouting COVID-19 norms. Sources said a joint team led by District Medical and Health Officer B Malathi raided three private hospitals in the town following complaints of malpractices. In the first incident, the squad found several COVID patients in a recently opened private hospital, which applied for empanelment for treating COVID-19 patients. The hospital allegedly admitted COVID patients pending full-fledged approval, sources added. In a separate raid, the joint team detected brazen violation of the stipulated regulations at a private hospital, where a lab was allegedly set up to conduct COVID-19 tests without permission. The team subsequently sealed the hospital. All the wings of another private hospital, barring the COVID-19 ward, were sealed after it was found that more than the stipulated number of COVID-19 patients were admitted to the ward. The officials shifted COVID patients from the sealed hospitals to nearby care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-hospitals-sealed-in-khammam/article34630530.ece
24 May 2021||khammam,TELANGANA||CPI(M) gesture to COVID patients||Extending a helping hand to COVID-19 affected families in these turbulent times, the CPI(M) district committee has launched a free meal service to deliver food to needy patients in home isolation at their doorstep amid the lockdown. Party district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao launched the voluntary initiative at Bodepudi Vignana Kendram (BVK) here on Saturday. He said the party cadre would deliver nutritious meals at the doorstep of the needy COVID-19 affected families in the town. Corona patients needing help can contact 9573691669 or 9491923632.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-gesture-to-covid-patients/article34630528.ece
24 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Corona turns children into orphans||The corona pandemic has been devastating families in such a way that they may not return to normalcy for at least the next one or two decades — losing bread earners in the family, having minor children who could not come to the rescue leaving the women in these families in a helpless condition. In some cases the children lost both parents forcing extended family members to take the responsibility of the orphan children. In a case in Nanganoor mandal of Siddipet district, two children lost their parents and presently are in the care of their grandmother. Siddipet district has reported three such cases from Siddipet, Nanganoor and Gajwel mandals. The officials are holding a survey in villages to identify children who lost their parents. Gangadhar (name changed) is from a village in Munipally mandal in Sangareddy district. His mother died of ill-health about three years ago and his father reportedly married another woman and had since been neglecting the boy. Recently his father died and relatives from father’s side disowned him, except informing that his father died. Now the boy is staying with his mother’s sister. Marelli Shekhar was 35 years old and vice president of Jukal village in Naraynakhed mandal. He lost his father in childhood. He was married to Sujatha and had two children Bharat and Jaswant, who were in 7th and 5th classes respectively in a local private school. Shekhar recently tested positive and died while undergoing treatment at Sangareddy government hospital. For the family of Bejagam Anjaneyulu, a 35-year-old small trader from Pothulaboguda village in Shivampet mandal, they not only lost the head of the family but also had a debt of Rs. 7 lakh that cost for the treatment for Anjaneyulu who tested positive and died. Now his wife Rani is left with two children and mother-in- law to care for. “We are conducting a survey to identify such children,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corona-turns-children-into-orphans/article34630527.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Government offices wear a deserted look||Government offices these days are wearing a deserted look due to lockdown and strict guidelines laid down for staff attendance. As only 33% of staff strength in any office is supposed to be on duty, employees are taking turns at attending only two days a week. This norm is not applicable to employees of Health, Women and Child Welfare and Revenue departments as they were required for various COVID duties. On the other hand, the government has also ensured that the offices were not crowded by visitors. It has cancelled the grievances day when the offices were full of people wanting to represent their cases. Instead, complaints boxes were installed on the premises but there were hardly anybody dropping papers in it. The death of an Assistant Secretary in the Secretariat and many other officials in establishments elsewhere due to COVID scared the staff away from duties.     Whenever there’s an occasion for enforcing prohibitory orders under various lawful provisions the police always end up on the wrong side of enthusiasm either by over-reacting or under-reacting. It happened during the imposition of lockdown when the first wave of novel coronavirus hit the State and now also during the second wave. The government issues clear guidelines including who’s exempt from the lockdown provisions and who’s not every time there’s such an occasion. During the lockdown last year, several media personnel were subjected to verbal and physical attacks by the police on duty, particularly when the former were returning home after duty hours. Similar overenthusiasm is repeated this time too which found electricity employees, e-commerce delivery boys and journalists at the receiving end.   Rebel TRS legislator Eatala Rajender and the TRS leadership are now engaged in an interesting game of one-upmanship with the former leaving no stone unturned to keep his political support base intact in Huzurabad constituency and the latter pulling all stops in isolating the beleaguered leader. While Mr. Rajender is understood to be working on keeping his support base intact even if it involved monetary component such as taking over the debt burden of some key constituency-level leaders, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) appears to be engaged in an “operation isolation” to wean away the support of Mr. Rajender as much as possible by applying all tactics at its disposal. After Minister Gangula Kamalakar tried his best, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi leadership is understood to have entrusted the task to more seasoned taskmaster and another Minister T. Harish Rao on one hand and stepping up the pressure of inquiries against Mr. Rajender’s family on the other.  (N. Rahul and   B. Chandrasehekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-offices-wear-a-deserted-look/article34630524.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||Smartphone Samsung Galaxy M4 smartphone, brand new, 3 months old with earphones and charger in working condition Rs. 6,000. Contact Ch. Anand on 91 21 38 32 38.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article34630510.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Beyond their reach||In Bamnoli village, about five km from Dwarka Sector 23 police station, just one government health centre caters to nearly 10,000 residents. It is the go-to place for all COVID-related problems. Inside the dispensary, roughly the size of a two-bedroom house, a room on the left is for COVID testing, and on the right is the observation area for the vaccinated. It is also where those getting tested wait. A few civil defence volunteers are trying unsuccessfully to separate the two sets of people. Though it has been a fortnight after vaccination opened for the 18-45 age group, the dispensary is only vaccinating those above 45. There are two government schools in the village, but those have not been converted into vaccination centres. The Medical Officer and in-charge of the dispensary, Lakshmi, says it is tough to maintain social distancing inside the premises. “Those who come for testing and vaccination stay in the same area because there is no space. People also come in to take medicines as well. It poses a huge threat to their safety,” she says, adding that she herself got infected and recovered only a few days ago. “Policymakers should see the reality on the ground before making decisions. I have shared this problem with a local politician also,” says Dr. Lakshmi.  Not so serious   Another problem in the villages, she claims, is a lack of awareness and seriousness about the infection. “A day before, a positive patient himself came here to take medicines. When we told him that he should have sent someone else, he said that if his family members come, then they might get infected. There needs to be a mass awareness programme in villages to educate people about not spreading the virus,” she observes. The dispensary doesn’t vaccinate people on Wednesdays and Fridays because infants are immunised on those days. However, the COVID-19 testing continues. “We are scared to come here because of testing. But we can’t afford to go to private hospitals,” says a one-year-old boy’s mother, who didn’t wish to be named.  Vaccine shortage   Another healthcare worker, on the condition of anonymity, says that for the last few days, they have not been getting enough vaccines and are turning down people.“About four days ago, we were getting 150-160 vaccines and were entertaining people who were coming without booking slots because a majority of the population here doesn’t know how to use the Internet and have to depend on others to book their slots. But since then, we have been asked to stop at 50 vaccines for those who come without registration and 50 slots are opened online,” the official says. It is very difficult to counsel the elderly that they can’t be vaccinated because the rules have changed, she adds. Shakunatala, a 60-year-old resident of the village who had covered her face with a dupatta , came to the dispensary asking the officials if she can get her second dose on Thursday as she would complete two months. But was asked to come a month later. “I got my first dose on March 20 and I came here on April 20 for the second but they turned me away and said that I should come a month later. Will they vaccinate me once I get COVID?” she asks.  Living in fear   Living right opposite the dispensary is 35-year-old Satpal Singh with his wife, a three-year-olddaughter, a two-month-old son and an elderly mother. He has stopped using his front gate because people who come for COVID testing queue up right outside his residence. “They sit on our porch. They also blow their nose and spit. It is so dangerous. We had also written to the district administration to shift the testing to school but nothing happened,” he says. Mr. Satpal and his wife haven’t been able to get vaccinated because slots are unavailable. He has tried several times but to no avail. “For us, the nearest centres are two in Bijwasan and one in Shahdad Mohammadpur, which are 5 km and 7 km away respectively. Another is inside Dwarka city, which is farther,” he says. Sonu (24), the only person in his family who knows how to use a smartphone, says he has to book slots for three family members but there is no availability. Ram Narayan, a government employee, who has three children in the 18-45 age group, is furious at the non-availability of slots in the category. “There is only one dispensary in the village and they are not vaccinating people in that age group. There is no other facility here. What should we do? Where should we go?” fumes the 54-year-old. “On phone, when we call someone, the caller tune asks people to get vaccinated. But how do we do that when it is not available? Here at the dispensary also, vaccine wasn’t available for a few days in between,” says Baljeet Singh, a retired government employee and friend of Mr. Narayan. About a km away from Bamnoli is the Dhoolsiras village, which has over 5,000 residents, but has no health centre providing vaccination or testing facility. “We have to go to Bamnoli for all COVID-related issues,” says Jai Singh (46), a villager. Five km ahead, at the Bijwasan centre, mentioned by Bamnoli residents as their closest centre for vaccination of 18-45 age group, an official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (Boys) School is idling in a room surveying the empty premises. “The school was shut on Tuesday and Wednesday as there is no vaccine available. Vaccination in the school started on May 10 and no one came after May 17,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/beyond-their-reach/article34630482.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC raps Railways for dismissing RPSF constables from service||The Delhi High Court has called out the Indian Railways for “acting vindictively” at constables of Railways Protection Special Force (RPSF) who had made “miniscule” monetary contributions for the family of another constable accused of killing an Assistant Commandant of the Force. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Amit Bansal said the decision of the Indian Railways “reflect a class divide between the officers and non-officers, with the officers having ganged up to punish a non-officer”. The case stems from an incident that took place on February 25, 2018 when an Assistant Commandant of the Force, who was deployed for election duty at Meghalaya, was shot dead by one constable of the same company with his service weapon. After the incident, the RPSF went on a crackdown spree against constables who had posted comments related to the incident on social media platforms. Many constables had posted comments on Facebook allegedly supporting the violent action but later disowned it. They were given varying punishments, ranging from reduction in pay scale to stoppage of annual increments. Dismissal from service Before the High Court, two constables — Ravi Kumar and Dharmpal — have challenged a more severe decision of the RPSF to dismiss them from service. Both Mr. Kumar and Mr. Dharmpal had pursuant to a message on a WhatsApp group of constables of RPSF for rendering help or assistance to the constable accused of killing the Assistant Commandant, contributed Rs. 100 and Rs. 10 respectively for the cause. “Prima facie it appears that the punishment inflicted on the petitioners [Mr. Kumar and Mr. Dharmpal], of dismissal from service, is without any basis and uncalled for, and in any case disproportionate to the act,” the court said. The High Court said: “The respondent Indian Railways seem to be blind to the fact that even if the colleague of the petitioners had committed a wrong, he had a family behind him, and if the petitioners, as colleagues made a miniscule monetary contribution to aid the family or even the colleague in distress, the same cannot be a ground for inflicting harsh punishment of dismissal from service.” “The act of the petitioners of giving such miniscule financial aid to a colleague, even if guilty of a heinous offence, cannot convert petitioners as abettors in the said offence and does not show the petitioners as supporting any illegality,” the High Court said. The court has asked the Indian Railways if it was “willing to reconsider its decision of dismissal of the petitioners from service”. “The respondent Indian Railways, by acting in such a manner, appears to be acting vindictively and trying to prevent the constable accused of killing an officer, a fair chance of defending the proceedings initiated against himself,” the court added. Other contributors Advocate Sachin Chauhan, representing the two constables, contended that besides his clients, some other constables also made financial contributions to the same cause but have been meted with different punishments. Taking note of this, the High Court directed the Indian Railways to inform how many persons made such financial contributions and what punishments have been meted out to them by the next date of hearing on May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-raps-railways-for-dismissing-rpsf-constables-from-service/article34630475.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for cheating patient’s kin with promise of medicine||A 28-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating the relative of a patient who is suffering from black fungus infection by promising to home deliver the drug required for the treatment at Rs. 3,000, police said on Sunday. Prasant Kumar Sharma, who hails from Ghaziabad, worked as a part-time driver and was arrested on Saturday after a resident of Shahdara reported to the police, they said. In his complaint, the man alleged that his brother-in-law was admitted at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, where he was being treated for black fungus infection. On Friday, his doctor prescribed him a medicine named Lipsomal Amphoperecin-B. Since the medicine was not available in the market, they contacted a number, which was being circulated on whatsApp groups, for help. When contacted, Sharma assured that he would provide them the prescribed medicine and demanded Rs. 3,000. After the money was transferred to his Paytm account, neither had he provided the required medicine nor did he return the money, he stated. Transactions scanned “A case was registered in the matter and during investigation, we analysed the call detail records of the alleged phone number and scanned through the online transactions. With the help of technical surveillance and local intelligence, our team apprehended Sharma from Ghaziabad and subsequently arrested him,” said R. Sathiyasundaram, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) When Sharma was interrogated, he revealed that he did not have any source of income during the pandemic and hence decided to cheat people with this modus operandi. He also disclosed that he had earlier posted his contact number on Facebook as well for plasma donation, the DCP said. Two mobile phones were recovered from him. Further investigation is under way to assess the total number of victims and total amount received by him by fraudulent means.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-cheating-patients-kin-with-promise-of-medicine/article34630484.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police constable among four held for robbery attempt||Two men, including a Delhi Police constable, have been arrested while two juveniles apprehended in connection with a robbery attempt with a businessman in north Delhi’s Wazirabad, police said on Sunday. The accused, Jatin who is posted as a constable in Timarpur police station, was arrested while his associate, constable Amit posted in Vivek Vihar police station of Shahdara district is absconding, they said. The police said that constable Jatin was arrested following a raid after arrested accused Naresh and the two juveniles disclosed about the involvement of the two policemen in the incident. The incident took place on May 12, when the man was returning home on his four-wheeler after closing his shop. He was also carrying Rs. 2 lakh with him. When he reached near Wazirabad, he was stopped by another four-wheeler. They knocked on his window and subsequently were cornered by persons on a motorcycle and a scooty, the police said. Suspects flee Meanwhile, constable Manish posted at Wazirabad police station, who was on his way to duty, spotted the victim being cornered by the group. As he approached to check on them, fearing police, the suspects fled the spot on their respective vehicles leaving a scooty at the spot, a senior police officer said. When the victim was asked to give a complaint, he was reluctant but after taking the scooty into custody, police took sou moto cognisance and registered an FIR and an investigation was undertaken, he said. Using the registration number of the seized scooty and technical surveillance, one of the accused, identified as Naresh (38), was arrested from Majnu ka Tila and two juveniles were also apprehended in the case. Accused Naresh was previously involved in several cases including that of theft and robbery. “The accused disclosed names of the two policemen who were also involved in the incident and said the constables were part of the conspiracy and had shared information about the victim with them,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-constable-among-four-held-for-robbery-attempt/article34630485.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||AIIMS told to constitute medical board to look into pregnancy termination||The Delhi High Court has asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here to constitute a Medical Board of Doctors to examine the advisability of aborting a 22-week-plus pregnancy of a woman whose twin foetus suffer from ‘Dandy Walker Malformation’, a rare congenital brain abnormality. Justice Rekha Palli asked AIIMS Medical Board to formulate a report on the feasibility of the woman undergoing a medical termination of her pregnancy keeping in view of the fact that the pregnancy has already completed more than 22 weeks. In India, the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act stipulates a ceiling of 20 weeks, for termination of pregnancy, beyond which abortion of a foetus is statutorily impermissible. The woman, along with her husband, had informed the High Court that on a medical examination by the Genetics Unit at AIIMS, coupled with the report of the radiologist, it has been discovered that the twin foetuses suffer from posterior fossa abnormality, which is a rare congenital brain malformation and a substantive foetal abnormality. The woman and her husband stated that they are aware of the risks involved in terminating the pregnancy at this stage. The court will hear the case again on May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aiims-told-to-constitute-medical-board-to-look-into-pregnancy-termination/article34630476.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Thousands from Karnal reach Singhu||Thousands of farmers from Punjab’s Karnal and nearby areas reached the Singhu border here on Sunday to join the ongoing protest against the Centre’s three farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. Farmers are “constantly returning” to Delhi borders after the harvesting season, the umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is spearheading the protest said in a statement. The SKM also announced that its members will gherao the Hisar commissioner’s office on Monday to demand registration of a case against Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and police personnel who “attacked” farmers earlier this month in the district. “Today [Sunday], thousands of farmers reached the Singhu border in different vehicles. This convoy of farmers from Karnal and nearby areas reached the border under the leadership of farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadhuni. The farmers are enthusiastic and will end the movement only when their demands are met,” the SKM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/thousands-from-karnal-reach-singhu/article34630477.ece
24 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli police allow Jews to visit flashpoint Jerusalem site||Israeli police escorted more than 250 Jewish visitors on Sunday to a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem where clashes between police and Palestinian protesters helped trigger a war in Gaza, according to the Islamic authority overseeing the site. The 11-day conflict between Israel and Gaza’s militant Hamas rulers came to a fragile halt on Friday, but left behind immense ruin in Gaza, including hundreds of homes in that have been completely destroyed and many more that were badly damaged, according to the UN. With tensions still high, police cleared young Palestinians out of the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound and barred entry to Muslims under the age of 45, according to the Islamic Waqf, which oversees the site. Muslims who entered were required to leave their IDs with police at the entrance. It said six Palestinians were detained, with four later released. Israeli police denied there was any age restriction and said they arrested five people who “violated the public order.” Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the site was open for “regular visits” and that police had secured the area. The visits later ended without any further incident. Israeli police had briefly clashed with Palestinian protesters after Friday prayers in an early test for the truce, which had taken effect hours earlier. The ceasefire in Gaza has held, but violence in Jerusalem could set off another cycle of escalation. The Waqf said on Sunday was the first time Jews had been allowed to visit the site since May 4, a week before the war broke out. The Al-Aqsa Mosque is the third holiest site in Islam. It sits on a sprawling hilltop in Jerusalem’s Old City that is revered by Jews as their holiest site because it was the location of the biblical temples. The site has often been the scene of Israeli-Palestinian violence over the years and was the epicentre of the 2000 Palestinian intifada, or uprising. Blinken visit U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken leaves this week for West Asia. He told ABC on Sunday that the ceasefire offers a chance to “make a pivot to building something more positive.” Mr. Blinken said the priorities include addressing the immediate humanitarian situation in Gaza, reconstructing what was lost in the violence and “engaging both sides in trying to start to make real improvements in the lives of people so that Israelis and Palestinians can live with equal measures of security, of peace and of dignity.” Lynn Hastings, the UN humanitarian coordinator for the Palestinian territories, said some 300 buildings in Gaza — including an estimated 1,000 homes — had been completely destroyed. She said hundreds more had been heavily damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-police-allow-jews-to-visit-flashpoint-jerusalem-site/article34629978.ece
24 May 2021||London,||U.K. to unveil plans for ‘digital border’||Britain is to announce plans for a “fully digital border”, including the introduction of U.S.-style electronic travel authorisation to pre-check travellers to the U.K., Interior Minister Priti Patel said on Sunday. The Minister will announce the plans in Parliament on Monday as part of a wider overhaul of the country’s immigration system, which will also include the introduction of a points-based migration system. Keeping count “Our new fully digital border will provide the ability to count people in and out of the country, giving us control over who comes to the U.K.,” Ms. Patel said in a statement. “Our new approach will make it easier to identify potential threats before they reach the border,” she added. Digitising the border will mean officials “can now count who is coming in and out of the country and whether they have permission to be here,” said her Home Office department. Ms. Patel unveiled elements of her “New Plan for Immigration” in March, calling it “the most significant overhaul of our asylum system in decades.” Tightening immigration rules and securing borders were key promises of those like Ms. Patel and Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who argued for leaving the EU in Britain’s 2016 Brexit referendum. Under the new plans to be unveiled on Monday, Ms. Patel is set to announce that people coming to the U.K. without a visa or immigration status will have to apply for an American-style Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA). The Home Office expects that around 30 million ETA applications will be processed each year. “What I’m unveiling and proposing tomorrow is a new legal migration and border strategy..., which is based upon digitalisation of our borders, but also the simplification of our immigration laws,” Ms. Patel told Sky News on Sunday. “I am introducing the new borders bill, which will come to Parliament next month, where we will specifically clamp down and tackle the problems around illegal migration,” she added. “We will have not just greater checks, we’ve already got very, very significant law enforcement operations taking place in France, in Belgium... and we’re really prosecuting and arresting the people smugglers.” Last year, roughly 8,500 people arrived in Britain having made the perilous crossing across the Channel, one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes, in boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-to-unveil-plans-for-digital-border/article34629987.ece
24 May 2021||Goma,||Congo volcano spares Goma city; 5 die in crash while trying to leave||Congo’s Mount Nyiragongo unleashed lava that destroyed homes on the outskirts of Goma, but witnesses said on Sunday that the city of 2 million had been mostly spared after the volcano erupted at night and sent thousands fleeing in panic. Authorities said at least five people had died in a road crash while trying to leave Goma, but cautioned it was too early to give a death toll in the hardest hit communities. More than 500 homes had been destroyed, according to Constant Ndima, military Governor for the affected region. Residents said there was little warning before the dark sky turned a fiery red, leading to fears that the eruption could cause the same kind of devastation as the last time in 2002 when hundreds died. Thousands set off fearing the worst. Some boarded boats onto Lake Kivu while others attempted to reach Mount Goma, the highest elevation point. At least 3,000 fled across the nearby border into Rwanda. On Sunday, residents ventured out to assess the damage after a night of panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/congo-volcano-spares-goma-city-5-die-in-crash-while-trying-to-leave/article34629985.ece
24 May 2021||Tehran,||No access to images of our nuclear sites: Iran||Iran’s Parliament speaker said on Sunday that international inspectors may no longer access surveillance images of the Islamic Republic’s nuclear sites, escalating tensions amid diplomatic efforts in Vienna to save Tehran’s atomic accord with world powers. The comments by Iran’s Parliament speaker Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, aired by state TV, further underscored the narrowing window for the U.S. and others to reach terms with Iran. The Islamic Republic is already enriching and stockpiling uranium at levels far beyond those allowed by its 2015 nuclear deal. “Regarding this, and based on the expiration of the three-month deadline, definitely the International Atomic Energy Agency will not have the right to access images from May 22,” Mr. Qalibaf said. Hours later, however, a website called Nournews that’s believed to be close to Iran’s Supreme National Security Council quoted an anonymous official suggesting Tehran’s deal with the IAEA could be extended “another month.” The International Atomic Energy Agency had said its director-general would brief reporters later Sunday in Vienna. The UN agency did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Under what is called an “Additional Protocol” with Iran, the IAEA “collects and analyzes hundreds of thousands of images captured daily by its sophisticated surveillance cameras,” the agency said in 2017. The agency also said then that it had placed “2,000 tamper-proof seals on nuclear material and equipment.” Iran’s hard-line parliament in December approved a bill that would suspend part of U.N. inspections of its nuclear facilities if European signatories did not provide relief from oil and banking sanctions by February. The IAEA struck a three-month deal with Iran to have it hold the surveillance images, with Tehran threatening to delete them afterward if no deal had been reached. It wasn’t immediately clear if the images from February had been deleted. Before Qalibaf’s remarks, lawmaker Ali Reza Salimi urged an open session of parliament to ensure Iran’s civilian nuclear arm “erased” the images. The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran did not immediately comment on the decision. “Order the head of the Atomic Energy Organization to avoid delay,” said Mr. Salimi, a cleric from Iran’s central city of Delijan. The “recorded images in the cameras should be eliminated.” It also wasn’t clear what this meant for in-person inspections by the IAEA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-access-to-images-of-our-nuclear-sites-iran/article34629976.ece
24 May 2021||DHAKA,||In Bangladesh, anti-graft scribe freed after outcry||A Bangladeshi journalist, who is known for her strong reporting on official corruption, was released from jail on Sunday, hours after a court in the nation’s capital awarded conditional bail amid protests at home and abroad calling for her release. Rozina Islam, a senior reporter for the leading Prothom Alo newspaper, had been held in detention since her arrest on Monday. “I will most certainly continue working as a journalist,” Ms. Islam told a small crowd of supporters and journalists after leaving the jail outside Dhaka. Her family said she would go to a hospital for a health checkup. Ms. Islam was arrested after she allegedly used her cellphone without permission to photograph documents related to government negotiations to buy COVID-19 vaccines, while she waited in the room of an official involved in the process, according to case documents seen by The Associated Press. She faces charges of violating the colonial-era Official Secrets Act, which carries a possible death penalty.  Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen on Thursday said he regretted the arrest and said Ms. Islam would receive fair justice. Several of Ms. Islam’s hard-hitting reports on corruption involving the Health Ministry and others have drawn attention to the millions of dollars spent on procuring health equipment to deal with the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-bangladesh-anti-graft-scribe-freed-after-outcry/article34629975.ece
24 May 2021||Vilnius,||Lithuania quits ‘divisive’ China group||Lithuania said on Saturday it was quitting China’s 17+1 cooperation forum with central and eastern European states that includes other EU members, calling it “divisive”. The Baltic country urged fellow EU members to pursue “a much more effective 27+1 approach and communication with China.” “Lithuania no longer considers itself a 17+1 format member and does not participate in this initiative,” Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said. In recent months, Lithuania also took several steps that angered Beijing, including the blocking of Chinese investment and announcing it would open a trade office in Taiwan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lithuania-quits-divisive-china-group/article34629980.ece
24 May 2021||Rome,||Italy cable car accident kills nine||A cable car taking visitors to a mountaintop view of some of northern Italy's picturesque lakes plummeted to the ground Sunday and then tumbled down the slope, killing at least 13 people and sending two children to the hospital in serious condition, authorities said. Stresa Mayor Marcella Severino said it appeared that a cable broke, sending the car careening until it hit a pylon and then fell to the ground.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/italy-cable-car-accident-kills-nine/article34629979.ece
24 May 2021||Moscow,||Russian police break up opposition meeting||Police on Saturday broke up a meeting of independent, elected Russian opposition figures, saying they breached health restrictions, participants said. The May 22-23 forum was organised to coordinate their campaign for the September legislative polls. The authorities have cranked up pressure on the opposition, and particularly on supporters of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-police-break-up-opposition-meeting/article34629981.ece
24 May 2021||London,||Shamed Bashir says sorry to princes over Diana interview||Martin Bashir, the BBC journalist who tricked princess Diana into giving an explosive interview, on Sunday apologised to Princes William and Harry but said claims linking his actions to her death were “unreasonable”. “I never wanted to harm Diana in any way and I don’t believe we did,” he told the Sunday Times . But Prince William said Mr. Bashir’s actions had made “a major contribution” to the demise of his parents’ relationship and “contributed significantly to her fear, paranoia and isolation” in her final years.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/shamed-bashir-says-sorry-to-princes-over-diana-interview/article34629983.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Recalibrate growth, reprioritise expenditures||The second wave of COVID-19 currently sweeping India is forcing States into successive lockdowns, in turn eroding economic activities. The growth projections of different national and international agencies and the fiscal projections of Centre’s 2021-22 Budget require recalibration. COVID-19-induced erosion The International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and the Ministry of Finance’s Economic Survey had forecast real GDP growth for 2021-22 at 12.5%, 10.5%, and 11.0%, respectively. Moody’s has recently projected India’s GDP growth in 2021-22 at 9.3% (https://bit.ly/3fIkWs8). This is close to the benchmark growth rate of 8.7% which would keep India’s GDP at 2011-12 prices at the same level as in 2019-20. This level of growth may be achieved based on the assumption that the economy normalises in the second half of the fiscal year. If the lockdowns come to an end earlier, the growth rate may be higher, but that is perhaps unlikely. The 2019-20 real GDP was Rs. 145.7-lakh crore at 2011-12 prices. It fell to Rs. 134.1-lakh crore in 2020-21, implying a contraction of minus 8.0%. If even the growth rate of 8.7% for 2021-22 comes under challenge because of a prolonged lockdown, not only will India see a fall in the real GDP in the current year as compared to 2019-20 level but the nominal GDP numbers assumed in the Budget will also be belied adversely affecting the fiscal aggregates in the Centre’s 2021-22 Budget. At 8.7% real growth, the nominal GDP growth would be close to 13.5%, assuming an inflation rate of 4.5%. This would be lower than the nominal growth of 14.4% assumed in the Union Budget. At 13.5% growth, the estimated GDP for 2021-22 is Rs. 222.4-lakh crore at current prices. This will lead to a lowering of tax and non-tax revenues and an increase in the fiscal deficit as compared to the budgeted magnitudes. Budget magnitudes The budgeted gross and net tax revenues for 2021-22 were Rs. 22.2-lakh crore and Rs. 15.4-lakh crore, respectively. The assumed buoyancy for the Centre’s gross tax revenues (GTR) was 1.2. Even if this buoyancy is achieved, the lower nominal GDP growth would imply a GTR growth of 15.7% as compared to the budgeted growth of 16.7%. If, however, the buoyancy of 1.2 proves optimistic and instead a buoyancy of 0.9, which is the average buoyancy of the five years preceding the COVID-19 year, is applied, the nominal growth of GTR would be 12.2%. This would lead to the Centre’s GTR of about Rs. 21.3-lakh crore. The corresponding shortfall in the Centre’s net tax revenues is estimated to be about Rs. 0.6 lakh crore. The budgeted magnitudes for non-tax revenues and non-debt capital receipts at Rs. 2.4-lakh crore and Rs. 1.9-lakh crore, respectively, may also prove to be optimistic. In these cases, the budgeted growth rates were 15.4% and 304.3%, respectively. The excessively high growth for the non-debt capital receipts was premised on implementing an ambitious asset monetisation and disinvestment programme. The COVID-19-disturbed year may not permit any of this. The budgeted growth in non-tax revenues is largely dependent on an assumed growth of 60% in revenues from communication services and of 44.1% in dividends and profits from non-departmental undertakings. We consider that a shortfall of Rs. 1.5-lakh crore in non-tax revenues and non-debt capital receipts together may not be ruled out. Together with the tax revenue shortfall of nearly 0.6 lakh crore, the total shortfall on the receipts side may be about Rs. 2.1-lakh crore. Two factors will affect the fiscal deficit estimate of 6.76% of GDP in 2021-22. First, there would be a change in the budgeted nominal GDP growth. Second, there would be a shortfall in the receipts from tax, non-tax and non-debt sources. The budgeted magnitude of fiscal deficit is Rs. 15.06-lakh crore. Together, these two factors may lead to a slippage in fiscal deficit which may be close to 7.7% of GDP in 2021-22 if total expenditures are kept at the budgeted levels. This would call for revising the fiscal road map again. Protecting total expenditures at the budgeted level is, however, important given the need to support the economy in these challenging times. There is a case for reprioritising these expenditures.  Other steps, vaccination The second wave of the novel coronavirus has put a spotlight on India’s serious under-capacity in health infrastructure. Given the likelihood of a third COVID-19 wave, there is an urgent need to ramp up health and related infrastructure by enhancing the number of hospitals and hospital beds, sources of oxygen supplies, and the manufacture of COVID-19 vaccines and drugs. The Centre’s 2021-22 Budget has provided for Rs. 71,269 crore for the Department of Health and Family Welfare. This included a budgeted capital expenditure of Rs. 2,508.7 crore. In contrast, in 2020-21, the total health and family welfare expenditure (RE) was Rs. 78,866 crore, implying a fall of Rs. 7,597 crore in 2021-22. In the budgeted capital expenditure for health also, there was a fall of Rs. 1,724.8 crore as compared to the RE of 2020-21 at Rs. 4,233.5 crore. Clearly, these magnitudes are quite inadequate for an economy challenged by COVID-19 for two successive years. The allocation for the health sector should be increased substantially by reprioritising expenditures. Construction activities within the health sector will have high multipliers. There may also be higher expenditure on inducting a larger workforce of doctors, nurses and paramedics and other hospital-related administrative staff. Furthermore, strong support is needed for the vulnerable groups of the society including migrant labour and the rural and urban unemployed population. Speedy and larger vaccination coverage of the vulnerable population is key to minimising economic damage. The Centre’s Budget had allocated Rs. 35,000 crore for vaccination as shown in the Budget for the Department of Finance (demand for grant number 40) as an amount to be transferred to the States. India’s population aged 12 years and above is 109 crore. Total vaccination doses (at two doses per person) adds to 218 crore. At an average price of Rs. 300 per dose, this would require an amount of Rs. 65,108 crore. This is a rough estimate. The cost to the government would be less if the coverage is less than full. COVID-19 vaccination is characterised by strong inter-State positive externalities, making it primarily the responsibility of the central government. The entire vaccination bill should be borne by the central government. Rather than having individual State governments floating global tenders for vaccines, if the central government is the single agency for vaccine procurement, the economies of scale and the Centre’s bargaining power would keep the average vaccine price low. The total vaccination cost would go up if the unit cost goes up. The central government may transfer the vaccines rather than the money that it has budgeted for transfer. Some of the smaller States may find procuring vaccines through a global tender to be quite challenging.    C. Rangarajan is former Chairman, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister and a former Governor, Reserve Bank of India. D.K. Srivastava is Chief Policy Advisor, EY India and a former Director, Madras School of Economics. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/recalibrate-growth-reprioritise-expenditures/article34629961.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The many benefits of an eco tax||The Indian government announced a pandemic-related stimulus package in FY 2020-21 though there was large decline in tax revenue. The fiscal deficit for FY 2020-21 (revised estimates) is projected to be 9.5% of the GDP; for 2021-22, it is pegged at 6.8%. The focus is on maintaining fiscal discipline. In this peculiar scenario, sustained health financing in India remains a challenge. Household spending on health The World Health Organization (WHO) provides data on the percentage of the total population where the household expenditure on health was greater than 10% and 25% of the total household expenditure or income in India in 2011. This provides a clear picture of the status of spending on health by the rural and urban populations. As far as health expenditure above 10% is concerned, 17.33% of the population in India made out-of-pocket payments on health. The percentage was higher in rural areas compared to urban areas. Globally, the average was 12.67%, which means that 12.67% of the population spent more than 10% of their income (out of their pocket) on health. In Southeast Asia, 16% spent more than 10% of their household income on health. The Western Pacific region came second in the list of regions that saw a rate higher than the global average. Similarly, 3.9% of the population in India made more than 25% of out-of-pocket payments on health, with 4.34% in the rural areas. The Economic Survey of India 2019-20 has outlined the fact that an increase in public spending from 1% to 2.5-3% of GDP, as envisaged in the National Health Policy of 2017, can decrease out-of-pocket expenditure from 65% to 30% of overall healthcare expenses. This is where the importance of alternate sources of health financing in India needs to be stressed. The COVID-19 pandemic has also forced countries all over the world to rethink climate change and the need for preservation of the environment. Fiscal reforms for managing the environment are important, and India has great potential for revenue generation in this aspect. Fixing the eco rax rate Environment regulation, in turn, may take several forms: command and control; economic planning/urban planning; environmental tax (eco tax)/subsidies; and cap and trade. India currently focuses majorly on the command-and-control approach in tackling pollution. The success of an eco tax in India would depend on its architecture, that is, how well it is planned and designed. It should be credible, transparent and predictable. Ideally, the eco tax rate ought to be equal to the marginal social cost arising from the negative externalities associated with the production, consumption or disposal of goods and services. This requires an evaluation of the damage to the environment based on scientific assessments. This would include the adverse impacts on the health of people, climate change, etc. The eco tax rate may, thus, be fixed commensurate to the marginal social cost so evaluated. The Madras School of Economics had already undertaken extensive studies in this regard. Environmental tax reforms generally involve three complementary activities: (a) eliminating existing subsidies and taxes that have a harmful impact on the environment; (b) restructuring existing taxes in an environmentally supportive manner; and (c) initiating new environmental taxes. Taxes can be designed either as revenue neutral or revenue augmenting. In case of revenue augmenting, the additional revenue can either be targeted towards the provision of environmental public goods or directed towards the overall revenue pool. In developing countries like India, the revenue can be used to a greater extent for the provision of environmental public goods and addressing environmental health issues. In India, eco taxes can target three main areas: one, differential taxation on vehicles in the transport sector purely oriented towards fuel efficiency and GPS-based congestion charges; two, in the energy sector by taxing fuels which feed into energy generation; and three, waste generation and use of natural resources. Tax revenues can be generated through eco taxes. There is also a need to integrate environmental taxes in the Goods and Service Tax framework as highlighted by the Madras School of Economics in its studies. Negligible impact on the GDP The implementation of an environmental tax in India will have three broad benefits: fiscal, environmental and poverty reduction. Environmental tax reforms can mobilise revenues to finance basic public services when raising revenue through other sources proves to be difficult or burdensome. Revenue from environmental tax reforms can also be used to reduce other distorting taxes such as fiscal dividend. Environmental tax reforms help internalise the externalities, and the said revenue can finance research and the development of new technologies. Environmental regulations may have significant costs on the private sector in the form of slow productivity growth and high cost of compliance, resulting in the possible increase in the prices of goods and services. However, the European experience shows that most of the taxes also generate substantial revenue and there is no evidence on green taxes with sustainable development goals leading to a ‘no growth’ economy. Most countries’ experiences suggest negligible impact on the GDP, though such revenues have not necessarily been used for environmental considerations. Thus, the negligible impact on the GDP may be a temporary phenomenon. Hence, this is the right time for India to adopt environmental fiscal reforms as they will reduce environmental pollution and also generate resources for financing the health sector. Eduardo Araral is Associate Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Surjith Karthikeyan is an Indian Economic Service officer. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-many-benefits-of-an-eco-tax/article34629973.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Deflating India’s COVID black market boom||In the gloomy battle against the novel coronavirus pandemic, what has emerged as most reprehensible is the brazen attempt by profiteers in filling the gap following the desperation of many patients and families. With the second wave of infections and the rise in COVID-19 positive cases in India, the necessity for integral medicines, hospital beds and oxygen supplies has gone up incrementally. For example, we come across information about government helpline numbers being circulated widely. The Twitter handles of politicians and administrative executives often reiterate the dependability of these helplines. These helpline numbers ought to be not just ‘ray of hope’ delivery systems but also a clear demarcation between what is legal and officially authorised, and what is not. Flourishing market Remdesivir and tocilizumab have been the most sought after drugs ever since the pandemic set in. In July 2020 a racket of selling fake and spurious tocilizumab injections in Surat and Ahmedabad was unearthed by the Gujarat Food and Drugs Control Administration. Almost a year later, things do not seem to have improved. Recently, the police in Ahmedabad arrested a few people for preparing fake remdesivir vials for sale using a mixture of glucose and salt and affixing them with fake brand labels. In Mumbai’s drug black market, citizens have had to pay huge amounts ranging from Rs. 35,000 and Rs. 50,000 for remdesivir vials. In Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, a racket to market oxygen cylinders in the black market was uncovered after raids on a godown. The Haryana police have registered at least 21 FIRs in connection with the blackmarketing of many of these medical essentials. The desperate need for vital medical supplies has forced many hapless citizens to pay more than the market price to procure these medicines. There are reports of many having been tricked into believing fire extinguishers to be oxygen cylinders and saline water bottles to be remdesivir vials after parting with huge sums of money. However, clamping down on these cases and the culprits is dependent on having an efficient multi-dimensional preventive model rather than a control mechanism that functions much after the damage has been already done. India is in the middle of its second year in the battle against the COVID-19 virus and the persistent challenges many citizens face in medical aid is a wake-up call to revisit the administrative mechanism and map its limitations. In India, the distribution of remdesivir in the States is mostly controlled by the local governments,  while decisions about oxygen supplies to the States are predominantly decided by Union bodies. Yet, citizens have been approaching alien sources to procure medical supplies. The pressures A major reason behind why many are in the situation they are facing is because administrative organisations are being overwhelmed and helpline numbers inundated with calls and difficult to connect to. Even if citizens are fortunate enough to have their requests entered in records, they may not be able to procure the products they need due to the inadequacy of resources or probably not receiving a closure communication from helplines, which keeps them at a loose end without knowing where else to go and what else to do. This inaccessibility, a redundant and long communication process flow, and a delay in rendering responses are what have affected the reliability of these helplines as far as people are concerned. Any market, black or otherwise, is a dynamic hemisphere which is consumer-driven. There is public demand for what the products these black markets or rackets have to offer and which is why they thrive. A patient and their attendants face challenges of resource availability and significant constraints of time within which they need a solution, resulting in tremendous mental pressures. Alleged hospital bed-booking scams, the unnecessary hoarding of COVID-19 essentials by the elite, and possible VIP culture practices have contributed to the erosion of trust. These elements have all combined to force the public to look elsewhere for sources beyond the probability of the government rendering them assistance. Volunteers as a resource Therefore, administrative mechanisms need to be expanded qualitatively and quantitatively. India is blessed with numerous volunteer organisations trying to tackle the various challenges of the pandemic. Unfortunately, in many instances, they do not enjoy governmental support. The state machinery needs to identify such groups, train them, optimise them and deploy them on a priority basis and ensure that there is no concentration of human resources in a single vertical. We need to operationalise technological knowledge in order to ease the communication processes which could reduce the burden on data entry operators and the management information systems to induce better responsive behaviour. We need an expert planning model which not only allocates the resources judiciously but also allows a follow-up of the entire process flow to ensure that there are no illegal deviations. In oversight, we need a strong, decentralised and independent vigilance system which promotes transparency in this desperate situation to ensure quality in the performance of administrative set-ups. At the end of the day, what has been listed above ought to be matched with confidence-building mechanisms. It is only when the government’s performance is high and the administrative machinery is capable of large-scale affirmative outputs that the public will not have to look for third party resources. And with no dependency subsisting on them, profiteering would not have a dimension and play its game.  Jayesh Ranjan is in the Indian Administrative Service and works for the Government of Telangana. Amulya Anil is a law student at Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/deflating-indias-covid-black-market-boom/article34629964.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Confronting bad faith campaigns||In less than three weeks since she started her journalistic career at The Associated Press (AP), Emily Wilder, a graduate of Stanford University, was fired for her social media posts on the Israel-Palestine conflict. The AP took this drastic decision following a campaign by conservatives against her for her activism as a student. Ms. Wilder, who is Jewish, was an active member of the pro-Palestinian groups ‘Jewish Voice for Peace’ and ‘Students for Justice in Palestine’ at Stanford University. The Guardian revealed that she was “terminated for violating the company’s social media policies” during her brief stint. She wrote a tweet about objectivity, which read: “‘Objectivity’ feels fickle when the basic terms we use to report news implicitly stake a claim. Using ‘Israel’ but never ‘Palestine’, or ‘war’ but not ‘siege and occupation’ are political choices — yet [the] media makes those exact choices all the time without being flagged as biased.” Social media policies of newsrooms This raises many questions about the professional space for journalists, where one has to negotiate many contending and often conflicting interests. Where does one’s right as a citizen end? Can institutions veto someone’s considered positions? I have been arguing for long that journalists should express themselves in their journalism rather than in their social media posts. The reservations about the social media policies of news organisations are not over the sections that deal with professional conduct but over the sections that fail to grant space for ethical choices concerning major developments, whether the Israel-Palestine issue or the mismanagement of the pandemic in India. Interest groups often stigmatise journalists for their viewpoints through organised bad faith campaigns. Emily Bell, Director of the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia Journalism School, feels that newsrooms are clueless in confronting this malaise. She tweeted: “If news organisations cave in to pressure from bad faith campaigns, if they cancel workplace contracts on the basis of student activism or errors of judgment, then the field will miss out on some great reporters. Newsrooms are too often unprepared for this predictable onslaught.” Diversity in the newsroom Every media scholar acknowledges that a diverse newsroom serves the community well. The American Press Institute (API) has argued that diversity is both a business imperative and a journalistic imperative. On it being a journalistic imperative, the API said: “Without accounting for the range of lived experiences, we fail to serve parts of our communities. Journalism, in its truest form, should be produced for the benefit of all, not only those who wield a particular power, class or authority.” It is important to note that diversity is not restricted to known categories such as race, gender, caste and class. It also includes a range of viewpoints. People who advocate peace and justice instead of the cold geopolitical calculations of strategic establishments create space for humanity. At a time when the deep state spreads its octopus-like tentacles and glosses over human suffering, people who believe in peace dividends are central to the public good. Let’s remember that young men and women come to journalism because they are idealistic and despite many limitations: they earn less money in journalism than they would in the corporate world and wield less power than they would in bureaucracy or diplomacy. The fact that there is space to articulate diverse ideas is what acts as a magnet for them. This space cannot be surrendered to the relentless bad faith campaigns orchestrated by powerful vested interests. I have often been asked about the relationship between objective journalism and the personal political views of individual journalists. If journalists do not stray from journalistic principles, especially the act of verification, their personal viewpoints as citizens are not in conflict with the public good. I have often cited the example of one of the most respected political journalists, Walter Lippmann. The journalism programme at Harvard University is housed in a building called Lippmann House. Lippmann is known not only for his outstanding journalism but also for his role in advising President Woodrow Wilson on defining developments such as the creation of the League of Nations and granting voting rights to women. In order to preserve their independence and vibrancy, newsrooms need to take motivated campaigns to task. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/confronting-bad-faith-campaigns/article34629968.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||WhatsApp and its dubious claims||The learned senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Arvind Datar submitted to the Delhi High Court that WhatsApp’s contentious new privacy policy came into effect from May 15, 2021. Mr. Sibal raised the central question of national importance, “The question is, does India have a public policy for privacy? If a public policy of privacy is there in India, does it apply to WhatsApp policy?” This question acquires relevance due to the dominant market status of WhatsApp-Facebook-Instagram. In its affidavit to the Delhi High Court, WhatsApp defended its privacy policy and explicitly named Google, Microsoft, Zoom, Zomato, Republic World, Ola Cabs, Truecaller, Big Basket, Koo, and public companies such as Aarogya Setu, Bhim, Air India, Sandes, Government e-Marketplace, and the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation of having similar policies, of relying on collecting user data. Advantages of WhatsApp In the submission, WhatsApp suggested that users who did not agree to its terms and conditions could discontinue use of its service. Apps such as Signal and Telegram provide alternate reliable communication services. While this is a reasonable option for urban users of messaging apps, researchers working with rural and disenfranchised sections have pointed out the reliance on WhatsApp’s services due to the design of the app. WhatsApp has an inherent advantage with its messaging and audio-video calling even in low-bandwidth Internet areas. This has to be seen in conjunction with WhatsApp Pay which allows users to transfer money to others. Thus, a mass migration to more privacy-respecting services appears near-impossible due to vendor lock-in. The observation of the Competition Commission of India that WhatsApp is misusing its dominant status appears relevant here. The claim that the new privacy policy is applicable to only the business version of the app is not comforting. This is because metadata from the non-business versions are already being exchanged with other services of the Facebook company. Profiling of individual users has already been well documented with the exposure of the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal both internationally and in India. For businesses using WhatsApp, there would be a reasonable expectation that the services would be more secure than the normal version. Thus, diluting the privacy policy for the business version appears counterintuitive. Looking at the practices of large monopoly businesses wherein smaller companies are bought out or innovative services are copied in order to increase the customer base provides an answer. Thus, one would have to surmise that it is possible to extract metadata from documents that are exchanged over a communication app with a diluted privacy policy. The lessons learned from the United States v. Microsoft Corporation antitrust case from early 2000 would appear relevant in this context. Data protection We would have to understand that a WhatsApp exception, as suggested by Mr. Sibal, would only open the floodgates to further privacy violations by both the state and private entities dealing with user data. There is the issue of potential violation of privacy of children through Ed-Tech apps due to the lack of both a comprehensive ethics policy and a data privacy law akin to the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In the context of services provided by the above-mentioned companies, the Personal Data Protection Bill of 2019 does not even attempt to provide a fig leaf of protection to users of services. To ensure that the privacy of the Indian citizen is protected in the digital sphere, the data protection Bill needs to be reformulated to ensure that it focuses on user rights with an emphasis on user privacy. A privacy commission would have to be established to enforce these rights. The government would also have to respect the privacy of the citizens while strengthening the right to information. There is an overarching need for a strong data protection Bill. Vikram Vincent holds a PhD from IIT Bombay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/whatsapp-and-its-dubious-claims/article34629969.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Guarantor beware||The Supreme Court judgment upholding creditors’ right to proceed against personal guarantors to loans provided by them to a corporate borrower helps lift the uncertainty over the extent to which banks and other financial lenders can pursue not only the corporate debtor but also the individuals who had furnished personal guarantees to enable the flow of credit to the company they had stood surety for. This ought to be of significant consequence to the financial system, already under a mountain of bad loans, by helping expedite the resolution of such stressed assets. The two-judge Bench was considering a clutch of petitions challenging the government’s 2019 notification that made personal guarantors a separate category of individuals who could be proceeded against under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code as part of the insolvency proceedings initiated by lenders against defaulting corporate entities. In dismissing the petitions, the judges made clear that the government was right in “carving out personal guarantors as a separate species of individuals”, given the “intimate connection between such individuals and corporate entities to whom they stood guarantee”. Banks now stand a real chance of recovering substantially more from the resolution of a stressed corporate entity, as in most cases it has been the relatively affluent promoters who have been standing as individual personal guarantors for the loans extended to the companies they promoted. Several corporate leaders are set to be impacted. The promoters of many defaulting corporates, which are facing action under the IBC, had furnished guarantees for thousands of crores in loans availed by the companies they ran. The State Bank of India alone had submitted in the apex court that it had served demand notices aggregating to more than Rs. 39,000 crore to individuals who had signed as guarantors for credit provided to corporate entities. The judges also cleared the air over another issue that is bound to strengthen the creditors’ positions in all ongoing, future and even completed insolvency proceedings. The Bench ruled that the approval of a resolution plan for the corporate debtor does not extinguish the personal guarantor’s liability, which it said “arises out of an independent contract”. Lenders can now proceed against the guarantors to enhance recovery given that most banks agree to ‘haircuts’ when negotiating a resolution plan with a new promoter for the defaulting company. The only wrinkle here is that once the resolution plan becomes legally binding, the guarantor loses the recourse to remedy from the borrower when the creditor invokes the personal guarantee. Entrepreneurs will now have to think twice before signing a personal guarantee unless they can be very certain that the business they found will not flounder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/guarantor-beware/article34629955.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Another challenge||The second wave of the pandemic has thrown up another serious challenge. Besides, in just about three months, the number of daily cases touching 4.14 lakh on May 6 and cumulative cases crossing 15 million, mortality reaching an all-time peak of 4,529 on May 18 and the total number of deaths reaching nearly 1.5 lakh, there is now a growing number of mucormycosis cases being reported in COVID-19 patients. A concerned Health Ministry has now asked all States to classify mucormycosis, a fungal infection, as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897; a few States have complied. As a notifiable disease, every suspected and confirmed case is to be reported to the State Health Department. While the infection is caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes, which are commonly found in the environment, the fungi are largely harmless under normal circumstances. But COVID-19 patients with uncontrolled diabetes who are on steroid therapy face a higher infection risk. Breathing in the fungi spores can cause an infection in the lungs or sinuses which can spread. Even when blood sugar is under control, indiscriminate steroid use can cause an increase in blood sugar levels, making such patients more susceptible to mucormycosis infection. Patients with severe COVID-19 disease tend to develop a systemic inflammatory response leading to lung injury and multisystem organ dysfunction. While WHO “strongly recommends” that corticosteroids such as dexamethasone be used in treating patients with severe and critical COVID-19, they should not be used in non-severe COVID-19 patients. The absence of any new or repurposed drugs to effectively treat COVID-19 patients and the lack of clear guidelines in using certain drugs have led to indiscriminate drug use, including steroids. The rise in mucormycosis infection cases should be a wake-up call for COVID-19 patients and medical practitioners to use steroids judiciously for a limited period and in the right dosage, especially in diabetic patients; self-medication with steroids should be avoided at any cost. Most importantly, in COVID-19 patients with diabetes, controlling blood sugar levels using insulin can help prevent mucormycosis infection. While the availability of Amphotericin-B to treat mucormycosis was limited till recently, five manufacturers in India are in the process of ramping up production. Five more companies have also been licensed to augment supplies. Since the infection presents itself with typical symptoms, timely diagnosis is easy. The infection can be cured without even surgery if detected early. This is one more reason why people, particularly those with diabetes, should get vaccinated soon. Since complete vaccination prevents severe disease, diabetics will not need steroids, and hence will not suffer from mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/another-challenge/article34629956.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Psychology of unrest (From an editorial)||The leopard can never change its spots — neither can the average white man his outlook towards his coloured brethren. It does not much matter even if he is an Englishman or American, two of the foremost nationalities priding themselves in their inborn love of Liberty. The colour obsession persists. National freedom and self-determination when applied to white races and European nationalities are inviolable principles of an exalted system of political philosophy based upon divine birth-right and natural justice. But the same principles, in the case of subject nations and non-white races becomes merely matters of empty sentiment or mental aberration. National honour and self-respect have, according to him, no abiding political value and significance for coloured peoples, who have merely to content themselves with the phenomena of Peace and Plenty — the one unnatural, because enforced and the other fictitious because existing only in the works of Western economists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/psychology-of-unrest-from-an-editorial/article34629965.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hindi terms||New Delhi, May 23: The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, is believed to be reconsidering the decision taken already that members of Parliament should use Hindi expressions to denote the names of Ministries and Government departments as circulated by a Presidential notification early this month. While it was explained by officials of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha that members were under no compulsion to use only Hindi expressions when putting questions and giving notice of call attention motions, a formal request was made to members that as far as possible they should use Hindi designations of Ministers and Hindi nomenclature of Ministries and departments. But contrary to the spirit of this request, papers circulated to members yesterday by the Parliament Secretariat have revealed that all English expressions have been completely eliminated and only Hindi expressions have been used to denote the designations of ministers and ministries. The normal practice all along has been to print members’ questions both in English and in Hindi separately. Mr. Era Sezhian, D.M.K. member of Parliament, has made a strong representation to the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the Lok Sabha protesting against this “imposition of Hindi” on members to the exclusion of English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hindi-terms/article34629966.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Beware, your risk attitude could be changing!||If you have been making merry in the stock market in recent times, beware! You may be vulnerable to a shift in your risk attitude. In this article, we discuss how the market movements since March 2020 could change your expectations of return, causing harm to your financial well-being, and what you can do about it. Happiness is relative Your happiness is relative, not absolute. A 15% increase in your salary would make you happy only if your colleagues do not get more than you did. Likewise, a 10% cut in your salary will not make your very unhappy if your colleagues take a larger pay cut. Most of the products offered by the investment industry are also built on this relative principle. It is not enough if we get index returns; we want returns higher than the benchmark index. Small wonder than that the number of active funds far outweigh that of index products available in the market. Now, extend this argument to direct equity investment. The market has been on an uptrend since March last. Valuations of most of the stocks have more than doubled since then. It is moot if these stocks can offer similar returns from the current levels. This could pose a problem. Your experience of returns could lead to a shift in your risk attitude, if not controlled. Here is why: Suppose your trading portfolio generated 25% returns since last March. Your expectations are now set at that level, even if such returns may not be possible every year. If your investments do not generate similar returns, your brain will drive you to take more risk in an attempt to generate higher returns. But that is only one part of the problem! Blame your risk attitude on dopamine, a neurotransmitter in your brain that responds to rewards. Or, more precisely, when actual rewards differ from expected rewards. So, if you expect 15% return on your investment and your actual return is 20%, your dopamine neurons increase its firing rate. On the other hand, if your return is only 10%, the firing rate slows down. And, of course, if the actual returns are equal to the expected return, the firing rate does not change. Therefore, the dopamine reacts to error in reward prediction. This is important because dopamine drives desire or wanting. Last March, when you bought shares with a hope of making some money, you would have hardly expected to earn phenomenal returns. But you did. And now that you are used to earning such returns, you do not feel the dopamine rush any more because your actual and expected returns are similar. Because dopamine typically reacts to error in prediction and because you need a dopamine rush, your brain creates a wanting for greater returns. Fewer choices But with the stock market continually trending up, such higher-return-generating assets may be few in number. So, you may be prompted to take greater risk to achieve higher returns. For instance, buying less-liquid mid-cap stocks or more-risky small-cap stocks. What should do you to control this wanting? First, protect your goal-based portfolio from your trading portfolio. That is, create a rule that money can flow from your trading portfolio to your goal-based portfolios but not the other way. Next, as you take profit on your trading portfolio, gradually reduce your risk capital. For instance, trade with your initial capital and do not reinvest your trading profit. Why? You would be more cautious with your initial capital, being hard-earned money, than with your trading profit, which comes from the market. Of course, this is only till the time you are able to control your wanting state. Lastly, embrace your trading losses! For that indicates that your trading returns are as much about luck as they are about skill.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals for managing their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/beware-your-risk-attitude-could-be-changing/article34629949.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am a 20-year-old bachelor. I am a government employee (part-time, but permanent). My monthly income is about Rs. 15,000. Please help me in sketching drawing up a holistic financial plan. Tamire Prasanth Aarati Krishnan answers A.You are right to start with a financial plan. To have a really personalised plan that you can go with for life, it would be best to take the help of a qualified financial adviser. But, if you are keen to make a start by yourself, you need to list down the financial and life goals that you may have today, along with the timelines you have in mind for achieving them. If your goal, within 3 years, is to take a holiday or buy a vehicle, that would be a financial goal. If you want to pursue higher studies, that would be a goal too. If you would like to purchase a house or marry, those would constitute goals too. This is apart from certain common goals such as retirement that we all have. If you have a family whose needs you plan to meet, do list their goals too. Once you are able to list your goals, try and arrive at the targeted amount you will need to fulfil those goals. This will require you to add inflation to the current money value of those goals. There are many online calculators that allow you to arrive at the inflation-adjusted value of a goal 3 years, 5 years, 7 years and 10 years from today. Once you have the timelines and the value of each goal, you can begin to create portfolios towards each. For less than 3-year goals, invest in bank recurring or fixed deposits. For 3-5 year goals, consider the NSC, post office 5-year deposits, corporate bond funds and PSU and banking funds. For 7-year-plus goals, consider SIPs in equity funds. Index funds will be your easiest option. For really long-term goals, open a Public Provident Fund (PPF) account and start investing in it. You can also open an NPS account and start saving towards retirement. Along with planning for future goals, you need to make a plan to protect your existing assets too. For this, get a health cover of at least Rs. 5 lakh to meet your medical expenses in case of emergency. If you have parents or other dependents, get a pure term cover so that your nominees get a lump sum in the event an unfortunate event happens to you. Also, have 6 months’ worth of your living expenses in an emergency fund in a bank deposit to take care of other emergencies or contingencies for you and your family. Q.I am 27 and an Indian Railways employee. My mother is 52 and father, a cardiac patient, 62 years old. They are not covered under any health insurance policy. Can you suggest the best policy for my parents and can I claim income tax benefits on the premium? SWARAJ S. K. Nitya Kalyani answers A.A group insurance scheme offered by your employer is always the first option to consider for family members. Especially when your employer has a network of hospitals and medical facilities as yours does. Your formalities for getting them into the scheme and availing benefits would be minimal. You can study the coverage offered under the scheme and supplement it carefully with a hospitalisation policy to enhance benefits or a critical illness policy that gives lump sum benefits. You can choose a policy that covers your father for cardiac care, though there will be a waiting period, so that you have additional coverage and options for treatment in different hospitals. The premium you pay for your parents for any commercial health policy brings you benefits under Section 80D of the Income-tax Act, 1961 under certain terms and conditions.  (K. Nitya Kalyani is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article34629951.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34629953.ece
24 May 2021||Madrid,||Tears and smiles for Atletico Madrid||When the final whistle blew, Diego Simeone broke out into a broad smile, laughed and breathed a sigh of relief. A few moments later, Luis Suarez was sitting on the field weeping profusely while on a video call. After a seven-year wait — and a dramatic final round — Atletico Madrid had won the Spanish league title. Outlasting Atletico outlasted second-place Real Madrid after coming from behind to defeat Valladolid 2-1 on Saturday and finish two points ahead of its city rival after almost losing a lead that it had held since the ninth round. Suarez, who was let go by Barcelona against his wishes last season, scored the winner for Atletico which won its first league title since 2014 in a wild finish that had plenty of twists with the two remaining title contenders playing at the same time. Madrid couldn’t repeat as champion despite rallying to defeat Villarreal 2-1 at home. Suarez’s goal came as redemption in what he called his “toughest year.” He was key for Atletico throughout the season after practically being handed to the team by Barcelona. The Uruguay striker was deeply moved after the match and broke down while apparently talking to his family on the phone.   The results:   LaLiga: Huesca 0 drew with Valencia 0; Elche 2 (Boye 28, Gutierrez Parejo 73) bt Athletic Bilbao 0; Celta Vigo 2 (Aspas 32-pen, Mendez 49) lost to Real Betis 3 (Iglesias 53-pen, Fekir 69, Ruiz 73); Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 87, Modric 90+2) bt Villarreal 1 (Pino 20); Valladolid 1 (Plano 18) lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Correa 57, Suarez 67); Osasuna 0 lost to Real Sociedad 1 (Perez 86-og); Eibar 0 lost to Barcelona 1 (Griezmann 81); Levante 2 (Roger 8, Melero Manzanares 58) drew with Cadiz 2 (Negredo 14, Akapo 32).   This has been a hard season for the situation I had to go through, being disrespected (by Barcelona) and having Atletico open its doors to me. I will always be thankful to this great club for that Luis Suarez||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tears-and-smiles-for-atletico-madrid/article34630103.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sharmada Balu looks back, for a better future||It is precious when experience is backed by the eloquence of expression. With a charming smile and a hearty laugh on jokes made at her cost, Sharmada Balu mesmerised the Indian tennis fraternity around the world when she had a lively conversation with coach M. Balachandran on Instagram. “I should have believed in myself a little more,” said the 27-year-old, who has returned to the professional tennis circuit after “learning about the other side of reality”, for a few years in the corporate world. Having started early, being groomed at Mahesh Bhupathi’s vision programme when she was nine, taking her first flight at 12 for a tournament in Indonesia, and being one of the probables to partner Sania Mirza for the London Olympics in 2012, Sharmada had exposure to different facets. “It taught me to keep my eyes open,” Sharmada said — she quickly learnt to read people and understand the world when travelling alone. She also trained in tennis academies in Germany, Spain and Thailand, apart from home. “You need to pick what is useful to you. It does not matter where you train. “You need to know what you are doing and why you are doing it. And a good team to support you,” she observed. Pat for Ankita and team Sharmada was all praise for Ankita Raina and the team for elevating Indian women’s tennis to the World Group play-off level and for such a good tie against Latvia, in the Billie Jean King Cup. It was great “motivation” for her to regain her game, and reach better standards. When asked about advice for juniors, Sharmada said, “there is zero short cut. If you are not doing the work, the one next to you is doing twice as hard.” Appreciating the value of basics, and not cluttering the mind with thoughts while playing, Sharmada said that she was grateful to Rohan Bopanna, the Spots School for the opportunity to coach even as she trains for her professional tennis. “Am hungry to keep learning more,” signed off Sharmada, beaming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharmada-balu-looks-back-for-a-better-future/article34630098.ece
24 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Bajrang Punia begins mat training||Struggling to get quality sparring partners, three-time World championships medallist wrestler Bajrang Punia is keen to train abroad in the run-up to the Tokyo Olympics. Bajrang has recovered from the knee injury he picked up during the Asian championships — where he forfeited the final bout due to the problem and finished with silver in the 65kg category — in Almaty, Kazakhstan, last month and has resumed his training at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS), Vijayanagara, where the weather is ‘similar’ to that in Japan. Knee feels better “I started mat training a few days back. The knee is much better and I am preparing for the (ranking series) tournament in Poland (June 8-13). I am facing a minor issue when it comes to sparring. “I was trying to get sparring partners from abroad but they could not get visas due to the COVID-19 situation in India,” Bajrang told The Hindu . “I train with the 70kg and 74kg wrestlers. The National camp is not functional at the moment due to COVID-19 and I came to the IIS with a partner. “I went through quarantine and trained with my coach for the first two days. Now I have started training with my partner. The whole of last year, during the lockdown, I did physical training. Since the Olympics is drawing closer, it is important to train on the mat,” said Bajrang. To train in Europe “The federation has made a schedule for two months of training in Europe. It looks good for me. After the event in Poland, we may get to train in Turkey and Hungary. “The current strain (of COVID-19) is spreading faster in India and the partner issue is there. I don’t want to come back (after the events). “I may go to Russia or United States where I can get good training partners. If I can go directly to the Olympics from there, I will do that. Or else, I will come back to India and go to Tokyo,” said Bajrang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrang-punia-begins-mat-training/article34630095.ece
24 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Sushil Kumar arrest: Sports fraternity in shock and disbelief||Double Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar’s arrest in a murder case on Sunday left the sports fraternity of the country in shock and disbelief. Loss of words Many of them did not know how to react to the news involving one of the biggest icons of Indian sports. Others were at a loss of words. Several of them did not want to come on record as they felt it was too early for them to react. Olympian and two-time Asian Games gold medallist Kartar Singh was sad. “I cannot say anything on this,” said Kartar. Boxer Vijender Singh, who won a bronze medal alongside Sushil in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, did not prefer to react to the development at this point in time. International wrestler Kripa Shankar Patel, an Arjuna award winner, was shocked. “I cannot believe this. I have trained with Sushil for a long time in different camps and can say that he cannot kill anyone. Maybe it is an accident. The law should take its own course and the victim should get justice,” said Patel.  PTI adds  Seasoned table tennis player A. Sharath Kamal, who is gearing up for his fourth Olympic appearance, said, “If this has actually happened, it is unfortunate and reflects badly on Indian sport, not just wrestling,” Sharath said. “He is one of the best athletes we have had. People look up to him.” Unfortunate Former hockey captain Ajitpal Singh, who was an Indian Olympic Association observer at the 2008 Olympics, said he still could not understand what exactly went wrong with the “polite” man. “...it is very shameful and unfortunate. Being a role model Sushil should have led by example and never indulged in such a brawl. He has got everything in life, the sport gave him everything, money, fame,” said Ajitpal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sushil-kumar-arrest-sports-fraternity-in-shock-and-disbelief/article34630064.ece
24 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Will take disappointment positively to motivate myself’||Seldom would a sportsperson have had a contrasting a year as Jaydev Unadkat. On the personal front, the left-arm pacer married Rinny in February, getting engaged an hour after leading Saurashtra to its maiden Ranji Trophy title last March, but on the professional front, he has had to face disappointment. The disappointment hasn’t had much to do with his performance. Despite picking 67 wickets — the most by a pacer in a Ranji season — during Saurashtra’s triumphant campaign, Unadkat has been ignored by the national selectors. “I felt (exclusion from) Australia tour was fine because everyone was fit in the main squad. “But later on, (looking at) those who got chances due to injuries, I felt I deserved one,” Unadkat, 29, told The Hindu from Rajkot. Feeling left out “I was hoping to make it to the England tour. As simple as that. “I have said in the past that the guys who are at the top are doing well, so I have to wait for my chance. This time around, I have been honestly disappointed. I’ll still take the disappointment positively to motivate myself to do better.” With the domestic First Class season having come to a standstill due to the pandemic, Unadkat hasn’t had a chance to impress with the red cherry since March 2020. The lanky bowler admits he hasn’t been too frustrated and the thought of calling up a selector and asking what more should he do to earn a Test call-up hasn’t yet crossed his mind. “I haven’t reached that level of frustration for sure. As I look at it, it’s not now or never for me. When I say I am at my peak, it’s still four or five years more to remain at my peak,” he says. Not frustrated “I am 29 and because I made my debut early (in 2010), people consider me ‘old’. I was a teenager when I made my Test debut a decade ago, so I still have a lot of time. I am not that frustrated for sure.” Unadkat hopes that India’s limited-overs series in Sri Lanka would offer him a chance to get back on the field in July. “To be honest, I don’t know what’s next. Had the SPL (Saurashtra Premier League) gone ahead, there was some cricket to be played. Let’s see, the Sri Lanka tour is coming. If that (call-up) comes, it’ll be nice.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-take-disappointment-positively-to-motivate-myself/article34630066.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sreeshankar targets 8.35m at Tokyo||Murali Sreeshankar is lucky, having qualified for Tokyo Olympics and being able to stay home and train in familiar surroundings. But, like everyone else, he desperately needs competitions. The 22-year old long jumper, though, is staying positive. “My preparations are going really fine. It’s been much like pre-season training for me; the only concern, as for all Indian athletes, is being unable to go abroad for training or competitions due to the travel restrictions,” he said during an interaction from Palakkad. “Soon after the Federation Cup (in March, where he qualified with a new national record of 8.26m) we listed all the areas I might be lacking in and we have been working hard on them for the past 6-8 weeks. It’s a big challenge but the life of an athlete is all about challenges and let’s see how I overcome it,” he added. The youngster is targeting 8.35-8.40m at Tokyo. “Actually at Patiala itself I was very close to it. Also, the track there is not as fast as Tokyo, which has Mondo track, the best in the world and quite fast. “Also, my improvement from 8.20 (in 2018) to 8.26m has been because of improved capabilities, strength and speed, not assisted by conditions or atmosphere. Once those aspects also come into play it will get even better,” he explained. While the upcoming Indian Grand Prix 4 and the Inter-State Championships remain on the radar, Sreeshankar is keen on international outings. “I am ideally looking forward to competition in Europe but if not then at least on the Asian circuit, in Kazakhstan or Kyrgyzstan because competing on the international circuit is a different level. However, if that doesn’t happen, then definitely I will be there at IGP 4 and Inter-State because to stimulate a competitive atmosphere, domestic meets will also help.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreeshankar-targets-835m-at-tokyo/article34630100.ece
24 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Award will motivate me, says Pandian||Bureaucrat V. Karthikeya Pandian, who was conferred with the FIH (International Hockey Federation) President’s Award at the FIH Congress on Sunday, has been a sports buff right from his school days. “I feel really happy. It was our team that made it all possible. Actually the award will motivate me to contribute more to Indian sports,” said Pandian, who has been private secretary to Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik since 2011, to The Hindu . “The award I believe was due to the work we did for the men’s World Cup held in Bhubaneswar in 2018. Of course without the encouragement from our CM, the award would not have been possible.” A university champion in 800m and 1500m, Pandian was born in Madurai and did his schooling at the Neyveli Sports Hostel. Graduating from the Agriculture College and Research Institute in Madurai, he did his post graduation at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute in Delhi before clearing the IAS exam. Detailing Odisha’s contribution to sports, Pandian said it is the only State in the country that has a High Performance Centre for weightlifting, athletics, badminton, swimming and hockey, all with corporate sponsors. A fitness freak, Pandian is up at 4 a.m. for his rigorous fitness regimen. “His discipline, hard work, clarity of vision and never-say-die attitude is pushing Odisha towards greater heights in the field of sports,” read a note from the Chief Minister’s Office. Occupied with the impending cyclone and COVID-19 issues in the State, Pandian has his hands full now. “The situation is tough but we are doing our best,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/award-will-motivate-me-says-pandian/article34630105.ece
24 May 2021||BEIJING,||Tragedy strikes ultramarathon||Twenty-one runners in a mountain ultramarathon have died in northwestern China after hail, freezing rain and gale-force winds hit the high-altitude race, state media reported on Sunday. After an all-night rescue operation in freezing temperatures involving more than 700 personnel, rescuers were able to confirm that 151 people were safe, out of a total of 172 participants. Twenty-one had died, according to the official Xinhua News Agency, which said the runners suffered from physical discomfort and the sudden drop in temperature. The runners were racing on an extremely narrow mountain path at an altitude reaching 2,000-3,000 metres. The 100km race was held on Saturday in the Yellow River Stone Forest tourist site in Baiyin city in Gansu province. Participants were not rookies. One of the deceased was a well-known runner Liang Jing, who had won a 100km event in Ningbo. A woman who worked for the race organiser said there were no predictions of extreme weather for the day of the race, according to Beijing News, a paper owned by the Beijing city government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tragedy-strikes-ultramarathon/article34630061.ece
24 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Brushing aside poverty to make waves||They brushed aside poverty to make waves. Two 14-year-old sailors — L. Jhansipriya (whose mother works in the housekeeping department of a private hospital) and V. Vaishnavi (daughter of a domestic help) — have made it to the Indian team for the World championship (under-16) to be held at the Lake Riva Del Garda (Italy) from July 1. Vishvanath does it too P. Vishvanath, a product of Yacht Club of Hyderabad and ranked India No. 3, also made it to the Indian team for the world meet. He has been representing Navy since 2016 and is the son of an auto driver.  YCH president Suheim Sheikh told The Hindu that Vaishnavi and Jhansipriya were first identified when they were part of an 80-member group which tested the waters in 2018 and from whom only 12 were selected for long-term training in regatta.  “It has been a long journey to get to this stage and we are grateful to the Telangana State government, the Metropolitan Commissioner of HMDA, BPPA and the Sports Authority of Telangana State,” the coach said. “We are both looking to move up the ladder to the Olympic and Asian Games Class in Laser and participate in the forthcoming Asian trials to be held in Hyderabad in August, given that this is our last year in the under-16 category,” said a delighted Vaishnavi, who is eagerly looking to migrate to the Lasers and the 29er. “Garda is a lake known for heavy weather and hopefully our experience with Hussain Sagar monsoons will help,” Jhansi said. President of Telangana Sailing Association Lt. Gen. (retd.) K.S. Rao is elated at the “outstanding achievement of the young sailors”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brushing-aside-poverty-to-make-waves/article34630492.ece
24 May 2021||HARARE,||Puma answers Burl’s plea||Puma Cricket responded swiftly to Zimbabwe batsman Ryan Burl’s tweet highlighting the plight of his country’s cricket team. Frustrated with financial constraints, the left-handed batsman had posted a photo of worn-out shoes with the tweet “Any chance we can get a sponsor so we don't have to glue our shoes back after every series”. Puma responded to the plea and assured him of complete support by tweeting “Time to put the glue away, I got you covered @ryanburl3.” Burl expressed his gratitude tweeting “I am so proud to announce that I’ll be joining the @pumacricket team. This is all due to the help and support from the fans over the last 24 hours. I couldn’t be more grateful to you all. Thanks so much @PUMA”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/puma-answers-burls-plea/article34630057.ece
24 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Asia Cup postponed||The Asia Cup has been postponed for the second year in succession, owing to COVID-19. Confirming the postponement through a statement on Sunday, the Asian Cricket Council (ACC) said the rescheduled edition will be played in 2023. The ACC had postponed the 2020 edition to June 2021, allotting it to Sri Lanka in June. However, the COVID-19 surge has forced the ACC to virtually call the edition off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asia-cup-postponed/article34630058.ece
24 May 2021||PARIS,||Nagal draws Marcora||Sumit Nagal, currently ranked 142, on Sunday drew lower-ranked Italian Roberto Marcora (191) while Prajnesh Gunneswaran and Ramkumar Ramanathan got matching rivals for their first-round clashes at the French Open Qualifiers. Prajnesh, ranked 149, will take on Germany’s Oscar Otte, ranked 152, while Ramkumar, now ranked 215, will open his campaign against 168th-ranked Michael Mmoh of USA. In the women’s singles, Ankita Raina will open her campaign against Australian veteran Arina Rodionova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-draws-marcora/article34630062.ece
24 May 2021||LYON,||Tsitsipas wins with ease||Second seed Stefanos Tsitsipas claimed his seventh ATP title after beating Britain’s Cameron Norrie 6-3, 6-3 in the final of the Lyon Open on Sunday. Tsitsipas, who dropped only one set in the tournament, wrapped up the match in 69 minutes to add a second title in the claycourt swing after winning last month’s Monte Carlo Masters. “I felt like things were going my way, I’m proud of this performance against Cameron since he’s been winning against big players and showing what left-handers can do on clay,” Tsitsipas said in a post-match interview on court. Readying for Paris Speaking of his plans ahead of the French Open later this month, the 22-year-old Greek said: “It’s about getting there as early as possible, starting practice and getting in shape for the big Parisian Grand Slam which I adore and love. Hopefully something good can come out of it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tsitsipas-wins-with-ease/article34630063.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||India women to get long-pending reward||The Indian women cricketers, who made the final of last year’s World T20 in Australia, will receive their share from the $500,000 prize money by the end of this week, a senior BCCI official said on Sunday after it came to light that they are yet to be paid. A report in the UK’s Telegraph quoted an official from the Federation of International Cricketers Association (FICA) as saying that the BCCI is yet to disburse the runner-up prize money of the event, which was held in February-March last year. Asked about the delay, he said: “We received the prize money amount late last year. The processing of players’ payments in BCCI does take around three to four months. However, since last year, the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai have remained shut, leading to delay in payments all across.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-to-get-long-pending-reward/article34630067.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indians’ chance to assess themselves||The Indian air rifle and pistol shooters will have the first taste of competition in the ongoing European shooting championship on Monday. The first three days being devoted for the junior events, the Indian team focused on its training after travelling to Osijek, from its training base in Zagreb, Croatia. The Indian shooters will not be eligible to contest the medals, but the qualification series would give them a hint about their level of preparation against world-class shooters. “We have all settled down well. We felt good after completing the seven-day quarantine period. The team is looking forward to the championship,” rifle coach Deepali Deshpande was quoted in a release from the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI). After the air events in both rifle and pistol on Monday, the rest of the Indian shooters will get to shoot their events in rifle 3-position and women’s sports pistol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-chance-to-assess-themselves/article34630096.ece
24 May 2021||Dubai,||Indian boxers will hope to pack a punch||A star-studded Indian contingent, including six-time World champion M.C. Mary Kom and World championships medallists Lovlina Borgohain, Amit Panghal, Vikas Krishan and Shiva Thapa, will look to make an impact in the Asian boxing championships starting here on Monday. Fine platform The event assumes significance as it gives the boxers a fine platform to ply their trade in the run-up to the Tokyo Olympic Games. As per the draws for the different weight categories on Sunday, Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Mohammad Hussamuddin (56kg) is set to begin the proceedings for India on the opening day of the event carrying a prize money of $4,000,000. Thapa (64kg) and Sumit Sangwan (81kg) will also begin their campaign on day one. Defending champion Panghal (52kg), who received a bye in the first round, is among the six Indian men (also including Vikas) who will start their journey from the quarterfinals. Another Olympics-qualified boxer Ashish Kumar (75kg) also has a first round bye. In +91kg category, Narender will be up against another Kazak boxer and two-time World championships silver medallist Kamshibek Kunkabayev in the first round. In the women’s section, Mary (51kg), Lalbuatsaihi (64kg), Lovlina (69kg), Pooja Rani (75kg), Monika (48kg), Saweety (81kg) and Anupama (+81kg) will begin their campaign from the semifinal stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-boxers-will-hope-to-pack-a-punch/article34630101.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Honing their skills||The results of the two international friendlies in Dubai will have no impact on the qualifiers for the 2022 FIFA World Cup and 2023 AFC Asian Cup, said Indian football team members as they prepare for the upcoming games at a preparatory camp in Doha. Returning to action after a long COVID-19 break, India had held Oman to a 1-1 draw but suffered a 6-0 loss against UAE in the two international friendlies in March. “The less we think about it, the better. It’s past. But it’s significant to remember what happened as it drives us to understand the part we need to work upon,” star India goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu said in a release issued by AIFF. “We have three clean slates in front of us. It’s up to us as to what we need to write upon them.” The senior national team will take on Asian Champion Qatar in the first match on June 3. The other two matches are against Bangladesh (June 7) and Afghanistan (June 15). “The perspective of Dubai and Doha are entirely different. In Dubai, we played two different teams in the two matches. That was our return to International Football after almost 16 months,” said defender Pritam Kotal. “The two matches enabled us to slap all the negatives. June will surely be better.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/honing-their-skills/article34630069.ece
24 May 2021||DHAKA,||Bangladesh draws first blood||Off-spinner Mehidy Hasan Miraz claimed four wickets as Bangladesh beat Sri Lanka by 33 runs in the first ODI here on Sunday. Mehidy returned four for 30 to help bowl out Sri Lanka for 224 in the tourists’ chase of 258. Wanindu Hasaranga hit a valiant 74. . Earlier, Mushfiqur Rahim (84) and Mahmudullah (54) put on 109 runs for the fifth wicket to guide Bangladesh to 257 for six.  The scores: Bangladesh 257/6 in 50 overs (Tamim Iqbal 52, Mushfiqur Rahim 84, Mahmudullah 54, Dhananjaya de Silva 3/45) bt Sri Lanka 224 in 48.1 overs (Kusal Perera 30, Wanindu Hasaranga 74, Mustafizur Rahman 3/34, Mehidy Hasan 4/30) . Toss: Bangladesh .   Bangladesh won by 33 runs to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-draws-first-blood/article34630059.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 12:15 IST,||Sudoku — May 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-24-2021/article34631387.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Doctor, your lunch is ready||The influential World Central Kitchen (WCK) has joined forces with Chef Sanjeev Kapoor in India to serve freshly prepared meals to hospital staff working around the clock in seven cities across the country. Activating initially in Mumbai, a local team of chefs prepared vegetable makhanwala with coriander rice for their first day of service. A statement from WCK says “Meals were delivered to several hospitals in two shifts, one for the day staff and another for the night crew. We also provided frontline medical staff with juice — the area is sweltering and workers are wearing full PPE, so dehydration is a major concern.” An organisation founded in 2010 by the Spanish-American Chef José Andrés and his wife Patricia, the World Central Kitchen aims to use food to empower communities and strengthen economies. Over time, they also learned that food can be a powerful tool to heal communities in times of crisis. WCK teams are currently preparing more than 10,000 nourishing meals every day. Across the seven Indian cities they are currently working with (Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chicalim), WCK states that they have served more than 50,000 meals to frontline healthcare workers so far. How it began in India During the 2020 lockdowns, Chef Sanjeev Kapoor realised he needed to find ways to keep his kitchen and staff motivated, despite the challenges of the pandemic. He was also determined to find a way to serve the medical fraternity. “Chefs I spoke to were more than willing to help,” he says over a call from Mumbai. They started with 250 meals per day at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, serving roti, rice, dal, vegetables, fruits, juice and a sweet. “As word spread, we started getting calls from other smaller hospitals to provide food for their staff. Soon, we were providing healthy and balanced meals to most of the hospital, for free.” Chef Kapoor says the hotels and team of chefs were thankful for the initiative as it made them feel helpful in the crisis. This year he joined hands with Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL), which is the Taj Hotels group and Taj flight kitchen. Ian Dubier, area director, Hyderabad and Taj Santacruz Mumbai says the company started serving meals and hosting the medical fraternity last year, at the beginning of this pandemic. He adds, “Since then we have been expanding our outreach.” Buoyed by the project in Mumbai, Chef Kapoor says “José Andrés is a friend and when I told him we want to extend the meals to other cities, he brought in WCK.” Although restaurants, home chefs and volunteers have been working towards helping feed the staff and patients at hospitals, continuity is a challenge at Government hospitals where the numbers are large. WCK, with its sheer manpower, infrastructure and expertise at high volume cooking, helps local teams ramp up. Its relief team will soon start work in Chennai. IHCL’s airline catering brand — TajSats has the manpower and the resources to hygienically cook and pack a huge number of meals everyday, says Dubier. He adds, “In Hyderabad, we are delivering around 1,400 meals everyday (lunch and dinner) from Taj Falaknuma Palace and are very grateful to be associated with Chef Sanjeev Kapoor and the WCK.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/doctor-your-lunch-is-ready/article34630234.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Begone stalkers||In 2015, Nivetha Sakthivel was volunteering to send relief material from Coimbatore for the flood victims in Chennai. One night, she got a call from an unknown number when supervising boxes getting loaded into a vehicle. “Hey, how are you?” the man at the other end asked. Half a minute into the conversation, Nivetha realised he was trying to flirt with her. “It was so frustrating. You are already stressed, managing all the work and calls for help and you have to deal with such people,” she says. The call was not a one-off. She received over 200 such calls and numerous messages asking her “for friendship” — many of them even months after her volunteering stint. These started after the volunteering group shared Nivetha’s number along with the other volunteers’ on social media. However, sharing one’s phone number in such circumstances becomes inevitable. Even in other daily situations — like at the supermarket counter — we reluctantly share our numbers and later get infested with spam calls. An app made in Hyderabad, Doosra (which, in Hindi, means second), aims to solve this issue by providing users with a secondary phone number and blocking unwanted calls. You can share the virtual mobile number with others without compromising your privacy. “We have been seeing a lot of data breaches and issues in cybersecurity of late. So, we felt it was important to protect your identity from the phone number you end up sharing,” says founder Aditya Vuchi, who also heads MediaMint, a marketing and advertising firm, and Zippr, an Information Technology service company. This is how it works: you get a Doosra number upon signing up. All calls to your Doosra number, except those in your ‘trusted contacts’ list, will be blocked. The caller can send you a voicemail. You, however, get to know the caller’s number. So, you can call them back using the app’s “intermediate number” so that the other person sees neither your phone number nor your Doosra number. You can also disable the call blocker on the app for a specific time or location. Free for volunteers Ever since the pandemic began, many volunteers across the country have complained of stalking after sharing their numbers. So, Doosra is providing a free six-month plan for them. “There are people with nefarious intentions everywhere. And, it also gets difficult if your phone is ringing 100 to 200 times in the middle of the night. Volunteers have a life of their own and need to look out for themselves. This is why we felt it was important to give them this option of a free plan.”  Volunteers can email the team at covid19@doosra.io||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/begone-stalkers/article34630236.ece
24 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Tension grips Hisar ahead of demonstration by farmers||Tension gripped Hisar ahead of the call for demonstration by the farm unions on Monday in protest against the police action on the agitating farmers a week ago. The unions claimed that hundreds of farmers from across the State were likely to assemble at Krantiman Park in the district seeking withdrawal of the case against the farmers. All-India Kisan Sabha (Haryana) president, Phool Singh Sheokand said that farmers from four districts falling under the Hisar police range – Hisar, Jind, Sirsa and Fatehabad – were primarily expected to assemble in large numbers along with those from other districts as well. “Despite reaching an understanding with the farmer leaders to not to register a case in connection with the clash between the farmers and the police during Chief Minister Manohar Lal visit to Hisar on May 16, the district administration went back on its words to book around 350 farmers, including 50 named, for attempt to murder. The farmers have now decided to assemble at Hisar with the demand to withdraw the case and seek action against the erring police officers,” said Mr. Sheokand. Deputy Commissioner, Hisar, Priyanka Soni told The Hindu that the administration held talks with the farmer leaders immediately after they received their representation on May 21 regarding the demonstration and requested them to call it off. “We held talks with 15-20 leaders and assured to look into their demands. We requested them to withdraw the agitation in view of the Covid situation and lockdown, but they refused,” said Ms. Soni. She said the Divisional Commissioner office also tried to engage with Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, but no one turned up for the meeting yesterday (May 22). BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said the administration must book Chief Minister Manohar Lal and others for violating the Covid norms at the inauguration of the hospital and the policemen for pelting stones at the farmers. “We are firm on holding the demonstration tomorrow (on Monday). All prominent farmer leaders from Haryana will be present,” said Mr. Bains.  ‘Non-cooperation’ Comrade Suresh Kumar, Haryana vice-president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said more than a dozen villages in the district had launched “non-cooperation” movement with the call to boycott the lockdown in the aftermath of the police action.  Administration held talks with farmer leaders to call it off but they refused Priyanka SoniDeputy Commissioner, Hisar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tension-grips-hisar-ahead-of-demonstration-by-farmers/article34630468.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CM Kejriwal extends lockdown till May 31||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the extension lockdown in the Capital till May 31. He said the government would consider a phased unlock from May 31 if the number of cases continues to remain low as they have been over the past week. This is the fifth extension of the lockdown that began in the Capital on April 19. “We are extending the lockdown by one more week and have taken the opinions of several sections of society into consideration. We may lose the gains we have achieved in the past one month if we unlock right now and it needs to continue for another week. If the cases continue to decline at the same speed in the following week, then we will start the unlock process from May 31,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that Delhi was the first State to announce a lockdown on April 19 at the start of the second wave. He said at that time, the government did not know how long the new wave would last as the positivity rate reached 36% in April. However, in the last 24 hours, the infection rate has fallen below 2.5%, the Chief Minister said, adding: “We have seen an improvement in the COVID-19 situation. I will not say that we have won the battle. There is still a lot left to be won over. But now it seems that we are gaining control over the situation and the spread of the virus has decreased rapidly.” Thanking people for fighting the virus together, Mr. Kejriwal said: “We have fought this together — the Central Government, the Supreme Court, Delhi High Court — all of them came together and the problem of oxygen was resolved. We now have a problem — shortage of vaccine — and we will come together and overcome this difficulty as well.” The Chief Minister said the top priority of the Delhi government right now is to vaccinate Delhiites. “We are preparing for a large vaccination programme but need supplies. We are willing to spend any amount on buying vaccines from companies to protect Delhiites. We are in touch with the Centre as well as vaccine companies in India and abroad to ensure that the Capital gets a steady supply at the earliest,” Mr. Kejriwal said. For combating the third wave, he said, the government is also deciding on the required number of beds, including the ones in ICU, and oxygen supply. He said the government is also checking the viability of either buying oxygen tankers or creating oxygen storage tanks. The Chief Minister appealed to people to continue to adhere to the lockdown rules, maintaining strict discipline and other COVID-19 protocols.  We are preparing for a large vaccination programme but we need supplies. We are willing to spend any amount on buying vaccines from companies to protect Delhiites... Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-kejriwal-extends-lockdown-till-may-31/article34630271.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||The storm and the aftermath||As if getting infected with COVID-19 was not hard enough, the road to recovery has been difficult and draining for many. To some, the “worst phase” began after the 14-day window was over. Laid low by extreme weakness, brain fog and vision issues, the recovery process has been anything but smooth for many of them. Rupa Singh, a public relations executive, had a fever that lasted for around two weeks followed by other health issues. “Initially I had a fever and severe body ache. The sense of taste and smell went away in a couple of days as well. The fever lasted for about two weeks. For me, the worst part began after these 14 days. The brain fog was not something I was prepared for. During office calls, I always took extra seconds to respond and I felt I could not really form long sentences. There was trouble remembering. There still is, but it is better than before,” said Ms. Singh. Stating that booking blood tests and COVID tests remained a challenge, Ms. Singh said: “They came after five days of booking. It almost felt pointless after a while. I do not know if anyone else also experienced this, but I could not see properly for two weeks. As if everything was three shades darker. I am still recovering, to be frank. I eat healthy food, high protein and high vitamin C is a part of life for me.”  Tiredness, migraines Describing the recovery process as “extremely exhausting,” 20-year-old Tarini Gupta said: “To a point, the recovery process was excruciating in terms of weakness, constant migraines and muscular pains. Although during recovery these issues slowly subsided, even to date, aftereffects remain, despite almost a month since the recovery started.” A balanced diet played an important part in her recovery path. “As for the medical advice, dolo, antibiotics and most importantly zinc and vitamin C and D tablets were prescribed, which were extremely helpful in maintaining stable vital levels and aiding recovery. But most importantly I was consuming wholesome and nutritious food that was light on the stomach and balanced in composition,” she said. “My experience was a mediocre one, apart from my peak days when I was on the worse end of the spectrum, symptom-less days were dull, tiresome and my mood was plummeting constantly. I was also sleeping for more than 12 hours a day. Netflix, video calling my loved ones and self-care got me through it,” added Ms. Gupta. For East Delhi resident Shalini Prasad, however, the recovery was a quick one, as the infection was mild. “Doctors were very helpful and available 24x7 on-call despite being overly stressed themselves. They were clear about the medication and care. As both my husband and daughter were infected during the same time, we were able to take care of each other. Our local medical shop was extremely helpful and ensured the availability of medicines that were not easily available at that time,” said Ms. Prasad. Ms. Prasad further added: “My experience during this period regarding supplies was positive as there was no shortage of any essential item. Also, the surge largely diminished the stigma that was associated with COVID-19 and people around are helpful and empathetic.” Fruits-rich diet D.K. Das, a senior consultant orthopaedic and joint replacement surgeon, empathised with the patients. “The recovery process is painful and once the recovery has been made many patients have complained of problems like fatigue, neurological and respiratory symptoms. Other symptoms are residual loss of smell and taste, dizziness, lack of concentration, chest pain, and shortness of breath.” He advises a balanced diet. “Patients should follow a healthy and balanced diet at regular intervals, consuming fruits, vegetables, wholegrain, nuts and animal source food to ensure maximum intake of amino acids, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin A and vitamin E to boost up their immune system. Patients are advised to maintain an adequate intake of water, sufficient sleep, meditation and diversion of mind towards some constructive or recreative work that causes the health hormones to activate the physiological system, thereby boosting the immune system and fighting against the residual virus in the body,” explained Dr. Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-storm-and-the-aftermath/article34630267.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||New cases below 2,000 mark for first time since March 31||For the first time since March 31, the number of new COVID cases in the Capital came down below the 2,000 mark with 1,649 cases being recorded on Sunday. It was also for the second day in a row that the number of deaths stayed below the 200 mark with the city witnessing 189 deaths in 24 hours. The health bulletin said 68,043 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 2.42%. There are currently 27,610 active cases, of which 15,844 are in home isolation. On Saturday, there were 31,308 active cases, of which 18,060 were under home isolation. The decrease in the number of cases happened gradually over the past week with Delhi recording 2,260 cases on Saturday, 3,009 on Friday, 3,231 on Thursday and 3,846 on Wednesday. The number of deaths has also been falling steadily with 182 on Saturday, 252 on Friday, 232 on Thursday and 235 on Wednesday. The number of cumulative cases now stands at 14,16,868 with 23,202 deaths and 13,66,065 recoveries. The health bulletin added in 24 hours, 64,319 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 44,752 had received their first dose. The government on Friday had announced that due to shortage of vaccines, the drive for those in the 18-44 age group would stop temporarily from May 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-cases-below-2000-mark-for-first-time-since-march-31/article34630269.ece
24 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Passengers skip COVID test amid melee at Assam station||A train that traverses the longest route of 4,386 km across India became the cause of a major COVID scare in Assam on Sunday morning as scores of passengers stampeded out a station evading the mandatory COVID-19 test. Passengers from the Kanyakumari-Dibrugarh Vivek Express rushed out of the Jagi Road railway station in central Assam’s Morigaon district soon after the train arrived at 10:30 a.m. “We have sought the passenger list from the Railways. We are tracing the people and by tomorrow (Monday) we should be able to locate them and get them tested,” district Superintendent of Police Aparna N. told The Hindu . She said the station had a testing counter and adequate Government Railway Police personnel but the “crowd in the special train was much more than expected” and people managed to leave without getting tested. “At least 11 people were caught during the day for testing,” district nodal officer for COVID Romy Baruah said. A Northeast Frontier Railway spokesperson said 133 passengers were to get off at Jagi Road according to the reservation chart. “But more people got down and fled,” he said. Meanwhile another train brought in welcome cargo to Assam as a special train carrying 80 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) reached Amingaon from Tatanagar in Jharkhand. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the NFR general manager received the first consignment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/passengers-skip-covid-test-amid-melee-at-assam-station/article34630261.ece
24 May 2021||Mumbai,||Two years of Modi govt.: NCP, Congress highlight failures||The Congress and the NCP in Maharashtra on Sunday slammed the Narendra Modi government as the latter gets set to complete two years of its second term on May 26. Senior Congress leader Anant Gadgil said the “Gujarat model of governance” on which Mr. Modi came to power in 2014 stood exposed amid the novel coronavirus outbreak with even the High Court pulling up the BJP government in the neighbouring State on ineffectiveness of measures to tackle the pandemic. “In Uttar Pradesh, where too the BJP is in power with a majority in the Assembly, photographs of funerals on open grounds and bodies being disposed of in rivers have made headlines in the international media, while Goa has seen COVID-19 deaths from shortage of oxygen supply,” he said. In Karnataka, another BJP-ruled State, the situation was so bleak in capital Bengaluru, Mr. Gadgil said, that seven of the 13 crematoriums had had to be reserved for COVID-19 victims. NCP leader and Minister Nawab Malik said there were no takers for Mr. Modi’s “Indian model”. “Disposing of bodies in the river, people dying due to lack of oxygen, announcing a vaccination drive when there are no vaccine doses ... such a model will not be accepted by anyone. An Indian model is a must and a necessity but the BJP is giving an opportunity to point fingers and criticise,” Mr. Malik claimed. He said one must strive to do good work, which if successful, people would praise, but they would not accept failures and denial to accept failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-years-of-modi-govt-ncp-congress-highlight-failures/article34630238.ece
24 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Lockdown in Haryana extended till May end||The Haryana government on Sunday extended lockdown for the third straight week till May 31. Restrictions in shops The standalone shops and the ones in marketplaces are now allowed to open with certain restrictions, but shopping malls will continue to remain shut. Amid a decline in the number of active cases and the positivity rate in the State, the Haryana government extended lockdown — rechristened as “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana” — for another week till 5 a.m. on May 31, saying there was a need to continue the restrictions to further bring down the positivity and fatality rates. As per the latest directions, standalone shops are allowed to open during the time when the night curfew is not in operation. The shops in marketplaces can remain open from 7 a.m. to 12 noon in a staggered manner. These shops will be allowed to open as per the odd-even formula. In a sharp decline in daily fresh cases during the lockdown, the State recorded 5,021 new cases on May 22 against 13,588 on May 2 when the government first announced a week-long lockdown from May 3-10. The recovery rate has also improved from 79 % to 92.45 %. However, there is a slight increase in the death rate which has gone up from 0.87% on May 2 to 1.01% on May 22. As per the latest report, the positivity rate in the state is 9.06%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-in-haryana-extended-till-may-end/article34630262.ece
24 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ready for probe, says U.P. Education Minister||A controversy broke out in Uttar Pradesh after the State’s Education Minister’s brother was appointed as an assistant professor in a university in Siddhartnagar district under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota. While the university maintained that the recruitment was based on merit, the Minister said he was ready for a probe in the matter. Arun Kumar, the brother of Satish Chandra Dwivedi, Minister of State (independent charge) Basic Education, was appointed by the Siddharth University, a State university. In a State where caste politics reigns supreme, the Minister was left wanting for a clarification after it came to light that his brother had been appointed under the EWS quota. Vice-Chancellor (V-C) Surendra Dubey said the recruitment was valid and done through an objective process. After advertisement was published for the post of assistant professor under the EWS category in the Psychology department, Arun Kumar was among the ten candidates who cleared the screening on the basis of their academic performance, said Mr. Dubey. Mr. Kumar secured a API score of 80 out of 100 and stood at second rank, added Mr. Dubey. Following an interview by a panel of experts, Mr. Kumar was adjudicated number one on the merit list, said the V-C. “Video recording of the interview was conducted,” he told The Hindu . Asked about the EWS quota, Mr. Dubey said as per the rules it was issued by the district administration but if a “competent authority asks for it, we will get it probed.” “If found to be wrong, the appointment will be cancelled,” he said. Before applying at Siddharth University, Mr. Kumar had last July resigned after serving two years in the Banasthali Vidyapeeth in Jaipur. Responding to the questions over his brother’s appointment, Mr. Dwivedi said it was a matter of a candidate applying for a job and a university appointing him through a laid down procedure.  ‘No intervention’ “There is no intervention by me in this matter. Nor do I want to say anything. It is misfortune that he is my brother. If anyone has an objection, he can get it probed,” Mr. Dwivedi told reporters in Sonbhadra. He stressed that his “brother has a separate identity.” “Now if you are wondering, I am an MLA and Minister, how come my brother is an EWS. If there is a state head or national head of a (television news) channel with a package of Rs. 3-5 crore, does his brother also get rights over the income,” the Minister asked to push his point. Mr. Dubey said Arun Kumar did not mention the surname Dwivedi in any of his documents. The Minister did not make any recommendation, directly or indirectly, at any stage for the appointment, the V-C said. Akhilesh Yadav, then Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, laid the foundation stone of the university on October 30, 2013 and it was formally notified in June 17, 2015. Social activist Nutan Thakur wrote to Governor Anandiben Patel demanding a probe into the matter claiming the appointment was suspicious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-for-probe-says-up-education-minister/article34630469.ece
24 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Healing touch through melody||A folk singer based in southern Assam’s Silchar has literally become music to the ears of those who have caught the novel coronavirus. No one responded initially when Bikramjit Kar, who prefers to be called Bikramjit Baulia because of his obsession with the songs of the Bauls or the mystic minstrels of Bengal, took to social media six days ago offering COVID-19 patients uplifting songs on call. Some friends and acquaintances mocked his “publicity stunt”. But a call on the fourth day for a popular folk number made him feel he was on the right track. “I have since sung a variety of songs to about 250 people recovering from the infection. I have also had to deviate from an array of Bengali folk songs to Hindi songs for some people in Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Pune and elsewhere in India,” Mr. Baulia told The Hindu on Sunday. Request from non-Bengali people has made him brush up on his Hindi with most callers asking for Bollywood film songs of Kishore Kumar and Mohammed Rafi. Mental health Mr. Baulia, 33, believes mental health is as important as medicines in the fight against COVID-19. “I have come across people who lost the battle in the mind. So, I decided to offer musical therapy to keep the infected people in high spirits,” he said. The songs-on-call service is a musical spin to his 2020 initiative to encourage people to call each other up to maintain psychological intimacy while practising physical distancing. “I have been performing on the stage since 2004, have participated in music reality shows, received awards and even performed in Bangladesh. But I have never felt as happy as I am now,” Mr. Baulia said. Virtually out of work due to the lockdown in 2020, he opened a small pharmacy six months ago. Unlike most others, he has been delivering medicines home to people infected with the virus. Last year, his NGO Aabeg (Emotion) had provided free food for 3,000 people. He has earned praise from Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who tweeted: “Such healing touch through melody is an amazing experience and support towards the mental strength of COVID-19 positive patients.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/healing-touch-through-melody/article34630260.ece
24 May 2021||Panaji,||Goa sees 1,621 new cases, 42 deaths||Goa’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 1,621 new cases and reached 1,46,460 on Sunday, a Health Department official said. The death toll mounted to 2,383 after 42 more patients succumbed to the infection during the day, he said. The number of recoveries in Goa rose to 1,26,800 with 2,545 patients being discharged on Sunday. Goa was now left with 17,277 active cases, the official said. “With 4,568 new tests, the total number of samples tested so far in Goa went up to 7,87,977,” he added. Goa’s COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,46,460, new cases 1,621, death toll 2,383, discharged 1,26,800, active cases 17,277, samples tested till date 7,87,977.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/goa-sees-1621-new-cases-42-deaths/article34630237.ece
24 May 2021||Pune,||CBSE Class XII exams: Priority is to ensure safe environment for students, says Varsha Gaikwad||Providing a safe environment to students was the top priority for the Maharashtra government, State Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Sunday. Ms. Gaikwad, along with other State Education ministers, participated in a high-level meeting with Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to discuss the conduct of CBSE Class XII exams amid speculation of a possible third wave of COVID-19. During the meeting, Ms. Gaikwad said that the option of a non-examination route for Class XII students must be actively considered in view of the grim pandemic situation and the possibility of children being vulnerable to new virus strains. She also said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would be chairing a meeting in the next two days to take a final decision on the conduct of the Class X and Class XII Board exams. “The health and mental well-being of students is our first priority. Students and parents have been sharing their concerns regarding sitting for exams in the midst of the pandemic…students have been studying in an atmosphere of uncertainty for the last 14 months now. In the interest of students, we must take a decision to end this uncertainty,” Ms. Gaikwad said. Regarding the mode of evaluation, the minister said that a retrospective assessment model could be considered to decide on the students. Ms. Gaikwad further said in the meeting that the focus of all State governments must be on evolving a uniform assessment policy, while prioritising vaccinations of teachers and students before the resumption of schools and colleges in the next academic year. She expressed regret that the CBSE had not met at all during the pandemic year while pressing the need for more such meetings. “For CBSE schools, the Centre has sought feedback from States on two options on conduct of exams. While I have given my initial feedback, I have also conveyed to them that I would be holding further deliberations with the Chief Minister regarding the conduct of both CBSE and State Board exams in Maharashtra,” Ms. Gaikwad said. The Bombay High Court had recently slammed the State government for scrapping the Class X Board exams. Responding to that, Ms. Gaikwad said that the State government would apprise the High Court of the potential threat to students in the event of a third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cbse-class-xii-exams-priority-is-to-ensure-safe-environment-for-students-says-varsha-gaikwad/article34630241.ece
24 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Conducting CBSE Class XII board exams would be a big mistake: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said conducting CBSE Class XII examinations would be a big mistake on behalf of the Centre as it would render children and teachers even more vulnerable to COVID-19 at a time when there are 2.5 lakh new cases in our country being reported daily. He said at the national-level meeting hosted by Education Ministry on conducting Class XII board exams, the Delhi government had suggested that the Centre completely cancel the exams if vaccination students before it is not possible. It also suggested the ‘no-exam policy’ for students, awarding grades on the basis of their unit tests, pre-board exams, practical exams, similar to Class X grade’s promotional policy. The government said students should also be given a choice to re-take exams for improvement, in case they are not satisfied with their results. “In such a time of crisis, the Centre should speak with Pfizer, as it has already developed vaccines for 12+ children, and acquire these vaccines for the 1.4 crore students who are currently studying in Class 12. Only after vaccinating all students should the Centre think about conducting any kind of examination,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added that 95% of these students, who are scheduled to appear for the board examination, are approximately 17.5 years old and the Central government should ask experts if they can be included in the above 18 years category. “The consensus of the entire education community is that conducting exams is important but not by putting our students and teachers at risk...,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/conducting-cbse-class-xii-board-exams-would-be-a-big-mistake-sisodia/article34630268.ece
24 May 2021||Ayodhya,||Five of family murdered in U.P.||All five members of a family, including three children, all below 10 years of age, were killed in a village near here with the murderers slitting open their throats in their sleep, police said on Sunday. The gruesome murders, in which a girl child too was done to death, were carried out in Khanpur village under the Inayatnagar police station of the district on Saturday night over a property dispute, Ayodhya’s Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey said. The SSP identified the victim family as that of Horilal, a Dalit resident of Khanpur village. A total of four persons were involved in the killings, the SSP added. The police managed to arrest all four of them within 15 hours of the killings, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-of-family-murdered-in-up/article34630258.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||COVID patients forced to fend for themselves: HC||Absence of medical resources forced COVID-19 patients to fend for themselves and look for oxygen concentrator as an alternative to liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and even procure the device from overseas amid short supply, the Delhi High Court said. The court made the observation while declaring as “unconstitutional” the Centre’s decision to impose Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) on oxygen concentrators which are imported by individuals or received as gifts for personal use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-patients-forced-to-fend-for-themselves-hc/article34630264.ece
24 May 2021||Guwahati,||In Arunachal, warlord eyes ‘friendly’ rival’s space||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland or NSCN (I-M) is arguably the most organised and disciplined of the extremist groups — active or disbanded — in the Northeast. But a maverick top gun of the outfit, known to offer his services for political kills, has been operating independently in sync with the NSCN (Khaplang-Yung Aung) to gain ground in southern Arunachal Pradesh, officials said. Two years after the NSCN split into the Isak-Muivah and Khaplang groups in 1988, the latter ventured into the Changlang, Longding and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh. The NSCN (Khaplang) capitalised on the geographical proximity of these districts — they adjoin the Nagaland and Sagaing area of Myanmar where the outfit is based — as well as tribal affinity to entrench itself. The Nocte and Wancho communities of Arunachal Pradesh share a cultural affinity with the Konyaks of Nagaland’s Mon and Tuensang districts, once comprising the main fighting force of NSCN (K). The Tangsas, on the other hand, live on either side of the border separating Arunachal Pradesh and Myanmar. The NSCN (I-M) began penetrating southern Arunachal Pradesh about two decades ago as the NSCN (K) kept splitting into factions such as NSCN (Unification), NSCN (Reformation). These became bit players after Yung Aung (YA) took over the NSCN (K) following the death of its patriarch Shangnyu Shangwang Khaplang died in June 2017. “The NSCN (K) factions and the southern Arunachal unit of NSCN (I-M) led by the self-styled major-general Rockwang Absalom Tangkhul had been fighting for territorial control. But the NSCN (K-YA) and Absalom struck a deal for peaceful co-existence, although they have not gone for joint operations,” a security force officer said on condition of anonymity. The factional clashes in Arunachal Pradesh ended by 2014 and both the I-M and K-YA have been taxing every village, house and shop in areas under their respective control.  Mutually beneficial The understanding between the two groups has been mutually beneficial. While K-YA has dominance in Longding district and has yielded some space to I-M in Changlang, the I-M enjoys more territorial control in Tirap. According to Armed Forces officials, the NSCN (K-YA)’s activities on the Indian side have suffered after key leaders such as Khango Konyak, Nyemlang Konyak and Niki Sumi crossed over with at least 90 loyalists and joined the peace process with New Delhi. Absalom and his band of 180-200 fighters have reportedly been taking advantage of the unwritten agreement as well as a weakening NSCN (K-YA) to cover more ground. Much of his activities do not have the sanction of the NSCN (I-M) leadership based at Hebron near Nagaland’s commercial hub Dimapur, officials say. “The NSCN (I-M) has been maintaining distance from him because of the NIA case against him,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-arunachal-warlord-eyes-friendly-rivals-space/article34630467.ece
24 May 2021||New Delhi,||Lok Nayak records 15 new cases of black fungus||The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital reported 15 more cases of black fungus in a day, taking its tally to 36, an official said on Sunday. Of the 36 cases, 30 people are COVID positive, LNJP Hospital’s medical director Suresh Kumar said. Mucormycosis or black fungus is more common among people whose immunity has weakened due to COVID, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues, or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lok-nayak-records-15-new-cases-of-black-fungus/article34630263.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Not in plain sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/not-in-plain-sight/article34630488.ece
24 May 2021||Bhopal (M.P.),||FIR against Kamal Nath||An FIR was registered against Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Sunday for allegedly creating panic over the pandemic through his remarks, a police officer said. The case against him was registered based on a complaint lodged by Bhopal BJP district chief Sumeet Pachouri and two BJP MLA — Vishwas Sarang and Rameshwar Sharma — among others, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-against-kamal-nath/article34630470.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Virus fear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virus-fear/article34630472.ece
24 May 2021||Agartala,||Two die while cleaning tank in Tripura||In a shocking incident, two labourers died due to suffocation after inhaling toxic gases at a house in Udaipur town of Gomati district in south Tripura on Sunday. The house owner had engaged them to clean the water tank and a mishap occurred when they entered deep below the reservoir.  Fire brigade called The fire brigade was called in when house members did not hear from cleaning labourers for a considerable time. They were found unconscious and were rushed to the hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. The deceased labourers have been identified as Haradhan Chakraborty and Jahangir Hussein. Both were residents of the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-die-while-cleaning-tank-in-tripura/article34630473.ece
24 May 2021||Bhopal (M.P.),||Ban on buses extended||The Madhya Pradesh government’s ban on the movement of buses from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan into the State in force till Sunday was extended till May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ban-on-buses-extended/article34630257.ece
24 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Number of bodies found in Raigad touches eight||With four more bodies found on two beaches in Raigad on Saturday evening, the number of bodies suspected to be from sunken Barge P-305  spotted along the district coast has gone up to eight . While one body was found on Awas beach, three were found on Kihim beach in Alibaug taluka. The barge sank off Mumbai on May 17 after Cyclone Tauktae hit the coast. Raigad Superintendent of Police Ashok Dudhe said the bodies were taken to Alibaug Civil Hospital where the post-mortem was conducted and DNA samples were collected. “The bodies have been handed over to the Yellow Gate police. None of them have been identified yet. One has French beard and a chain with Cross locket. When the relatives come here, we would hand over the DNA samples to them,” Mr. Dudhe said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/number-of-bodies-found-in-raigad-touches-eight/article34630239.ece
24 May 2021||May 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Out of bounds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/out-of-bounds/article34630535.ece
