25 May 2021||Kolkata,||Odisha, Bengal grapple with evacuation ahead of cyclone||As the storm system Yaas heads towards the north Odisha-West Bengal coast, several thousand people are set to be evacuated from the coastal districts of both States. Officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Kolkata said on Monday that the very severe cyclonic storm will make landfall by Wednesday. G.K. Das, Deputy Director and head of the RMC, said, “The cyclone will cross on May 26 noon as a very severe cyclonic storm. It is likely to make landfall between the Paradip Coast in Odisha and Sagar Island in West Bengal, close to Balasore in Odisha.” Mr. Das predicted that at the time of landfall, wind speed in the districts of north Odisha and Purba Medinpur in West Bengal would be about 155 to 165 kmph, gusting at 185 kmph. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the State was in the process of evacuating about 10 lakh people to cyclone shelters. “We have about 4,000 cyclone shelters, where people who are being evacuated will be given shelter to minimise the loss of lives. Twenty of the 23 districts will be affected by Yaas.” “We have kept stock of relief materials at blocks. Control rooms are working round the clock in districts, blocks and even in municipalities,” Ms. Banerjee stated. The Chief Minister said power back-up had been provided at hospitals. About 51 teams of the State Disaster Response Force had been posted at several strategic places in the State. Wind speeds over coastal areas in North and South 24 Parganas during landfall are likely to be 90 km-100 km, gusting 120 km at the time of the landfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-bengal-grapple-with-evacuation-ahead-of-cyclone/article34637654.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Migrant workers may just want to go home, says SC||Scared, unemployed and hungry migrant workers may just want to go home and will hardly care for the finer nuances of the “national” and “mini” lockdowns imposed by the government, the Supreme Court said on Monday. “Whether it was the national lockdown in 2020 or the mini lockdowns in 2021, psychologically, the attitude of migrant workers remains the same — they would want to go home,” Justice M.R. Shah addressed the Union government. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Shah was hearing a suo motu case to provide migrant labourer families marooned in big cities dry rations and cooked food and public transport to workers travelling home to their villages, where they think they would be safe from the clutches of the virus. Justice Shah’s remark came when the government said the situation in 2021 was different from last year, when the entire nation was shut down to curb infection. Responding quickly, the government submitted that it had opened control rooms. But it was the responsibility of the States to provide cooked food for stranded migrant workers. The court, not quite taken in by the submissions, referred to an affidavit filed by the government. Justice Bhushan said the document mentioned only people covered under the Food Security Act, that is, people with ration cards. The court said unorganised labourers, wandering from one place of work to another in mega cities, could not be expected to have ration cards. The court asked the Centre to file a further affidavit detailing everything it has done to provide dry rations to migrant workers under the Atmanirbhar scheme. Initially, during the beginning of the hearing, Justice Bhushan sounded sceptical, wondering whether the migrants’ plight in the second wave was as bad as last year. Justices Bhushan and Shah had passed a plethora of orders for the welfare of migrant workers in 2020. “This time the situation is not as grim as last time,” Justice Bhushan said. ‘Grimmer this time’ Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who accused the Centre and the States of a lacklustre approach on migrant workers, said, “In fact, it is grimmer this time… Public health has been more severely affected in the second wave. As a result, more people have again lost their jobs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrant-workers-may-just-want-to-go-home-says-sc/article34637659.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Equip all govt. hospital beds with oxygen supply: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao asked officials to equip all government hospital beds in the State with oxygen supply and take steps to produce oxygen with an installed capacity of 600 tonnes. “The entire system is in a pathetic and horrifying condition on account of COVID and black fungus. The government is prepared to spend any amount and even borrow to meet the situation,” he said at an official meeting on Monday to discuss the COVID situation and lockdown in the State. The Chief Minister said everyone who turned up at primary health centres and other facilities for testing should be obliged and no ceiling on tests conducted in a day. A two-pronged strategy to combat COVID — continuing door-to-door survey for fever and stepping up testing to detect positive cases could be adopted. The survey which also included supply of medical kits to people with COVID symptoms yielded good results and, therefore, it should be continued. At the same time, nobody should be turned away from PHCs if they came for tests as a majority of them were poor, Mr. Rao said. The quantity of rapid antigen kits at PHCs should be increased from Tuesday. The manufacturers could be contacted to supply 50 lakh kits immediately, Mr.Rao said. Referring to post-COVID dangers from black fungus, he asked officials to immediately mobilise adequate medicines and beds for patients. About 200 beds at Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital and 100 more at Gandhi Hospital should be arranged. Their total strength for treatment of such cases across the State should be enhanced to 1,500 from the present 360 beds. He expressed satisfaction at the enforcement of lockdown and COVID cases showing decline. In this context, the two-pronged strategy assumed significance to further bring them down. He asked officials to step up the temporary recruitment of doctors and para-medical staff to make available adequate manpower at medical facilities. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao was asked to hold a teleconference with District Medical and Health Officers and prepare a report on the status of recruitment and availability of medicines at hospitals. As regards expenditure on enforcement of lockdown, he noted that some departments spent high and some low. The budget of departments like police and medical and health should be increased. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao should hold a departmental meeting to discuss this. The chairman of State-level task force committee on procurement of vaccines K.T. Rama Rao was asked to negotiate with vaccine manufacturers for supply of vaccine to a large number of people awaiting second dose. He asked officials to study best practices in tackling COVID in States like Delhi and Maharashtra as part of preparations to face the threat of third wave of the pandemic. They should make preparations to meet COVID and black fungus cases as if the population of the State was 10 crore and not four crore as was at present as a large number of patients were coming here from other States. The State government was in no position to deny treatment to outsiders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/equip-all-govt-hospital-beds-with-oxygen-supply-kcr/article34638126.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hospitals’ ICU occupancy tells a serious COVID tale in Delhi||The sharp dip in COVID-19 cases in the Capital is reflected in the discharge of patients from general COVID wards of hospitals in the past few days, but not in those occupying ICU beds. On May 10, the number of patients on ICU beds was 5,403, a figure that dropped to 4,798 — over 11% — on May 22. According to Delhi government statistics, the cumulative tally of active COVID-positive cases recorded a decline of 67%, plummeting from 83,809 to 27,610 between May 10 and 22, and the number of non-ICU patients reduced by over 58% from 12,740 to 5,226. More and more COVID-19 patients are being discharged from hospitals on a daily basis indicating the steady departure of the second wave of novel coronavirus infection from the Capital. But the thousands of seriously ill among them who continue to occupy ICU beds have emerged as a cause for concern. According to doctors, this indicates both the virulence of new variants as well as the severity of lung damage suffered by COVID patients who contracted the infection in the second wave. ‘More younger patients’ “During the second wave we have come across more younger patients than older ones. Much damage to the respiratory system along with issues such as sepsis and multiple organ failure have been noticed in patients, which necessitates their need for intensive care,” said Dr. Survankar Datta of AIIMS. This, even as discharge figures were more than double the number of COVID-19 patients admitted on Sunday — 905 against 412. This also happens to be the lowest number of hospital admissions in the city since April 5 when 406 COVID-19 patients were admitted. “Lack of timely access to oxygen after contracting the infection has also been observed as a reason for the extent of lung damage. Patients in ICUs this time are certainly taking more time to recover,” said Dr. Ashwin Mallya, consultant urologist and robotic surgeon, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, who handled numerous COVID patients this year. “There are also instances where they have returned to ICUs because of post-COVID complications given the damage to their lungs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-icu-occupancy-tells-a-serious-covid-tale-in-delhi/article34638097.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,||New land regulations spark protests in Lakshadweep||Discontent is simmering in the verdant environs of the Lakshadweep group of islands over a slew of regulations introduced by the new administrator Praful Khoda Patel in the first five months of his tenure, which have also seen the archipelago lose its treasured status of being a ‘COVID-free region’. COVID-19 affected Lakshadweep after the stipulation for mandatory quarantine of Dweep-bound travellers in Kochi was done away with under Mr. Patel’s orders. As a result, the remote island chain has 6,847 cases as on May 24. Consequently, the 10 inhabited islands of the Union Territory have been under lockdown for two months now. The UT administration is accused of exploiting the restrictions, which prevent locals from gathering, to push “arbitrary legislation” brought in by Mr. Patel. The most recent of these is the creation of a Lakshadweep Development Authority (LDA) with extensive powers, including eviction of land owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-land-regulations-spark-protests-in-lakshadweep/article34637644.ece
25 May 2021||ONGOLE,||Gangster, 11 accomplices awarded death penalty||A court here on Monday awarded the death sentence to gangster and serial highway killer Md. Abdul Samad, alias Munna Bhai, and 11 of his accomplices who were found guilty of dacoity and murder in three cases, considering them among the rarest of rare cases. Additional district and sessions judge-cum-family court judge G. Manohar Reddy sentenced four other accomplices of Munna Bhai, who waylaid trucks on the Chennai-Kolkata highway in 2008 and escaped with the vehicles and the goods in them after murdering the occupants, to life imprisonment. Initially, police were clueless about the disappearance of several fully loaded trucks and their drivers on the expressway. Prakasam police achieved a breakthrough after an intense probe, which took them to various States, including Tamil Nadu, Bihar and West Bengal. The judgment in the cases would be sent to the Andhra Pradesh High Court for confirmation. The sentences In the first case, Munna Bhai and nine of his accomplices were sentenced to death on two counts under Section 396 of the Indian Penal Code, and five others to life imprisonment for offences under Sections 396 and 120-B of the IPC. In the second case, the main accused and 11 others were sentenced to death on two counts for offences under IPC Section 396. The main accused and 15 others were sentenced to undergo life imprisonment for offences under IPC Sections 396 and 120-B. Six other accused were also sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment separately and a fine of Rs. 5,000 and three months imprisonment for IDSI offence. In the third case, the main accused and eight others were awarded death penalty on two counts for offences under IPC Section 396. Accused 1 to accused 15 were also sentenced to undergo life imprisonment for offences under IPC sections 396 and 120-B. In the fourth case, the main accused was sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 5,000 for offences under the Arms Act. Four of his accomplices were also sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and Rs. 5,000 fine and three months’ simple imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gangster-11-aides-sentenced-to-death/article34637616.ece
25 May 2021||NELLORE,||Central teams conduct field study on herbal preparation||The teams constituted by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi, on Monday conducted field level studies extensively on the herbal preparation made by Ayurvedic practitioner B. Anandaiah. The team members collected retrospective data from hundreds of persons who had consumed the herbal concoction, touted to reportedly provide cure for COVID-19. A lot of research would have be done, including animal studies and clinical studies, by the CCRAS before deciding on the efficacy of the herbal preparation, official sources said. AYUSH team study An AYUSH team deputed by the State Government, led by its Commissioner Ramulu Naik, completed its preliminary study after meeting some of the over 60,000 persons who had taken the herbal preparation. No harmful side effects had been reported by a majority of those who had taken the preparation, the sources said. The report is being submitted to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for consideration. Meanwhile, SPSR Nellore Joint Collector (Secretariat and Development) G. Ganesh Kumar said the district administration had no official information on any visit by a team of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Samples already collected by an ICMR team that visited Krishnapatnam earlier, were being examined at Delhi, he added. No report had been received so far on the efficacy of the herbal preparation by the district administration, he clarified. Security Meanwhile, police stepped up security for Mr. Anandaiah and kept him in an undisclosed place to prevent people from calling on him. Police had a tough time in preventing people from visiting Krishnapatnam defying the prohibitory orders in force during the partial curfew imposed to combat Coronavirus. Barricades were put at several places on the Chennai-Kolkata highway and only local people were allowed after examining their identity cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-teams-conduct-field-study-on-herbal-preparation/article34637617.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||DGCA derosters crew after wedding in skies||A wedding in the skies has invited the wrath of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). On Monday, it suspended the crew of a SpiceJet chartered plane after a wedding ceremony aboard the aircraft, over Madurai, in violation of COVID-19 norms. The airline has been ordered to file an FIR against the errant passengers. Pictures viral on social media showed the bride and groom exchanging garlands surrounded by relatives and camerapersons. Many could be seen without masks. The wedding rituals were performed as the aircraft hovered over Madurai Meenakshi temple in the presence of over 160 relatives — aviation website flightradar24 shows the plane circling above the temple. “We have derostered the crew and directed the airline to lodge a complaint against those not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour with relevant authorities. We will take strict action,” a DGCA official said, adding that they were examining if the use of cameras on board violated safety protocols.  In March, after being pulled up the Delhi High Court, the DGCA ordered airlines to ensure that passengers comply with COVID-19 norms on mask-wearing and social distancing. It said that if passengers did not pay heed, they must be removed from the aircraft and put on a no-fly list. “The client was clearly briefed on COVID-19 guidelines to be followed and denied permission for any activity on board. The approval for this flight was taken as a joy ride for the wedding group,” the airline said in response to a query on the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dgca-derosters-crew-after-wedding-in-skies/article34637656.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||First session of 15th Kerala Assembly begins||The 14-day first session of the 15th Kerala Assembly began on Monday with the swearing-in of 136 newly elected legislators as Member of Legislative Assembly before pro-tem Speaker P.T.A. Rahim. Immediately after the House convened at 9 a.m. with the national anthem, Legislature Secretary S.V. Unnikrishnan Nair informed the House about the appointment of pro-tem Speaker by the Governor and the decision to convene the newly constituted Assembly as advised by the Cabinet. The Chair then read out the procedures for the swearing-in. Abdul Hameed, IUML legislator from Vallikunnu, was the first to be called to be sworn in MLA. Abid Hussain Thangal (IUML) and Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil followed. The others were called in alphabetical order. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was the 132nd to take oath and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan 107th. CPI(M) legislator from Attingal O.S. Ambika was the first to be sworn in from among the 11 women legislators. K.K. Rema, elected from Vadakara, came with a badge of her slain husband and Revolutionary Marxist Party leader T.P. Chandrasekharan’s photograph. A.K.M. Ashraf from Manjeshwaram took oath in Kannada, V. Raja from Devikulam in Tamil. Mani C. Kappan and Mathew Kuzhalnadan took oath in English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-session-of-15th-kerala-assembly-begins/article34637810.ece
25 May 2021||Mumbai,||Free treatment for black fungus: Maharashtra govt.||The Maharashtra government on Monday told the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court that patients with mucormycosis (black fungus) will be treated free of cost and covered under the Mahatma Jotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. Maharashtra’s counsel told a Division Bench of Justices R.V. Ghuge and B.U. Debadwar that the government will be a capping the expenses for treating mucormycosis. He said 130 hospitals have been identified to provide facilities for treatment. Medicines will be available through the district civil surgeon and those admitted in hospitals for black fungus will be provided medicines free of cost. The court was also informed that 1,000 more hospitals are to be empanelled and 19 medical and surgical packages have been identified for treatment of mucormycosis under MJPJAY. The daily use and consumption of the required medicines by the hospitals will be monitored through the MJPJAY web portal, the counsel said. Publicise details: Bench The court recorded, “It is thus apparent that the State has come out with a specific policy of treating mucormycosis patients free of cost. We, therefore, expect the State to accord wide publicity to the decision so that the poorest of the poor, the illiterate and semi-literate, and persons living in remote and tribals areas would become aware of these facilities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-treatment-for-black-fungus-maharashtra-govt/article34637753.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin: govt. reviews process to get WHO nod||The government on Monday “took stock” of Bharat Biotech’s application process with the World Health Organization (WHO) for regulatory clearances for the Covaxin vaccine, as an inter-ministerial group, led by Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla, met with company representatives in Delhi. The meeting, that included senior officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Department of Biotechnology, with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) managing director Dr. Krishna Mohan, went over the paperwork submitted in April for the WHO’s Emergency Use Listing (EUL), amidst concerns that Indians who have taken Covaxin doses will face travel restrictions in the absence of global regulatory approval. “On the issue of WHO’s authorisation for Emergency Use Listing (EUL), BBIL noted that they had submitted 90% of the documentation required for EUL to WHO. The remaining is expected to be submitted in June 2021. BBIL is confident about obtaining WHO EUL subsequently, given its experience of getting its other vaccines pre-qualified by WHO,” sources present at the meeting said. Bharat Biotech is yet to publish results in any peer-reviewed journal of its phase-3 trials and has so far only announced interim clinical results claiming 81% efficacy. Indian Council of Medical Research chief Dr. Balram Bhargava has also said that the publication is likely in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-govt-reviews-process-to-get-who-nod/article34637657.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Vaccine allocation to T.N. seems skewed, says HC||The Centre on Monday informed the Madras High Court that it planned to make available 216 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the year-end so that every Indian could be fully vaccinated. Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan made the submission at the hearing of a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor the fight against the pandemic. However, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy observed that the future vaccine allocation to Tamil Nadu appeared to be somewhat skewed and disappointing since it was not in consonance with the number of cases being reported in the State every day. They observed that the allocation “may be revisited” by the Centre with due weightage given to objective factors. In a counter-affidavit, P. Satyendra Singh, Under-Secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, stated that 88.5 lakh doses had been made available to Tamil Nadu, apart from 4.57 lakh doses to Puducherry, as on May 21. While Tamil Nadu had used 76.28 lakh doses, the usage in Puducherry was 2.4 lakh. Both were now left with 12.27 lakh and 2.16 lakh doses respectively. The present vaccine wastage in Tamil Nadu was 4.1% and 0.2% in Puducherry. The Centre planned to allocate 6.55 lakh doses to Tamil Nadu and 25,010 doses to Puducherry free of cost between June 1 and June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-allocation-to-tn-seems-skewed-says-hc/article34637897.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vaccination to resume today||COVID vaccination will resume on Tuesday but only for second dose recipients. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao ordered the resumption of programme which was suspended in the State on May 15 after an official meeting on Monday. He also ordered identification of COVID super spreaders and conduct of a special vaccination drive for them. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and health officials were asked to prepare guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-to-resume-today/article34638127.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police officials visit Twitter office||The Delhi Police Special Cell on Monday visited the office of Twitter in the national capital in connection with a probe over the alleged “Congress toolkit”. While confirming the presence of Special Cell officers at Twitter’s office in Lado Sarai, a source said that the officials currently did not have a warrant for a search. Last week, the Congress had filed a police complaint against BJP leaders after party spokesperson Sambit Patra accused the Opposition party of preparing a “toolkit” to destroy the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A top Delhi police official told The Hindu that they had asked Twitter in India to join the investigation in the “toolkit case” since the popular social media site had tagged Mr. Patra’s tweet as “manipulated media”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-police-officials-visit-twitter-office/article34637642.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata alleges discrimination||After a virtual meeting with Amit Shah to review preparedness for Cyclone Yaas, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed dissatisfaction over the allocation of relief funds to the State.Page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-alleges-discrimination/article34637650.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Flight activity likely to be hit’||The Airports Authority of India has said Cyclone Yaas is likely to hit operations at the Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Jharsuguda and Durgapur airports. Others like Ranchi, Patna and Visakhapatnam will be on alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flight-activity-likely-to-be-hit/article34637651.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Must ensure zero casualty’||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said collective efforts of all the stakeholders to deal with Cyclone Yaas can ensure zero casualty. He said the Centre and the States were working together for relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/must-ensure-zero-casualty/article34637652.ece
25 May 2021||Belagavi,||Oxygen supply not affected||There was no scarcity of oxygen in Belagavi district on Monday, as officers had created buffer stocks well in advance. The government alerted all government and private hospitals that there will be scarcity up to 20% in the State due to some technical problems in oxygen production units in Ballari. Officers made arrangements accordingly. “We have enough buffer stocks to handle emergencies,” said Assistant Drug Controller Raghuram Nidavanda. “Praxair, a private unit, is supply oxygen to major hospitals, including Belagavi Institute of Medical Science, KLE and Lake View. BIMS has its own liquid oxygen plant and there are enough stocks. There is also MSPL that is producing oxygen locally,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oxygen-supply-not-affected/article34637755.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Colourful skies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colourful-skies/article34637701.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,||2 vaccine firms respond to State’s global tender||Two vaccine manufacturers have responded to the global tender floated by the State government to procure vaccine against COVID-19, which is currently in short supply. The deadline for the vaccine manufacturers to respond to the tender ended on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-vaccine-firms-respond-to-states-global-tender/article34637697.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,||CM hints at additional COVID-19 relief package||Having come under criticism from the Opposition and several social and economic groups over the Rs. 1,250 relief package announced by the government recently, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday indicated that there could be a second package over the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-hints-at-additional-covid-19-relief-package/article34637698.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Severe paucity of ICU and ventilator beds||Many are desperately seeking ICU and ventilator beds in the city for many days now, but have been unsuccessful. The BBMP COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System showed that not a single ICU or ventilator bed was available for adults in the city on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/severe-paucity-of-icu-and-ventilator-beds/article34637699.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Record foodgrain exports amid hunger, says group||The record export of food-grains at a time of widespread hunger and distress due to COVID-19 exposes “the government’s apathy towards the people”, according to the Right to Food Campaign. The advocacy group has called for the universalisation of PDS for at least six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-foodgrain-exports-amid-hunger-says-group/article34638094.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Won’t limit functions till new data law: WhatsApp||Facebook-owned WhatsApp has told the government that it will not limit functionality for users in the coming weeks, but will continue the current approach of reminding users about the update until “at least the forthcoming Personal Data Protection law comes into effect”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wont-limit-functions-till-new-data-law-whatsapp/article34638095.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks report on drugs purchase by Gambhir||The Delhi HC on Monday directed the drug controller to give a status report on its inquiry on how politicians such as BJP MP Gautam Gambhir were able to buy COVID drugs in bulk amid crisis. “Is that responsible behaviour,” the court asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-seeks-report-on-drugs-purchase-by-gambhir/article34638096.ece
25 May 2021||HASSAN,||Test positivity rate falls to 33% in Shivamogga||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has said that the test positivity rate has come down to 33% from 47% in the last 15 days due to strict lockdown and declaration of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/test-positivity-rate-falls-to-33-in-shivamogga/article34637757.ece
25 May 2021||HUBBALLI,||More seed distribution centres may be set up||Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that more centres, if required, will be set up for seed distribution in addition to the existing 27 such centres in Dharwad district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-seed-distribution-centres-may-be-set-up/article34637759.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi/Kolkata,||Mamata alleges discrimination at CMs’ meet on Cyclone Yaas||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday reviewed the preparedness for Cyclone Yaas with the Chief Ministers of Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh and the Lieutenant-Governor of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. The cyclone is expected to hit the coastal States on May 26. After the virtual meeting, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed dissatisfaction over the allocation of funds for cyclone relief to the State. Speaking to presspersons at the State Secretariat, she said Odisha and Andhra Pradesh had been allocated Rs. 600 crore as an advance, while West Bengal had been allocated only Rs. 400 crore. “I told Amit Shah ji why this discrimination. West Bengal is a bigger State and with a higher population density. I could not understand the logic behind this allocation,” she said. She had raised the points at the meeting, Ms. Banerjee added. “The Home Minister said he will speak later since these are based on science. I did not press on the issue further... I am aware of political science, was not very sure of the science he was referring to,” she added. The State had no issues with funds being allocated to sister States, but West Bengal should not be deprived, Ms. Banerjee said. The Chief Minister said during Cyclone Amphan, despite Central teams visiting the State, the Centre did not allocate the necessary funds. After Yaas, the State would conduct the necessary survey and once again place its requirement with the Centre, she said. Mr. Shah asked the States to make adequate power backup arrangements in all COVID-19 hospitals, laboratories, vaccine cold chains and other medical facilities, and ensure adequate stock of all essential medicines and supplies in hospitals amid the likely disruption of the movement of vehicles. He also asked the States to ensure the safety of oxygen generation plants. A Union Home Ministry statement said, “He advised them to make advance planning for keeping a buffer stock of oxygen for two days and movement of oxygen tankers to allocated States, so that in case of any disruption, supply to allocated States is not impacted… Also emphasised the need to make necessary arrangements for safety of power plants to ensure uninterrupted power supply to hospitals and health facilities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-alleges-discrimination-at-cms-meet-on-cyclone-yaas/article34637577.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||On-site booking allowed for 18+||On-site registration and appointment for COVID-19 vaccination is now being enabled for the 18-44 age group on CoWIN, a statement issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday said. However, this feature was being enabled only for government COVID vaccination centres (CVCs) now and would not be available for private CVCs. They should publish their vaccination schedules exclusively with slots for online appointments, it stated. In case of sessions exclusively organised with online slots, towards the end of the day, some doses may still be left underutilised in case the online appointee beneficiaries did not turn up on the day of vaccination due to any reason, it noted. “In such cases, on-site registration of a few beneficiaries may be necessary to minimize the vaccine wastage. Also even though CoWIN provides for features such as registration of up to four beneficiaries with a mobile number, facilitated registration and appointments through applications, such as Arogya Setu and Umang, people requiring facilitated cohort’s facility and those without access to Internet or smart phones or mobile phones may still have limited access for vaccination,” the Ministry said. Decision of States, UTs This feature would be used only upon the decision of the respective State/Union Territory governments to do so. “State/UT must decide on opening of on-site registrations/facilitated cohorts’ registration and appointments for 18-44 years age group based on the local context just as an additional measure to minimize vaccine wastage and for facilitating vaccination of eligible beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-site-booking-allowed-for-18/article34637597.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC irked by absence of migrant database||The government’s delay in completing a national database to identify and register migrant workers in order to provide them benefits in times of dire need stood out like a sore thumb in a Supreme Court hearing on Monday. “We impress upon the Central government and the State Government[s] to complete the process of registration of organised workers at an early date so that unorganised workers are able to reap the benefit of different schemes of the Centre and the States which, without proper registration and identity card, seems to be difficult to implement on the ground,” a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah noted in its order. The court acknowledged the submissions made by advocate Prashant Bhushan that such a database would have made it easier for the government to identify and provide essentials such as food and dry rations to stranded migrant labourers during the second wave of the pandemic. “The direction [for the database] was issued by this court in 2018...Your process is very slow. We are not satisfied. We will pass orders on this,” Justice Bhushan addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre. Mr. Bhushan, who represents activists seeking urgent measures to provide food and life support for migrant workers, said: “People are dying… 24 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line. The situation is worse than last year… Government has said they have not been able to even put up a portal for the registration of workers”. Cash transfers Many of these destitute workers required immediate cash transfers to purchase essentials. Justice Bhushan said, “A uniform national data grid of migrant workers, in which both the Centre and States provide inputs should be there. This would ensure that benefits meant for migrant workers reach them and no other.” The court asked the government to clarify what steps it had taken under the Code of Social Security of 2020. During the hearing, Justice Shah pointed out that many of the workers would be illiterate and unable to register online. It was a welfare government’s obligation to reach out to the workers, their employers and contractors. The Labour Ministry, Mr. Mehta said, had started work on the database. He assured the court that he would talk to the Labour Secretary and get the necessary information on its status. Mr. Bhushan interjected to say that the immediate handing out of dry rations and cooked food, however, during the second wave should not depend on the completion of this database.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-irked-by-absence-of-migrant-database/article34637590.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘People want secular forces to come together against the BJP’||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury speaks on the joint Opposition efforts on COVID-19 and farm laws, and says it is for parties such as the BSP and the AAP and the Chief Ministers of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to answer why they are not standing with the rest of the Opposition against the government. He cast aside the fears that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will overshadow the party.  On the question of the pandemic and the three farm laws, the Opposition parties have issued four joint statements since December last year. Could you talk us through the efforts to bring everyone on board? During the course of the first wave, 21 parties had a virtual meeting following which we came up with a joint memorandum suggesting measures that the government must immediately take — including direct cash transfers and free food for the vulnerable sections. The government, of course, has never responded to any of our letters whether written jointly or individually. Steps that ought to have been taken last year were not taken and we are paying the price for it. On the questions of saving people’s lives and their livelihood, there is a commonality between the Opposition parties. In the time of the pandemic where physical consultations can’t take place, it takes a little longer to reach out to every one either through virtual meetings or phones. But in my mind, it is absolutely necessary for the parties to come on one platform to hold the government accountable. The BSP, which was a signatory to the joint Opposition letter of May 2 urging the government to streamline distribution of medical oxygen, has not been a signatory to the two later letters. Overall, they have been erratic about their participation in the unified Opposition effort. The AAP on the other hand has never been part of any of these efforts. Is it the AAP and the BSP’s reluctance or is it the reluctance of the rest of the Opposition parties to bring them on board? It is for the BSP and the AAP to answer this question. The BSP signed the May 2 letter and then the U.P. local body elections came and didn’t sign the subsequent two letters. It is for them to answer on why they stayed away. It is similar for the AAP. In fact, the Chief Ministers of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have not been part of any of these efforts. We want every Opposition party to join in, especially when the country is going through this COVID catastrophe. We also must remember that the Indian economy was already on a downslide before the pandemic. With the onset of the pandemic, there has been immense loss of livelihood. To counter that, the government should have taken measures such as direct cash transfer and free food, which every other country in the world has done. Will these efforts be limited to joint letters or will we have some sort of a coalition come together for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls scheduled for next year? The U.P. polls are still some time away and a lot of water will flow in the Ganga before that. Unfortunately, there are bodies also floating in the Ganga because of the misadministration of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in the State. Lessons have to be learnt from the results of the recent Assembly polls. Except for Assam, where the difference of vote between the BJP and the secular parties was miniscule allowing the BJP to scrape through, in all the other States the BJP has come a cropper. Look at the results of the local body elections in U.P. and Gujarat. It is writing on the wall — people want the secular forces to come together against the BJP. The CPI(M) claimed that all the Ministers from the first Pinarayi Vijayan Cabinet were changed as part of a policy decision, but couldn’t the party make an exception for former Health Minister K.K. Shailaja? The decision on who to include and exclude from the Cabinet was taken by the State committee. And it was a unanimous decision. K.K. Shailaja’s contribution in managing the pandemic is widely accepted and appreciated within Kerala, within the country and across the world. But remember she was also a first-time Minister in the outgoing Cabinet. The exception would not have worked for two reasons. First it is not a correct position to take and second it is not workable. If you were to make an exception for Shailaja, then what about Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. He too was very successful and responsible for developing the alternative Kerala development mode. Also what about PWD Minister G. Sudhakaran, who was equally efficient. And there are many such examples. Even in my case, the two-term rule for the Rajya Sabha was strictly adhered to despite a lot of outcry. Once you make an exception then that becomes the rule. And as far as promoting women leaders is concerned, the outgoing Cabinet had two women Ministers and this time we have three. There is a fear that Brand Pinarayi Vijayan will tower over the CPI(M) overshadowing the party. Your comments. Such thinking can only emerge from parties that have a high command culture that turned to accept a supreme leader. And this is true for most political parties. The CPI(M) has an entirely different style and method. We are a party with a vibrant inner-party democracy. For us it is the collective is always above the individual. How many times has the party rejected the view of the general secretary to go with the collective view. And that is not just in my case, there are many other precedents including the often quoted example of Jyoti Basu who didn’t become PM despite support of then general secretary comrade Surjeet because the party collectively felt that it would be wrong. Only those who don’t understand how the party works raise these questions. What is the future for the party after total annihilation in West Bengal? The dominant feeling of the electorate in Bengal was to keep the BJP out, because of their own campaign which was antagonistic to the ethos and culture of Bengal. The paramount question that the Bengal voters asked is who could defeat the BJP. And this sentiment was not limited to Bengal alone. People in Tamil Nadu and Kerala too voted to keep the BJP away from the administration. In Kerala, the BJP lost its lone seat. In Bengal the anti-BJP vote was cast rather than pro-TMC. And in a “first past the post” system that we inherited from the British, in a bipartisan contest the third force gets squeezed out. The actual political battle has just begun. The CPI(M) fielded a lot of fresh faces and new blood has been injected into the party, who will now be the future of the party. Wasn’t an alliance with the Indian Secular Front-led by Furfura Sheikh cleric Abbas Siddiqui blatantly wrong and is the party reviewing its decision? A review is under way for all the States, not only Bengal, which will throw up its own conclusions. Our objective in Bengal was to rally all the secular forces. The Indian Secular Front, though headed by a certain person with a certain past, had in its leadership marginalised classes, dalits, tribals. We go by what the party stands for.  We want every Opposition party to join in, especially when the country is going through this COVID catastrophe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-want-secular-forces-to-come-together-against-the-bjp/article34637582.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||AI pilots seek better compensation||They have been on the front line of the country’s battle against COVID-19 while transporting masks, ventilators, vaccines, international aid as well as repatriating stranded Indians from around the world, and while doing so they have lost many colleagues in the line of duty. Air India’s pilots have now written to the management expressing their despair at the lack of a suitable compensation scheme during illness or death accusing it of “indifference and borderline neglect”. Captain Amitesh Prasad operated a San Francisco to Bangalore flight on April 15. On his arrival, he began to complain of COVID-19 like symptoms. Five days later, his test results confirmed the infection. Over the next 20 days, he fought for his life in a Mumbai hospital but eventually lost his battle. A pilot friend, who did not want to be identified, said his family was likely to be handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh, which is paltry. The airline had introduced the scheme last year for deaths due to COVID-19. In a letter to the airline’s top brass, the Indian Pilots Guild (IPG) has demanded compensation schemes in case of death that are on a par with other Public Sector Undertakings and private airlines.“The need of the hour is to immediately provide a befitting compensation to our colleagues who have already paid the ultimate price,” the IPG wrote to Chairman and Managing Director of Air India Rajiv Bansal on Saturday. They have urged that the airline “mend this dismaying gap in the company’s HR policy so that we may know that our loved ones will be looked after by our company should the worst happen to one of us.” The letter cites the example of IndiGo, which offers Rs. 5 crore to the next of kin in the event of a death, and Rs. 3-4 crore if a pilot is declared permanently medically unfit. To make matters worse for pilots at Air India, they have been facing delays for past several years in payment of flying allowances that make up 75% of their takehome salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ai-pilots-seek-better-compensation/article34637601.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 3,200 new deaths recorded||India recorded 1,84,830 new COVID-19 cases and 3,224 new deaths till 9.40 p.m. on Monday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,69,36,641 cases and 3,06,977 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 34,867 new infections, followed by Karnataka (25,311) and Maharashtra (22,122). Maharashtra recorded 592 new casualties, followed by Karnataka (529) and Tamil Nadu (404). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Jharkhand, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the health bulletins of the respective States. Over 19.28 lakh samples were tested in the country on Sunday (the results for which were made available on Monday), which is around 1.96 lakh fewer than those tested on Saturday. However, it is 3.55 lakh more than those tested on the previous Sunday (May 16). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 12.7% as on May 23 compared with 18.2% recorded a week before. Only 9.43 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Monday, which is over 6.61 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-3200-new-deaths-recorded/article34637606.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bank employees left in the lurch, say kin of deceased staffers||Working on the frontlines to keep banks running through the pandemic, about 1,300 bank employees have lost their lives in the past year, leaving behind families who are questioning whether enough was done to protect their loved ones. In 2021 alone, more than 600 staffers from 10 private banks and 12 public sector banks have died of COVID-19 so far, out of the total of 1,300 since March 2020, All-India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) general secretary C.H. Venkatachlam said. To Agra-based Sunita Chaudhary, who lost her 58-year-old husband Shiv Shankar Chaudhary on April 18, it was clear who was to be blamed. Her husband, she said, was the branch manager of a public sector bank in Agra and had been going to work despite having diabetes. “The government is to blame. This disease was there last year too. They knew the dangers. Everyone visits banks so they should have protected the employees…My husband is just a number for them. But we have lost the sole earner of our family, the head of our family,” she said. Her husband fell ill during the second wave when medical infrastructure was overwhelmed, leaving patients and their families in the lurch. “If he had got a hospital bed with the required treatment in time, he would have been saved,” she said, recounting the ordeal of going from one hospital to another, looking for the life-saving oxygen and equipment needed. While Shiv Shankar did get a hospital bed and the senior staff of his bank helped the family, Ms. Chaudhary thinks it was all too late. Now, she worries about the future of her three children — a 29-year-old son who was left disabled after a stroke five years ago and two younger children who are students. The second wave of the pandemic proved deadly for 21-year-old Vidushi Tandon’s father, Subodh Tandon, who worked at a public sector bank in Kanpur. He tested positive on April 16 and was admitted to a hospital. Ms. Tandon said her father was discharged from hospital on May 2 and soon after she observed he was bleeding from his nose, the right side of his face had swollen and he had trouble seeing. “Now I see on TV that these are symptoms of black fungus. He had diabetes for the past five years but it was under check with medicines. He only started using insulin in the hospital because of COVID. But when they discharged him, they didn’t tell us to continue insulin and his sugar shot up. He had a silent heart attack and died on May 6. I don’t have any proof of this. This is what I assume happened. Had the doctors advised us correctly, this would not have happened,” she said. Families of bank employees across the country have had similar experiences this year. In Andhra Pradesh, bank employees were among the worst affected. A. Ramya, daughter of A. Ravindra Kumar, a 58-year-old branch manager of a bank in Satyaranayana Puram of Vijayawada, was clueless about the future since her father’s death on April 18. “He was going to bank now and then and fell sick a few days after relatives visited our house. He later tested positive for COVID and got admitted to a hospital. Five days later we lost him. My elder sister died five years ago in an accident and it was me and mother left to console each other,“ Ms. Ramya said. Ms. Ramya graduated recently and was looking for a job. “Due to the pandemic, there were not many openings. My father’s higher officials at the bank helped complete the formalities and also came forward to help me find a job,” she said. Ravindra Kumar had undergone heart surgery. As the grieving families are left picking up the pieces, Mr. Venkatachalam of the AIBEA said the families should be given preferential and speedy consideration for employment on compassionate grounds. “They have been facing grave emotional and physical risk. They are highly dejected and anxious. Banks must think out of the box to protect their employees,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bank-employees-left-in-the-lurch-say-kin-of-deceased-staffers/article34637599.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,||Islanders seek withdrawal of land norms in Lakshadweep||A slew of regulations introduced by the new administrator Praful Khoda Patel of the Lakshadweep group of islands has sparked discontent among its inhabitants. Islanders have pointed out that the legislation are out of sync with the social and environmental realities of the archipelago. Mr Patel, a BJP leader and former Home Minister of Gujarat, is the first political appointee as Administrator, a post mostly held by retired civil servants. The creation of the Lakshadweep Development Authority (LDA), with extensive powers, including eviction of land owners, is widely read as having been pushed by the real estate lobby and against the interest of the islanders. Hundreds of islanders have written to the administrator demanding the withdrawal of the proposed regulation, which makes “provision for the orderly and progressive development of land in both urban and rural areas and to preserve and improve the amenities thereof; for the grant of permission to develop land and for other powers of control over the use of land; to confer additional powers in respect of the acquisition and development of land for planning; and for purposes connected with the matters aforesaid.” The regulation empowers the government, identified as the administrator, to constitute Planning and Development Authorities (PDAs) to plan the development of any area identified as having “bad layout or obsolete development”. An authority thus created would be a corporate body with a government-appointed chairman, a town planning officer and three “expert” government nominees besides two local authority representatives. The islanders opposing the plan have pointed out that the ecologically fragile islandsare tiny and thickly populated. “What sort of highway or tram-way you are planning to construct in that area?” asks Koya Arafa Mirage, lawyer and leader of Nationalist Youth Congress. One of the petitions seeking the withdrawal of the regulation says the legislation vests extensive powers with the authority, allowing it to prepare comprehensive development plans for any area and relocate people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/islanders-seek-withdrawal-of-land-norms-in-lakshadweep/article34637564.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||High-powered panel meets to choose next CBI Director||A high-powered committee, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comprising Chief Justice of India (CJI)Justice N.V. Ramana and Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, met on Monday to finalise the choice of the next Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers — V.S. Kumudi (1986 batch), Kumar Rajesh Chandra (1985) and Subodh Jaiswal (1985 batch) — have been shortlisted from a list of 109 officers that included four batches (1984-1987) of the IPS. The meeting, that took place at the Prime Minister’s official residence, lasted for 90 minutes. Chief Justice Ramana is learnt to have insisted on following the rule of law as per the various guidelines laid down in previous Supreme Court judgments. Mr. Chowdhury dissented over the selection procedure and submitted his dissent in writing, according to a source. At short notice The source claimed that the government had sent the complete dossiers of 10 shortlisted names to the Opposition leader at around 1 p.m. in the afternoon. Another 6 names were sent barely two hours before the meeting. These shortlisted names included Y..C. Modi, a 1984-batch IPS officer from the Assam-Meghalaya cadre who is currently the Director-General of the National Investigation Agency (NIA)and Rakesh Asthana, a Gujarat cadre officer heading the Border Security Force (BSF). Both the officers are considered to be favourites of the ruling dispensation. Though their names were discussed, the source said, they were not considered on technical grounds as an officer considered for the post of the CBI Director should not have less than six months for retirement. Chief Justice Ramana insisted on sticking to the laid down rules, and the Prime Minister did not insist on any name, claimed the source. Mr. Chowdhury is learnt to have argued that the high-powered committee should have done the shortlisting instead of the Department of Personnel and Training and told the government “not to take the committee for granted”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-powered-panel-meets-to-choose-next-cbi-director/article34637571.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Death certificates should reflect what has happened: SC||The Supreme Court said death certificates of those who died of COVID-19 often did not reveal that fact. “The death certificates of persons who die from COVID in hospitals show the reason as lung or heart problem or something else… Whatever has happened should be reflected in the death certificate for the families to get any benefits in the future. Death certificates have to show the reason as COVID,” Justice M.R. Shah addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Union government, on Monday. Justice Shah is part of a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan hearing separate pleas to direct the government to grant an ex-gratia compensation of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of people who lost their lives to COVID-19. Justice Shah urged the government to frame a uniform policy for issuing death certificates in COVID-19 cases in a transparent manner. The court asked the government to place the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines to see if there was anything on the procedure for issuance of death certificates in COVID-19 cases. “People will have to run from pillar to post if any compensation is to be given to the kin of COVID-19 victims. It is not fair to the family if the actual reason for death is COVID and the death certificate shows another reason,” Justice Shah said. The court scheduled the next hearing on June 11, giving the government time to file its response. Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who is a petitioner, said under Section 12 (iii) of the Disaster Management Act, ex-gratia compensation of Rs. 4 lakh was payable to families of disaster victims. The COVID-19 pandemic is a disaster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-certificates-should-reflect-what-has-happened-sc/article34637593.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘90%-95% of mucormycosis patients are diabetics on steroids’||“Mucormycosis is not a communicable disease and 90%-95% of patients that we have with us currently are diabetics who were on steroids. We are also seeing the fungus early on in COVID patients which is proving to be a challenge,” Randeep Guleria, Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said on Monday. Dr. Guleria, speaking at the Health Ministry press conference, added that early detection and hygiene were key to tackling the virus. “Mucormycosis is one of the general fungal infections being seen in recovering or recovered COVID-19 patients. The number of cases being reported is increasing, but it is not a communicable disease, meaning it does not spread from one person to another, like COVID-19 does,” he said. ‘Not correct term’ Dr. Guleria also said it is better not to use the term black fungus while talking of mucormycosis, as it leads to a lot of avoidable confusion. “Black fungus is another family; this term got associated with mucormycosis due to the presence of black dots among the culture of white fungal colonies. In general, there are various types of fungal infections such as candida, aspergillosis, cryptococcus, histoplasmosis and coccidioidomycosis. Mucormycosis, candida and aspergillosis are the ones observed more in those with low immunity,” he said. “Many patients taking treatment at home, who were not on oxygen therapy, have also been found to get infected with mucormycosis. So there is no definite link between oxygen therapy and catching the infection,” Dr. Guleria clarified. Stating that the anti-fungal treatment is long drawn over many weeks, Dr Guleria said that was proving to be challenging for hospitals, since COVID-positive patients and COVID-negative patients who catch mucormycosis need to be housed in separate hospital wards. Surgery also needs to be done judiciously since aggressive surgery for mucormycosis can have adverse outcomes for COVID patients. “Maintaining proper hygiene is very important for diabetic patients since chances of opportunistic infection is very high in such patients. Those using oxygen concentrators should ensure cleaning of humidifiers regularly,” he said. Post-COVID issues “Besides this, even among those recovering we are seeing symptoms including chronic fatigue, joint pains, headaches, brain fog, cough etc. for anywhere from 4 to 12 weeks. As our knowledge of the virus is growing, doctors are able to help the recovering patients who need to keep an eye-out for any post-COVID symptoms.” He added that difficulty in concentrating, insomnia and depression are other signs to watch out for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/90-95-of-mucormycosis-patients-are-diabetics-on-steroids/article34637584.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi Police officials visit Twitter office||A top Delhi police official told The Hindu that they had asked Twitter in India to join the investigation in the “toolkit case” since the popular social media site had tagged Mr. Patra’s tweet as “manipulated media”. “Our contention is that since they have tagged it as ‘manipulated media’, they know something about the case. We have been asking Twitter in India to join the investigation, but they asked us to contact their parent company in the United States,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-officials-visit-twitter-office/article34637563.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Odisha, Bengal grapple with evacuation||Similarly in Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly, the wind speed would be about 70 to 80 km gusting 90 km. Along with heavy rain, the IMD has issued a storm surge warning . The coastal areas of the State, including Kolkata, witnessed rainfall, accompanied by gusty winds, since Sunday evening. The IMD has predicted heavy rainfall in the coastal areas of the State on May 25. The Indian Coast Guard has deployed 16 ships and 3 aircraft a day on an average across the deep waters of the Bay of Bengal and along the coast. As a part of preventive measures, it has ensured the safe return of 254 boats that were out at sea and alerted various merchant vessels in transit and 77 vessels at anchorage till today. Over a dozen of teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed in the coastal areas of the State. Its officials held a meeting with senior officers of the Kolkata police during the day.  The Odisha government said it had mobilised disaster response forces and evacuated people from low-lying areas ahead of the cyclone. However, the government is facing twin challenge of shifting large number of people to safer places and following COVID-19 guideline. Additional cyclone shelters have been identified for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-bengal-grapple-with-evacuation/article34637566.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||DGCA derosters crew after wedding in skies||In a statement, SpiceJet said a travel agent had asked for a chartered flight for a group of passengers for a joy ride after their wedding. They were informed about COVID-19 guidelines and refused permission for other activities onboard, the airline said. “The agent and the guest passengers were briefed in detail, both in writing as well as verbally, on social distancing and safety norms to be followed as per COVID-19 guidelines both at the airport and onboard the aircraft throughout the journey. The group was repeatedly briefed on the safety norms to be followed by the operating cabin crew and advised to follow the protocols laid down by DGCA including restrictions on photography and videography. Despite repeated requests and reminders the passengers did not follow Covid guidelines and the airline is taking appropriate action as per rules,” the airline added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgca-derosters-crew-after-wedding-in-skies/article34637567.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Narada case: CBI goes to SC against HC order||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the Supreme Court against a Calcutta High Court direction to place under house arrest four Trinamool Congress leaders accused in the Narada sting tapes case. On Friday, following a split verdict on the bail of Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee, a Division Bench of the High Court ordered them to be put under house arrest while referring the case to a Bench of five judges. In custody The four have been in custody since May 17. The agency moved the Supreme Court some time before midnight on Sunday. The judges of the High Court Division Bench — presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal — had differed in its opinion over vacating a stay given by it on the bail granted by a CBI court to the four political heavyweights. The Bench, also comprising Justice Arijit Banerjee, finally directed that the leaders, placed under judicial remand so far, would remain in house confinement for now. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, had pleaded for a stay on the execution of the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narada-case-cbi-goes-to-sc-against-hc-order/article34637568.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Group seeks probe into post-poll violence in W.B.||A group of nearly 150 citizens, including retired bureaucrats, diplomats, police officers and judges, have written to President Ram Nath Kovind and called for a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe monitored by a retired Supreme Court judge for a fair investigation and speedy justice into the post-poll violence in West Bengal. “We are greatly disturbed by the mindless instigation of reported violence in electoral vengeance against the people who exercised their democratic right to vote for one political party or the other. Media reports, largely substantiated by eyewitness accounts, mention murders, rapes, attacks on persons and property, including by anti-national elements, leading to forced migration of people to shelter homes,” the memorandum said. “It is clear that the overwhelming majority of civilian deaths resulting from political violence were the result of what should be understood as serious acts of commission and omission of the law and order enforcement machinery of the State, or, in the worst case scenario, induced ‘State Terror’,” it said. Noting that law and order was a State subject, they said the State government under Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee must act in accordance with the Constitutional mandate to maintain it and curb violence with an iron hand to ensure peace and tranquillity. Former Delhi High Court Chief Justice B.C. Patel, former Bombay High Court Chief Justice Kshitij Vyas, former Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Sanjeev Tripathi, former Punjab Director-General of Police (DGP) P.C. Dogra and former Jammu and Kashmir DGP S.P. Vaid were among the signatories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/group-seeks-probe-into-post-poll-violence-in-wb/article34637569.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Covaxin: govt. reviews process to get WHO nod||ICMR and Bharat Biotech are partners in developing the vaccine as well as the clinical trials. When asked, MEA officials said the meeting was an “internal discussion” that had been convened with a view to “assessing” whether BBIL required any assistance in pushing through its application. However, they declined to comment on just what the role of the government would be in the WHO’s technical processes, which do not involve diplomats or political inputs. According to the sources, government and BBIL representatives also discussed their forays into other markets, which include 11 countries that have granted Covaxin regulatory approval and “11 companies in 7 countries” that have expressed an interest in technology transfer and production of Covaxin. In addition, BBIL said it is in the “final stages of submission” for Covaxin’s regulatory approvals in Brazil and Hungary, and in negotiations with the American Food and Drug Administration (US-FDA) to conduct Phase-III clinical trials in the US as well. While officials conceded that it was a long shot to expect that the U.S. or European countries would themselves promote the Indian-made vaccine as a part of the bouquet of vaccines gaining global approval, they said it was important that Covaxin be included in the discussions as countries decide on opening up international entry policies based on vaccinations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, members of the cabinet and many senior government officials have all received Covaxin shots, and could be amongst those affected if travel restrictions are actually placed in the future on the basis of WHO-approved vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-govt-reviews-process-to-get-who-nod/article34637575.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will not limit functions till new data law: WhatsApp||Facebook-owned WhatsApp has told the government that it will not limit functionality for users in the coming weeks, but will continue the current approach of reminding users about the update until “at least the forthcoming Personal Data Protection law comes into effect”. WhatsApp has said this in its response to the notice by the Government of India asking the platform to withdraw the controversial update to its privacy policy. The government had sought a response within seven days, warning of steps “in consonance with law” in case of failure of a satisfactory response. ‘Highest priority’ “We have responded to the Government of India’s letter and assured them that the privacy of users remains our highest priority. As a reminder, the recent update does not change the privacy of people’s personal messages. Its purpose is to provide additional information about how people can interact with businesses if they choose to do so,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that WhatsApp will not limit the functionality of how the platform works in the coming weeks. Instead, it will continue to remind users from time to time about the update as well as when people choose to use relevant optional features, like communicating with a business that is receiving support from Facebook. “We hope this approach reinforces the choice that all users have whether or not they want to interact with a business. We will maintain this approach until at least the forthcoming PDP law comes into effect,” the spokesperson added. The Ministry of Electronics and IT, in the May 18 notice, had told WhatsApp that deferring the May 15 implementation deadline does not absolve it from “respecting the values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users”. As per the government, WhatsApp’s updated privacy policy was a violation of several provisions of the existing Indian laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-not-limit-functions-till-new-data-law-whatsapp/article34637578.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Migrant workers may just want to go home, says SC||Mr. Bhushan said 24 crore people had been pushed under the poverty line. States like Delhi and Uttar Pradesh should provide migrants cooked food in government schools. “People are dying because of lack of food and health. Yes, the situation is worse than last year… Rickshaw pullers, vendors and other categories of unorganised workers are starving,” he stated. He pushed for the court to direct the States to evolve a cash transfer mechanism to help these destitute workers stay alive. “Ultimately, the money will come back into the economy. These people will use the cash to buy food and essentials… our growth rate is –20%,” he said. Justice Bhushan said any such cash transfers would be based on separate policies of individual States, and the court could look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-workers-may-just-want-to-go-home-says-sc/article34637579.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Provide food, rations to stranded workers: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered States across the country to distribute dry rations to stranded migrant workers without ration cards and run community kitchens for them. “Let all States file affidavits indicating the mechanism by which the dry ration should be distributed to those migrant workers who do not possess a ration card,” a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah directed. The court left it to the discretion of individual States to utilise either the Centre's Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme, which was implemented for giving dry rations to migrant workers in May and June of 2020, or any other alternative scheme. The Bench held it was the responsibility of the States and Union Territories to run community kitchens for migrant labourers “who have lost their employment and are in need of two meals a day”. The Bench directed that “wide publicity” should be given about the various welfare schemes for migrant workers, including locations of community kitchens, so that needy persons would benefit. The court however, refused a plea to direct States to provide direct cash transfers to migrant workers, saying this was a matter of policy concerning individual States or UTs. Theorder came on submissions made by advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for some activists, that the number of community kitchens in Delhi had reduced this year. Cash transfers were restricted to construction workers in the National Capital. He said dry rations were not provided to stranded migrant workers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/provide-food-rations-to-stranded-workers-sc/article34637586.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Record foodgrain exports amid hunger, says group||The record export of foodgrains at a time of widespread hunger and distress due to COVID-19 exposes “the government’s apathy towards the people”, according to the Right to Food Campaign. The advocacy group has called for the universalisation of the public distribution system (PDS) for at least six months, noting that the quantity of exported grain could have been used to provide 25 crore people with rations for a year. The surge of COVID-19, spread to rural areas and lockdowns in most parts of the country have led to severe economic distress, especially among informal sector workers, said the Right to Food Campaign’s statement, issued on Monday. It said the situation was worse than in 2020, due to the large number of households now dealing with illness and high healthcare expenses on top of a year of job losses and declining wages. The Centre’s relief scheme, PMGKAY, only provides additional free grain for two months for those who already have ration cards. The food security crisis facing informal sector workers, many of whom do not have ration cards, has been “completely invisibilised”, said the statement. “The government’s apathy towards people has been thoroughly exposed by the fact that this year has seen record exports of foodgrains.” Noting that over 13 million tonnes of non-basmati rice and more than two million tonnes of wheat were exported in 2020-21, the Campaign said this could have been used to give 5 kg grain per month to 25 crore people for a year. In fact, rice was exported at Rs. 27 per kg, lower than the FCI’s economic cost of Rs. 37 per kg, it said. Foodgrain stocks in FCI’s warehouses stand at a record high of 100 million tonnes. “It is becoming quite apparent that the government does not care about filling the stomachs of the hungry and is happy to rather export the grains or use them for other purposes [like it was done for ethanol production last year],” said the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-foodgrain-exports-amid-hunger-says-group/article34637588.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Illusory world||As long as Brahman is not realised, this prapancham will appear real is the emphatic assertion of Adi Sankara in all his teachings. Though sastras say that this world is illusory, it is difficult to accept it as true. But we are also aware of the ephemeral quality of life on earth. There is constant change taking place at all levels. So, it is important that one has to engage in atma tatva vichara to guide our attitude and perception of the world, pointed out Swami Omkarananda, who passed away on May 10, in a discourse. Adi Sankara’s text Atma Bodha teaches us to see the world as illusory and look for that which is immortal and constant in our lives. The acharya shows that the sadana for mukti is jnana, while ajnana is the greatest hurdle. In our practical experience, many a time we are deluded into believing many false notions as true. For example, a shell that shines in bright light is easily mistaken for silver. The common example of inferring a snake in a rope captures the essence of our response and involvement with worldly experiences. All the fear and anxiety of dealing with a non existent snake disappears when the truth becomes clear. There was no snake at all ever. Though all the worries are uncalled for, the experiences cannot be written off. If we choose to get involved in life we will hurt ourselves. If we learn to ignore many things we will be more relaxed in life. Tirumoolar shows how everything depends on how we perceive the truth. For instance, a child sees an elephant in the wooden toy it plays with whereas we know it clearly as a mere plaything. Ajnana hides the Brahman who is the sole support and cause of this world and is also present in it at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/illusory-world/article34637592.ece
25 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Cases against Hisar farmers withdrawn||Following a meeting with farmer unions amid massive protests in the district, the Hisar district administration on Monday agreed to withdraw the cases registered against farmers for the May 16 violence during Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s visit. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Haryana Chapter, in a press statement, termed the acceptance of the demands as a victory of the farmers’ massive mobilisation in Hisar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-against-hisar-farmers-withdrawn/article34637562.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Recall island administrator immediately’||Lakshadweep administrator Praful Patel’s orders banning slaughter, transportation, selling or buying beef products is an onslaught on the people, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP Elamaram Kareem wrote in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. He demanded that Mr. Patel be immediately recalled and the orders be rescinded. The order was passed without consulting the community, he said. He said there was no such demand from the island dwellers. “This is a blatant onslaught on the people who depend upon dairying and growing of bovine as a means of livelihood. A large section of people in the Union Territory of Lakshadweep finds their earning from this and the same has been destroyed by the above said regulation,” Mr. Kareem said. The CPI(M) leader also said as per the cultural and religious ethos of the island, alcohol was restricted in the island. “But the current administrator unilaterally lifted that restriction despite repeated requests from the people not to do so. This decision is also intended to destroy the harmony and trample the religious beliefs of the people living there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recall-island-administrator-immediately/article34637573.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Jaishankar, Blinken will discuss COVID’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his American counterpart Antony Blinken will discuss COVID-19 relief, multilateralism and the Quad during the Minister’s visit to Washington this week, according to the U.S. State Department. Mr. Jaishankar is on a visit to New York and Washington D.C. from May 24 to 27. “The Secretary [Mr. Blinken] looks forward to meeting Minister Jaishankar during his visit and to discussing a broad range of issues, including COVID-19 relief, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad, enhanced U.N. and multilateral cooperation, and a range of other shared regional security and economic priorities,” a statement from a State Department spokesperson said on Monday. Mr. Jaishankar will also meet U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-blinken-will-discuss-covid/article34637574.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Penalise those who fleece affected: NGO||An NGO, Distress Management Collective, has approached the Supreme Court to penalise profiteers who fleece those affected by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/penalise-those-who-fleece-affected-ngo/article34637580.ece
25 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Won’t arrest Param Bir: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on May 24 agreed before the Bombay High Court to not arrest former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh till June 9 in a case filed against him. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, appearing for the Maharashtra government, told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.R. Borkar that the State would not arrest Mr. Singh provided he withdrew his petition before the Supreme Court seeking the same relief. The court said it was available as a vacation court for one week and all arguments in this case needed to be heard at length, therefore, the matter was heard by a regular Bench. The matter was posted for June 9. The court was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Singh seeking to quash an FIR filed against him. “The FIR refers to an event of 2015 and is belatedly registered after having failed to pressurize him to withdraw his complaint against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh,” the petition stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-arrest-param-bir-maharashtra/article34637591.ece
25 May 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC refuses CBI plea to adjourn Narada case||The Calcutta High Court on Monday refused a prayer by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to adjourn the Narada case and a Bench decided to have the next hearing on Wednesday. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, prayed for an adjournment, citing that the agency had filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court on the May 21 orders issued by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/calcutta-hc-refuses-cbi-plea-to-adjourn-narada-case/article34637572.ece
25 May 2021||Lucknow,||Body of Unnao vendor assaulted by police has dozen injuries||The autopsy report of a Unnao vegetable vendor, who died after being beaten up by the police for alleged violating lockdown norms, has revealed over a dozen contusions on the body. The police have arrested a homeguard and a constable on charges of murdering Faisal in the Bangermau area of the district. While the autopsy report suggested he died of a head injury, he had a dozen injury marks on his back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-unnao-vendor-assaulted-by-police-has-dozen-injuries/article34637602.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccination can control pandemic but Centre doesn’t care: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said vaccination is the key to controlling the pandemic but the government of India does not seem to care. The Congress leader was critical of the vaccine procurement policy and said the Centre should procure the vaccines and ask the States to distribute them to ensure that they reach every village. “Why doesn’t the Central government understand this simple fact?” he asked on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-can-control-pandemic-but-centre-doesnt-care-rahul/article34637604.ece
25 May 2021||Chandigarh,||After Moderna, Pfizer also refuses to give vaccine directly to Punjab||The Punjab government said after Moderna, Pfizer had also refused to send its vaccine directly to the State as, according to its policy, the company only dealt with the Government of India. Pfizer, in its communication, said, “Our supply agreements at this time are with national governments and supra-national organizations with allocation of doses and implementation within the country being a decision that governments take based on relevant health authority guidance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-moderna-pfizer-also-refuses-to-give-vaccine-directly-to-punjab/article34637607.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to permit 5,000 more mobile units to sell essentials||The Greater Chennai Corporation will permit an additional 5,000 mobile units to sell essential commodities to residents during the lockdown. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi ordered officials in all 15 zones to give permits for vendors to sell essential commodities, including vegetables and fruits, in all residential neighbourhoods. On Monday, as many as 1,689 mobile shops were permitted in the city, selling vegetables, fruits, eggs, flowers and bread. The prices of fruits and vegetables reduced on Monday because of the regulation of prices of commodities at the mobile shops, an official said. “Initially, vendors in 2,500 mobile units were expected to sell essential commodities. The number will increase tomorrow,” Mr. Bedi said. Officials have started talking to traders to facilitate the sale of essential commodities through mobile shops. The Commissioner instructed officers to start vaccination for newspaper vendors, street vendors, traders, autorickshaw drivers, shipping employees, airline employees, teachers, e-commerce employees and volunteers in the age group of 18 to 45. The employees are requested to give their details on WhatsApp number 94983 46494 to get vaccination through special camps. At a meeting in Ripon Buildings on Monday, Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian said the city’s car ambulance system had helped 12,293 patients. “As many as 1,283 oxygen beds have been proposed by the Corporation and 773 oxygen beds have been readied. An additional 500 oxygen beds will be ready soon,” he said. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department Minister P.K. Sekar Babu stressed the need for more mobile shops in congested residential areas of the city. “The Revenue Department should ensure the sale of essential commodities in all residential areas. The number of vehicles for this should be increased,” said Mr. Sekar Babu. A total of 22 MLAs in the city have resolved to donate 500 oxygen concentrators to the Corporation for COVID-19 management. A special ambulance service with CSR support was launched at the Ripon Buildings on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-permit-5000-more-mobile-units-to-sell-essentials/article34637917.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s daily count drops below 5,000||Chennai’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below the 5,000-mark after 25 days, with 4,985 people testing positive on Monday. A total of 34,867 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, even as 404 succumbed to the infection. While cases dipped below 5,000 in Chennai, Coimbatore saw a rise in infections as its daily count surpassed 4,000 for the first time. As many as 4,277 people tested positive for the infection in the district. Chengalpattu recorded 1,899 cases while Tiruppur saw 1,808. Six other districts had 1,000-plus cases. This included Erode (1,467), Madurai (1,453) and Tiruvallur (1,231). The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 18,77,211, and pushed the active case load past three lakh. A total of 3,01,580 people are under treatment. Chennai accounted for 81 deaths, followed by Chengalpattu and Salem, with 38 deaths each. As many as 28 persons died in Coimbatore, 22 each in Kanniyakumari and Tiruchi, 16 in Tiruvallur and 15 each in Kancheepuram and Vellore. The State’s toll due to COVID-19 rose to 20,872. Of the 404 deceased, 103 had no co-morbidities. These included a 21-year-old man from Salem, who died on May 16 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 25-year-old woman from Tiruchi — an antenatal woman with gestational diabetes — died on May 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Twelve people in their 20s and 24 in their 30s succumbed to the infection. A total of 27,026 people were discharged after treatment in the State. The number of people discharged (5,870) exceeded the fresh cases in Chennai. In the last 24 hours, 1,68,194 samples were tested. Vaccination update A total of 92,614 people were vaccinated on Monday, as over 50,000 people in the 18-44 age group got the jabs. As many as 55,623 people in the 18-44 age group received the vaccines — 53,987 received Covishield and 1,636 Covaxin. Apart from them, 23,453 people aged 45-59 and 9,096 senior citizens were vaccinated. Vaccination was held in 2,401 sessions. With this, the State’s total vaccination coverage stood at 73,33,122. The State received 1.99 lakh doses of Covishield from the Central government on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-daily-count-drops-below-5000/article34638069.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gujarat has got 10% more vaccines than T.N.: Minister||Gujarat, whose population is lower than Tamil Nadu’s, has received 10% more vaccines, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Monday. “We have been emphasising that this is not the appropriate time for a blame game. And yet, there is an element of truth in it. Gujarat that has a population of 6.37 crore has been allocated 16.4% vaccines, while Tamil Nadu, which has a population of 8.38 crore, has been allocated just 6.4%...,” he said, answering a question whether the Centre’s vaccine allocation was biased. The State had been pressing the Centre for more vaccine allocation, he told reporters after opening 104 oxygen beds at the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. Mr. Subramanian said the number of people seeking vaccination had not dipped, and vaccination was being carried out according to supply. “The State has so far received around 77 lakh doses, and has a coverage of over 70 lakh,” he said. “In the first wave, there was vaccine wastage of up to 13%. Following this, two lakh doses have been distributed to all districts.” Noting that the State had paid Rs. 46 crore for 13 lakh vaccine doses to cover the 18-44 age group, he said, “Of these, we have received nearly 11 lakh doses and sent them to all districts. Vaccination for the group will start on Tuesday. However, this is not for everyone in this age group. We will need vaccine supply in crores of doses to cover everyone. We have priority segments in the 18-44 age group, such as newspaper distributors, vegetable vendors, auto drivers, persons with disability and factory workers,” he said. He said the government aimed to complete vaccination with the 11 lakh doses in a week. “We will not hold back any stock of vaccines. They come with an expiry period...,” he said. Once the State receives 3.5 crore vaccine doses through the global tender, its requirement would be fulfilled, he said. The Minister said new beds were being added in all districts every day. In Chennai, more than 6,000 beds were vacant at COVID-19 care centres, while nearly 500 oxygen beds, set up at the Nandanam Chennai Trade Centre, Injambakkam, Virugambakkam, Saidapet, Royapettah and Thiru-vi-ka Nagar were vacant. Another 200 beds at Siddha COVID-19 Care Centres were also vacant. The Minister urged the people in Chennai not to approach hospitals directly for admission. “If your swab test returns positive, do not go directly to a government hospital for admission. Approach hospitals through the screening centres set up by the Greater Chennai Corporation at 21 places.” He said patients from neighbouring districts and even neighbouring States, such as Andhra Pradesh, approached the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) directly. A zero-delay ward had been set up at the RGGGH for patients on oxygen support, brought in ambulances. Similar wards would be set up at all government hospitals, he said. With an order issued on the cost of COVID-19 treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme at private hospitals, he said 890 hospitals were instructed to treat patients under the programme. “We have instructed health officials in all districts to immediately display the permitted rates at these hospitals,” he said. If there is any complaint of over-charging, the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services would take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gujarat-has-got-10-more-vaccines-than-tn-minister/article34638071.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More support for prevention efforts in State||Ramco Cements plans to commission four medical oxygen generators. Already one oxygen generator is functional. The five generators, costing Rs. 5 crore, can produce 800 cylinders which will be distributed to government hospitals in the State for treating patients. In a press release, the company said it had already installed an oxygen generator at Virudhunagar district, which was inaugurated on May 14, and plans to install one each in Madurai, R.R. Nagar in Virudhunagar, two in Ariyalur district, and one at Alathiyur village. The four generators would be commissioned within four to six weeks, the release added. Ramco Cements has also contributed Rs. 1 crore to the State Disaster Management Fund in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The company is also helping other States to fight the raging pandemic by distributing high-end medical equipment comprising monitors, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and ventilators costing Rs. 1.50 crore to Kerala and has proposed to install two oxygen generators in Andhra Pradesh at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. The two generators would help in producing 400 oxygen cylinders. Ramco Cements has also assured the Odisha government to provide medical equipment worth Rs. 1 crore. Trivitron Group, which is part of Neuberg Diagnostics, Kauvery Hospital and Trivitron Healthcare, has donated Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). G.S.K. Velu, Chairman and Managing Director of Neuberg Diagnostics, said the fund will be utilised for treatment, setting up emergency beds, supply of ventilators and Oxygen concentrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-support-for-prevention-efforts-in-state/article34637836.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s oxygen allocation enhanced to 650 MT||The Centre has revised the oxygen allocation for Tamil Nadu from 519 metric tonnes to 650 metric tonnes, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Monday. “We started with 220 metric tonnes. This was gradually increased to 419 metric tonnes, and later to 519 metric tonnes. We have been holding talks with the Centre. On Sunday night, the Centre revised the allocation to 650 metric tonnes and has approved it,” he told reporters at the Government Corona Hospital here. Following this, Tamil Nadu would receive 60 metric tonnes from JSW in Dolvi, Maharashtra, 46 metric tonnes from Linde, Rourkela, 50 metric tonnes from Linde, Kalinganagar, and 50 metric tonnes from SAIL Rourkela Captive Plant, he said. According to the communication from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the allocation was revised keeping in view the active case-loads of various States, and the amendments will be effective from May 25. The State will also receive 25 metric tonnes from Sterlite Copper, Thoothukudi. Another 140 metric tonnes had reached Visakhapatnam from Singapore by sea. This would reach Tamil Nadu by road, he said. However, he noted that it was important to put oxygen to proper use, as was being done in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-oxygen-allocation-enhanced-to-650-mt/article34638060.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teacher accused of sexual misconduct suspended||A city school that was in the crosshairs since Sunday night over allegations of sexual misconduct against a teacher by students has suspended him, pending the completion of inquiry. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and DMK MPs Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran have recorded their responses to the charges. The allegations were initially shared on the Instagram page of a former student, Kripali. She told The Hindu that some students had reached out to her and asked if the students of her batch had suffered such sexual misconduct by commerce teacher G. Rajagopalan. He has reportedly been teaching commerce and accountancy for over 20 years. “After receiving the first message, I put out a message asking students studying in the school to get in touch with me... After speaking to a few of them, I began to share their experience,” she said. Several students responded to her messages and shared instances of Mr. Rajagopalan’s inappropriate behaviour during physical as well as virtual classes, she said. A student alleged that he had been asking them to send their pictures to him, and two other students said he had engaged in sexually inappropriate behaviour in class. Another student said he had asked her to go to a movie with him. A student said while they had complained to the management, no action was taken. School responds Earlier in the day, in a statement sent out to parents and students, the Dean, the Director and the Correspondent of the group of schools and the principal of the school refuted the allegation that the concerns had been brought to the attention of the management in the past. “However, we are taking suo motu notice of the allegations and will take all steps to address the situation in a free, fair and transparent manner. The welfare of our students has always been, and will be, our top priority,” they said, assuring the students of an appropriate course of action. A statement in the evening confirmed the suspension. Police investigation The police quizzed Rajagopalan. On the instructions of City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, a special team — comprising H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner, Crime against Women and Children; and D.N. Hari Kiran Prasad, Deputy Commissioner of Police, T. Nagar — reached the school and began investigations. The police escorted Rajagopalan from his residence to a police station. His laptop and mobile phones were seized and scrutinised for electronic evidence. He was quizzed by a team of officers for several hours. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal told The Hindu , “This matter is under serious consideration of the city police. We are taking all efforts to see to it that it reaches its logical conclusion...” Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said, “The CEO under whose jurisdiction the school comes has inquired with the management. The school has told us that it will set up a committee to look into the issue... Appropriate action will be taken,” he said. On Monday morning, Ms. Kanimozhi wrote on Twitter that the allegations were shocking and action must be taken against those who were involved, including the school authorities who failed to act on the complaints of the students. In a letter to Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal, Mr. Dayanidhi Maran sought an inquiry against the school management and trustees.  This matter is under serious consideration of the city police. We are taking all efforts to see to it that it reaches its logical conclusion... Shankar JiwalCity Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-accused-of-sexual-misconduct-suspended/article34638062.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only an intense lockdown can help curb spread: Stalin||Only an intense lockdown can help in curbing the spread of COVID-19 as [the past] lockdowns with relaxations only reduced the number of cases without bringing the contagion under control, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Monday. “Undergo tests for COVID-19. Take the vaccines. There is no better weapon to fight COVID-19 than vaccines. Everyone should come forward to vaccinate themselves,” he said in a video message on social media. He said some people were misusing relaxations during lockdowns to habitually roam outside. People should be determined not to spread the infection, he said, pointing out that Tamil Nadu’s daily count was [averaging] above 35,000, which was quite alarming. “The reason for such a scenario in Tamil Nadu is that a large number of people are stepping out and moving around,” he said. People should realise the need for an intense lockdown and understand that it will benefit the government and the country. “The lockdown is a bitter pill but the people will have to take it,” he said. Acknowledging that the livelihood of the poor and the downtrodden would be affected by the lockdown, Mr. Stalin listed the efforts taken by the State government to help them. He called upon the people to eat vegetables and fruits to remain healthy.  The reason for Tamil Nadu’s high case count is that a large number of people are stepping out M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-an-intense-lockdown-can-help-curb-spread-stalin/article34638065.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rice cardholders’ allocation to be doubled||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to give an enhanced entitlement of foodgrains to all rice-drawing ration cardholders in June and July. The decision follows the Centre’s initiative to double the entitlement of foodgrains to the priority household (PHH) cards for two months. No discrimination There are about 2.07 crore rice-drawing cards in the State, of which around 1.08 crore come under the category of PHH cards. The Centre’s scheme of concession leaves out the remaining 99 lakh non-priority household (NPHH) cards. This forces the State government to ensure that there is no discrimination against the NPHH cardholders, while seeking to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown. For providing the additional entitlement, the State will procure about 1.53 lakh tonnes of foodgrains a month from the Food Corporation of India at Rs. 22.5 a kg. This entails an additional commitment of around Rs. 688 crore, which has been sanctioned by the government through an order of the Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department issued last week. Under the Centre’s scheme, the additional foodgrains are to be given to PHH cardholders in May and June. Consequently, over and above the normal quota, the Centre has allotted to Tamil Nadu about 3.65 lakh tonnes of foodgrains, including nearly 36,470 tonnes of wheat. But the distribution of additional foodgrains could not begin in the State this month for several reasons, including the assumption of office by a new Council of Ministers in the first week of May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rice-cardholders-allocation-to-be-doubled/article34638067.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramco group to commission four new oxygen generators in 4-6 weeks||Ramco Cements plans to commission four new medical oxygen generators. Already, one oxygen generator has become functional. The five oxygen generators would cost Rs. 5 crore and would be able to fill 800 oxygen cylinders. The oxygen cylinders would be distributed to government hospitals in the State. In a press release, the company said it had installed one oxygen generator in Virudhunagar district, which was inaugurated on May 14, and planned to add similar facilities in Madurai, R.R. Nagar at Virudhunagar, and two in Ariyalur district, including at Alathiyur. The four generators would be commissioned within four to six weeks, the release added. Aid to other States Ramco Cements has contributed Rs. 1 crore to the State Disaster Management fund for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The cement company is helping other States in their fight against the pandemic by distributing high-end medical equipment, comprising monitors, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and ventilators at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore to Kerala and has proposed to install two oxygen generators in Andhra Pradesh at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. The two generators would help in filling 400 oxygen cylinders. The Ramco group had committed to the Odisha government to provide medical equipment worth Rs. 1 crore. Contributions pour in Trivitron Group, which is part of Neuberg Diagnostics, Kauvery Hospital and Trivitron Healthcare, has donated Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). In a press release, Dr. G.S.K. Velu, chairman and managing director of Neuberg Diagnostics, said the fund would be utilised for treatment, setting up emergency beds, supply of ventilators and oxygen concentrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramco-group-to-commission-four-new-oxygen-generators-in-4-6-weeks/article34638053.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No rising sun symbol should be displayed while distributing relief’||The Madras High Court on Monday ordered that the ruling DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol should not be displayed in any of the ration shops where the State government is distributing first tranche of Rs. 2,000 of the COVID-19 relief of Rs. 4,000 to rice ration card holders. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wrote, “There has always to be a distinction drawn between the government of the day and the political personnel who may form such government. At the time of relief or largesse being distributed by or on behalf of the government, it is the government and only the government that ought to be projected and not the political party which forms the government.” The observations were made while disposing of a public interest litigation petition filed by AIADMK member M. Devaraj of Chennai. He produced photographs of the portraits of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the ‘Rising Sun’ symbol having been displayed in some ration shops where the government cash relief was distributed. After hearing his counsel V. Lakshmi Narayanan, the first Division Bench wrote, “While there may be little room to object to the portrait of the Chief Minister being displayed, since the Chief Minister heads the elected government, the symbol of the ruling party should not be used at any of the distribution centres.” The judges also took note of the submissions of Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram that already 90% of the distribution was complete, and ordered that those responsible for the distribution must refrain from giving any political colour to the entire event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-rising-sun-symbol-should-be-displayed-while-distributing-relief/article34638058.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘I will be in politics as long as I am alive’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan broke his silence on the future of his political career on Monday, firmly stating that he would continue to be in politics as long as he is alive and “the party would exist as long as there is politics in society”. Mr. Haasan’s video message ended the speculation over his political future after several prominent second-line leaders, including party’s vice-president R. Mahendran, and general secretaries Santhosh Babu, C.K. Kumaravel, Muruganandham and others left after the party’s rout in the recent Assembly election, alleging that Mr. Haasan was ‘authoritarian’ in his approach. Despite high expectations, Mr. Haasan lost to BJP’s Vanathi Srinivasan in Coimbatore South constituency narrowly and the party’s overall vote share came down from 3.7% in the Lok Sabha election to under 3% in the Assembly election. Few outgoing party office-bearers alleged that though Mr. Haasan promised to usher in a ‘new political culture’, the politics practised by him was the complete opposite of what he preached. One of the outgoing general secretaries alleged that there was no transparency and clarity over where the party was getting its money from since March 1. Mr. Haasan said the party created leaders and stars out of ‘unknown and barely known people’ in the society. “For some, this is authoritarianism. When these people were given big responsibility based on their talent despite being new in the party, they felt it was the ‘height of democracy’. Everyone knows how transparent I was in forming alliances and how I empowered them is known to everyone,” he said. He added that it is a ‘good democratic practice’ to take responsibility for bad results. Those who have left the party would not be ‘allowed to contaminate the well’. “We will not let that happen again. We need not respond to unsubstantiated allegations to mask their mistakes. To those who are asking if we should keep quiet despite knowing the facts, I say, state the facts and argue but do not use foul language. From now on, individuals will not be allowed to reorganise the party’s infrastructure to suit their agenda. Those who are working for the party will be empowered. Everyone will see the mutated version of Makkal Needhi Maiam soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-will-be-in-politics-as-long-as-i-am-alive-kamal-haasan/article34637782.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen beds: PWD ties up with govt. agencies||The Public Works Department has tied up with other government agencies to source materials for additional oxygen beds across the State. Copper pipelines, oxygen flow meters and such other materials that are used to in oxygen lines in hospitals have been in high demand. In a bid to source these materials quickly, the department had sought help from the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation and the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd. Work on oxygen beds was likely to be completed quickly as most of the required materials had arrived at the PWD Complex, Chennai, on Monday. Those stocked in Chennai were distributed to hospitals in other parts of the State. Officials of the PWD said nearly 7,000 additional beds with oxygen lines had been provided so far in hospitals across Tamil Nadu. However, the requirement of oxygen beds was 13,650. “It was becoming difficult to source materials and accessories that were in shortage. We have now managed to get them from places like Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Gujarat,” said an official. Of about 60,000m copper pipelines required, nearly 42,000m have been procured so far. Other government agencies too had called for bids for such materials. “We are despatching loads to other districts like Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Madurai,” the official said. Similarly, nearly 11,000 flow meters have been procured so far. The department plans to complete work on the remaining beds in about a week. More avenues were being identified to source materials. The Public Works Department continues to get fresh requests for additional beds on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-ties-up-with-govt-agencies-to-source-materials-for-oxygen-beds/article34637785.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cap COVID-19 treatment costs in private hospitals, HC directs T.N. govt.||Taking note of media reports regarding some private hospitals charging exorbitant rates for treating COVID-19 patients, the Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to look into this aspect and ensure that some kind of cap was fixed so that an ordinary citizen, unable to obtain a bed at any government medical facility, is not financially ruined only in trying to save his life by obtaining admission at a private hospital. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy also granted a week’s time for Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram to produce details regarding the eligibility criteria to get enrolled under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS), in which 1.58 crore people had reportedly enrolled and were enjoying the benefit of cashless treatment at empanelled private hospitals. The directions were issued on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate D.I. Nathan, who sought a direction to the State government to devise a scheme for taking over all private hospitals and provide treatment free of cost to COVID-19 patients. In reply, the A-G stated that a considerable number of people, covered under CMCHIS, get free treatment. District-level committees had been formed to act on complaints received from the general public regarding overcharging by private hospitals. “Permission granted to nearly eight hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients were cancelled temporarily for overcharging and other reasons,” the A-G said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cap-covid-19-treatment-costs-in-private-hospitals-hc-directs-tn-govt/article34637911.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity will host volunteering workshop||On Tuesday, the University of Madras will launch a three-day training programme on offering psychological first aid (PFA). The programme is open to students of affiliated colleges. The virtual event will be inaugurated by City Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. “The course is aimed at frontline or essential workers and volunteers dealing with the public during the COVID-19 pandemic. You do not have to be a specialist to deliver PFA,” explained S. Thenmozhi, programme convener and head of the Department of Counselling Psychology. The participants will be trained in the Johns Hopkins RAPID model, an acronym for rapport and reflective listening, assessment, prioritisation, intervention and disposition and follow-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-will-host-volunteering-workshop/article34637918.ece
25 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Nine elected members take oath as MLAs||Nine newly-elected members took oath as MLAs of the 16th Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly in Chennai on Monday. Speaker M. Appavu administered the oath in his chamber at the Secretariat in Chennai. Among them were Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S.S. Sivasankar and Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan, elected from Kunnam and Rasipuram Assembly constituencies respectively. The others are: S. Gandhi Rajan (Vedasandur), Esakki Subbaiah (Ambasamudram), Kadambur Raju (Kovilpatti), C. Vijayabaskar (Viralimalai), R. Vaithilingam (Orathanadu), M. Varalakshmi (Chengalpattu) and A.G. Venkatachalam (Anthiyur). Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan and Chief Government Whip Govi. Chezhian were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-elected-members-take-oath-as-mlas/article34638052.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need oxygen supply from western States’||The State government on Monday informed the Madras High Court that it had sought the urgent supply of oxygen from western States, since the allocation of 146 tonnes to Tamil Nadu from the eastern corridor (primarily Odisha) may get affected by Cyclone Yaas. The court was told that Maharashtra had agreed to supply 60 tonnes of oxygen a day for 12 days, beginning Monday. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram said the Centre had increased the allocation of oxygen for Tamil Nadu under the National Oxygen Plan, from 519 to 650 tonnes, with effect from Tuesday. Of this, it had been stated that 146 tonnes would be supplied from the eastern corridor. However, since that supply might get disrupted because of the cyclone, the State had insisted on ensuring supply from the western corridors, and Maharashtra had readily agreed to supply it, he said. Alternative plan “It is hoped that the Centre has an alternative plan to at least ensure the supply of 650 tonnes of oxygen to the State, as allocated,” the judges observed in their interim order. The interim order was passed on a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to monitor the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-oxygen-supply-from-western-states/article34638063.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pradeep: a bright reporter and friend||How do you write an obituary on a colleague? Especially one who was young, enthusiastic, full of life and enjoyed a good argument. That was Pradeep Kumar V., well read, well informed and fiercely opinionated: in the best kind of way. Till about two weeks ago he was very active, chasing stories, doing interviews, filing articles, and — always a meticulous sub-editor — sending WhatsApp messages to the rest of us as deadlines loomed, ensuring all punctuation was in place. He was especially attached to semicolons and colons. News beats A film reporter with The Hindu MetroPlus , in his previous stints Pradeep, 28, covered many other news beats, including the Chennai Corporation. Thorough in his research, he always found interesting angles to the stories he wrote. He was enthusiastic about film writing, constantly tracking the latest trends in the industry, and coming up with timely ideas that he executed quickly. His writing was fresh, thoughtful and sensitive. Warm relationship Every time he came up with an interesting one, everyone in the department could tell because his eyes would come alive as he swivelled energetically in his chair to discuss it. He shared a warm relationship with fellow journalists as well as the people he interviewed. Unapologetically individual, his shaggy hair, moustache and beard evolved constantly, and were a popular subject of good-natured ribbing, but he took it in his stride. Football fan So did he, the fact, that he was the lone Liverpool Football Club fan in a sea of Man-U supporters often humming the Liverpool anthem ‘You’ll Never Walk Alone’. Adventures An avid biker, he would often ride off to places unknown, sending us the occasional wind-swept selfie, and returning with a story to file on his adventures. When Pradeep passed on last Sunday from COVID-19 complications, he went knowing that he had touched all of us with his zest for life. And that he did not walk alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pradeep-kumar-a-bright-reporter-biker-and-friend/article34637878.ece
25 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Virtual counselling for posting service PGs||Service Post Graduates (PG) will be posted to speciality vacancies in the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) and Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) institutions through virtual counselling. Both the directorates have published the vacancy list prior to counselling after several years, a move that a section of doctors say will go a long way in ensuring transparency in postings. “This is the first time we will be holding a virtual counselling - via video conferencing - for posting service PGs. A total of 550 doctors will be appearing for the three-day counselling to be held from May 25. There are a total of 1,200 posts in DME and DMS institutions,” R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said. This counselling was for service PGs - degree/diploma candidates who are completing their courses during May 2021 - to fill up speciality vacancies in the two directorates. Both the directorates had published the vacancy list prior to counselling. On the DME side, a tentative speciality-wise list in the cadre of assistant professor/senior resident/junior resident/tutor was published. A section of doctors pointed out that both the directorates had published the vacancy details prior to counselling after several years. “This is definitely a shift from the last two years when the counselling for service PGs was not conducted. This online counselling and publication of vacancy lists is a big step towards transparency,” said P. Saminathan, president of Service Doctors and Post Graduates Association. Conduct of counselling for service PGs was one of the main demands for doctors affiliated to the Federation of Government Doctors Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-counselling-for-posting-service-pgs/article34637792.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More support for COVID-19 prevention efforts in State||Ramco Cements plans to commission four new medical oxygen generators. Already one oxygen generator has become functional. The five oxygen generators would be costing Rs. 5 crore and would be able to produce 800 oxygen cylinders. The cylinders would be distributed to the Government hospitals in the State for treating the patients. In a press release the company said it had already installed one oxygen generator in Virudhunagar district, which was inaugurated on May 14, and plans to install oxygen generators in Madurai, R.R. Nagar at Virudhunagar, and two in the Ariyalur district including at Alathiyur village. The four generators would be commissioned within four to six weeks, the release added. Ramco Cements has also contributed Rs. One crore to the State Disaster Management fund as part of COVID-19 pandemic. The cement company is also helping other States to fight the raging pandemic by distributing high-end medical equipment comprising monitors, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and ventilators costing Rs. 1.50 crore to Kerala and has proposed to install two oxygen generators in Andhra Pradesh at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Ramco cement has also assured the Odisha government of providing medical equipment worth Rs. One crore. Trivitron Group which is part of Neuberg Diagnostics, Kauvery Hospital and Trivitron Healthcare has donated Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. In a press release G.S.K. Velu, Chairman and Managing Director of Neuberg Diagnostics, said the fund will be utilised for treatment, setting up emergency beds, supply of ventilators and oxygen concentrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-support-for-covid-19-prevention-efforts-in-state/article34637791.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual counselling for speciality medical vacancies||Service Post Graduates (PG) will be posted to speciality vacancies in the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) and Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) institutions through virtual counselling. Both the authorities have published the vacancy list prior to counselling after several years, a move that a section of doctors say will go a long way in ensuring transparency in postings. “This is the first time we will be holding a virtual counselling for posting service PGs. A total of 550 doctors will be appearing for the three-day counselling to be held from May 25. There are 1,200 posts,” R. Narayana Babu, DME, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-counselling-for-speciality-medical-vacancies/article34638054.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. must supervise COVID-19 norms in industries, says court||The Madras High Court on Monday said it was imperative on the part of the State government to supervise private establishments, such as automobile and tyre industries which had been exempted from the lockdown, and make sure that they follow all COVID-19 safety protocols. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the supervision could be undertaken either by the officials from the Directorate of Industrial Safety or some other appropriate government authority. The court felt such supervision would help in the workmen not being forced to work in conditions that may put their health in danger. The interim order was passed on a writ petition filed by workmen of the Renault-Nissan vehicle manufacturing facility at Oragadam and Wipro Infrastructure Engineering at Irungattukottai near here against the exemption granted by the State government to automobile and allied industries from the ongoing lockdown to fight COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-must-supervise-covid-19-norms-in-industries-says-court/article34637915.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. grants a few exemptions from lockdown||The State government on Monday permitted Public Distribution System outlets (ration shops) to function from 8 a.m. to 12 noon during the ongoing intense COVID-19 lockdown. Amending a Government Order on the lockdown, it said banks and insurance institutions (earlier only banks were permitted) to function with one-third staff. Staff of private organisations/IT/ITES shall work from home. ATMs and related bank services shall be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-grants-a-few-exemptions-from-lockdown/article34637789.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOC brings in 140 tonnes of oxygen from Singapore||Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) has begun moving 140 tonnes of oxygen to Chennai and Salem sourced from Singapore via ships. The ISO containers are being moved from Vishakapatnam and are likely to reach their destinations by Tuesday. P. Jayadevan, executive director, IOCL, said that the oxygen would be kept at these locations from where the State government would move the oxygen to locations that have the need. Meanwhile, to ensure uninterrupted fuel and LPG supplies, the State government has allowed oil company workers to commute by two-wheelers. “We have asked them to wear their uniforms and carry their ID cards. The police personnel on the ground have been instructed to allow them,” said a source. On Monday there were instances of men working at LPG bottling plants and at terminals being stopped while commuting by two-wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ioc-brings-in-140-tonnes-of-oxygen-from-singapore/article34637790.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hyundai closes plant for 5 days||The management of Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL) has decided to temporarily suspend plant operations in Sriperumbudur from May 25 to May 29. A section of workers walked out and protested on Monday, seeking closure of the plant amid the intense lockdown and concerns over the spread of COVID-19. However, Hyundai said in a statement that plant operations were under way as per schedule on Monday. The New Democratic Labour Front (NDLF), which operates in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, has urged the State government to allow only industries catering to medicines, electricity and food to function during the intense lockdown and cancel permission given to other industries such as automobiles, auto parts and two-wheeler manufacturing among others. In a statement, it said the workers were scared for their safety. The NDLF alleged that when MSME units were closed, big automobile and cement industries had been allowed to operate in full swing, and they caused the spread of COVID-19. The union alleged there had been death of workers across industries due to the pandemic. The NDLF also pointed out that the State government had said essential industry staff could not commute on two-wheelers and that industries had to arrange for their transportation. There was no assurance that these industries would make sufficient arrangements for transportation, it added. The union said workers feared they would be punished for not turning up for work. Taking into account the severity of the COVID-19 spread, the government should not allow the automobile, auto parts and other industries to operate. The industries must offer leave with pay not only to permanent workers but also to contract and migrant workers, the NDLF added. Hyundai said it had undertaken several initiatives to support its employees across the country. Protest at Renault too A union representing workers of the Renault-Nissan plant has told the company that it would go on strike from Wednesday, alleging that pandemic-related safety demands had not been fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-protest-hyundai-closes-sriperumbudur-plant-for-5-days/article34637914.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOC brings in 140 tonnes of oxygen from Singapore||Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) has begun moving 140 tonnes of oxygen, sourced from Singapore, to Chennai and Salem via ships. The ISO containers are being moved from Vishakapatnam and are likely to reach their destinations by Tuesday. P. Jayadevan, executive director, IOCL, said the oxygen would be kept at these locations and moved to locations that had the need. Meanwhile, the State government has allowed oil company workers to commute by two-wheelers. “We have asked them to wear uniforms and carry their ID cards. The police personnel on the ground have been instructed to allow them,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ioc-brings-in-140-tonnes-of-oxygen-from-singapore/article34637835.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban on release of The Family Man 2 sought||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday wrote to the Union government, seeking immediate action either to stop or ban the release of The Family Man 2 web series on the Amazon Prime OTT platform across the country. The trailer of the Manoj Bajpayee and Samantha starrer, which was released recently, “depicted Eelam Tamils in a highly objectionable manner”. Information Technology Minister T. Mano Thangaraj, in his letter to Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar, said the web series (due for release in June) not only hurt the sentiments of Eelam Tamils but also the feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu and “if allowed to broadcast, it would be prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony in the State”. On Sunday, MDMK leader Vaiko had made a similar plea to Mr. Javadekar and earlier, Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman had sought a ban on its release. ‘Inappropriate’ Contending that the contents of the said series in Hindi was “condemnable, inappropriate and malicious”, he said the recently released trailer was aimed at discrediting and distorting the historical struggle of Eelam Tamils in Sri Lanka. “The sacrifices of their long drawn out democratic battle has been intentionally undermined and it could not, by any stretch of imagination considered merely as a serial with any value for Tamil culture. Moreover, a serial, which is loaded with insults and insinuations against the glorious Tamil culture could never be considered as one having any broadcasting value,” Mr. Thangaraj contended. The trailer “evoked strong and widespread opposition from the people of Tamil Nadu as well as from the political parties in the State”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-seeks-ban-on-release-of-the-family-man-2/article34637832.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. grants slight lockdown relaxations||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday permitted the Public Distribution System outlets (ration shops) to function from 8 a.m. to 12 noon during the ongoing intense COVID-19 lockdown. Amending a Government Order, it said banks and insurance institutions (earlier only banks were permitted) to function with one-third of their workforce. Staff of private organisations/IT/ITES shall work from home. ATMs and related bank services shall be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-grants-slight-lockdown-relaxations/article34637833.ece
25 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gold processing from sludge leaves residents breathing polluted air in Coimbatore||Nearly 20 families living on the side of a drainage channel that carries releases from Coimbatore Corporation’s sewage treatment plant at Ukkadam have a rare livelihood – filtering traces of gold from the sludge. Waste water generated from hundreds of jewellery manufacturing units in the city are the source of gold particles in the sewage. Though these families have been into this job for several years now, the crude method of processing gold from the sludge is now a cause of concern for adjacent residential areas -- Anbu Nagar, Rose Park, Rose Avenue, Reshma Garden, Nila Garden and N.S. Park to name a few. The gold filtering process involves burning of dry cakes made out of the sludge from the sewage which looks similar to cow dung cakes. While the workers claim that they burn the cakes with coconut husks and waste materials, residents suspect that they might be adding some chemical agent to boost the burning of the sludge cakes to break into fine dust. “The burning is happening round the clock, and increases at night. The noxious smoke released during the process is spread through wind. We fear that regular inhalation of the smoke could lead to serious health hazards,” says Kovai Syed, a resident of Rose Park. Following a complaint lodged by residents, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) sent a letter to the Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner on May 12. The TNPCB, in its letter, said that the place where the crude method of gold scavenging is undertaken falls under the jurisdiction of the local body. It forwarded the petition to the Corporation for taking action under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 and the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. “As the activity is happening on the encroached areas of the drainage, the Public Works Department and the Corporation are authorised to take action,” said P. Manimaran, District Environmental Engineer, Coimbatore south. A field visit done by The Hindu found that those involved in gold scavenging had blocked the course of the drainage to get the sludge accumulated. Round cakes made of the sludge are sun-dried along the side of the drainage for about 100 metres. The next process involves burning the cake to generate fine dust. This fine dust is washed using sewage water on wooden trays in a slanted position. The fine sediment drained from the trays is collected in large vessels, repeated filtering of which leaves gold particles at the end of the process. “I get Rs. 500 per day as wage,” said a worker who did not want to reveal the whereabouts of his employer. Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said that the local body will take necessary action on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-processing-from-sludge-leaves-residents-breathing-polluted-air-in-coimbatore/article34638092.ece
25 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Village-level panels formed in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district administration has formed village panchayat- level committees for the containment and tracking of COVID-19. A release issued by the administration on Saturday said that such committees will be functional in 228 village panchayats in the district. The committee comprises village panchayat president, village panchayat secretary, village administrative officer, village health nurse and a police personnel appointed by the District Superintendent of Police. The committees have been tasked to employ special workers to conduct house visits for a survey of COVID-19 cases in each village. Based on the requirement, the committees have to arrange village level COVID isolation centres in places such as marriage halls or school buildings for patients who lack space at their houses to remain in home isolation. Such isolation centres should have water, electricity and toilets. The committees should advise patients, who come to such isolation centres, to bring their essential items such as clothes, plate, tumbler, cell phone charger, soap, bucket, etc. Panchayat president and ward members have been asked to ensure that people who attend marriages and deaths follow the norms issued by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-level-panels-formed-in-coimbatore-district/article34637778.ece
25 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Seva Bharati opens 300-bedded CCC||Seva Bharati’s Swami Vivekananda Seva Kendram has opened a 300-bedded COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at Kongunadu Arts and Science College. A release said the Centre was spread across 150 rooms with two beds each. There were rooms for admitting COVID-19 positive mothers with their children as well. All the admission was through the Coimbatore Corporation-run triage centre. The Kendram had deployed a doctor on a full-time basis with nurses. It had also established a counselling centre. It had furnished each of the rooms with electric steamer, in addition to beds and other amenities, the release said and added that it had also readied an oxygen bus with six ‘A’ type cylinders and 12 outlet valves delivering oxygen upto 15 litres a minute. This arrangement would help patients for up to two days by which time they should be able to find a hospital bed. There was liaison office to update the positive persons’ family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seva-bharati-opens-300-bedded-ccc/article34638085.ece
25 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mosque to help COVID-19 patients||Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) has converted a mosque into a COVID-19 awareness centre. A release said it had converted the Hooda mosque in Karumbukkadai to provide help and assistance to COVID-19 positive persons and their family members. The centre would provide medical consultation, help persons interact with doctors, have volunteers to provide psychological counselling and look into oxygen distribution to meet emergency. The release said it would also guide persons to avail of the Chief Minister’s health insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mosque-to-help-covid-19-patients/article34638086.ece
25 May 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||COVID care centres inspected||G. Muthu Meenal, Additional Director of District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), inspected COVID care centres in Dindigul district on Monday. She also inspected vaccination centres and containment zones and handed over sanitary kits to conservancy workers. The kits contained face masks, sanitisers and ‘kabasura kudineer’ packets. The ofificial also gave instructions to the officers concerned on COVID-19 management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-care-centres-inspected/article34637837.ece
25 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||232 kg ganja seized, couple held||A couple was arrested and 232.50 kg of ganja worth Rs. 23.20 lakh were seized from a house at Golden City at Solar here on Sunday. Based on information, a special team raided a house at Hari Garden and found the banned item hoarded in the house. Ganja was packed in 11 bags and was kept for sale. M. Kesavan (34) and his wife Brindha (24) had rented the house and were involved in selling ganja for two months. Erode Taluk Police registered a case and both were arrested and lodged at prison. Inquiry is on to ascertain persons who had purchased from the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/232-kg-ganja-seized-couple-held/article34637779.ece
25 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode police to help the needy||Elderly persons and people who are in need of help to get essential services or for protection during the total lockdown can contact the district police control room that functions round the clock for assistance. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai said that since vehicle movement was completely restricted, elderly persons or people who need help to buy medicines or avail other essential services could contact the control room at 96558-88100 and 96522-20100 so that police personnel could render help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-police-to-help-the-needy/article34638078.ece
25 May 2021||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||ITI student held for murder||A 20- year-old ITI student was among two persons arrested for the murder of a man on Sunday night.  Beaten to death The victim Ellappa of Somanathapuram village was beaten to death allegedly by the accused Surya, a second year ITI student. According to the police, Surya was already under inquiry by the Andhra Pradesh Police for a murder. Last week, Andhra Pradesh police visited Somanathapuram village to inquire into another murder. Following this, the victim Ellapa entered into a verbal altercation with Surya. On Sunday night, Surya along with his two other friends Sudha and Sudarshan lured Ellappa for a drink, where the victim was allegedly beaten to death. Body found on railway track The body was later thrown onto the railway tracks, according to the police. Hosur police registered a case, and upon inquiry, arrested Surya and Sudarshan, while the third accused was at large. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iti-student-held-for-murder/article34637783.ece
25 May 2021||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Man shot dead in suspected gang rivalry||A 30- year- old man was shot dead in a suspected gang rivalry here in a Denkanikotai village on Sunday. The incident occurred in Bellur village on Sunday night, when the victim Lokesh was asleep in his house, according to the police. Late Sunday night, Lokesh answered a knock at his door. According to the police, Lokesh had stepped out to meet a group of men, who had arrived in a SUV. A few minutes later, Lokesh’s wife had rushed outside on hearing a gun shot. Lokesh was found lying dead in a pool of blood. Denkanikottai police have registered a case.  Search on for three According to the police, they are on the lookout for a Hosur-based man along with three others in a suspected case of murder out of gang rivalry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-shot-dead-in-suspected-gang-rivalry/article34637784.ece
25 May 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||60 migrant workers leave Karur||A group of 60 migrant workers belonging to West Bengal left Karur on Monday following extension of total lockdown. Upon noticing a group of workers with luggage waiting at the bus stand, police questioned them, sources said The workers told the police that they did not have any option other than to return to their home State as textile and other units, where they were employed, had closed down in the wake of the extended lockdown. Following this, the police personnel made arrangements for their trouble-free passage up to the State border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-migrant-workers-leave-karur/article34638199.ece
25 May 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want lake bund strengthened||The farmers in Polur in Poondi panchayat in the upper hills here have appealed to the forest officials to immediately carry out repairs on the 50-acre Varancanal lake as there was an urgent need to strengthen the bund since 90 % of the water stored in the waterbody had drained due to weak bund. The lake, according to the villagers, is the prime source of water for drinking and also for irrigation, they said in a memorandum submitted to Collector M Vijayalakshmi on Monday. They said that despite taking up with the local forest officials to repair the bund last year, when there was no response, the villagers came together and repaired the leaks. However, the natural lake, which runs to 220 metre length and five metre high, could not retain the water as the leak continued. "Close to 90 % of rainwater drained..." they claimed in the petition.  When The Hindu contacted Cooperation Minister I Periasami in Dindigul, he assured to discuss the issue with the officials concerned and get the works done on a war-footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-lake-bund-strengthened/article34638167.ece
25 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police act tough to keep surge in check||After a multitude of shoppers thronged all parts of the city on Sunday, arterial roads on Monday wore a deserted look with very few vehicles plying on the road after intensified lockdown to combat the spread of COVID-19 came into force. With all shops, except for hospitals, pharmacies, banks and a handful of restaurants remaining open, people had to remain indoors. Ambulances, water tankers, vehicles delivering cooking gas cylinders and water cans were criss-crossing the city roads. Two-wheelers were also plying for those attending essential services and food delivery. The police have put up closely-placed barricades at all important junctions for carrying out vehicle checks. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) K. Sugumaran, who inspected the arrangements, said that those who were found roaming around without any purpose were being booked and their vehicles seized. “We appeal to the people to remain indoors in their own interest so that they do not get infected with the virus,” he said.  Minister inspects Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy said there was good compliance in Madurai district as people stayed indoors. Addressing mediapersons after inspecting movement of vehicles in Goripalayam junction, Mr. Moorthy said that people were seen travelling only for medical emergencies. Other districts Police check posts were erected at several places on all arterial roads in Tiurnelveli. Those who had to travel under unavoidable circumstances alone were allowed to proceed while others were fined on the spot. Cases were registered against the violators. “We will register First Information Report against the violators for which they will have to appear before the court one day. Registration of case against the violators will pose hindrance in getting ‘no objection certificate’ from the police for everything. So we appeal to the public not to take this intensified lockdown lightly,” said the police. Though restaurants and other eateries functioned during the permitted timings, only the representatives of food delivery companies could be seen waiting in front these places to get food and deliver it to their customers. Superintendents of Police N. Manivannan of Tirunelveli, Suguna Singh of Tenkasi, S. Jayakumar of Thoothukudi and V. Badri Narayanan of Kanniyakumari were on the move to implement the intensified lockdown in their respective districts. However, in rural areas, villagers could be seen moving around freely. Only the residents of villages housing the police stations followed the restrictions fearing action. Vehicle check was conducted at 87 places in Thoothukudi district, including 23 places in Thoothukudi Town. Police teams in 13 SUVs and 61 two-wheelers have been deployed to monitor the situation in Dindigul district. A total of 1,200 police personnel are engaged in the exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-act-tough-to-keep-surge-in-check/article34637840.ece
25 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mini COVID care centres are on the way for Madurai||Steps are afoot to start Mini Covid Care Centres with a minimum of five beds in each unit in villages, said District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 B. Chandra Mohan. Addressing members of COVID-19 Task Force, he said that residents of rural areas must be sensitised about vaccination. It must also be ensured that all those who were under home isolation had pulse oximeter at home, he said. Minister’s plea Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy said oxygen supplied to private hospitals must be increased. The infection was on the rise in rural areas. Health workers, along with anganwadi workers, had been instructed to undertake door-to-door screening in Sholavandan and Madurai East blocks to identify patients with COVID-19 symptoms. Student-volunteers of Madurai Kamaraj University can be engaged in creating awareness of COVID-19 among residents. Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan said that COVID-19 vaccination coverage must be increased in the district. Mr. Thiagarajan has urged people to stay indoors during the intensified lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-covid-care-centres-are-on-the-way-for-madurai/article34637844.ece
25 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||125 vehicles to sell vegetables in Madurai||Corporation Commissioner S. Visagan inspected vehicles through which vegetable kits are sold to the residents at their doorstep during the intensified lockdown period on Monday. The Corporation, and other government departments have arranged for mobile vehicles to sell vegetables to residents at their doorstep. The Corporation plans to deploy 125 mobile vehicles to sell vegetable kits in the 100 wards of the city. In the first phase, 15 mobile started functioning from Monday, Mr Visagan said. Each vegetable kit will cost Rs. 100. Volunteers from various social organisations will sell the vegetable kits which will be sold from 7 a.m. to 12 noon. A Corporation press release said residents can call or WhatsApp 84284 25000 to buy the vegetables and fruits. Similarly, the Agricultural department has arranged 26 mobile vehicles, agricultural marketing department 28 vehicles, horticultural department 45 vehicles for selling vegetables to residents in rural areas, it added. Dindigul Cooperation Minister I. Periasamy flagged off the mobile vegetable and fruits vehicles in the presence of Collector M. Vijayalakshmi and Member of Parliament P. Velusamy in Dindigul on Monday. A total of 233 vehicles have been deployed in Dindigul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/125-vehicles-to-sell-vegetables-in-madurai/article34638170.ece
25 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Call police for help||Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that senior citizens and the destitute can call the police control room for getting essential services and goods. The control room will function round the clock. It can be reached on 0452 2520707 / 2531044 / 2344989. Farmers, traders and others who make emergency travel and face hurdles at vehicle checking points can also contact these numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-police-for-help/article34637834.ece
25 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be a power shutdown from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the following areas on May 25 (Tuesday), in view of maintenance work to be taken up at Samayanallur substation: Paravai, Kovil Pappakudi, Podhumbu, Adhalai, Ariyur, Kumaram, Mainyanji, Kalilkudi and Thandalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34637841.ece
25 May 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 129.35 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 782 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.65 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 888 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,295 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Periyar dam 4.6, Manjalar dam 4, Thekkadi 2 and Kodaikanal 0.8. The level in Papanasam dam stood at 112.20 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 1,324.77 cusecs and a discharge of 254.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 84.40 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 152 cusecs and a discharge of 250 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34637846.ece
25 May 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district records highest single-day rise||Madurai district registered 1,453 new COVID-19 cases on Monday – the highest single-day rise in tally so far. On Sunday, the district had reported 1,139 fresh cases. According to State medical bulletin, 915 persons who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged on Monday, when 16 deaths were recorded. Now, the district’s death toll stands at 814. Five persons succumbed to the viral infection in Virudhunagar, taking the district’s toll to 339. The district recorded 703 new cases and 542 discharges. Meanwhile, the district administration has increased the number of beds for COVID treatment to 175. According to the medical bulletin, 123 of the additional beds would be with oxygen support, 45 without oxygen support and seven intensive care unit beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-district-records-highest-single-day-rise/article34637842.ece
25 May 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||NGOs donate oxygen concentrators||The district administration has mobilised oxygen concentrators for use in government hospitals through contributions made by service organisations. Over a week-long period, the district administration has received about 77 oxygen concentrators from non-government organisations. On Monday, AGS Health and United Way together handed over 10 oxygen concentrators to Siva. V. Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment - Climate Change and Youth Welfare, who is camping in the district to monitor COVID-19 response measures Collector Praveen P. Nair and other senior officials were present. Vaanavil Trust donated two oxygen concentrators. A week ago, Boomika, a Chennai-based NGO, donated 50 oxygen concentrators and MOFA (Medical Oxyben for All), also a Chennai-based organisation, donated 15 oxygen concentrators. Out of these, 45 were meant for the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam and 20 for the GH in Vedaraynam. On a daily basis, there were admissions of over 20 infected persons requiring oxygen-support beds in the district, the Collector said. The Minister inspected the works on establishment of an oxygen manufacturing unit on the premises of Government Hospital at Vedaranyam. Mr. Meyyanathan took stock of the functioning of the Siddha Care Centre established on the premises of E.G.S Pillai College, and reviewed COVID-19 prevention measures in Nagore Government Hospital. He also inspected vaccination drive at Nagapattinam Government Hospital and Vadakkupoigainallur in Kilvelur Union. Required manpower would be provided for the Siddha Care Centre and a simiar centre would shortly be opened in Tiruvarur district. About 50 doctors and 100 nurses and para-medical staff would be appointed on May 27 for deployment in Mayiladuthurai district where shortage of medical staff had been reported, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-donate-oxygen-concentrators/article34638197.ece
25 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||No oxygen shortage in Namakkal district: Minister||Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan said that there is no oxygen shortage in the district at the moment. Speaking to reporters after holding discussions with District Collector K. Megraj here on Monday, he said the bed strength in the district was also being increased. He said that 16 doctors and 45 nurses were recently appointed in the district. He also said that the death rate in the district has been reducing. He said that the district at the moment has 2,450 beds, including 768 beds with oxygen support. Discussions with CM Dr. Mathiventhan said he would hold discussions with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on providing assistance to street vendors and other traders in tourist spots who have been affected due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-oxygen-shortage-in-namakkal-district-minister/article34637786.ece
25 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Swearing-in of MLAs on Wednesday or Friday||The much-delayed swearing-in ceremony of the pro-tem Speaker and newly-elected legislators in Puducherry is likely to be held on Wednesday or Friday. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, for the first time after his discharge from a private hospital in Chennai for COVID-19 treatment, held talks with party legislators on Monday evening. Though the Chief Minister was scheduled to attend office on Monday, following completion of home quarantine post-discharge, Mr. Rangasamy decided to stay put at home. “He met some of his close associates, including legislators. The swearing-in will take place either on Wednesday or Friday,” said a party legislator. Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had on May 21 issued an order appointing senior legislator K. Lakshminarayanan as the pro-tem Speaker on the recommendations of the Chief Minister. Sources in the AINRC and the BJP have confirmed that no headway had been made between the parties on the Deputy Chief Minister’s post and sharing of ministerial berths. The BJP remains keen on getting the Deputy Chief Minister’s post and three Cabinet Ministers, a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swearing-in-of-mlas-on-wednesday-or-friday/article34638056.ece
25 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New cases continue to dip, 23 deaths recorded in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded 23 deaths in the past 24 hours, raising the cumulative toll to 1,382 even as new cases continued to decline with 922 fresh cases confirmed against over twice the number of recoveries on Monday. Puducherry reported 21 deaths and Karaikal and Yanam one each. The patients, including 11 women, were in the 39 to 85 years age range and 13 of them had no co-morbid condition. The region-wise cumulative toll was Puducherry (1,127), Karaikal (147), Yanam (82) and Mahe (26). Puducherry accounted for 730 of the new cases, which were detected from 7,674 tests, followed by Karaikal (134), Yanam (37) and Mahe (21). The test positivity rate was 12%, down from the average of 15% over the last few days and 20% since the onset of the second wave. The case fatality rate was 1.43% and recovery rate 82.25%. With 1,915 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 15,835. Of this, 1,968 people were in hospitals and 13,867 were in home isolation. Puducherry has so far recorded a total of 96,982 cases with 79,765 patients recovering. The bed occupancy position was JIPMER (533), IGMCRI (435) and Covid Care Centres (623). According to the COVID dashboard, Puducherry region had a reserve of 43 oxygen beds against the capacity of 1,641 beds while no ventilator bed was available in any of the treating institutions, including private nursing homes. The Health Department has so far tested an estimated 9.89 lakh samples, with over 8.63 lakh returning negative results. Meanwhile, 75 healthcare workers, 99 frontline personnel and 2,147 members of the public took the COVID-19 vaccine across the Union Territory. The total number of people vaccinated so far stood at 2,43,148, including 34,234 healthcare workers, 21,044 frontline staff and 1,37,400 members of the public.  Puducherry region has a reserve of 43 oxygen beds against the capacity of 1,641 beds while no ventilator bed is available in any of the treating institutions, including private hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cases-continue-to-dip-23-deaths-recorded-in-ut/article34638057.ece
25 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Women SHGs roped in for the mobile venture||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Monday said that mobile sale of vegetables all over the district was being done by engaging 261 vehicles. Inaugurating the sale at Pochampatti village in Arimalam block, he said the initiative was being implemented through Cooperative, Agricultural and Mahalir Thittam departments, besides town panchayats and municipalities. Women SHGs had been roped in for sale through mobile units and vegetables of good quality were being sold at a lesser cost to the public at their doorstep. Adherence of the general public to safety rules during the week-long intense lockdown would, for sure, help in drastic reduction in the spread of COVID-19, he observed. Inaugurating a medical camp at Ashok Nagar in Pudukottai Town later, Mr. Regupathy called upon the people to get themselves vaccinated without fail. He appealed to the people to extend their cooperation to the efforts taken by the State government in containing the spread of COVID-19 by sincerely adhering to safety guidelines. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-shgs-roped-in-for-the-mobile-venture/article34638208.ece
25 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. sets up two drive-in testing centres||The Salem Corporation has set up two more drive-in COVID-19 testing centres at Ammapet and Kondalampatti. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran inaugurated the centres recently. The drive-in centre in Kondalampatti functions on the premises of Sowdeshwari College and at Boys Higher Secondary School in Ammapet. The centres would function from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. and arrangements have been made for collecting about 500 samples at each centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-sets-up-two-drive-in-testing-centres/article34637780.ece
25 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DME inspects Salem GH||Director of Medical Education R. Narayanababu visited the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Monday and reviewed the COVID-19 treatment measures. Mr. Narayanababu held discussions with Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, Dr. Rani, Resident Medical Officer, R. Mallarvizhi Vallal, Joint Director of Health Services, and heads of various departments. He enquired about the outpatient treatment facilities and COVID-19 triage zone at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dme-inspects-salem-gh/article34638079.ece
25 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem district police sets up helpline||The Salem district police have set up a helpline number to provide assistance to the public during the lockdown period. Superintendent of Police S.Deepa Ganiger said in a release that the public could contact the helpline at 94981-00970, 0427- 2272929 and it would be available round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-police-sets-up-helpline/article34638080.ece
25 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Clinic sealed||Officials from Revenue, health and police conducted checks on the premises of a homeopathy clinic near Thalaivasal here on Monday based on a tip off that the medical practitioner was indulging in providing allopathy treatment without necessary qualification. Following checks, officials found that the allegations were not true. However, they imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on the clinic and sealed the premises for violating COVID-19 safety protocols and letting the public to crowd on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clinic-sealed/article34638081.ece
25 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Groom held for marrying 17-year-old girl||The All Women Police, Vilathikulam, arrested five persons, including the groom for marrying a 17-year-old girl. According to S. Jayakumar, Superintendent of Police, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vilathikulam, Prakash, and his team conducted an investigation after getting information about the wedding to be conducted for a 17-year-old girl from a village under the Vilathikulam police station limits. As the information was found to be true, Inspector of Police, All Women Police Station, Vilathikulam, Meera Bhanu, rushed to the house from where the girl was rescued. The police team also arrested S. Marimuthu, 27 of Kattalankulam, who married the girl, his father S. Sarkkarai, 56, mother S. Kamatchi and the parents of the girl. On a complaint preferred by District Social Welfare Officer Ponnumari, the Vilaathikulam All Women Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/groom-held-for-marrying-17-year-old-girl/article34638171.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bed strength increased in Tiruchi GH||More than 100 ICU and oxygen-support beds will be added in a phased manner at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi due to surge in number of patients, senior officials said. The fifth and sixth floors of the super speciality block in the hospital are being rewired and oxygen supply pipelines laid to accommodate around 100 beds. Adequate plug points have also been arranged for ventilator support, MGMGH Dean K. Vanitha told The Hindu . Also, 160 new ICU beds, 90 oxygen-support beds and 100 normal beds have been set up, further increasing the number of beds allocated for COVID-19 treatment to 1,264. The hospital, however, will require an additional oxygen tank of at least 10 KL capacity for all the 100 beds to become operational, senior officials at the hospital said. “We are yet to get additional supply, but we are using oxygen concentrators for patients who do not require too much supply and accommodating those who need it more on oxygen beds with high-flow nasal oxygen.” Fear of illness Officials feel that most patients who visit the hospital come in a state of panic. “Last week, we had patients crying, begging to be saved when, in fact, they are in good health and could be discharged soon. Fear of the illness is worse than the illness itself. We see that it has settled a little bit now,” an official said. Meanwhile, plans drawn up by the medical department to set up an in-house oxygen generating plant is yet to take off. The plant will assist in steady supply of oxygen and further increase in beds, the official added.  We are using oxygen concentrators for those who do not require too much supply and oxygen beds with high-flow nasal oxygen only for those who need it more Officials Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bed-strength-increased-in-tiruchi-gh/article34638205.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Public stay indoors as intensified lockdown comes into force||People, by and large, remained indoors on day one of the week-long intensified lockdown that came into force on Monday even as law enforcers seized several vehicles of those who had ventured out without any valid reason. Roads in the city wore a deserted look as teams of police personnel deployed at vantage points mounted vigil to enforce the intensified lockdown clamped to curb the spread of COVID-19. In addition to deploying police personnel at the border check posts falling within the city limits, the city police had 50 vehicle check points where those venturing out were intercepted and questioned, said police sources. Some of the vehicle check points included Head Post Office junction, Mannarpuram and Kohinoor Theatre junction. Vehicular movement was more towards Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and Thillai Nagar area where several hospitals were located, said police officers. Several people who had ventured out reportedly told the police that they were proceeding either to the hospital or to the nearby pharmacy shops, the officers further said adding that documents kept by them were checked before allowing them to proceed. Barring those who had ventured out for genuine reasons with valid documents, vehicles of several others were confiscated as they had no valid reason to come out. Police sources said over 450 vehicles were seized in the city limits on Monday. The seized vehicles were kept in the Armed Reserve ground here. Police personnel were also deployed in 20 border check posts and at 16 inner check points falling within the limits of Tiruchi Rural Police. Police sources said over 200 vehicles majority of them being two-wheelers were seized all over the district after riders were found venturing out without any valid reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-stay-indoors-as-intensified-lockdown-comes-into-force/article34638211.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||This lockdown has animal lovers worried as meat shops are shut||A year after launch of ‘Care for Cattle’, an initiative by a group of animal rights activists, to feed and protect stray animals after realising that their source of food was cut off amid the lockdown, the volunteers are, at present, desperately looking for alternatives due to closure of meat shops. Initiated by G. V. Karthik, an animal rights activist, the group of around 180 volunteers had been feeding more than 500 dogs per day. Mr. Karthik, on his part, has been feeding about 15 to 20 street dogs in his neighbourhood. The main source of food for street dogs is usually street stalls and tea shops. With none of them functioning, the dogs go hungry. “We pitched our idea to M. Sekaran, Chairman, Citizens Forum who welcomed it. With his help we were able to scale up our efforts,” he said. Each volunteer feeds at least 20 dogs, and together, the group cover the street dogs across the city. Rice is donated by well-wishers, while chicken and meat waste is purchased from the stalls for a small price, taken from the donations that the group receives. However, the group has now come across a new roadblock. The intensified lockdown, which began on Monday does not allow for meat shops to function. “We are seeing if we can provide milk or curd rice with eggs, but it will work out to be more expensive. Another idea is to feed them milk and biscuits at least, because they will not get any food for the next week,” he said. Mr. Karthik believes that the sole aim of the group is to spread the information that we must respect the animals’ existence. “We do not own the earth, we share it with all other living things, and we must remember that,” he said. As many as 110 cement tubs have also been placed outside the residences of people who allow it. The residents agree to pour water in the tub for stray animals so that they can quench their thirst, especially during summer months. “When they start giving the animals water, that is when they realise they need food. They begin to place gruel, and leftover rice into the buckets too,” he said. The group also aims to create a ‘Cattle Home’, where stray animals can be housed. “This way, we will prevent roadkills and stray animals would get a permanent home,” Mr. Karthik said. He also plans to reach out to school children so that they can take part in the initiative.  We had been feeding more than 500 dogs per day with chicken and meat waste that we purchased from stalls for a small price G. V. Karthik Animal rights activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-lockdown-has-animal-lovers-worried-as-meat-shops-are-shut/article34638195.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of vegetables on wheels begins||The district administration on Monday launched ‘sale on wheels’ initiative to take vegetables to the doorstep of residents during the week-long intense lockdown. Tiruchi Corporation would make use of its vehicles and the Departments of Horticulture, Cooperatives and Agricultural Marketing would provide theirs for the exercise. The new steps came into force following closure of all shops and establishments, including vegetable markets and grocery stores, in compliance with total lockdown measures. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru flagged off the vegetable sale at a function held here in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu. Mr. Nehru said all 65 wards in Tiruchi would be covered with five vehicles allocated for each ward. Traders, who had mini-load carriers, would also be permitted to sell vegetables at the doorstep of residents. They had to follow standard operating procedures and could sell only vegetables and fruits .till noon. The hawkers should have thermo scanner to check the temperature of customers. As far as grocery items were concerned, the Minister said departmental stores could supply essential items. They could share their phone numbers with the customers to receive orders so as to supply them at their homes. Officials would be appointed for each ward to supervise sale of vegetables. Mr. Nehru said the sale would be carried out through 20 vehicles of the Department of Cooperatives, 152 vehicles of Horticulture Department and 60 vehicles of the Department of Agricultural Marketing and closely monitored. Depending upon requirement, additional steps would be taken to rope in more traders and vehicles of various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-vegetables-on-wheels-begins/article34638201.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen cylinders donated||Dalmia Cement has donated 50 oxygen cylinders to the Government Hospital at Lalgudi. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru inaugurated the special ward with oxygen support on Monday. S. Sivarasu, Collector; Vinayagamoorthy, Plant Head, Dalmia Cement; and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-cylinders-donated/article34638203.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||4,588 new cases recorded||The central region reported 4,588 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, reflecting a partial decline compared to Sunday’s 5,074. The region recorded 41 deaths, with all of the eight districts reporting at least one death, while Tiruchi district reported 22 deaths for the first time. Karur and Thanjavir districts reported four casualties each. Three deaths each were reported in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai, while two were recorded in Ariyalur and Tiruvarur. One death was recorded in Perambalur. Meanwhile, the Department of Public Health in Tiruchi had begun inoculation of adults over the age of 18. “We are only giving vaccines to frontline workers in this age group - newspaper vendors, food delivery personnel, media persons, are among them,” a senior health official said. Tiruchi district reported 1,268 patients testing positive. Thanjavur district reported a slight drop with 918 cases and Tiruvarur, 708. Nagapattinam reported 574 cases, while Pudukottai reported 399. Karur district witnessed 330 fresh cases, Ariyalur district, reported an increase with 264, and Perambalur, 127.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4588-new-cases-recorded/article34638206.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||AAI to donate solid waste converter machine||The Airports Authority of India has signed a memorandum of agreement with the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Monday to donate a solid waste converter machine to the hospital for disposal of solid waste generated on a daily basis. The hospital authorities had made a request to the Airports Authority of India for the purchase of the solid waste convertor machine costing Rs. 55. 75 lakh. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) accepted the proposal under the Corporate Environmental Responsibility initiative of construction of new international terminal building, a press release from the AAI here said. The AAI has sanctioned funds for the equipment which would be purchased by the hospital . The memorandum of agreement was signed on behalf of the AAI at the airport by General Manager - Projects, Tiruchi Airport P. Sri Krishna and hospital dean Vanitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aai-to-donate-solid-waste-converter-machine/article34638196.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 97.73 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,420 cusecs and the discharge 2,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34638213.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Four more cryogenic oxygen tanks to reach Tamil Nadu’||After procuring 12 cryogenic oxygen tanks, each with 20 tonnes capacity from China for transporting medical-grade liquid oxygen from neighbouring States to Tamil Nadu for saving the COVID-19 patients, the State Government is set to import four more cryogenic oxygen tanks with similar capacity from Taiwan. “They will reach Tamil Nadu within a couple of days,” Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said after inaugurating the vegetable and fruit vehicles to be operated by the local bodies here on Monday. He said the 12 cryogenic oxygen tanks, as planned by the Tamil Nadu Government, had reached Chennai from China, which would be used to transport safely medical-grade liquid oxygen from the sources to the hospitals. To strengthen this supply chain further, the State Government had placed orders for four cryogenic oxygen tanks, each with 20 tonnes capacity, from Taiwan, which would reach Tamil Nadu within a couple of days. Moreover, 1,500 oxygen cylinders from Singapore had reached Vishakapattinam harbor following the orders placed by Tamil Nadu. “These cylinders will reach Chennai on Tuesday (May 25) to be used for taking oxygen to the hospitals in cylinders,” he said. Asserting that the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, government hospitals in rural areas and the private hospitals of Tirunelveli district were having medical grade liquid oxygen in sufficient quantity for treating the COVID-19 patients, he said the State Government was continuously getting the gas from Odisha and Maharashtra from where 900 tonnes would reach here. From Sterlite He said that 121 tonnes of medical-grade oxygen generated by Thoothukudi-based Sterlite Copper had been given to various government medical colleges in the southern districts and also the private firms supplying the life-saving gas bottled in cylinders. The plant would soon reach its capacity of 30 tonnes of medical oxygen. Concentrators being donated by sponsors were being used in COVID Care Centres. He said steps had been taken to bring down the COVID-19 death rate for which early intervention was paramount. “The public should cooperate with the government to go in for 100% vaccination which plays a vital role in preventing death and even severity of the infection,” he said. Collector V. Vishnu said there was no dearth for vaccines as the district had received 20,000 doses on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-more-cryogenic-oxygen-tanks-to-tn/article34638173.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Four more cryogenic oxygen tanks to reach T.N. from Taiwan||After procuring 12 cryogenic oxygen tanks, each with a capacity of 20 tonnes, from China for transporting medical-grade liquid oxygen from neighbouring States, the Tamil Nadu government will import four more tanks with a similar capacity from Taiwan. “The tanks from Taiwan will reach Tamil Nadu in a couple of days,” Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said after inaugurating the sale of vegetable and fruits from vehicles here on Monday. He said the 12 cryogenic oxygen tanks had reached Chennai from China. The government had ordered four tanks from Taiwan to further strengthen the supply chain. Moreover, 1,500 oxygen cylinders, ordered by the State, had reached the Visakhapatnam harbour from Singapore. “They will reach Chennai on Tuesday,” he said. Mr. Thennarasu said the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, the government hospitals in rural areas and the private hospitals of Tirunelveli district had a sufficient quantum of oxygen for the COVID-19 treatment. The government was continuously getting the life-saving gas from Odisha and Maharashtra, from where 900 tonnes would reach here. He said 121 tonnes of oxygen generated by Sterlite Copper in Thoothukudi had been distributed to government medical colleges in the southern districts and to the private firms supplying the gas in cylinders. The plant would soon reach its capacity of 30 tonnes. The donated concentrators were being used at COVID Care Centres. Mr. Thennarasu said steps had been taken to bring the death rate down, and early intervention was important for bringing it off. “The public should cooperate with the government to ensure full vaccination, which is vital to preventing death and even the severity of the infection,” he said. Collector V. Vishnu said the district received 20,000 vaccine doses on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-more-cryogenic-oxygen-tanks-to-reach-tn-from-taiwan/article34637788.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of vegetables, fruits at doorstep begins||Sale of fruits and vegetables to the public at their doorstep through 535 vehicles being operated by the urban and the rural local bodies commenced in the district on Monday in the wake of the intensified COVID-19 lockdown. Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu inaugurated the mobile fruit and vegetable units in the presence of Collector V. Vishnu, MP S. Gnanathiraviam and Tirunelveli MLA Abdul Wahab. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the sale, Mr. Thennarasu said the exercise had been taken up to ensure the availability of the fruits and vegetables to the residents at their doorsteps as they should not come out of their homes unnecessarily in the wake of intensified lockdown. To make the sale effective, 535 vehicles would move around in the district - 322 in rural areas, 80 within Tirunelveli Corporation, 18 in Ambasamudram and Vickramasingapuram municipalites, 115 in 18 town panchayats based on population strength in the rural areas. Mr. Thennarasu said COVID Care Centers were being established in Koodankulam and Valliyoor in the wake of spike in number of cases in Radhapuram area even as mobile testing and vaccination units were on the move in rural areas of the district. To help the rural population, round-the-clock COVID-19 control rooms had been established in all 9 panchayat unions of the district. In Thoothukudi district, Ministers for Fisheries Anita R. Radhakrishnan and Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan inaugurated the sale of fruits and vegetables through vehicles in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj. In Tenkasi district, Collector G. S. Sameeran inaugurated the sale at Kuththukkalvalasai. In Kanniyakumari, Collector M. Aravind inaugurated the sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-vegetables-fruits-at-doorstep-begins/article34638176.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Door delivery||The Corporation made arrangements for delivering goods at the doorstep of the residents. Sri Kannan Departmental Stores, Srinivasa Nagar, 94872 10411, 95665 10411 and 0462 – 2520411, Sri Murugan Traders, Tirunelveli Town 97915 54851, 90805 02382 and 98945 07894, Aruna Supermarket, Tirunelveli Town, 93661 13355, S.P. Traders, Tirunelveli Town 93445 60777, 77085 36999, Pothy’s Supermarket, Tirunelveli Town 95855 16512, Balan Supermarket, Palayamkottai, 73730 58730 and 87540 28080, Annapoorna Grocery Stores, Palayamkottai 98944 78007 and 96002 78231 and 0462 – 2574875 and Vasantham Supermarket, Palayamkottai 98420 77007, 94897 07000, 63841 49119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-delivery/article34638172.ece
25 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘No deaths due to lack of oxygen in Tiruppur dt.’||There have been no deaths of COVID-19 patients due to lack of medical oxygen in Tiruppur district so far, asserted Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Monday. He inspected the COVID-19 care centre (CCC) set up at the Government Arts and Science College, Palladam, in the presence of Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. The Minister told mediapersons the district currently had adequate oxygen for COVID-19 patients. “In a few days, there will be a surplus supply of oxygen,” he said. Amid the week-long complete lockdown, the public must use e-registration only for essential purposes and the State government would closely monitor vehicle movement, Mr. Saminathan said. He denied rumours that AIADMK MLAs from Tiruppur district had been boycotting the State government events. The CCC at the Palladam Government Arts and Science College had 75 beds at present and would soon be increased to 150 beds, Mr. Saminathan said following the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-deaths-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-in-tiruppur-dt/article34638087.ece
25 May 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Four held||Four persons have been arrested for killing a woman at Thappalampuliyur . Jayabharathi, 30, a postal employee, was reportedly knocked down from her two-wheeler on May 21. The case was converted into death under suspicious circumstances after Jayabharathi’s father, Chidambaram, lodged a complaint saying his daughter was living with him after a misunderstanding with her husband. A probe led to the arrest of Prasanna, Senthilkumar, Raja and Jegan. They had committed the crime at the instance of the victim’s in-laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held/article34638198.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police enforce intense lockdown across western region||Western region largely saw stringent enforcing of restrictions on Monday, day one of the intense one-week lockdown announced by the State Government to control COVID-19. Barring banks, pharmacies and milk outlets, other establishments remained closed. Stringent checks were done at inter-State and inter-district borders. Only those in medical emergency were allowed to cross the border. The first day of the intense lockdown was almost complete in Coimbatore district as the police restricted unnecessary movement of people and vehicles. Police were present at sensitive places, major junctions and check posts, apart from conducting patrols. A senior official with the Coimbatore City Police said the first day of the intense lockdown was incident-free in the city limits. Unlike in the previous period of the lockdown, the number of people who ventured out unnecessarily was minimal on Monday. Fourteen vehicles were seized and 1,060 cases were booked for violations. In Coimbatore rural, the police registered around 90 cases. Twenty persons who were found possessing liquor were also booked. At Periyanaickenpalayam, Sub-Inspector Tilak and his team conducted awareness on the lockdown and COVID-19 through folk songs. All the MSMEs, except those who supply to the healthcare sector, in Coimbatore and Tiruppur stopped production on Monday because of the lockdown. A few units that had workers in-house are said to have taken up maintenance and cleaning works. Tiruppur City Police deployed around 800 police personnel to check violations and ensure compliance with the lockdown rules. In the Nilgiris, officials from the district administration and the police cracked down on people violating the lockdown. District Collector J. Innocent Divya stopped motorists who were violating the lockdown. The Collector and Superintendent of Police R. Pandiarajan asked police personnel to seize vehicles of persons who were moving around the towns. At the Kakkanallah check post, police seized over 300 bottles of liquor that were being smuggled from Karnataka. Two persons, identified as R. Sanjindev (29) from Devarsholai in Gudalur and R. Narayanan (27) from Parsons Valley were arrested. In Erode, people mostly stayed indoors. Hotels and restaurants provided only takeaway service. Amma canteens functioned as usual, providing food packets to the needy. Workers proceeding to construction sites were sent back. Buses transporting workers of cotton and spinning mills were allowed after producing e-registration proof. Two-wheelers and four-wheelers that were moving about without valid reasons were impounded at various places. In Salem, the restrictions announced by the State government had minimal effect as a significant number of vehicles continued to move within the city. Salem City Police seized 141 vehicles at various check points and registered 29 cases against businesses for violations. Salem District police seized 10 vehicles. In Krishnagiri, the roads were not totally empty, with a significant number of people travelling to hospitals and pharmacies. Vehicles out on the roads in violation of the norms were intercepted at police pickets. In Hosur, the streets were barren except for the ambulances rushing patients to hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-enforce-intense-lockdown-across-western-region/article34638077.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination begins for 18-44 age group in districts||The vaccination drive for 18-44 age group began in Salem, Namakkal, Erode and Dharmapuri districts on Monday. In first phase, the vaccine will be administered to persons in priority groups identified by the State government. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched the vaccination for 18-44 age group at Tiruppur recently. However, the drive did not begin in other places due to lack of guidelines. The Health Department here launched the drive on Monday after the State government provided direction as to who should receive the vaccine in priority and the centres for administration of vaccines. Minister for Electricity V.Senthil Balaji inaugurated a camp at a primary health centre near Kanankuruchi here. According to government officials, vulnerable workers like newspaper boys, milk vendors, distributors, street vendors, pharmacy staff, grocery store staff, auto, bus and taxi drivers, Electricity Board staff, local body employees, e-commerce workers, mediapersons, school and college teachers, State transport employees, volunteers providing food to COVID-19 patients and those providing help in hospitals, differently-abled persons, employees of Airport and seafarers working in shipping industries are eligible. S.Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, said the district received 42,800 Covishield and 6,400 Covaxin doses for the priority group. Health officials said they were also planning to conduct special camps for administering vaccine. In Namakkal, the vaccination was done at 74 centres for the priority categories. In Erode, S. Muthusamy, Minister for Housing and Rural Development, inaugurated the camp to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group. The Minister along with Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the work in progress to establish additional beds at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai He said a total of 1,65,422 persons were vaccinated in the district as of Monday. As many as 6,37,679 persons had undergone RT-PCR tests and 7,091 persons were in home isolation, while 135 containment areas were earmarked in the district. Members of Olirum Erodu Foundation donated 30 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 1.25 lakh each to the GEMCH. In Dharmapuri, Collector S. Divyadarshini inaugurated the drive at the primary health centre (PHC) in Nallampalli. The camps for 18-44 age group are being organised at the government medical college hospital, government taluk hospitals in Pennagaram and Paapireddipatty and the PHCs in Hanumanthapuram, Morappur, Chinnankuppam, Payarnatham, Nagadasampatti, and at the town PHC in Nallampalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-begins-for-18-44-age-group-in-districts/article34638083.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 30 tonnes vegetables, fruits sold in Coimbatore on Day One||On day one of the total lockdown on Monday, Coimbatore Corporation along with Agriculture Marketing and Horticulture Departments sold over 30 tonnes vegetables and fruits. According to sources, the civic body had sent 20 autorickshaws each to the Singanallur and R.S. Puram farmers’ markets and five each to the Vadavalli and Sundarapuram markets, where between 5.30 a.m. and 6 a.m. the Agriculture Marketing and Horticulture Department officials helped farmers and traders load vegetables and fruits. The Corporation’s bill collectors and local ward staff accompanied the vehicles as the civic body had given each of the 50 vehicles a specific area to cater to. And, each of the vehicles carried the Corporation’s authorisation and the day’s price list. The 20 vehicles attached to the R.S. Puram market sold 12 tonnes of vegetables and the vehicles attached to the Singanallur market sold nine tonnes. And the vehicles attached to the other two markets sold eight tonnes vegetables along with fruits. In all, the total sales on day one was Rs. 10.76 lakh, the sources said. Starting Tuesday, the Corporation would fix public address system to its 50 vehicles and update the daily vegetable price list. Sources said the civic body had also planned to alert thepublic on the next day’s vegetable price, which would also be applicable to traders who sold using their vehicles. And, for such private traders, the Corporation would delineate areas so that every area in the city was covered. As of Monday evening, the Corporation had received applications from around 100 traders for vegetables and fruits sales and had approved of most of the applications, the sources added. Several vegetable traders at Anna Market and TK Market are obtaining passes from the local body to sell vegetables on vehicles across the city during the lockdown period. A couple of traders said that about 10 passes were taken by TK market traders jointly for Tuesday. Many more from the two markets had taken the passes individually too. There were stocks of onions and potatoes. Tomatoes and climber vegetables could be sourced from the local farmers. Several local farmers were also approaching them and asking them to take the vegetables. The rates quoted by the Corporation were viable and hence they would be able to sell, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-30-tonnes-vegetables-fruits-sold-in-coimbatore-on-day-one/article34638074.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Door delivery of vegetables, fruits begins||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani flagged off the sale of vegetables and fruits through vans that the Coimbatore Corporation had readied during the intensified COVID-19 lockdown. Speaking to reporters at the Coimbatore Corporation’s Central Zone office, Mr. Sakkarapani said the Corporation in coordination with the Horticulture and Agriculture Department had deployed 50 vehicles — a vehicle for two wards each — to cover all the 100 wards in the city. Twenty vehicles each would be attached to the farmers’ markets at Singanallur and R.S. Puram and five each to the ones at Vadavalli and Sundarapuram. The vehicles would have the price list for each of the 106 items to be sold and it would be on a par with the price fixed by the Agriculture Marketing Department and as sold at the markets. The Minister, who was accompanied by Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran, said the Corporation had also planned to allow 500 more vehicles to cover as many people as possible in a short time. He said that he had instructed the Corporation that all the vehicles be sprayed with chemicals used to control the spread of COVID-19. Tiruppur Corporation also began delivering vegetables, fruits, meat and groceries to the residents in 60 wards within its limits. According to Corporation officials, 231 vehicles for vegetables and fruits, five vehicles for meat and six vehicles for groceries (rice, pulses and cooking oil) were approved for distribution on Monday. About 313 tonnes of vegetables and fruits were distributed through these vehicles within the Corporation limits. As the demand is expected to increase in the coming days, the number of vehicles involved in sales of these vegetables would also likely be increased, according to the Corporation officials. The vegetables could be purchased either individually or in four different types of packages comprising four vegetables (Rs. 30), six vegetables (Rs. 50), 10 vegetables (Rs. 100) and 14 vegetables (Rs. 150). In the Nilgiris, the vegetables will be sold in 240 trucks. In a press release, the district administration said that bags of assorted vegetables would be sold in the trucks for prices between Rs. 100 and Rs. 200. The vehicles would also sell fruits and would travel to localities in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur. The district administration also released a helpdesk number for farmers who are travelling within the Nilgiris as well as outside to sell their produce. Farmers who are unable to get a fair price have also been asked to contact the helpdesk. The helpdesk number can be reached via phone at 0423-2449760. In Erode, the sale of vegetables and essentials through 132 mobile vehicles commenced in the Corporation limits. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that 132 vehicles sold vegetables, fruits and essentials in various wards on the first day. In Namakkal, Collector K. Megraj flagged off mobile vehicles for vegetable sales. In Salem, over 400 vehicles were arranged by various departments for sale of vegetables. Dharmapuri municipality also pressed into service vegetable wagons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-delivery-of-vegetables-fruits-begins/article34638090.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 4,277 new cases||Coimbatore district on Monday crossed 4,000 mark in terms of the daily caseload of COVID-19 cases after 4,277 persons tested positive. This is the highest single day caseload that has been reported in the district so far. The Health Department said that 2,528 persons recovered from the disease on Monday and active cases stood at 33,325. The district’s death toll rose to 1,048 after 28 more persons died of COVID-19. According to the Department, different hospitals in the district had 525 beds vacant for COVID-19 patients as of Monday evening. COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in the district had 655 vacant beds, it said. Tiruppur district reported its all-time high daily COVID-19 caseload with 1,808 new cases on Monday, taking its overall tally to 48,697. The Health Department reported five deaths, which took the toll to 339. As many as 12,711 patients were active cases in the district. As of Monday, Tiruppur district had 82 vacant beds in government and private hospitals and 783 vacant beds in CCCs for the patients. In the Nilgiris, 435 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 15,651. The toll increased from 70 to 73 on Monday while 2,901 people are undergoing treatment. Erode reported 1,467 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 44,818. While 848 persons were discharged, 11,810 persons continue to be under treatment. Twelve persons died, raising the toll to 252. As many as 889 positive cases were reported in Salem. As per bulletin, 38 deaths were reported in Salem, highest to be reported in a single day in the district. In Namakkal, 737 cases and five deaths were reported. Krishnagiri saw 833 cases and four deaths. The active cases stood at 8,376 cases as of Monday. A total of 28,882 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri reported 381 fresh cases and three deaths. The active cases were 3107. As of date, a total 16,201 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-4277-new-cases/article34638073.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Allocation of vaccine to T.N. seems skewed’||Apart from this, Tamil Nadu had been permitted to purchase 11.52 lakh doses and Puducherry 33,390 doses directly from the manufacturers in June. The officer said that for the “first time in history”, India was conducting the biggest vaccination drive “for which the country does not have the luxury of a detailed planning time like other vaccines administered in the past over a period of decades... Earlier, there was no requirement of an emergency vaccination drive like the sudden emerging situation since 2019”. Stating that the prioritisation was based on age and vulnerability, the official said the “population above 45 years of age has more risk of severe outcomes and deaths. It accounts for more than 85% of the COVID-19 mortality rate in the country. From May 1, vaccine manufacturers had been permitted to sell 50% of their production directly to the State governments and private hospitals to vaccinate the 18-44 age group.” ‘Based on population’ Nevertheless, the Centre had been determining the allocation to every State on the basis of population in that age group on a pro rata basis. “This exercise is absolutely essential, and this discipline is mandatory so as to have uniform vaccination throughout the country. This historical endeavour can be successful only by treating India as one unit and considering the question on a pan-India basis,” the counter-affidavit read. The Ministry also stated that efforts were on to procure vaccines from other countries, and 1.5 lakh doses of the Russian-made Sputnik-V had already been received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allocation-of-vaccine-to-tn-seems-skewed/article34638061.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Award for village||Paithamparai in Thathaiyangarpettai Panchayat Union has been adjudged ‘untouchability-free’ village for 2020-21, entitling it to cash award of Rs. 10 lakh . Collector S. Sivarasu on Monday handed over a cheque for the amount to Panchayat President G.N. Kamalanathan in the presence of P. Anbalagan, District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer. Mr. Sivarasu said the annual award was given to a village that was free from untouchability and religious enmities in the district. Paithamparai was selected for the award by a committee headed by the Collector. The village could utilise the amount to carry out development works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-village/article34638202.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||Jansons Institute of Technology: Online Talkathon 2021 and Webinar on Android UI and UX Design, 4 p.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Online Faculty Development Programme on Machine Learning using Python, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34638088.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||There is fear of more plant breakdowns||The breakdown of the oxygen production plant in Ballari, was “inevitable and bound to happen”, according to insiders in the oxygen industry. Other oxygen producers fear their plants may also breakdown any day now, given they have been running 24x7 for nearly two months with no breaks for maintenance in order to meet the demand for medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic. Subasish Guha Roy, promoter of Universal Air Products Pvt. Ltd., runs a 45-MTD capacity oxygen production plant at Kunigal, one of the seven medical oxygen production units in the State. He expressed concern over the lack of a break for his plant. “With the plant operating almost 24x7, it has developed some snags and its production capacity has also reduced by around 15%. We need to replace some compressor filters and other parts in our plant, but are unable to do so as the demand for oxygen refuses to subside. We thus cannot afford to switch off the plant,” he said. Mr. Roy said this was not healthy and all the seven plants in the State were at the risk of a breakdown any day. Multiple plants breaking down simultaneously could pose a big risk for the State’s oxygen security, he added. Rajendra Prasad, an oxygen refiller from Mandya, said the breakdown of oxygen plants was long coming. “Electric crematorium furnaces are breaking down in the city because of being overworking; so will oxygen plants,” he said. He added that the State and Union governments have to factor in and plan the maintenance of these plants for long-term oxygen security. “Each of these plants has to now be given timeouts for maintenance by turn to avoid serial breakdowns. The Union government, which has centralised the grid, has to allot additional oxygen to the State to ensure the plants taking time off for maintenance does not affect the oxygen supply,” he said. Now that the COVID-19 caseload is dipping, oxygen demand is also manageable and this is the right time to put plants under maintenance, said Mr. Roy. Deputy Chief Minister and COVID-19 task force chief C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the government would discuss with all the stakeholders in the sector and try to provide time for maintenance of oxygen plants.  We need to replace some compressor filters and other parts in our plant, but are unable to do so as the demand for oxygen refuses to subside. We thus cannot afford to switch off the plant Subasish Guha Roy,promoter, Universal Air Products Pvt. Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-fear-of-more-plant-breakdowns/article34637717.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM hints at additional COVID-19 relief package||Having come under criticism from the Opposition and several social and economic groups over the Rs. 1,250 relief package announced by the government recently, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday indicated that there could be a second package over the next few days. “I am aware that several groups have been left out in the package announced earlier. I am thinking about them too. I will try to do my best in the next 10 to 12 days in another package,” he told presspersons here after visiting a BBMP COVID call centre on Monday. “I announced the package within financial limitations,” he said, when his attention was drawn to the criticism by Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah. Stating that the situation of shortage has eased in the State, the Chief Minister said oxygenated beds were now available, and the government was trying to ensure ICU beds as per requirement. In Bengaluru alone, he said 3,000 beds, including 1,000 oxygenated beds, were available across 28 COVID Care Centres equipped with doctors and nurses. He specifically appealed to residents of slums to get themselves admitted in CCCs if found to be positive. Vaccine supply Acknowledging the vaccine shortage in the State, he said efforts were being made to procure vaccines and the State had appealed to the Centre to increase vaccine allocation.  In Bengaluru alone, 3,000 beds, including 1,000 oxygenated beds, are available across 28 COVID Care Centres. B.S. Yediyurappa Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-hints-at-additional-covid-19-relief-package/article34637735.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fearing dip in admissions, schools slash fees||Amid reports of schools insisting that parents pay the full fees for the 2021-2022 academic year, some private school managements have done the exact opposite: they are offering discounts. The reduction in school fees varies from 10%-30% based on tuition fees for the previous academic year. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said they would advise managements to give a discount of anywhere between 10% and 20%. “We will issue an advisory to all our member schools on Monday. We also want schools to tackle fee collection on a case-by-case basis for humanitarian reasons,” he said. Since the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns, many families are struggling to pay the fees due to either job loss or reduced salaries. According to Mr. Kumar, many parents who paid the fees for the last academic year (2020-21) were watching the situation. In an attempt to rectify this, some schools are offering a reduction in fees. Samved School, for instance, has decided to give a 20% discount for the 2021-22 academic year for those in need. Sandhya Siddharth, Director of Samved School, said, “We have given the option to the parents to avail of the discount. This is our way to help parents who have been impacted by the lockdown. We do not want children to lose out on learning due to the pandemic.” Ameen E. Mudassar, whose daughter studies in Samved school, said that the management’s decision was very reassuring. “We are glad that the school management is able to understand the gravity of the second wave of COVID-19 and its impact on the finances of families. This discount will ensure that students can continue their education without any hurdle,” he said. Dinesh Kumar G.D., Secretary of Shantiniketan Central School, said that they had decided to charge only 75% of the fees that they charged in 2019-20. “We hope that at least now parents come forward to pay the fees,” he said. However, not all schools are being so considerate. Many schools are hiking the school fees compared to what was charged last year. Parents of Greenwood High have written to the school management expressing displeasure over the 6% increase in annual fees. They have urged the management to roll back the fees. Another city school increased fees by 8%. “Even last academic year, we were not allowed to hike the fees. All our infrastructural costs for online classes have increased and we need to hike the fees to meet them and provide quality education,” said a management member of the school.  We hope that at least now parents come forward to pay the fees Dinesh Kumar G.D., Secretary, Shantiniketan Central School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fearing-dip-in-admissions-schools-slash-fees/article34637714.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks for email IDs of all statutory authorities||In an effort to avoid physically serving notices to State and its statutory bodies during COVID-19, the High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government to submit a list of all the statutory authorities and their email IDs to issue notices through e-mail in all the proceedings before the High Court. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction while hearing PIL petition initiated suo motu by the High Court last year to resolve technical issues faced by the courts in functioning during lockdown. The Bench said that it will issue directions to all the statutory bodies in the State to act upon the court notices issued through emails by the court’s registry after hearing all such bodies on the matter of receiving court’s notices through e-mode. Meanwhile, the Bench extended by three months the deadlines issued by the High Court to complete the trial and disposal of cases within specified time frame in view if the new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued for the trial court barring entry of litigants and witnesses in view of surge in number of COVID-19 cases. Time bound “In many civil and criminal cases, the High Court has issued directions to the district and trial courts in the State to complete the trial in a time-bound manner. Considering the SOP, if the there is difficulty to meet the deadline or complete the trial within the specified time, the time granted earlier stands extended by three months from today,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-for-email-ids-of-all-statutory-authorities/article34637733.ece
25 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Schools adapt to make virtual classes effective||Last year, private schools were caught off guard by the COVID-19 pandemic and were forced to make a quick switch to online classes to minimise disruptions in the academic schedule. Over the course of the year, teachers have learned as much as students about the pros and cons of virtual classrooms. As they brace themselves for multiple waves of COVID-19, many private schools have already started changing the way online classes are conducted. Their goal is to improve learning outcomes while helping students combat boredom and fatigue. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said they had decided to increase student participation by giving them more time to talk. “We want students to talk for 50% of the time in class and are making the format more interactive. Students will be asked to study concepts and come and present what they have learned,” she said. The school also plans to conduct multiple assessments this academic year, which includes vivas, presentations, and demonstrations. Other schools, too, in anticipation of a third wave, have decided to conduct more frequent assessments for the 2021–22 academic year. Ramitha Ramachandran, principal of School of India, said her school had introduced weekly tests for one subject every Saturday. “This way, we can evaluate and assess students early in the academic year. Later, if they are unable to participate in the assessments due to unforeseen circumstances, we have an existing track record of their academics,” she said. The school has also introduced a version of bridge classes where doubts are cleared after a class is over. “Earlier, students would walk into the staff room to get their doubts clarified. Our bridge classes are meant to exactly serve this function,” Ms. Ramachandran added. They also have devised a ‘bubble period’ where the class teacher logs in to have a casual conversation with students, one that does not cover a part of the syllabus or lesson plan. Nooraine Fazal, founder-director of Inventure Academy, said they had asked their teachers to come up with creative ideas as a team on how technology tools could be used to achieve better teaching outcomes. “We have asked students to optimise the number of tools that are available,” she said.  We want students to talk for 50% of the time in class and are making the format more interactive. Students will be asked to study concepts and come and present what they have learned Dakshayini Kanna, principal, Harvest International School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-adapt-to-make-virtual-classes-effective/article34637715.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rural areas in bad shape: CM||“Hello, how can we help? Do you need an ICU bed? We will arrange one right now? What is the BU number?.... I have noted all details. This is the Chief Minister speaking...” On Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa visited the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) COVID-19 war room in East zone, accompanied by Ministers C.N. Ashwanth Narayan and Govind Karjol, and Bengaluru Central MP P.C. Mohan. He even took a call from a resident who was looking for an ICU bed. At the end of a telephone conversation that lasted no longer than two minutes, the caller was allotted an ICU bed. Speaking to reporters after the visit, the CM said, after a lot of effort, oxygen beds were now available in the city while ICU beds were being allocated to patients based on necessity. Taking note of the reduction in number of COVID-19 cases being reported in the city, he said the situation in rural areas was far from satisfactory, given the case load. “We are focusing on managing the pandemic in rural areas. The restrictions may inconvenience people, but citizens should cooperate. If they cooperate, the cases will definitely decrease over the next 14-15 days,” he said and called upon citizens living in small houses and in slums to get admitted in COVID-19 Care Centres. The CCCs are well equipped and medical staff is posted round-the-clock. Around 3,000 beds were available in the 28 CCCs in Bengaluru, including 1,000 oxygenated beds. “People can just walk in to any of these centres and get admitted. We have arranged for food and other facilities,” he said. With the number of cases coming down in the city, Mr. Yediyurappa claimed that the calls coming to war rooms had also decreased. “The East war room used to receive nearly 3,000 calls a day until last week. I am told that this has come down to around 500,” he said and added that officials had been directed to work towards further reducing the case load. Admitting to vaccine shortage, the Chief Minister said government had urged the Centre to allocate more vaccines to Karnataka. Responding to charges by former CM Siddaramaiah on relief packages, Mr. Yediyurappa said the relief announced was based on availability of funds with the government. Acknowledging that many groups had been left out of the relief package, he said the State government would announce another package in the next 10-12 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-areas-in-bad-shape-cm/article34637709.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCTV cameras in COVID-19 hospital wards||To ensure transparency, all government hospitals have been asked to install CCTV cameras in their COVID-19 wards, said Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday. Speaking at a press conference, he said this should be done in wards as well as ICUs where COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment. He said relatives can see what kind of treatment patients are receiving this way. He also urged relatives not to visit hospitals as they could spread fungal infection. “This move will reduce the entry of outsiders and will help in controlling mucormycosis. This will also ensure that the medical staff carry out their duties properly,” he said. Dr. Sudhakar also noted that in a few hospitals, there were complaints that senior doctors were not attending to COVID-19 patients and were directing postgraduate students to treat them. He said all hospitals would have to provide a roster of their duty chart to the Department of Health and Family Welfare.  Meanwhile, 1,763 doctors and general practitioners have been recruited to strengthen the health sector in the State, the Minister said. This includes 715 specialists, 75 general medicine practitioners, 57 general surgeons, 145 gynaecologists, 40 ENT specialists, 35 dermatologists, 142 anaesthesiologists, and 153 paediatricians. The Minister , however, said there was a shortage of radiologists, with only 17 being recruited. Dr. Sudhakar also condemned attacks on doctors on COVID-19 duty. “Attacks on women employees who are on COVID-19 duty is not acceptable. The health warriors are doing selfless service risking their lives. It [such an attack] is punishable with up to five years imprisonment,” he said. Vaccine price Dr. Sudhakar refused to intervene in the pricing of vaccines at private hospitals. When reporters asked if the State government would cap the price of vaccines, he said, “Those who want free vaccines can get themselves vaccinated at government hospitals or PHCs. While the State governments are getting the vaccines at a particular cost, private hospitals will be paying extra as they have to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers,” he said. Many hospitals are charging Rs. 850 for a dose of Covishield and Rs. 1,250 for one dose of Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cctv-cameras-in-covid-19-hospital-wards/article34637724.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Forty laboratories fined for delaying test results||The State has fined nine laboratories in the government sector and 31 in the private sector for not declaring COVID-19 test results in less than 24 hours. A fine of Rs. 200 has been levied on each sample whose results were not declared within the stipulated time. The decision was taken at the COVID-19 task force meeting held in the city on Monday. The nine laboratories under the government had delayed giving the results of 3,034 samples. For this, a fine of Rs. 6.06 lakh has been levied. The results of as many as 7,069 samples were delayed by 31 private laboratories, for which a fine of Rs. 14.13 lakh has been imposed. Further notice has been issued to 41 laboratories that have delayed results, while five labs have been fined and shut down for giving out results without uploading them on the Indian Council of Medical Research portal. Medicine purchase Meanwhile, approval has been given for the purchase of three lakh vials of Amphotericin B, which is used in the treatment of mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forty-laboratories-fined-for-delaying-test-results/article34637741.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Videos of forced testing by BBMP emerge||Videos of BBMP personnel reportedly forcing citizens to undergo COVID-19 tests in Nagarathpet were circulated widely on social media platforms on Monday. In one of the videos, a man was assaulted by BBMP staff for registering his name, mistaking the testing booth for a vaccination booth. While a suo motu case has been taken up by the Halasooru Gate police, the BBMP has ordered an enquiry into the incident. The civic body’s Joint Commissioner of South zone has been directed to submit a report within 24 hours. Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar said no official should force anyone to get tested. “But, I would like to appeal to people to get tested if officials come and request them,” he said. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta tweeted: “We regret the incident at Nagarathpet testing booth. There is no question of forceful testing. We condemn any physical altercation that has happened. Enquiry would be conducted to find out what led to this, who is responsible, and also to prevent any such recurrence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/videos-of-forced-testing-by-bbmp-emerge/article34637707.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hospitals asked to audit oxygen consumption||The breakdown at an oxygen production plant that caters to 20% of the State’s oxygen consumption has put hospitals on tenterhooks. They have been asked to conduct a thorough audit and ensure that even small quantities of oxygen is not wasted. Hospital administrators on Monday said they had adequate stock of oxygen for a day. The medical superintendent of a government hospital in Bengaluru said, “Our stocks were filled on Monday morning. We will be in trouble tomorrow [Tuesday] if our suppliers are unable to fill in our stock on Monday night.” Prasanna H.M., president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said it would be a stressful night for hospital managements. An official of the Department of Health and Family Welfare said they were trying to shift oxygen cylinders from hospitals that have excess supply to those having a shortage. “We are carefully monitoring the situation so that patients are not put to hardship,” the official said. Meanwhile, Dr. Prasanna said many vendors were procuring oxygen cylinders from Maharashtra after they learnt that a breakdown in an oxygen production plant could affect the supply of oxygen. “However, the stock that they bring from Maharashtra will be sufficient only to cater to extremely small hospitals,” he said. The medical superintendent of another government hospital said the oxygen consumption at the hospital had reduced over the past 10 days. “In mid-April, the daily oxygen consumption in my hospital was 1.4 tonnes. Now it is around 0.5 tonnes every day. So even if the supply is affected, I will be able to manage. Had the same thing happened in April, it would have caused a disaster,” he said, adding that he also had spare oxygen cylinders as backup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitals-asked-to-audit-oxygen-consumption/article34637725.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||446 suspected cases of mucormycosis in State||As many as 446 suspected cases of mucormycosis have been reported in Karnataka so far. According to statistics provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, there have also been 12 deaths. Barring 11, who are under home isolation, the remaining patients are in hospitals. K. Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister, said on Monday that all the patients in home isolation too have been ordered to get hospitalised. Out of the 446 cases , the highest (99) has been reported from Dharwad. Bengaluru follows with 82 cases. The only district where no cases have been reported is Davangere. Dr. Sudhakar said all the district hospitals have been prepared for treatment of mucormycosis. For treatment, the Centre has allocated 1,150 vials of Amphotericin B and the State government has already requested the provision of 20,000 vials, he said. He added that the shortage of medicines may be because there is a lot of demand. The government is expecting to get another 1,000 vials in a day or two. A committee investigating the cause of black fungus infections has said contaminated water used in humidifiers, excessive use of steroids, unsterilised medical equipment, prolonged use of the same mask, tube, beds, etc. were the primary sources of this infection. The report has also recommended stoppage of building renovation work at COVID-19 hospitals, not allowing outsiders into ICU wards, and ensuring hygiene at clinical facilities. It has recommended that those who recover from COVID-19 undergo an ENT check-up on the third, seventh, and 21st day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/446-suspected-cases-of-mucormycosis-in-state/article34637726.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Declare teachers as COVID warriors: HDK||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday urged the State government to consider teachers as ‘corona warriors’ and provide compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to families of the deceased. “More than 145 teachers who worked during elections and taught children during Vidyagama programme in Kalyana Karnataka region have died due to COVID-19. In other places, the number of teachers who died is not available. I urge the government to pay Rs. 50 lakh as compensation to the kin of deceased teachers,” he said on Twitter. ‘Take responsibility’ Stating that teachers have paid their life while abiding by the instructions of the government, he said the government has to take responsibility for the death of teachers since it had deployed them on election duty. At the earliest “Thousands of teachers are suffering from COVID-19 currently. The government has to take immediate measures to declare teachers as corona warriors and grant compensation to the families without any delay,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declare-teachers-as-covid-warriors-hdk/article34637746.ece
25 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two vaccine firms respond to State’s global tender||Two vaccine manufacturers have responded to the global tender floated by the State government to procure vaccine against COVID-19, which is currently in short supply. The deadline for the vaccine manufacturers to respond to the tender ended on Monday evening. Karnataka has sought two crore doses of vaccine to augment its supply through the global tender, which has been split into four tenders of 50 lakh doses each. Government sources told The Hindu that they were yet to open the documents submitted by the companies to understand the response of the vaccine manufacturers. The sources also did not reveal the names of the manufacturers. Karnataka is among the nearly half a dozen States that floated global tenders to procure vaccines as the supply from Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin, respectively, is not enough to meet the demand. Karnataka has already placed orders to purchase two crore Covishield vials and one crore Covaxin vials. Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu have floated tenders, while others are set to call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-vaccine-firms-respond-to-states-global-tender/article34637721.ece
25 May 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Newspaper vendors seek COVID warrior status||The Bengaluru City Newspaper Distributors and Vendors’ Association has appealed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to consider newspaper distributors and vendors as COVID warriors so that they too would be eligible for financial relief. The association officebearers met the Chief Minister in Bengaluru on Monday and submitted a memorandum. In the memorandum, they said thousands of distributors and vendors had been working without a break even during the pandemic to distribute newspapers to the public. They said they were working amidst testing times by taking all precautions such as use of sanitisers and masks. Hit hard They had been hit hard by the pandemic, and they did not have other sources of income, they said. “Distribution of newspapers is the only thing we have been doing for a long time. This is our life and breath,” they said, and appealed to the Chief Minister to include them in the list of COVID warriors. Memorandum They also submitted a memorandum to Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, and KPCC chief D. K. Shivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/newspaper-vendors-seek-covid-warrior-status/article34637742.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre should have focused on cases, not polls: Gowda||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday said that COVID-19 pandemic would not have been what it is if the Centre had concentrated on COVID-19 management rather than the elections in five States. “The surge in virus may have been due to elections in five States. The Centre focused on the elections and did not concentrate on the pandemic. If the focus was on pandemic, it would not have assumed this proportion,” he told reporters at the JD(S) party office here. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi focussed on winning elections and forgot about the pandemic,” he said. On the Prime Minister shedding tears over the loss of lives, Mr. Gowda said he may have become emotional since his constituency has been badly affected. The former Prime Minister said that due to the pandemic, the Opposition parties are not in a situation to take to the streets to fight the government. “Karnataka has received a raw deal in getting financial assistance from the Centre. More funds have been given to smaller States. The Centre has shown stepmotherly treatment in allocation of vaccines, medicines, ventilators, and oxygen,” he allleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-should-have-focused-on-cases-not-polls-gowda/article34637740.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Action over bill payment||There have been many reports of private hospitals refusing to hand over the bodies of patients until their families clear the medical bills. Now, all Deputy Commissioners have been asked to initiate action against such hospitals and cancel their licence. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, in a circular, said that the KPME Act clearly states that hospitals cannot demand the clearance of bills before handing over the bodies of patients. Deputy Commissioners have been asked to submit reports on such hospitals on a weekly basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-over-bill-payment/article34637728.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,496 vehicles seized||As part of lockdown enforcement, the city police, on Monday, seized 1,496 vehicles. They comprised 1,316 two-wheelers, 79 three-wheelers and 101 four-wheelers. The police also booked 63 cases against shops and commercial establishments for operating during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1496-vehicles-seized/article34637712.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Awards will be given to individuals, GPs, says KSE||Urging the district officials to work towards making villages COVID-19 free, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa on Monday said the government will identify good work done at the village levels by instituting awards for individuals and gram panchayats. The government has decided to give the best gram panchayat award in every taluk and three persons will be identified as “Uttama Sevaka” (good worker) at the taluk level for services rendered in mitigating COVID-19 surge in rural areas. “Efforts should be made to turn gram panchayats COVID-19-free,” he said during a virtual meeting of chief executive officers of zilla panchayats and senior officials. Discourage gatherings Urging officials to discourage people from holding gatherings in rural areas, he said attempts should be made wherever possible to postpone marriages. “I have decided not to attend any marriages irrespective of what people feel about it. We have to set a model,” he added. Stating that district authorities had done well in containing the virus surge last year, he suggested positive patients should not be allowed to stay at home and instead be moved to COVID Care Centres. “Give patients good food and water that will enable them to come to CCCs. Critical cases should be referred to the hospital,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awards-will-be-given-to-individuals-gps-says-kse/article34637738.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||529 deaths and 25,311 new cases reported in State||A total of 25,311 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the State on Monday. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 24.5 lakh. Of the new cases, as many as 5,701 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban . According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate for the day stood at 23.28%. The number of tests conducted was 1.08 lakh, while the case fatality rate stood at 2.09%. The number of COVID-19 related deaths reported was 529, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 25,811. However, many of the deaths reported on Monday had occurred in April or first half of May. The cases were reflected in Monday's bulletin as they were updated by hospitals only then, officials said. As many as 57,333 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 19.83 lakh. Of the total cases, 4.4 lakh are active in the Sstate. As many as 1.07 lakh people were vaccinated as of 3.30 pm on Monday, taking the total number of people vaccinated to 1.21 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/529-deaths-and-25311-new-cases-reported-in-state/article34637744.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Different numbers||While Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday said 446 suspected black fungus cases have been reported in the State, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the State had recorded about 700 black fungus cases in the past week. However, the Department of Health and Family Welfare said only 446 cases have been recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/different-numbers/article34637727.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Activist booked over CCC entry||An activist who allegedly entered a newly set up triaging and COVID Care Centre (CCC) to “highlight its condition” has been booked under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and under Section 269 of the Indian Penal Code. The case was registered on Saturday by the HSR Layout police based on a complaint registered by Nagendra Kumar, medical officer of the CCC. In his complaint, Dr. Kumar said the activist, Kavitha Reddy, had gained access to the centre, situated on the government boys hostel premises, HSR Layout, spoken to the patients, and clicked photographs despite there being restrictions against unauthorised access for the general public. Ms. Reddy allegedly did this twice — on May 19 and 21 — endangering safety and disobeying the orders promulgated by a public servant, he stated in his complaint. The police have issued a notice to Ms. Reddy to appear for questioning. Earlier, Ms. Reddy, on her social media page, highlighted the condition of the CCC, stating that it was built temporarily and looked more like a wedding arrangement rather than a care centre for patients. The post went viral and BBMP officials ordered an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activist-booked-over-ccc-entry/article34637718.ece
25 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Test positivity rate falls to 33% in Shivamogga dist.||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has said that the test positivity rate has come down to 33% from 47% in the last 15 days in the district due to strict lockdown and declaration of containment zones in areas where cases were reported. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Monday, the Deputy Commissioner said that positivity rate was high two weeks ago in the district. The district administration took steps to stop unnecessary movement of people. “Initially, we noticed a surge in cases in urban pockets of Shivamogga and Bhadravati. Slowly, it spread to rural areas as people from bigger cities returned to villages. The taluk administration under the leadership of tahsildars took note of such cases and initiated strict steps,” he said. At present, there are around 300 containment zones in the district. Among these, 200 are in rural areas. Wherever more than 15 active cases are found, the administration is declaring such areas as containment zones. “We shifted patients to the nearest COVID-19 Care Centres and have put their primary and secondary contacts in home isolation. The administration has taken steps to ensure that nobody in the containment zone comes out. With such steps, the spread of infection is being countered,” he said. ASHAs are visiting people in containment zones regularly and keeping track of their health status. They are providing them with necessary medicine. Such effective steps have helped in bringing down the positivity rate, the officer said. Regarding the deaths, the Deputy Commissioner said that every alternative day the committee under his leadership conducted a death audit and reviewed each case in detail. “Several patients who died had had co-morbidities. Doctors who treated patients felt that late arrival was also among the reasons for the deaths. We are taking steps to ensure early detection and early treatment so that deaths can be brought down,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner, on Monday, visited several rural places in Sagar taluk to check if containment zones are maintained effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-positivity-rate-falls-to-33-in-shivamogga-dist/article34637764.ece
25 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four of two families killed in clash over property||A clash between members of two families over a property dispute ended in the death of four people at Maragodanahalli in Holenarasipur taluk on Monday. The police gave the names of the deceased as Mallesh (62), his nephew Manjesh (35), his son-in-law Ravi Kumar (35) and Papanni (47). Two families headed by cousins Mallesh and Swamy Gowda had differences over sharing ancestral property of two acres and 10 guntas of land in the village. Often, members of both the families clashed on the issue. They have also moved court in this connection. The latest clash broke out when Mallesh went to the disputed land with Manjesh and Ravi Kumar at around 1.30 p.m. on Monday. Their rival, Swamy Gowda’s son, Papanni, picked up a quarrel, with the support of Pradeep and Yogesh. Both the factions assaulted each other with sharp weapons. Holenarasipur Rural Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-of-two-families-killed-in-clash-over-property/article34637763.ece
25 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||60 concentrators, 40 ventilators for Hassan||The State government has sent 40 ventilators and 60 oxygen concentrators to Hassan. The equipment reached Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences on Sunday. Minister for Health K. Sudhakar and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwathanarayana had, during their visits to the district, promised supply of ventilators to the district. Elected representatives from Hassan district had demanded ventilators and oxygen concentrators. Doctors treating patients in the COVID-19 hospital had also said that the shortage of ventilators was leading to deaths.     So far, 932 people have died of COVID-19 in Hassan district. This includes 15 deaths reported on Monday. Among these, five are from Hassan taluk, four from Channarayapatna, two each from Arsikere and Holenarasipur and one each from Arkalgud and Belur taluks. Besides, 1,053 fresh cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district increased to 75,045. Among these, 60,118 have recovered and 13,995 are in treatment. Of those receiving treatment, 132 are in intensive care units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/60-concentrators-40-ventilators-for-hassan/article34637762.ece
25 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Additional centres likely to be set up for seed distribution||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that despite the lockdown there are no restrictions on farm activities in the district and, if required, more centres will be set up for seed distribution in addition to the existing 27 such centres. Speaking to presspersons after holding a review meeting with officials of agriculture and horticulture at Indira Glass House in Hubballi on Monday, Mr. Shettar said that with good rainfall in the district, farm activities have begun and the lockdown will be not of any hindrance to them. He said that the meeting was held for facilitating farm activities amid lockdown. Already, farmers have prepared land for sowing and from Tuesday, seeds will be distributed. “Farmers visit Hubballi-Dharwad for purchase of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Relaxation will be given to them for this and guidelines will be prepared in consultation with the Deputy Commissioner,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that to avoid crowding in front of seed distribution centres, time slots will be allotted to each village at these centres. “Date and time will be fixed for each village and this will be publicised well in advance so as to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines,” he said. He also clarified that the district has adequate stock of fertilizers. And, subsidised fertilizers will be distributed through farm societies.  To a query, Mr. Shettar said that more cases of black fungus are being reported in the district. At KIMS Hospital, 102 such patients are being treated. He clarified that while 20 cases at KIMS belonged to Dharwad district, the rest were from Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri, Uttara Kannada and other districts. He said that of the drugs provided by the Union government, 100 vials have been given to KIMS Hospital and the State government too is trying to import the medicine. Further medical equipment are being purchased for treatment of black fungus, he said. Mr. Shettar admitted that strict lockdown has caused hardships to the common people but it is inevitable to break the infection chain. Adequate stock Earlier, during the meeting, Joint Director of Agriculture Department Rajashekhar said that the district has recorded 180 mm pre-monsoon rain, which was 141% more than the average rainfall during the period. “The district has made arrangements to get 15,000 quintals of various seeds for the kharif season and already, we have a stock of 11,000 quintals. Against a demand of 58,088 tonnes of fertilizers, we have 31,973 tonnes in stock,” he said. Chairman of KUIDFC Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, MLAs Prasad Abbayya, Amrut Desai, Kusumavati Shivalli, MLC Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-centres-likely-to-be-set-up-for-seed-distribution/article34637770.ece
25 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Health activists stage online protest||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) from various districts of North Karnataka staged online protest on Monday seeking fulfilment of their various demands, including payment of pending remuneration for the last two months. Staging the protest from their respective towns and villages, ASHAs took part in the online protest holding various placards highlighting their problems. Addressing the online protestors, office-bearers of the respective district committee of ASHAs Association (Karnataka Rajya Samyukta Asha Karyakarteyara Sangha) said that at a time when ASHAs are working amid odds risking their lives, they are not being compensated properly. Even safety gears are not given to them in adequate quantities. They said that they are distributing medicine kits, sending patients with symptoms to testing centres, visiting houses with COVID-19 patients and updating the Health Department on their health status. They are also involved in various other related works. However, their demands have not been met for long, they said. The protestors demanded that their remuneration be released immediately and they be provided adequate numbers of masks, hand gloves and sanitisers. They also demanded that a compensation of Rs. 25,000 be paid to family members of ASHAs who are infected during their work. They demanded that a risk allowance of Rs. 5,000 be paid to them as in the case of health workers. They also sought immediate release of Rs. 50 lakh compensation to family members of ASHAs who died of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-activists-stage-online-protest/article34637769.ece
25 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister Savadi flags off oxygen bus services in Koppal||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who also holds the Transport portfolio, flagged off oxygen bus services for COVID-19 patients in Koppal on Monday. “The idea of oxygen bus service is conceived to provide oxygen to patients in need. Buses that have to be scrapped after they have completed 9 lakh km of running are being converted into oxygen buses. When hospitals run out of oxygen beds due to a heavy rush of patients, these buses will serve as mobile hospitals with oxygen facility. An oxygen bus can house five oxygen beds and a ventilator. A doctor and a nursing staff will also be available on the bus,” Mr. Savadi said, after inaugurating the service. He also directed Koppal Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishor Suralkar and NEKRTC Koppal Controller M.A. Mulla to utilise MLA LAD Funds to convert such scrapped RTC buses into oxygen buses in the district and station one such bus in each taluk. Speaking to mediapersons later, Mr. Savadi said that his department has planned to develop 100 oxygen buses in the State and provide them to all districts and bigger taluks in the days to come. “All the State-owned Road Transport Corporations operating under the Department of Transport are identifying buses that have to be scrapped and converting them into oxygen buses,” he said. Lok Sabha Member from Koppal Karadi Sanganna, legislators K. Raghavendra Hitnal, Paranna Munavalli, Halappa Achar and Basavaraj Dhadesugur, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Raghunandan Murthy and Superintendent of Police T. Sridhar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-savadi-flags-off-oxygen-bus-services-in-koppal/article34637768.ece
25 May 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Production may resume in full in 24 hours||The production of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) on the premises of steel giant JSW Steel in Toranagal, Ballari district, which has fallen by over 150 tonnes, is expected to resume fully in less than 24 hours. According to information provided by the authorities, Air Water Separation Ltd., one of the four companies that had an agreement with JSW Steel to produce and supply oxygen to the steel maker, has stopped working because of technical issues. It is expected that another 12-15 hours will be taken for the plant to fix the glitches and resume production. Linde Gas India (earlier called Praxair), BOC India Ltd., and Industrial Gases Pvt. Ltd. continued production as usual. “Air Water Separation has not been working since yesterday. The supply of LMO from JSW Steel premises has thus fallen by 150 tonnes a day. Work on fixing the problem is on in full force and it may take another 12 or 15 hours for the plant to resume production,” said Manjunath Prabhu, senior officer at JSW Steel’s Vijayanagara Works at Toranagal, Ballari district. Apart from producing and supplying oxygen to JSW Steel, the four companies together produce between 120 tonnes and 150 tonnes of LMO a day normally and supply it to various hospitals across the country. During the first wave of COVID-19 last year, the production of LMO had risen to 200 tonnes a day, hitting around 430 tonnes a day by September. The production again dropped to around 130 tonnes a day in February and March this year owing to the fall in demand. However, when the second wave of the pandemic began in April, the LMO production was again increased to over 400 tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/production-may-resume-in-full-in-24-hours/article34637720.ece
25 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cheques given to health activists in Bhalki||As a token of appreciation for ASHAs, KPCC Working President Eshwar Khandre distributed cheques for Rs. 2,000 each as an encouragement to 247 workers in Bhalki taluk of Bidar district on Monday. Mr. Khandre lauded ASHAs who are serving tirelessly to ensure the safety of people amid COVID-19 across the taluk. Along with a cheque for Rs. 2,000 each, ASHAs were given masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheques-given-to-health-activists-in-bhalki/article34637766.ece
25 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vehicles violating rules used for waste disposal||Udupi Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu on Sunday asked vehicle owners, who were found unnecessarily moving on the National Highway 66 in violation of lockdown regulations, to pick waste and move it to the dumping yard. Mr. Prabhu stopped these vehicles near motor vehicles showroom in Udupi. He asked them to remove the waste found between the showroom and another such showroom and put it in their vehicles. They were made to dump the waste at the dumping yard in Alevoor. In a statement, Mr. Prabhu said that vehicle found unnecessarily out on the streets in Udupi city will be used for collection and disposal of waste till the end of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicles-violating-rules-used-for-waste-disposal/article34637760.ece
25 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reserve beds for treating black fungus patients, says Minister Bommai||Minister in-charge of Udupi and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday instructed the Udupi district administration to reserve 10 beds in Udupi government district hospital to treat patients affected by black fungus. Reviewing the COVID-19 situation in Udupi through a video conference from Bengaluru, the Minister said that a person died due to black fungus infection in Udupi. Another patient with black fungus infection has been shifted for treatment to the Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. As patients infected with black fungus from other districts too are getting admitted in hospitals in Udupi district, more medicine is required for treatment and it will be supplied to the district. The Minister said that the results of COVID-19 tests should be made available within 24 hours. With this, the spread of the infection could be prevented early. The task forces constituted for COVID-19 management in rural areas should become more active to contain the spread in the villages. Those having less than 93% oxygen level should be shifted to hospitals and those whose oxygen level is between 93% and 95% should be shifted to COVID Care Centres, he said. The Minister said that doctors and nurses should work in two shifts in COVID Care Centres. The Deputy Commissioner and the Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat should hold video conference with panchayat development officers (PDOs) of five gram panchayats daily to review the COVID-19 situation in villages. MLC K. Pratapchandra Shetty asked the government to release Rs. 50,000 grant to each gram panchayats at the earliest for managing COVID-19. Doctors for villages Meanwhile, presiding over another meeting in Udupi on Monday, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the doctors and swab collectors will begin visiting villages in the district from Tuesday. The doctors will check patients having symptoms on the spot and take an appropriate decision on treatment to be given. The Deputy Commissioner said that the doctors and other Health Department personnel should visit houses in the jurisdiction of 59 primary health centres in 155 gram panchayats. They should distribute health kits to patients. If patients did not have the facility for isolating themselves in their houses, they should be shifted to COVID Care Centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reserve-beds-for-treating-black-fungus-patients-says-minister-bommai/article34637774.ece
25 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No new permission for marriages in Udupi||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Monday that the district administration will not grant any new permission for marriages from May 25 to June 7. However, those who have filed applications till May 24 and those who have been permitted to hold marriages can organise them during the period. But they are not supposed to hold engagements and mehndi programmes, he said. The Deputy Commissioner told presspersons in Udupi that criminal cases will be filed against those who are found organising engagements and mehndi programmes. Tahsildars have been given clear instructions. Mr. Jagadeesha said that electrical shops will be allowed to open only on May 26 from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. It is on the demand that electrical material in houses of many people have been damaged in the recent lightning and thunderstorm that hit the region. But shops selling electronics equipment will not be allowed to open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-new-permission-for-marriages-in-udupi/article34637775.ece
25 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMC Hospital resumes vaccination at four places||KMC Hospital here re-started on Monday vaccination for those aged 45 and above and for those aged between 18 and 44. Vaccination is being organised at KMC Hospitals at Ambedkar Circle and in Attavar, the hospital’s Marena Sports Complex in Attavar and at the Durga Sanjeevani Manipal Hospital in Kateel. Around 700 people were given the vaccine at the four centres. One dose costs Rs. 850. Those taking the first dose have to book their slots through Co-WIN or Arogya Setu app, while those who have taken their first dose 84 days ago can walk in to these centres to receive their second dose, a representative of the hospital management said. In a press release, Pro Vice-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Mangaluru campus, Dilip G. Naik said that the hospital wants to vaccinate the maximum number of people in the region. A special vaccination centre has been created at the Marena Sports Complex that has huge space and where around 2,000 people can be vaccinated. “We aim to make vaccine accessible to all people through multiple vaccination centres,” he said. Regional Chief Operating Officer, KMC Hospital, Mangaluru, Saghir Siddiqui said that vaccination is the main weapon to fight the war against COVID-19. “I request all people who are eligible to get themselves vaccinated,” he said. After vaccination, people should continue to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. A look at the Co-WIN portal on Monday showed all slots at KMC Ambekar Circle (Jyoti) for 45+ and for 18+ categories booked till June 12. At KMC, Attavar, slots for 18+ have been booked till May 26 and those for 45+ till May 25. “We are opening more slots at the four places from Tuesday,” the hospital management representative said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmc-hospital-resumes-vaccination-at-four-places/article34637776.ece
25 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||B.M. Ichlangod passes away||Writer, Beary dialect researcher and a former teacher B. Muhammad Ichlangod passed away at a private hospital here late on Sunday. He was 84. He is survived by his wife, four sons and a daughter. Mr. Ichlangod was the editor of the first Beary dictionary brought out by Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy in 2017. The 874-page dictionary with 10,000 words has meanings in Kannada and English. Apart from words spoken in Dakshina Kannada, the dictionary has meanings of Beary, words spoken in other parts of the State and abroad. A team led by him had worked for three years to publish the dictionary in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bm-ichlangod-passes-away/article34637772.ece
25 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fireman dies of COVID-19||Fifty-four-year-old Naveen Andra, a lead fireman from the city’s Kadri Fire Station, died of COVID-19 infection on Sunday. He is survived by his wife, a homemaker, and three children. Mr. Andra, a native of Kasaragod in Kerala, lived in Talapady. He had served in various positions in the Fire and Emergency Services Department in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Chamarajanagar districts since 1997. He was awarded the Chief Minister’s medal for meritorious service and was working at Kadri Fire Station since last year. He had taken the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine and was waiting for the second dose. Mr. Andra tested positive for COVID-19 on May 9 and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kuntikana here. He passed away in the afternoon on Sunday. The last rites were performed at the crematorium in Nandigudde. District Fire Officer Mohammed Nawaz said that six firemen have tested positive for COVID-19 and they are all under home isolation. As directed by Director-General of Fire and Emergency Services Amar Pandey, the department is in regular touch with the personnel who have tested positive. All the six are recovering, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fireman-dies-of-covid-19/article34637777.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Severe paucity of ICU, ventilator beds||Abhinav had been desperately searching for ICU beds for his mother Vimala, 52, and his elder brother Abhinandan, 32, for five days, but to no avail. “Their condition is deteriorating. We cannot afford treatment in private hospitals, neither are we able to find beds in government quota,” he lamented. He is not alone. Several patients and their families are desperately seeking ICU and ventilator beds for many days now, but have been unsuccessful. The BBMP COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS) showed that not a single ICU or ventilator bed was available for adults in the city on Monday evening. This has been the case for several days now, even as oxygenated (HDU) beds have freed up during the same time. Gone are the days of running around for an oxygenated bed. As many as 668 of them, only in government quota, were lying unoccupied in city hospitals on Monday evening, a reflection of falling caseload. However, ICU and ventilator beds remain extremely hard to come by. Only seven ICU beds and four ventilators were available in private hospitals in the city as persearchmybed.comportal maintained by Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). Multiple proposals by the Karnataka government to add ICU and ventilator beds in the city have failed to take off. Essentially, not a single ICU or ventilator bed has been added since the second wave took the city by storm. The Department of Health and Family Welfare had piloted a proposal to build a makeshift hospital with 2,000 ICU and ventilator beds in the city and had finalised on a college inside the Victoria hospital premises for the project. “Even as the vendors were being finalised, the project was suddenly taken out of the Department, taking all of us by surprise,” said a source in the department. Information Commissioner Dr. P.S. Harsha was assigned as the nodal officer to add 4,000 ICU and ventilator beds in the city – 500 in each of the eight zones. However, he was not given any administrative backup or funds, and the project is now being solely spearheaded on the basis of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) contributions by corporates. Dr. Harsha said, in the last three weeks, three separate CSR initiatives had been leveraged towards augmenting beds in the city. Donors have come forward and work is on to convert 405 general beds in government hospitals into ICU and ventilator beds. Public health activists have come down heavily on the government for withdrawing from adding ICU and ventilator beds. “It is the government's job to augment critical health infrastructure in the city. We don’t understand why it pulled back from the project to put up a makeshift 2,000-ICU-bed hospital to give it up for CSR initiatives. Even if the cases in the city abate, this infrastructure will be of great use for patients from other districts,” said Dr. H.V. Vasu, coordinator, Karnataka COVID-19 Volunteers Team and BMC-92.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/severe-paucity-of-icu-ventilator-beds/article34637704.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Muslim youths yet to get jobs back||Only one of the 17 Muslims who lost their jobs after being targeted by Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya in the alleged bed allotment scam, with no evidence of their involvement, has been deputed back to work in the South zone war room. Of the remaining 16, six have refused to rejoin work, hurt and afraid that they were targeted for their religion. The rest have given letters to their employer Crystal Infosystems and Services Pvt. Ltd. seeking work, and are waiting to hear from the company. One of them, Syed Moin Shah, told The Hindu that most of them were waiting for the firm to deploy them. Ayesha Sheikh, who was forced to resign for protesting against the targeting of her colleagues, said the firm was calling a few people offering to post them in other war rooms, triage centres but many had not reported to work due to lower salaries and workplaces being far away. “They deputed one person to R.R. Nagar war room on Sunday. He went there, but realised that his salary in the new posting was Rs. 12,000 compared to Rs. 13,500 when he worked in the South zone war room. He refused the posting and returned home,” she said. Shivu Naik, Manager, South zone war room for Crystal Infosystems and Services Pvt. Ltd., said the firm had not fired the 17 Muslim employees and was posting them as and when vacancies came up. “While some are working in South and R.R. Nagar war rooms, a few refused new postings citing the distance to the workplace. We will accommodate them eventually,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslim-youths-yet-to-get-jobs-back/article34637705.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ex-bank employee runs home delivery service for those in need||The pandemic and the lockdown have forced many people to remain indoors. In some families, multiple members have developed symptoms, forcing them to depend on outsiders to get essential medicines or food items. Understanding the needs of such people, Jaggesh M.P., 30, a graduate in business management, has started home delivery service in Mudigere town in Chikkamagaluru district. People place orders over the phone and Mr. Jaggesh goes around town on his bike to procure the items and deliver it their doorsteps and take service charge. For the last eight months, he has served hundreds of families within a 10 km radius of Mudigere. Mr. Jaggesh, who worked in a private bank, quit his job for personal reasons and had returned to Mudigere. “During the first wave of COVID-19, a neighbour fell sick. I helped the family in getting medicine and food items from the market. That gave me an idea that I could extend similar help to all the needy and earn a little bit,” he said. In the meanwhile, he attended a training programme on entrepreneurial skills conducted by Rural Development and Self Employment Training Institute at Ujire. “I started my services in October 2020 and named my one-man firm Eazy-Shopee. I campaigned through friends and social media platforms. For the first two months, I took only Rs. 30 per delivery as service charge. As petrol price increased, I raised my fee to Rs. 40 and sometimes more if I have to visit more than one shop,” he said. Before the lockdown, he got upto 30 orders a day. As the hours for procuring essential items had been reduced during the lockdown, he gets 10-12 orders a day. Mr. Jaggesh is happy with his earning. He was earning a similar salary while working at the private bank. Besides the salary, this work gives him satisfaction. “In a family, all four had symptoms of the infection. None of them could move out. They contacted me and I helped them in getting medicines and other essential items. They showered praises on me. Their words are invaluable,” he said. Ivan D Silva, a senior citizen of Mudigere, said he had called up Mr. Jaggesh many times to get essential items. During the weekend, many people place orders for meat and fish. He purchases them from the shop the customer prefers. “I don’t decide the shop. I go to the shop of their choice. If they need my advice, I suggest some shops,” Mr. Jaggesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-bank-employee-runs-home-delivery-service-for-those-in-need/article34637748.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Labourer killed||A 47-year-old construction labourer was allegedlt bludgeoned to death near an under-construction site at Madanayakanahalli police station limits, where he was working, in a drunken brawl on Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourer-killed/article34637710.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||3 arrested for stealing valuables||The Whitefield police, on Monday, arrested three persons, including a 25-year-old domestic help, who had allegedly stolen a locker containing one kilogram of gold valuables and cash in April from the apartment where she was working . Based on a complaint filed by Nitin Agarwal, the police arrested the accused and recovered valuables worth Rs. 55 lakh from them. The accused, Sunaina, 25, Minhajuddin, 27, and Chanda Kumar, 19, hail from Chhattisgarh, Assam and Bihar. They were employed as security personnel and domestic help at the apartment. Sunaina had stolen the locker in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-arrested-for-stealing-valuables/article34637711.ece
25 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Vaccination picks up in Idukki||The vaccination against COVID-19 has intensified in the district. As per the data available till May 22 as many as 2,90,106 persons got vaccinated in the district. The total population in the district was 10,79,090 and those above 45 years were 3,11,230 persons. Those between the age of 18 and 45 were 4,76,447 persons. Those above the age of 45 who got vaccination were 2,89,311 persons, said a release here.,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-picks-up-in-idukki/article34638184.ece
25 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF picks holes in Kannur Corpn.’s COVID activities||The tussle between the Left Democratic Front and civic bodies led by the the United Democratic Front - Kannur Municipal Corporation and three panchayats - has intensified in the district. The bone of contention is alleged deficiencies in COVID management by the civic bodies. The LDF is organising protests on Tuesday at 250 centres in Kannur Corporation, 21 centres in Kadampur, 15 centres in Valapattanam, and 17 centres in Ayyankunnu. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan said that the LDF had decided to organise the protest demanding opening of community kitchens, provision of essential services to guest workers and in-patients, delivery of essential items, including medicines, to the public through home delivery, and ending the alleged discrimination in the issuance of passes and taking up of pre-monsoon cleaning activities. He said that the protest would involve LDF MPs and the party activists and it would be organised in conformity with COVID-19 protocol. Only five participants would assemble together for the protest. Under the leadership of corporation Mayor T.O. Mohanan and governing councils of Kadambur and Valapattanam panchayats, there were efforts to sabotage COVID-19 relief activities of the State government, alleged Mr. Jayarjan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-picks-holes-in-kannur-corpns-covid-activities/article34637858.ece
25 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Six swords recovered during cleaning drive||Sharp weapons were recovered during a cleaning driving near Thalassery in Kannur district on Monday. Six swords were found near Punnol Mappila LP School on the National Highway near Thalassery. The swords were found hidden in a sack. The New Mahi police arrived at the spot and launched an investigation. The police officers suspect that the weapons may have been hidden a year ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-swords-recovered-during-cleaning-drive/article34638185.ece
25 May 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Nod to upgrade health centres||The district administration has given administrative sanction to construct new blocks for health centres as part of upgrading them under the Kasaragod Development Package. Sanction has been given to upgrade Angadimogar Primary Health Centre, Moukode Family Health Centre (FHC), Uduma FHC, Madikkai FHC and Ennappara FHC. The new blocks will include OP rooms, observation rooms, labs, breastfeeding rooms and pharmacy. An amount of Rs. 85 lakh has been sanctioned for Angadimogar PHC in Puthige panchayat, Rs. 75 lakh for Moukode FHC in West Eleri panchayat, Rs. 3.30 crore for Madikkai FHC in Madikkai grama panchayat and Rs. 1 crore for Uduma FHC in Uduma grama panchayat and an amount of Rs. 1.80 crore has been set apart for Ennapara FHC in Kodom-Belur grama panchayat. The Kasaragod Development Package district-level committee approved the project at a meeting chaired by District Collector D. Sajith Babu. Special Officer E.P. Rajamohan said the work would be tendered soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-to-upgrade-health-centres/article34637862.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 1,885 cases||Ernakulam district recorded 1,885 new COVID cases on Monday when testing fell to 8,849 samples. The test positivity rate stood at 21.3%. Seven health workers tested positive and the source of infection could not be traced in 56 cases. Thripunithura recorded the highest number of new cases with 217 people testing positive. This was followed by Thrikkakara with 116, Palluruthy 93, Manjalloor 67, Kottuvally 55, Kalamassery 54, Okkal 44, Vyttila 39, Nayarambalam 38, Edathala 36, and Kaloor and Koothatukulam 34 each. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Monday, and a total of 4,393 people were considered to have recovered. A total of 97,237 people remain in quarantine. While 385 people were discharged from treatment centres, 185 were newly admitted. Of the people recovering from the infection, 34,904 are at home, 2,162 are at private hospitals, 693 patients are at government hospitals, 64 are at INHS Sanjivani, 507 are at first-line treatment centres, 381 at second-line treatment centres, and 925 at domiciliary care centres. The active caseload is 41,521. The number of ICU admissions continues to remain high, with a total of 541 patients recovering in ICUs. Of the 2,953 vacant beds available for COVID treatment at government facilities, 1,761 are at domiciliary care centres, 398 at first-line treatment centres, 244 at second-line treatment centres, and 515 at government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-1885-cases/article34637869.ece
25 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Waiting for the normal cycle of life||When the pandemic brought life to a grinding halt last March, members of the cycle club at Maharaja’s College were a dejected lot. For, it put a spoke in their ambitious plan to pedal across the State, learning and documenting alternative movements in various walks of life and their propagators from close quarters. By then, the six-member team led by M.H. Ramesh Kumar, assistant professor in the history department and an avid biking enthusiast who was also instrumental in forming the club three years ago when he joined the college, had completed the tour of Ernakulam. “We had drawn up a list of various personalities and initiatives across the State and had planned to cover it in a couple of months when the pandemic broke out, disrupting our schedule. We are now eagerly waiting for the pandemic to subside to resume our tour,” said Mr. Kumar, who often bikes his way home to Kayamkulam, which is over 100 km from Kochi. Documentation Rather than simply biking, the team plans to document their experience both in print and video format. The team members have been assigned various tasks, from food and stay to documentation during the course of the tour. “The idea is to introduce the new generation to an eco-friendly and frugal alternative lifestyle while making them active participants in the fight against global warming,” said Mr. Kumar. The club was initially formed with six persons, but has gradually attracted more youngsters. “The club and the State-wide tour have been an eye-opener for me and helped draw me away from the virtual world where I was spending a disproportionate amount of time. It helped me know about an alternative value-based living,” said Amjad Ali, a third-year B.A. student and an active member of the club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waiting-for-the-normal-cycle-of-life/article34637867.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Work under way to clean 28 railway culverts on Chittoor-Thevara stretch||Twenty-eight railway culverts on the Chittoor-Thevara stretch are being unclogged and cleaned by workers deployed by the Kochi Corporation, as part of measures being taken to prevent flooding in the city hub during the monsoon season. All efforts were being made to avert flooding in the city, including unclogging of culverts along the railway corridor, taking into account low-lying areas getting inundated in the recent spate of rainfall, said Sunitha Dixon, chairperson of the works standing committee. The Railway, which used to clean the culverts annually once, gave its no-objection certificate to the Kochi Corporation and also deputed a supervisor from its civil engineering wing to help speed up the cleaning process. On the complaint by the Corporation and residents’ associations that narrow railway culverts were among the reasons for the city hub getting waterlogged even after an average rain, Railway sources said the 28 culverts included big and small ones. “Most of them were built three to four decades ago in keeping with the then requirements to drain away rainwater. Plenty of vacant land was subsequently filled, mainly to construct buildings. Encroachments and dumping of garbage and plastic waste would have made matters worse. All this increased the volume of water that ended up in the drains, while choking the drain network,” they added. Widening of the narrow culverts would be a tough process, since it would need substantial funds and curbs on rail traffic. Many of the culverts were cleaned as part of Operation Breakthrough. Bigger culverts could be built when new tracks were laid, said a senior Railway official. This was among the reasons that the Railway cited a year ago when the High Court directed the district administration to complete unclogging of the 23 railway culverts along the Perandoor canal to prevent flooding. The court had ordered the Kochi Corporation to desilt, clean and restore the nearly 2.5-km stretch of the Thevara-Perandoor canal from the Perandoor bridge to the Chittoor lake and the nearly 2-km stretch from Greater Cochin Development Authority office, Kadavanthra, to Kammattipadam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-under-way-to-clean-28-railway-culverts-on-chittoor-thevara-stretch/article34637876.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Centre defends pricing policy||The Centre on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that its new liberalised pricing and accelerated national COVID-19 vaccination strategy was aimed at incentivising vaccine manufacturers to rapidly scale up their production and attract new vaccine manufacturers. Flexibility In a statement filed in response to a public interest litigation challenging the liberalised pricing policy, the Centre said the strategy would make pricing, procurement, and administration of vaccines flexible. The Centre said tightly controlling the price of vaccines may cause difficulty in securing adequate vaccine supplies, especially from offshore manufacturers. ‘Uniform for all States’ In fact, under the new vaccine strategy, though each State could procure vaccines, the Centre had, by conducting informal consultations with vaccine manufactures, ensured that the price of vaccine was uniform for all States. The Centre also submitted that it had supported public sector undertakings such as Indian Immunologicals, Hyderabad, and Haffkine, Mumbai, to produce Covaxin which is licensed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. The other Indian manufacturer, Serum Institute of India, was producing Covishield in the country under licence from foreign vaccine manufacturer AstraZeneca. Therefore, Covishield vaccine cannot be given to other manufacturers for further production without licence from the parent company.  The intent is to incentivise vaccine producers to scale up production and attract new manufacturers, it tells High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-defends-pricing-policy/article34637885.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Private bus operators peeved at exclusion from vaccine list||Private bus operators have taken strong exception to crew members of approximately 12,500 private buses not being mentioned in the State government’s priority list for COVID-19 vaccination. George Joseph, who owns a fleet of buses that operate in the city, said Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus crew and even seafarers who hailed from the State had been included in the priority list. He expressed concern at the government not readying a relief package to save the private bus sector from crisis. A majority of buses have been forced to keep off the road for months together for want of patronage. “A few thousand bus operators submitted G-form to the Motor Vehicles Department [MVD] since they would otherwise have to remit hefty tax every quarter. Already, the annual insurance premium paid by most bus operators has gone waste since just a few buses were in operation. We bank our hopes on the Finance and Transport Ministers of the new government to help us through the crisis. Many bus owners like me availed loan to retrofit CNG kit in buses, to overcome the skyrocketing diesel price. Faced with dull patronage, it is an uphill task paying the monthly instalment,” he said. Tax break The State government must give a tax break, reduce the sales tax on diesel supplied to public transport buses, and help arrange interest-free loan of Rs. 5 lakh to private bus operators, since the sector was sinking and 80% of the around 12,500 private buses had halted service in Kerala during the past month, said Lawrence Babu, general secretary of Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation. Each bus must get a minimum income of Rs. 6,000 a day to operate in a sustainable manner, said Mr. Babu. But, most bus operators were not getting even half the amount. It would be tough to revive the sector if there was any further delay in the government intervening in a proactive manner, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-bus-operators-peeved-at-exclusion-from-vaccine-list/article34637865.ece
25 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Milma reaches out to tapioca farmers||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma), the apex cooperative for milk procurement and sale, has in principle approved a plan to procure tapioca to be added as part of cattle feed being produced in the State. Milma sources said the federation was open to the idea of using tapioca in cattle feed production, provided tapioca was supplied in dried form. If the produce was dried and supplied, it could be used as part of cattle feed, said Milma Chairman P.A. Balan on Monday. In dire straits He said tapioca farmers were in dire straits at present as they were unable to sell their produce for reasonable rates. Milma was ready to come to their help under such circumstances, he said. There is a glut-like situation in the State with tapioca farmers unable to sell their produce. Agriculture Department sources said they were getting calls from farmers across the State for procurement of tapioca through a scheme introduced by the Horticultural Products Development Corporation. The procurement scheme was launched in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown to help farmers who were unable to sell their produce. Farmers in Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Kottayam, and Thrissur have been among those seeking help to sell the harvest even as a bout of heavy rain last week saw vast areas of tapioca cultivation getting flooded. In Ernakulam, more than a hundred acres of tapioca cultivation has been flooded near Muvattupuzha. The owner of a farm, P.P. Eldho, said he had asked people who wanted the produce to harvest it and supply it to those in need. The harvested tapioca is now being supplied free of cost to community kitchens and charitable institutions. An initiative by the Welfare Services, the charity arm of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese, has seen 20 tonnes of tapioca, banana and other produce being supplied free of cost to relief camps and to families in need. A spokesman for the society said that 20 tonnes of farm produce were distributed last week. The tapioca and other products were procured from different centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-reaches-out-to-tapioca-farmers/article34637873.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Work to revive segments of Kadmabrayar lagging||Work on an action plan to rejuvenate the polluted segments of the Kadambrayar, submitted about a year ago and approved by the River Rejuvenation Committee, has lagged behind with technical difficulties such as sanctions and funding holding up the works. Revised plan The revised plan prepared by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board was approved by the River Rejuvenation Committee in March last year and called for actions like surveillance to restrict dumping of waste into the river, facilities to contain seepage of leachate into the river, establishment of facilities for treating leachate, installation of CCTV cameras at places like Manakkakadavu and, in the long term, establishment of a proper solid waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram by the Kochi Corporation. Sources close to agencies in charge of implementation of the programme of rejuvenating the river said that with several local bodies being involved and being partners in the rejuvenation plan, funding and sanctions were two major issues that held up the works.  The 27-km Kadmbrayar orginates at Arakkappadi in Vengola panchayat in Perumbavoor taluk and flows through Edathala, Kizhakkambalam, Kunnathunadu, and Thrikkakara before joining the Chithrappuzha near Ambalamugal. The river has a catchment area of over 115 sq.km and is the source of water for Kinfra project sites, Infopark Phase I and II, SmartCity, Cochin Special Economic Zone and a host of other major industrial units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-to-revive-segments-of-kadmabrayar-lagging/article34637877.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vazhakulam firm to make fruit products||The Vazhakulam Agro and Fruit Processing Company (VAFPCL) located at Muvattupuzha, considered the pineapple heartland of India, is getting ready for a leap in producing value-added products from fruits, having renovated its entire production machinery. These machines were imported from Italy over two decades ago when the European Union-funded unit began functioning. The company has three production lines, including one to process and pack pineapple, apple, orange, guava and mixed fruit juices (under the brand name Jive), said Shibu Kumar, MD of VAFPC. The second is a line dedicated to preparing pineapple concentrate, for which it recently began procuring the fruit for Horticorp at Rs. 15 per kg from farmers hard hit by the steep fall in its price. The third is its candy line, where fibreless ginger and pineapple candies are manufactured. The firm also ventured into manufacture of pet bottles, for which the State government allotted Rs. 5.50 crore. The machinery here can roll out 90 pet bottles a minute having fruit juices or bottled water, under the Jive brand name. The firm is also readying to manufacture jams. “Furthermore, we have plans to procure a pair of refrigerated vans. Proposals have been submitted to the government seeking permission to manufacture value-added projects. They include wine and nutraceuticals from pineapple and biodegradable cutlery items made using pineapple leaf. The second wave of the pandemic played spoilsport with our plans, although we staged a comeback with our pet bottle plant in February,” Mr. Shibu Kumar said. Company’s shares The company began operations in 1998 under Kerala Horticulture Development Project (KHDP) as a fruit processing factory for the uplift of pineapple farmers. In 2000, 70% shares were given to farmers when it was named Nadukkara Agro Processing Company Limited. The government regained control over the firm in 2012 after it got entangled in severe financial liabilities and tax burden. The imported machinery also needed repair works. Currently, the government has 51% share, while VFPCK and farmers have 19% and 30% share respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vazhakulam-firm-to-make-fruit-products/article34637871.ece
25 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MSMEs demand special revival package||The nearly 2.5 lakh micro, small and medium-scale industries (MSMEs) in Kerala, employing more than two million people, are feeling the pinch of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions hampering movement of workers and raw materials. They also face financial liabilities in the form of fixed charge on connected power load, statutory payments like PF and ESI contributions as well as rentals. Only about half of the industrial units that are exempted from the COVID-19 lockdown are operational now, said K.A. Joseph, an industrial unit owner in Kalamassery. He said about 20 per cent of the around 2.5 lakh units were essential services that had been permitted to operate amid the lockdown. However, only about half of such units were operational due to various reasons ranging from raw material shortage to shortage of workers, he said. Ancillary units One of the worst-hit sectors is export-oriented units, said Mr. Joseph. The operations of export units depend on the working of ancillary units and it has become difficult to get permission for the units to operate amid the lockdown. In a recent appeal to the State government, Kerala State Small Industries Association said that MSMEs continued to reel under the fallout of events like the 2018 and 2019 floods, the first year of COVID and the present lockdown to contain the pandemic. To nurse back the MSMEs to health, the State must step in and declare a special package and provide some relief measures. Interest subsidy In a letter to K. Elangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries, from KSSIA president M. Khalid said that a broader package of interest subsidy would help the MSMEs in a big way. The industries also want the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) not to impose fixed charges during the period when industrial units are not operational.  The units also want a moratorium for a year to allow them to repay the loans without interest as well as a moratorium on payment of bills from local self-government bodies that include water charges, taxes, licence fee and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/msmes-demand-special-revival-package/article34637864.ece
25 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Infection rate shows signs of slump in Kottayam||The second wave of COVID-19 that hit the region appears to be moderating with the number of fresh cases reported in Kottayam coming down to 1,090 on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all but four contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day was 23.71%. With 178 cases, Kanjirappally panchayat led the tally, followed by Kottayam with 137 cases. As many as 2,298 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total number of cases to below 10,000 mark for the first time in several weeks. Meanwhile, 52,417 persons remain under observation. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 333 persons tested positive for the virus on Monday. The TPR for the day stood at 20.1%. With 33 cases, Vallikodu panchayat reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamathitta municipality with 31 cases. The number of COVID-19 related deaths, meanwhile, continued to be on the higher side with the district reporting 13 more deaths during the day. With 1,829 recoveries during the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 11,004 active cases while 24,457 persons are under observation. Alappuzha The district reported 1,272 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, 1,269 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of one person remains unknown. Two persons who came from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 23.39%. The 1,272 cases include 210 reported from Alappuzha, 63 from Muthukulam, 55 from Pathiyoor, and 53 from Kuthiathode. Meanwhile, 474 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 22,937. With COVID-19 cases remaining high, the Alappuzha district administration and Health Department have arranged 1,400 more beds to treat patients. Officials said that a total of 5,931 beds had so far been arranged across the district. Besides, 19 more domiciliary care centres would be opened in the district soon. On Monday, the police registered 37 cases and arrested nine people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 769 people for not wearing face masks, 448 people for violating physical distancing norms, and 11 people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 162 vehicles.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta and ALappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infection-rate-shows-signs-of-slump-in-kottayam/article34638189.ece
25 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam gears up to face monsoon||With just over a week left for the southwest monsoon to set in over the region, the Kottayam district administration has expedited the preparatory works for flood risk management. According to officials, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has already completed arrangements on the basis of the Orange Book-2020, which features the standard operating procedures and the action to be taken in the event of any natural calamities and disasters. This included the arrangement of relief camps in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines, emergency rescue facilities, and control rooms that function round-the-clock. Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan, who chaired an online meeting the other day to review the preparedness, has directed officials to complete the remaining works at the earliest. “All departments should take care to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Disaster Management Authority. New buildings and facilities should be identified to start relief camps replacing the buildings that currently serve as COVID care centres and camps in flood-prone areas. Special care should be taken in case of transfer of COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine to camps,” Vasavan said. The Minister also directed the District Paddy officer to complete the paddy procurement process in the district without delay. District Collector M. Anjana and heads of various departments briefed the Minister about the preparations in respective areas. Meanwhile, the authority has directed the Public Works Roads Department and Irrigation Department, Tehsildar, and Taluk Surveyor to cut down the trees along the banks of the Vaikom KV canal that pose danger to public life. The Agriculture and Irrigation Departments and local bodies have been asked to conduct the check dams in the respective locations. The Department of Mining and Geology has been directed to ensure smooth flow of water in the streams in hilly areas and to remove any obstructions. Direction to KSEB The Disaster Management Authority has directed the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to ensure uninterrupted power supply to COVID special hospitals and care centres. The Animal Husbandry Department and the Dairy Development Department have been tasked to ensure the protection of livestock while shifting people to the relief camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-gears-up-to-face-monsoon/article34638191.ece
25 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police tighten screening system for e-passes in Kozhikode||The police have so far approved only one-third of the total e-pass applications submitted by individuals for travel during the second-phase lockdown in Kozhikode district. Though there is a considerable increase in the number of daily applications using the service following the extension of the lockdown period to May 30, officials point out that only those who tender genuine reasons are granted permission during the pandemic. Latest figures available with the police show that they have so far issued only 17,279 e-passes after thoroughly screening 55,606 applications. The majority of the rejected applications were submitted by persons who were totally clueless of the real purpose of e-pass journey. There were even people who tried to use the service for purchasing groceries, vegetables, non-emergency medicines and other such items from nearby shops. Officials with the Special Branch say there are even people who apply for the e-pass to visit relatives or friends for non-emergency purposes. Station House officers from city stations point out that they are in a situation to recommend the cancellation of the e-pass system as travellers are finding it as a ‘ticket’ to circumvent the lockdown regulations and fool checking squads. In Kozhikode district, the highest number of e-pass applications was processed by the Kozhikode Rural police. There were 31,606 applications till Monday. However, approval was given to only 11,279 such claims. Special Branch officials in Kozhikode city say they received 24,000 applications within the Kozhikode city police limits till Monday, of which clearance was given to only 6,000 persons. The police say they will give preferential treatment only to those who need the pass for emergency medical purposes or airport journey. They also point out that self-declaration formalities would be sufficient to meet the other local emergency travel requirements within the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-tighten-screening-system-for-e-passes-in-kozhikode/article34637861.ece
25 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel to support farmers’ stir||With the farmers’ protest across the country completing six months on May 26, the Dilli Chalo Farmer’s Protest Solidarity Committee in Kozhikode district has requested local farmers and their supporters to be part of the national-level protest programmes. Every citizen who supports the farmers has been urged to stage a protest, ‘Prathishedha Muttam’, in front of their houses on May 26 to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Farmers have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi demanding a repeal of the three farm laws of the Central government to ensure minimum support price legally for every commodity and to repeal the Electricity (Amendment) Law of 2021. Farmers from different States had come together on the streets of Delhi earlier this year, in one of the biggest and longest protests ever in India against the Central government. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha had campaigned against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in five States where Assembly elections were held recently. Supporters of farmers’ protest were urged to display their agricultural produce in front of their houses on May 26, holding the banner ‘May 26, All India Protest Day’. They are to hoist a green flag at 10 a.m. to mark the beginning of the protest and end it at 6 p.m. by lighting candles or torches. Besides, artistes who support the protest have been urged to do live programmes on social media including plays, poems, stories, paintings, sculptures and songs. The committee plans to collect soil from agricultural land to send to Delhi for sculptures of those farmers who lost their lives during the protest. An online solidarity conference will be held at 8 p.m. on May 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-support-farmers-stir/article34638192.ece
25 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) for merger of minor parties in LDF||After successfully striking alliances and cutting deals with detractors in the Assembly polls, the CPI(M) is pushing for the merger of two so-called socialist parties — Janata Dal ( Secular) and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) — as well as an amalgamation of three Kerala Congress parties — Kerala Congress (B), the Democratic Kerala Congress (DKC) and Kerala Congress (Skaria Thomas). Also, the CPI(M) State leadership wants the residual faction of the Congress (S) led by Kadannappally Ramachandran to merge with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Party sources said that too many coalition partners had already given the CPI(M) leadership a laborious task in seat-sharing in the Assembly elections and subsequent allotment of Cabinet berths. A reason cited for the merger of small parties was that political partners with similar ideologies should not remain separate entities within a coalition. In the Assembly polls, the coalition of Left parties had unquestionably become stronger in many constituencies. Ahead of the three-tier local body polls, the CPI(M) had tried hard to merge the JD(S) and the LJD so as to streamline seat-sharing. The merger of these parties had failed to take off after several rounds of talks. Now both will have to take a call on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-for-merger-of-minor-parties-in-ldf/article34637879.ece
25 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Active caseload declines to 25,108||The active case pool of COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district dropped to 25,108 on Monday when 3,321 more people recovered from the infection. As many as 1,256 people newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Only 7,626 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate was 17.09%. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 1,225 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 30 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 394 cases of locally acquired infections, Ramanattukara 69, Peruvayal 54, and Kadalundy 52. As many as 20,624 people are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-declines-to-25108/article34637853.ece
25 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vaccination: disability certificate enough||The Kerala government has relaxed norms for differently abled persons in the 18-44 age group to get COVID-19 vaccine. They need not upload a recent medical certificate by a registered medical practitioner, but a Disability Board certificate will do. Differently abled people and those with serious illnesses had been finding it difficult to get the vaccine as a priority group because of the condition that they should upload a recent medical certificate, along with other details for registration. It was pointed out that most of these people were not in a position to approach doctors and get a medical certificate in the lockdown period. Applications rejected A majority of the applications for vaccination got rejected for lack of a co-morbidity certificate and less than 10% of them were approved. Senior National Health Mission officials had claimed that the guidelines were uniform across the country. Kareem Karassery, general convener, Kerala Blood Patients Protection Council, had urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to waive the condition on medical certificate. However, on May 22, R. Ramesh, Director, Health Services, issued a circular saying that the disability certificate issued by the Disability Board should be accepted for the registration of COVID-19 vaccination. All district medical officers and child health officers, who are in charge of vaccination, need to accept the certificate issued as per The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-disability-certificate-enough/article34637880.ece
25 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID survivor alleges police harassment||A 40-year-old COVID-19 survivor from Kozhikode’s Kadameri village has approached the Kerala State Human Rights Commission seeking action against a Sub Inspector who allegedly showered abuses on him during a surprise vehicle check. P. Latheef, the complainant, claimed that the police officer from Nadapuram station also made derogatory remarks against his mother who recently succumbed to the pandemic. “The officer who intercepted my motorbike near Keeriyangadi claiming that I defied the lockdown regulation on May 21 behaved in an insensitive way with no concern over my emotional trauma. I was out to purchase some essential items for my supermarket at Thannerpanthal,” he said. According to Mr. Latheef, the Sub Inspector was not ready to believe his words even after showing the identity card and explaining the situation in the family. “Holding my collar, he forcibly took me to the station to record the arrest and impound by motorbike. My shirt had also been torn in the incident,” he alleged. Meanwhile, the Nadapuram police denied the allegation and claimed that Latheef was arrested on the basis of clear evidence. They said they would give their explanation at the time of enquiry by higher officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-survivor-alleges-police-harassment/article34637863.ece
25 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Plea to recall Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Patel||Widespread protests have been raised against the Central government’s alleged measures to upset the peaceful life of the people of Lakshadweep. The Samajwadi Janata Party (SJP) and the Kerala Muslim Jamat on Monday demanded the recall of Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel as he introduced the measures that angered the island people. SJP national general secretary Pradeep Gopalakrishnan accused Mr. Patel of deliberately trying to destroy the peaceful life in the Lakshadweep islands by implementing unconstitutional and anti-democratic policies. Describing the situation in Lakshadweep as "horrible", Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that the Administrator was acting in connivance with the Central government. A meeting of the Kerala Muslim Jamat Malappuram district committee said that Mr. Patel was trying to gag those criticising the government by slapping Goonda Act against them. The Muslim Jamat accused Mr. Patel of turning Lakshadweep into a COVID-19 hotspot. “It was a green zone with no COVID-19 case during the first wave. But the administration turned the island into a region with the highest test positivity rate by ignoring the concerns raised by the local people," said senior Islamic scholar Koottampara Abdurahman Darimi, who presided over the meeting. The Jamat demanded that people across the country rise against the hidden agenda of the Sangh Parivar to destroy the culture of Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-recall-lakshadweep-administrator-praful-patel/article34637859.ece
25 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Adavi-Gavi tourism circuit reels under COVID-19 impact||The endless array of banaba trees (Manimaruthu), which are in full bloom, has painted this forest location in a coat of blue. Underneath the canopy, the Kallar flows quiet and desolate. The coracle rafts that often waded through its crystal-clear water now remain moored on the banks. There are no tourists, no money, and little hope. If the first wave of pandemic brought the Adavi tourism circuit in Pathanamthitta to a complete standstill, the second wave of COVID-19 appears to have put the livelihood of the tourism staff here in complete jeopardy. The families of as many as 84 persons employed in the eco-tourism projects here, all of whom are local residents, are now looking up to the Forest Department for making both ends meet. Wilson Joy, who works as an oarsman in Kallar, says a resumption of rafting upon withdrawal of the lockdown is easier said than done. “It may take several days for the visitor inflow to pick up while the rafts will require to undergo a complete repair before returning to water,” he notes. The Forest Department has engaged 26 oarsmen and 14 guards in Adavi, who are split into two groups for working on alternate days. Daily income The daily income of each oarsman was fixed at Rs. 450, besides some allowances. After the first lockdown was withdrawn, visitor footfall to the tourism circuit here improved steadily over the next three months till December 2020 and just when it looked set to rebound, the second wave of pandemic hit the State. “With the lockdown in place, we are also unable to look for other options for a daily income,” he adds. Taking note of the situation, the Forest Department is now planning to disburse a monthly cash compensation to the tourism staff in the projects here. “Besides the oarsmen and the guards, a handful of other locals are employed with the elephant training camp, the elephant museum, the bamboo huts, and the Adavi-Gavi tourism circuit etc. The objective is to hand them around Rs. 5,000 per head as a compensation to the month-long lockdown,” says K.N. Shyam Mohanlal, Divisional Forest Officer, Konni. The amount for disbursing the compensation will be drawn from the cash reserves generated through these tourism projects, which used to clock a daily revenue of over Rs. 5,000 during peak seasons. Compensation  “We had resorted to a similar compensation scheme during the first lockdown as well, which brought down the overall cash reserves from around Rs. 1.80 crore to 15-16 lakh rupees. It, however, could be restored to some extend once the first lockdown was withdrawn,” the official adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adavi-gavi-tourism-circuit-reels-under-covid-19-impact/article34638187.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Do not delay second dose to the elderly: experts||In the light of new evidence from Public Health England (PHE) that a single dose of AstraZeneca vaccine offers notably lower protection against the virus variant B.1.617.2, Kerala should think about vaccinating its vulnerable population above 60 years with two doses of the vaccine as soon as possible to bring down mortality due to COVID-19, some public health experts feel. This is especially important as B.1.617.2 variant has emerged as the dominant virus strain in the State and has been responsible for the huge increase in cases and mortality during the second wave. Last Thursday, PHE announced its data on vaccine efficacy to the U.K. government. As per it, one dose of AstraZeneca vaccine provided only 31% protection and two doses raised this to 81% protection against symptomatic disease caused by B.1.617.2. In the context of the increasing circulation of the variant, it recommended the uptake of two doses amongst the vulnerable population. Concerned that B.1.617.2 is 50% more transmissible than B.1.1.7, the U.K. government has now accelerated the vaccination of those above 50 years by shortening the dosage interval of AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield) from 12 weeks to eight weeks. Ironically, U.K.’s decision has come at a time when the Centre has decided to extend the interval between first and second doses of Covishield from 12 to 16 weeks, citing evidence from the U.K. Earlier recommendation The expert committee on COVID-19 in the State had last week recommended to the government to cover as many people as possible with at least one dose of vaccine. “This recommendation would have been ideal if we were dealing with the original strain of SARS-CoV-2 or the B.1.1.7 variant. In Kerala, the B.1.617.2 is emerging as the dominant strain. New evidence suggests that two doses of Covishield are necessary to give protection against symptomatic COVID-19 caused by B.1.617.2. The government should administer the second dose of vaccine to all senior citizens so that mortality can be reduced,” points out Arun N.M., an Internal Medicine consultant, Palakkad. A significant proportion of the 60-plus group in Kerala has not even taken the first dose. Dr. Arun feels that the frenzy over more younger people dying of COVID-19 should be taken with a pinch of salt. “The majority of the deaths are still in the older group, though the proportion of deaths in the younger group has also risen. Just like the U.K., we should adapt our guidelines in tune with emerging evidence,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-delay-second-dose-to-the-elderly-experts/article34637895.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pandemic triggers rise in mental health concerns||After the loss of an immediate family member to COVID-19, a woman who had been treated earlier for mental health problems became very stressed and was having suicidal thoughts. As the first priority was to get her to stop contemplating suicide, the psychiatrist who got in touch with her let her ventilate. He tried to instil hope by getting her to think positive. In another instance, a woman looking after two COVID-19 positive members of her family, one of whom had mental and physical health issues, on her own, for days on end, ended up completely stressed. Then, she too tested positive. Without rest or proper food, her physical health suffered. Pre-existing problems The COVID-19 pandemic has triggered mental health issues among many, but those with pre-existing mental health conditions are especially vulnerable. Besides death or infection, livelihood issues and resultant financial constraints weigh heavily on people who already have mental health problems, says Unnikrishnan R., psychiatrist with the Thiruvananthapuram district mental health programme (DMHP). While some suffering from bipolar disorder or schizophrenia may have disability certificates that ensure pension and medicines, others may not have these and thus, are at risk of relapse or worse. “The pandemic has also prevented people on long-term psychiatric treatment from accessing it, particularly those who depend on private hospitals such as the elderly,” says Tom Varghese, psychiatrist at Beach hospital, Kozhikode. Mobility issues People under treatment may not also not know how to access it when lockdown and other restrictions are imposed. Mobility issues during lockdowns or closure of institutions that provide mental health treatment exacerbate matters. Anil Kumar L., superintendent of Mental Health Centre, Peroorkada, Thiruvananthapuram, says while their outpatient consultations have seen a huge drop in patient numbers, the number of in-patients, including those who have COVID-19, is more than their bed capacity. In the second wave, people in the peripheral areas with mental health problems were asked to get their medicines from primary health centres (PHCs) under the DMHP. During lockdown though, all patients have been asked to get their medicines from the PHCs till they can meet the DMHP team in person. However, some people may not be aware that such an arrangement is in place and without medicines may be at risk of relapse. Yet others may be comfortable visiting only their usual institution and not keen on getting medicines from elsewhere and hence stop taking them, says Dr. Unnikrishnan. Getting medicines for psychiatric issues from medical shops is not easy in the absence of prescriptions, unlike other problems, says Dr. Varghese. Once medication is discontinued, their symptoms start worsening, affecting the entire family. Many may also not approach primary health centres to avoid the stigma of being on psychiatric medications, he points out. Psychotherapy As the number of people with mental health issues increases, so do teleconsultations under eSanjeevani that ensure mental health support in the privacy of homes, without fear of stigma. However, the large number of patients also prevents extended sessions of psychotherapy that may be required by some patients, says Dr. Varghese. Since last year, nearly 2,000 mental health out-patient sessions have been conducted through e-Sanjeevani, says its nodal officer Divya S.  Livelihood issues and financial constraints weigh on people who already have mental health problems||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-triggers-rise-in-mental-health-concerns/article34637814.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Greens call for a relook into SilverLine||The Kerala Paristhithi Aikya Vedi, a forum of environmentalists, has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to withdraw from the move to hurriedly execute the 529.45-km Kochuveli-Kasaragod semi-high speed railway project SilverLine. The government should focus on the Sustainable Development Index envisioned by the United Nations Infrastructure Development Policy and exercise greater caution while deciding on mega projects, M.K. Prasad and V.S. Vijayan of the forum said. Urging the government to give thrust on sustainable infrastructure development suitable for the State, the forum demanded detailed discussions on the project estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore. Studies needed Scientific, technical, social, environmental and economic impact studies needed to be done, they said. The demand has come at a time when K-rail, the joint venture between the State and Railways set up for cost sharing of rail projects, has been allowed to ‘pose’ the loan request for availing itself of Rs. 33,700 crore as per extant rules and guidelines of ADB, AIIB, German Development Bank KfW and JICA. The Detailed Project Report is under Centre’s scrutiny and the file for acquiring 1,383 hectares of land is under the clearance of the Chief Minister. HUDCO has already sanctioned Rs. 3,000 crore for land acquisition. Sustainable alternatives that could be implemented at lesser cost needed to be implemented by the government in consultation with experts, the forum said. The SilverLine is being rolled out at a time when Railways are switching over to an electronic signalling system that can ensure a speed of 150 km per hour through modernisation of rail tracks. Damage to environment Pointing out that the State needed transport development in tune with the development of the existing railway network, the forum said wetlands and agricultural lands would be destroyed and hillocks and mountains in Western Ghats would be further carved out for the implementation of the project. Limited travel The forum called for a development policy that limited travel as the world was moving towards maximising production, consumption and services locally and online to prevent air pollution, climate change and spread of infectious diseases. Work-from-home, online education, online banking, e-commerce and e-governance were all part of lifestyle and people needed to avoid traffic jams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-call-for-a-relook-into-silverline/article34637815.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,570 new cases in capital district||The COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Thiruvananthapuram district fell to 20.2% even as 2,570 new cases were recorded on Monday. With 3,048 people recovering from the illness, the number of active cases slid to 18,012. Nonetheless, the death toll in the capital district rose to 1,456 with 12 more recent deaths attributed to COVID-19. The deaths occurred on May 20 and 21. The case fatality ratio of the district stood at 0.63. The district health authorities placed 4,166 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored to 86,134. As many as 5,977 people were permitted to conclude quarantine during the last 24 hours. Protocol violations The City Police have initiated legal action against 219 people for violating COVID-19 norms on Monday. As many as 47 people among them were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. A total of 160 people were cumulatively fined Rs. 80,000 for failing to wear masks outdoors. Ten vehicles were also seized for unnecessary travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2570-new-cases-in-capital-district/article34637817.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revoke suspension of professor: Sivadasan||V. Sivadasan, MP, has sought the intervention of Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ to revoke the suspension of Gilbert Sebastian, a teacher in the Central University of Kerala. In a letter, the Rajya Sabha MP alleged that instances such as the suspension of Dr. Sebastian, an assistant professor in the university’s Department of International Relations and Politics, hindered academic freedom. Vice Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu had suspended him allegedly for calling the RSS a proto-fascist organisation during an online lecture on ‘Fascism and Nazism’. Alleging the move was spurred by the teacher’s critical remarks on the Centre, Dr. Sivadasan said it was tantamount to silencing free thinking and criticality. He added that there have been multiple attacks on academic institutions, teachers and students under the BJP-led regime in the country. ‘Question status quo’ “Education demands questioning of status quo as this is crucial for evolving responsible citizenship. Freedom of speech cannot be denied to teachers. This act of suspension curtails the intellectual freedom of academics. A classroom should be sa space for open discussion, where heterogeneous ideas take root,” the CPI(M) leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revoke-suspension-of-professor-sivadasan/article34637813.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Councillor of Vettukad ward dies of COVID-19||Sabu Jose, councillor of the Vettukad ward of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation, passed away here on Monday following COVID-19-related health complications. He was 52. According to Corporation officials, he has been under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here for COVID-19 for the past three weeks. He was recently put on ventilator support. He breathed his last around Monday noon. A resident of Kochuveli in the capital's coastal region, he had won as a Left Democratic Front (LDF)candidate from the Vettukad ward in the local body elections held in December last year. He was active in the cultural and religious spheres too, as a member of drama troupes and secretary of the local parish. Mayor Arya Rajendran condoled his death. He was buried at the St. Joseph's Church in Kochuveli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/councillor-of-vettukad-ward-dies-of-covid-19/article34637820.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pitch for ‘green deal’ in development drive||A new 'green deal' in development, with emphasis on natural capital and biodiversity-based sustainable livelihood, is the need of the hour, speakers at a webinar on 'Biodiversity and Health' held in connection with the International Biodiversity Congress have said. The speakers of the webinar also urged the governments to 'listen' to researchers and conservationists when planning development projects. The event was organised by the University of Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pitch-for-green-deal-in-development-drive/article34637825.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rush in hospitals may decrease in 3 weeks: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said Kerala could assume that the lockdown had helped lessen disease transmission. However, the rush in hospitals was yet to abate. It would take at least two to three weeks to achieve the reduction. The death rate might require as much time to come down, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the situation in Malappuram remained grim. The nine-day lockdown had not yielded the desired result. The spread was centred on houses. Most homes lacked space to isolate COVID-19 patients. Hence, the authorities shifted many patients to first-line treatment centres to protect their families from contracting the virus. The police would further tighten the shutdown in Malappuram. Mr. Vijayan indicated that the shutdown was not forever. The government would progressively ease restrictions as the pandemic situation improved. Construction workers would be allowed to mine hard laterite to fashion bricks for construction. Shops selling spices, timber, and other hill produces could open for two days a week in Wayanad and Idukki. So could shops selling rain-guards for rubber trees. Shops selling construction material and vehicle spares could open on alternate weekdays. He said the bank officials would be included in the priority category for vaccination. So would those seeking to return to their workplaces abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rush-in-hospitals-may-decrease-in-3-weeks-cm/article34637888.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State posts 17,821 cases, TPR dips to 20.41%||Kerala reported 17,821 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, when 87,331 samples were tested in 24 hours. The reduction in new cases is a reflection of the dip in testing over the weekend. The test positivity rate (TPR) registered 20.41% on Monday. The active case pool, which had registered over 4.45 lakh cases 10 days ago, now had only 2,59,179 cases. Hospitalisation up However, hospitalisations are rising. If 10 days ago, about 9% of the patients used to reach hospitals, it has risen to 14% now. It is expected that hospitalisations and deaths will continue to rise for another two weeks before they show a decline. On Monday, 3,248 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. The State added 196 recent deaths to the official list on Monday, taking the cumulative COVID fatalities to 7,554. The number of recoveries reported was 36,039. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State is 3,938, while the number of those on ventilator support is 1,502. Capital tops Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,570, Malappuram 2,533, Palakkad 1,898, Ernakulam 1,885, Kollam 1,494, Thrissur 1,430, Alappuzha 1,272, Kozhikode 1,256, Kottayam 1,090, Kannur 947, Idukki 511, Kasaragod 444, Pathanamthitta 333 and Wayanad 486 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-posts-17821-cases-tpr-dips-to-2041/article34637893.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agri dept. to hand out veggie seeds||The Agriculture Department will soon begin distribution of vegetable seed packets and seedlings to 70 lakh families in the State as part of the efforts to guarantee food security during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the programme, the department will supply 50 lakh seed packets and 1.5 crore seedlings free of cost, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said on Monday. Onam drive The initiative also marks the 2021 edition of the 'Onathinoru Muram Pachchakkari,' a popular vegetable cultivation drive the department has been implementing in the run-up to the Onam season, the Minister said. Through Krishi Bhavans, farmers, students, women's groups and voluntary organisations will be supplied the seed sachets and seedlings by the middle of June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-dept-to-hand-out-veggie-seeds/article34637824.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in six districts till tomorrow||A few districts in Kerala are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till Wednesday under the influence of Cyclone Yaas which has formed in the Bay of Bengal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Idukki districts on yellow alert till Wednesday, given the likelihood of isolated heavy rainfall. Other districts can expect light to moderate rainfall. There are no curbs on fishing along the Kerala coast, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority said. The deep depression over the Bay of Bengal had intensified into cyclonic storm Yaas on Monday morning. The system is expected to move northwestwards toward the Odisha-West Bengal coasts. The KSDMA and the IMD Meteorological Centre in Thiruvananthapuram are closely monitoring the progress of the cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-six-districts-till-tomorrow/article34637826.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM expresses solidarity with Lakshadweep residents||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday expressed Kerala’s solidarity with Lakshadweep residents. The islanders had publicly resented the alleged attempt by the Central government-appointed administrator to ‘promote the real estate mafia.’ They have accused the current dispensation of using the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) to stifle free speech so that it could parcel off the island to private profiteers. The current powers posed a grave challenge to the life, identity and culture of Lakshadweep residents, Mr. Vijayan said. Kerala and Lakshadweep were inseparable. Some powers wanted to break the islands’ historic link with Kerala. They should withdraw from the attempt, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-expresses-solidarity-with-lakshadweep-residents/article34637887.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Float global tender for vaccines, CM tells Modi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting that the Centre take the initiative to float a common global tender for the purchase of COVID-19 vaccines for all States so that the prices are not inflated. In the letter sent to Mr. Modi on Monday, Mr. Vijayan pointed out that while universal vaccination and building of herd immunity were the primary ways in which the raging pandemic could be fought, the scarcity of vaccines had made this task impossible. Pushing up prices The State government had taken substantial initiatives in this regard. But in order to ensure adequate supply of vaccines, if States were to go for separate global tenders and compete in the open market, it would naturally push up the prices of vaccines, he said. In such a situation, the best option would be for the Union government to float a common global tender, after taking into account the cumulative vaccine requirements of each State. This would help in bringing down vaccine prices, Mr. Vijayan said in his letter. For common good He reiterated that vaccines should be provided by the Centre free of cost to all States as it was serving a common public good. The Chief Minister added that that the maximum uptake of vaccines among people be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/float-global-tender-for-vaccines-cm-tells-modi/article34637896.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Technopark mulls buying nearby land||Technopark officials are exploring the possibility of acquiring land from residents staying in the flood-prone areas around the Phase 3 campus near Kulathoor in the capital. Some residents have been raising the demand for a land swap agreement for quite some time, owing to frequent flooding in their plots. An understanding regarding land acquisition was arrived at a recent meeting between the residents and Technopark officials in the presence of Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, city Corporation councillor Medayil Vikraman and revenue officials. The land in question, located adjacent to the Phase 3 campus, stretches to around 1.5 acres in area, and is owned by 15 different people, with some of them staying here in their own houses and some others owning a piece of land. According to Technopark sources, though a broad agreement was reached at the meeting regarding land acquisition, a final decision regarding this has to be taken by the State government. Administrative sanction “Even if the Technopark wants to acquire this land with its own funds, it can be done only after the government accords administrative sanction. We also have to see whether all of the 15 people who own the land there would agree to a land swap, as not all of them were present at the meeting. The Technopark is ready to acquire this land as we want to carry out development with consideration for the concerns of our neighbours,” said the source. Alternative land According to Mr. Vikraman, it has been agreed to provide alternative land for the residents in these areas. “These plots were earlier considered for land acquisition before the development of Phase 3, but it could not happen due to a dispute regarding compensation. Due to water-logging, some of the families have been protesting inside the Phase 3 campus for about a week recently, following which the talks were held. Now, the plan is to identify alternate land for them and also provide aid for them to construct houses,” he said. Twin challenges At Vedanvilakam and surrounding areas in Kulathoor, situated just outside the compound walls of the Technopark Phase 3 campus, the residents have been, for the past few years, facing the twin challenges of drinking water scarcity and flooding. Separating the locality from the Technopark campus walls is the Thettiyar canal, which drains into the Akkulam Lake. The canal, which once carried crystal-clear water, is now filled with waste. The flow of the canal has been affected at several areas due to encroachments and accumulation of waste, leading to frequent flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technopark-mulls-buying-nearby-land/article34637823.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister visits COVID control room||Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan visited the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation's COVID-19 control room on Monday. City Mayor Arya Rajendran and the standing committee chairpersons apprised him of the pandemic control measures being taken in the capital. Mr. Govindan said that the activities of the control room and the medical team can be expanded further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-visits-covid-control-room/article34637821.ece
25 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||1,430 new cases, 6,501 recover||There were 1,430 fresh cases of COVID-19 in the district on Monday while 6,501 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate was 20.97%. Two local bodies in the district had a TPR higher than 50% on Monday with Anthikkad and Kaipamanglam reporting 68% and 51.04% respectively. Active cases in the district were 13,705 and 92 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 2.23 lakh COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 2.08 lakh people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 1,412 people, including 12 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 236 were above the age of 60 and 90 children were below the age of 10. In all, 8,482 people were in homecare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1430-new-cases-6501-recover/article34637857.ece
25 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Special Task Force joins COVID fight||A Special Task Force has been formed in Thrissur district to co-ordinate preventive activities against COVID-19. The members of the task force will work at the war rooms for COVID prevention and supply of oxygen. The task force will be ready for any emergency 24x7. Ten of the 50-member force are women. The force is actively involved in procuring oxygen cylinders as the second wave is severe in the district. The members help in taking empty cylinders for refilling, helping the workers at the oxygen plant, reaching the filled cylinders to the cylinder storage facility at Thoppe stadium and disinfecting the oxygen storage room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-task-force-joins-covid-fight/article34637855.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Birthday greetings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birthday-greetings/article34638163.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The coast is not clear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-coast-is-not-clear/article34638165.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||First session of House begins||Congress legislators M. Vincent and K. Babu could not take oath due to COVID-19 and Minister for Sports and Railways V. Abdurahiman was indisposed. Seats were rearranged to ensure physical distancing as the session is being held amidst a Statewide lockdown to curb the pandemic. The Chief Minister is seated first in the treasury bench, followed by LSG Minister M.V. Govindan, and Revenue Minister K. Rajan. The Leader of the Opposition is in the first seat after the Deputy Speaker followed by K. Kunhalikutty of the IUML and leaders of UDF coalition partners. Earlier, Mr. Vijayan, who is celebrating his 76th birthday, was greeted by the legislators on his arrival at the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-session-of-house-begins/article34637892.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-serve/article34638161.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A click away||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-click-away/article34638158.ece
25 May 2021||Alappuzha,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die after suspected consumption of sanitiser in Kerala||Two persons were found dead at Chavady near Thuravoor in Alappuzha on Monday. According to the Kuthiathode police, the deceased were identified as Baiju, 52, and Stephen, 47. The two men died after allegedly consuming hand sanitiser. Friends Both were friends and found dead at their respective houses. “We suspect the deceased consumed sanitiser. But at this time we cannot confirm it. We have launched a probe and the exact cause of death could be ascertained only after post-mortem examination of the bodies,” said Saiju A. V., Circle Inspector, Kuthiathode. All liquor outlets in the State have been shut in view of the lockdown to tackle the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-after-suspected-consumption-of-sanitiser-in-kerala/article34637623.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crematoria workers face health hazards||A study of working conditions of those conducting the last rites of COVID-19 victims in the city has revealed that they work with inadequate safety gear, are exposed to health hazards, and do not get even the minimum wage though they work overtime. When All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) visited 26 crematoriums and burial grounds during May 4-8, most crematorium and burial ground workers handling COVID-19 victims were not wearing PPE kits or gloves. The civic body had not given them basic safety gear, sanitisers and soaps. “Not only that, they are not provided free COVID-19 testing at regular intervals or vaccines on a priority basis, considering that they are frontline workers,” the study notes. The study, ‘Dignity Disposed’, recommends that the civic body provide adequate safety gear, conduct periodic testing and vaccinate all crematorium workers and their families on a priority basis immediately. The problem of wages continues to persist. There is a near total absence of any statutory benefit, it says. “Wages are paid very arbitrarily, once in three months, once in six months and sometimes even up to a year. They are paid at rates ranging from Rs. 1,000 a month to Rs. 10,500 a month. The minimum wages of Rs. 13,132.60 is not paid to the workers, and the Minimum Wages Act is blatantly contravened. The workers are mostly dependent on the largesse of families who perform the last rites of their loved ones. In complete violation of all labour laws, leave, ESI, PF, bonus, gratuity... all of these have been denied,” the study notes, recommending regular pay of at least minimum wages and all other benefits immediately. Meanwhile, with the death toll rising due to the pandemic, workers at crematoria and burial grounds are stretched and working overtime, taking a break of just a few hours a day, but not paid for the overtime. The study recommends an overtime pay and a risk allowance as well. It also recommends formation of a committee to make “recommendations to overhaul the manner of functioning of crematoriums and cemeteries, in a manner that ensures dignity, health and wages for these workers, and enables their children to move out of the caste-based occupation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crematoria-workers-face-health-hazards/article34637609.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||No need to panic on oxygen: Karnataka||The State, frantically battling the COVID-19 pandemic in the midst of issues with oxygen supply, received a jolt as breakdown in oxygen production plant led to the shortfall of 20% of daily supplies. While the disruption is expected to last till Tuesday, the government said that there is no need to panic as Karnataka received special supplies from the Centre on Monday that is outside the regular allocation. In an emergency notice to the district authorities across the State and the BBMP, the government said that the State is staring at a crisis in oxygen supply as availability has been reduced by 220 metric tonnes a day. The breakdown happened in plants operated by Air Water and Praxair in Ballari. While the daily supply of oxygen t  o the State is about 850 metric tonnes, as per government data, the consumption of oxygen in the State was at 822 metric tonnes on May 21 and 885 metric tonnes on May 22. Bengaluru alone had consumed 308 MT and 340 MT of oxygen on these two days. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, in-charge of oxygen supply in the State, said it was confident of managing the shortfall in oxygen supply due to the breakdown. “The arrival of 120 MT of oxygen from Odisha and mobilisation of oxygen resources from outside the national grid, will help us sail through the crisis, before the plants will be up and running again by Wednesday,” he said. “This is not the first time this is happening. Ten days ago, we encountered a similar problem at the plant in Ballari, but we managed to get the plant running again within a matter of hours,” Mr. Shettar said. On the ground, hospitals’ administrators said that they had adequate stock of oxygen for a day. A medical superintendent of a government-run hospital in Bengaluru said, “Our stocks have been filled on Monday morning. We will be in trouble tomorrow if our suppliers are unable to fill in our stock on Monday night. Prasanna H.M., president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that it would be a stressful night for hospital managements on Monday. Health Department sources said that they had started micro monitoring and optimising the supply chain, stocks in hospitals and storage for better utilisation. Meanwhile, the district authorities have been asked to expect a 20% reduction in supply and prepare for the same by informing hospitals. Among other high oxygen consuming districts, Mysuru consumed 54.8 MT and 55.9 MT on May 21 and May 22 followed by Ballari, which consumed 40.15 MT and 41.26 MT, and Dharwad that consumed 31.96 MT and 57.08 MT of oxygen. While districts have been advised to plan oxygen stocks and buffer stock, and use buffer stock if the situation requires, the Nodal Officer for oxygen management Munish Moudgil clarified that the State had buffer in addition to the buffers in districts, and special supplies that came on Monday and more expected on Tuesday. “We have the issue due to tripping of plants. But we have done our best to minimise the impact. There is no need to panic,” Mr. Moudgil said. On Monday, the State received 150 MT from Linde, and over the last two days Reliance Foundation had supplied nearly 178 MT. “There has been back up to deal with the production tripping. We have adequate (buffer) quantum to meet the situation,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-need-to-panic-on-oxygen-karnataka/article34637612.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: DKS appeals to people to notify him if hospitals overcharge||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday appealed to people to notify him if hospitals are found overcharging for COVID-19 related treatment and not adhering to the Supreme Court guidelines that have capped costs. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah sought a White Paper on the availability of vaccines, oxygen, ventilators, and other medical facilities. “It is unfortunate that people battling COVID-19 also have to bear the brunt of exorbitant bills from hospitals, which brazenly violate the rules laid down by the Supreme Court,” he said. In a tweet, the KPCC chief urged people to tag him on Twitter and Facebook so that it can be followed up for action. Accusing the State government of patronising large rackets by hospitals and service providers who are overcharging, Mr. Shivakumar said it was sheer profiteering at a time when humanity is battling a pandemic. He said the BJP government is complacent and has turned a blind eye towards the misery of people, and the Chief Minister continues to be not bothered about the hospitals charging exorbitantly for beds, oxygen, testing, and ambulance facilities. Mr. Siddaramaiah told reporters that the government cannot peddle lies when it releases the White Paper. Stating that the government was blocking information flow, he said: “It prevented me from interacting with the Deputy Commissioners to collect information. Information is not given under the RTI Act.” He said the government was blocking information due to fear of truth emerging. “Till 2009, nothing prevented the Opposition leader from collecting information. The direction to prevent it came during the term of B.S. Yediyurappa. I will move privilege motion during the next Assembly session,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-dks-appeals-to-people-to-notify-him-if-hospitals-overcharge/article34637611.ece
25 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID Care Centres well equipped: DMHO||District Medical and Health Officer(DMHO) U. Sreehari on Monday said that the staff at all COVID Care Centres in the district was sufficient. In a rejoinder submitted to District Collector M. Hari Narayanan over the news item published in The Hindu dated May 24, the DMHO said that salaries to the staff at the centres in Tirupati were paid up to December 2020. In the second phase, while the salary bill for the month of April has been submitted, the bill is to be submitted for May. The staff is sufficient in Madanapalle, Tamballapalle care centres and they are being engaged shiftwise, he added. The official said that wages to the sanitary workers were paid through agencies, apart from an incentive of Rs. 200 each. The centres had sufficient PPE kits, facemasks, N95 masks, surgical masks, sanitizers, drugs and beds, he clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-care-centres-well-equipped-dmho/article34638224.ece
25 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stolen mobiles worth Rs. 60 lakh recovered, 7 held||The Technical Analysis Wing (TAW) of the Chittoor police on Monday arrested a seven-member gang involved in a series of mobile thefts in Andhra Pradesh and other southern States during the last six months, and recovered as many as 406 mobiles worth Rs. 60 lakh. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar told mediapersons here that the specially formed teams had covered a number of cities in South India to accomplish the task in a record span of one month. The SP said that the TAW was formed in October 2020, with a team of 20 young constables who had the qualifications of B.Tech and M.Tech. After a two-month long training, the team was entrusted with many cases involving theft of mobile phones across Chittoor district. “In the present episode, we have booked as many as eight criminal cases and arrested seven,” the SP said. Several youth were handed over their lost mobiles at the District Police Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stolen-mobiles-worth-rs-60-lakh-recovered-7-held/article34638232.ece
25 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANU lies in throes of neglect||The largest public university in the Capital region, Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) located between Guntur and Vijayawada, has not figured in the recent review on Higher Education by the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In the meet on May 12, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that new benchmarks of excellence have to be set up for Andhra University, SV University and Padmavati Mahila University apart from JNTU-Kakinada, but surprisingly, ANU was left out of the review. ANU had been catering to the needs of the students and research scholars in Guntur, Krishna and Prakasam districts for many decades until Krishna University was established recently at Machilipatnam. It houses colleges of Arts and Commerce, Science, Law, Engineering, Pharmacy and Architecture on the campus, brimming with more than 10,000 students. NIRF rankings The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), under whose aegis the meeting was held, had taken the rankings of the National Institute Ranking Framework. The NIRF has five broad parameters to rank universities – Teaching, Learning and Resources, Research, Research and Professional Practice, Graduation Outcomes, Outreach and Inclusivity and Peer Perception. ANU, with a permanent faculty bench strength of just 80 members, does not fit into the NIRF rankings but it is largely due to lack of recruitment of permanent faculty for over 11 years. The university, meanwhile, has recruited a large number of faculty members on contract basis. “ANU should not be judged solely on NIRF rankings as it had secured several global ranks, including London-based Times Higher Education rankings. It is probably among the few universities that successfully completed the coursework and conducted examinations for all the students, and staff members worked throughout the pandemic,” observes a senior professor. In-charge VC Rajasekhar Patteti has been holding full additional charge as Vice-Chancellor for over 18 months. The delay in appointing a full-time Vice-Chancellor is also adding to the problems. The university has faced a few turbulent moments in recent years and the suicide of an engineering student in August 2015 plunged it into a turmoil. Mr. Rajasekhar, who was then registrar of the university, helped steer it out of troubled waters and restore peace and discipline on the campus. The security protocols were tightened and several anti-ragging measures were initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anu-lies-in-throes-of-neglect/article34637665.ece
25 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure quick treatment for all black fungus patients, CM instructs officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday instructed senior officials of the Health Department and District Collectors to take all precautions and ensure quick treatment for all patients affected by mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus. “We have to be extremely careful in view of the rise in incidence of black fungus cases. There are reports of some infections due to white fungus and yellow fungus, and we have to be wary of any new infections. Ensure that treatment is given to all suspected cases,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy told officials at a review meeting on COVID-19 held at the camp office on Monday. The Chief Minister, who held an extensive review on preparedness of Cyclone Yaas, asked the Collectors to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen. Since neighbouring Odisha has been a major supplier of liquid oxygen, the Health Department officers and the Collectors have been told to work in close coordination to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also directed Chief Secretary Adityanath Das to rush to Visakhapatnam and monitor the cyclone preparedness from the city. Mr. Das left for Visakhapatnam soon after the meeting. “We are getting about 15,000 oxygen concentrators which would be supplied to districts, and I want Collectors to ensure that the concentrators are functioning. I also want hospitals with more than 50 beds to set up their own oxygen manufacturing units and we will provide 30% incentive to those setting up oxygen manufacturing plants,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister also reviewed a decision announced earlier to deposit Rs. 10 lakh in the accounts of children who have lost their parents. The officials explained that 34 such children have been identified and the money would soon be deposited. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health and Family Planning, Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, DGP Gautam Sawang, Health Secretary A.K. Singhal, State COVID Control Room chairman K.S. Jawahar Reddy, and Health Commissioner K. Bhaskar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-quick-treatment-for-all-black-fungus-patients-cm-instructs-officials/article34637731.ece
25 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||German hangers will be set up at all govt. hospitals: Collector||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Monday inspected a German Hanger facility set up at Agricultural Market Yard in Tenali and said the district administration was gearing up to set up similar facilities at GGH, Guntur, Infectious Diseases Hospital, Guntur, and Area Hospitals at Tenali and Narsaraopet. “The district administration is scaling up facilities to ensure that lives of people are saved. We have 9,000 beds available in both government and private hospitals. Now, we are focussing on triaging, which can ensure beds are available to only serious cases. These German Hangers will be used in multiple ways, including triaging, step down ICUs and equipped with oxygen concentrators. We have also completed electrification and maintenance works,” Mr. Yadav said, He asked officials to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals and said that those hospitals with a bed capacity of 50 or more should have generators. Hospitals warned Mr. Yadav said that the district administration would take stringent action against hospitals charging exorbitant amounts from patients, and added that action had been initiated against some hospitals. For instance, a hospital in Mangalagiri had drawn money from Aarogyasri Trust from a patient (non-Aarogyasri) discharged from hospital and a show-cause notice has been given on him. Sub Collector, Tenali, Mayura Ashok was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/german-hangers-will-be-set-up-at-all-govt-hospitals-collector/article34637667.ece
25 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Suicide’: SHO, constable suspended||The Station House Officer, Nagarampalem police station, Guntur, Y. Mallikarjuna Rao and constable Mani, who were charged on Sunday along with nine others in a case related to the alleged suicide of a 59-year old woman, were on Monday suspended and sent to Vacancy Reserve (VR). The two were booked under Section 174 Cr.P.C. DIG Trivikram Varma sent them to VR and posted Ratna Swamy as the in-charge SHO. The DIG ordered an inquiry by Additional SP, Crimes, Manohara Rao. S. Umadevi, an attender in the Soil Testing Laboratory of the Agricultural Department, reportedly committed suicide on May 22 morning after allegedly being harassed by her in-laws over a property dispute. Her younger son alleged that she was harassed by the Nagarampalem police even as the family was pleading that they would settle the issue after the ceremony of the eldest son, who died on May 8. In a written complaint, the family members alleged that the SHO and the constable had repeatedly threatened them and even took away their laptop and the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suicide-sho-constable-suspended/article34637668.ece
25 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan reviews efficacy of preparation||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday reviewed the herbal preparation, a treatment now being called as Krishnapatnam ayurvedic medicine, and asked the Health Department to study the side effects before taking any final decision. Mr. Jagan reviewed the COVID-19 preparedness and in particular the herbal preparation propagated by Anandaiah. Commissioner, Ayush, Ramulu said that the team of Medical and Health Department, that had met Mr. Anandaiah, studied the process of manufacturing the concoction and came out with preliminary findings. Samples have been sent to Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Studies. The medicine is made from 18 types of plant products and byproducts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-reviews-efficacy-of-preparation/article34638255.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine newborns at Niloufer conquer COVID||At least nine newborns who were less than a month old have overcome COVID-19 at Niloufer Hospital here during the second wave of the pandemic. Of them, at least one had severe form of the infection. Doctors of the hospital’s Neonatology department have been helping another newborn fight off a severe form of COVID and other health issues from the past three weeks. Though he has recovered from COVID, he is yet to come out of other complications. Doctors are hopeful that the little patient will recover. Head of Neonatology department at the government hospital, M. Alimelu said that the nine newborns had tested negative for the novel coronavirus soon after birth. However, they contracted the infectious disease a week or two later. In several cases, paediatricians said the babies tested positive a few days after birth. Though their respective mothers had COVID, the newborns were negative right after birth. Tests were conducted again when the little ones were brought to the hospital with some form of illnesses. Dr Alimelu suggested that only mothers take care of the newborns while maintaining precautions. “If someone is helping the mother, they should wear a mask, wash hands regularly and maintain hygiene,” she said. It was also suggested that multiple caretakers should not handle a newborn. Specialist doctors have earlier urged families to refrain from meeting the new mothers and newborns immediately after delivery or a few weeks thereafter as chances of the infectious disease spreading is higher in closed spaces. 30 recover from MIS Thirty children with Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS) have also recovered at the hospital since the virus outbreak. Head of paediatrics department at the hospital, T. Usha Rani said that MIS in children is usually detected two to six weeks after recovery from COVID-19. She said this is a very rare problem detected in only 1% of children who had COVID-19, but the survival rate is good. “Symptoms include high grade fever for more than three days along with some rashes, gastroenteritis symptoms such as diarrhoea, conjunctivitis, any bleeding abnormalities and cardiac problems. MIS-C has to be suspected if a child has high grade fever along with two of the remaining symptoms in the backdrop of COVID. The 30 children aged one month to 12 years who had this syndrome have recovered at our hospital,” said Dr Usha Rani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-newborns-at-niloufer-conquer-covid/article34638134.ece
25 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||When Spanish Flu wreaked havoc in Hyderabad||In a single day in 1918 — October 27 — Hyderabad lost 464 people to the Spanish Flu. The killer pandemic had roared into India as the soldiers from the battlefront of First World War began returning to their native places. By the end of the pandemic, during the 1921 census there was a 20% dip in the population of Hyderabad provinces. Census officials calculated that on a conservative estimate, about 35,000 persons had died in the Nizam’s territory within the short span. But the tragedy of the Spanish Flu more than 100 years ago was that no lessons were learnt from the first wave, known as herald wave by epidemiologists. In the first wave, the crude mortality rate shot up from the normal 7.5 to 12 per thousand persons. In the second wave, it reached an unprecedented 36 per thousand before the mortality rate returned to the pre-war average of 7.5. The Nizam’s Dominion and the medieval walled city of Hyderabad were no strangers to deaths due to infectious diseases. In one year of 1921, as many as 3,411 persons died due to cholera, 31 died due to smallpox, 78,976 died due to malaria, 187 died due to influenza and 3,824 persons died due to plague. Hyderabad in the 1920s was considered the fourth largest city in the Indian Empire with a population density of 7,925 persons per square mile. As these successive diseases played havoc, the wealthier citizens used to emigrate to their farmhouses or move in with their friends in the suburbs. The 1914 map created by Leonard Munn and his associates shows dozens of plague camps, where healthy citizens would move in to survive the epidemics. There were pioneering non-pharmaceutical interventions in the city which helped the city fight these seasonal health disasters. Recourse to 1897 law One of the health interventions created during the period of epidemics is still functional. On May 19, 2021, the Telangana government declared Mucormycosis (black fungus) as a notifiable disease, invoking the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. The same law was used by Lieutenant Colonel H.E. Drake-Brockman was the director, medical department and Sanitary Commissioner in the Nizam’s Dominion a 100 years back. Once a disease is notified under the Act, it specifies that all occurrences are brought by the sanitary staff to the notice of Medical Officer of Health who will then proceed to the spot and actually make enquiries into all such occurrences without delay. The simple yet robust mechanism created by Drake-Brockman was successful and replicated elsewhere. If the lesson from the Spanish Flu that killed 2 crore Indians in its second wave was learnt, India would have been better prepared for the second COVID-19 wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/when-spanish-flu-wreaked-havoc-in-hyderabad/article34637613.ece
25 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land dispute: MLA booked||TRS MLA of Uppal Bethi Subhas Reddy was booked by Jawaharnagar police on charges of attempt to murder, threatening, criminal tresspassing and threatening a land owner Julakanti Nagaraju at Kapra. Tahsildar K Goutham Kumar was also accused in the case. According to police, Nagaraju alleged that Reddy along with his followers and the Kapra Tahsildar trespassed into his land, despite the court orders and removed the iron fence. The legislator’s followers also threatened to kill him on March 16. The incident took place when Nagaraju along with his advocate Mekala Srinivas Yadav were at their land, when Reddy came there along with two earthmovers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-dispute-mla-booked/article34637906.ece
25 May 2021||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Black fungus, gangrene threats confine diabetics indoors||The looming threat of black fungus and gangrene among people suffering from diabetes, including those who have recovered from COVID-19, has forced most of them to stay indoors. According to traders, till the first week of May, the vegetable markets and meat shops used to be flooded with customers, mostly men in the age group of 40-65, while the supermarkets saw the rush of youth and women. “Now the situation has changed. Black fungus and gangrene have played havoc with the psyche of the middle-aged and elderly suffering from diabetes, who are on pills or insulin. For three weeks, mostly young family members are being sent on errands, or the families have resolved to stop eating meat till the pandemic is over,” says Rafiuiddin, a meat shop owner in Nagari. Chittoor district has so far reported close to 20 black fungus cases among those undergoing post-COVID treatment, the highest in the State so far. According to officials, a majority of the cases were diabetics and those under medication for life-threatening diseases. Among the 1,180 casualties in Chittoor since May last year, a vast number of cases were above 45 years with history of diabetes and comorbid conditions. “This has a telling effect on the diabetics in Chittoor district, though they have not tested positive for COVID so far. Apart from individual care, the diabetics and elderly are being prevented from venturing out by their family members. More than COVID, now the people are worried about black fungus and gangrene. We have reports that the sale of glucometers online and at medical shops has increased manifold since the first week of May, post outbreak of black fungus,” said Gopi, a medical distributor in Chittoor. Worried people above 45 years are now making a beeline to physicians to test their sugar levels, as a precautionary measure. “Prior to the pandemic, I used to get four or five new patients opting for sugar tests in a week. During the last one month, the number is gradually increasing. To avoid rush, we are using glucometers to record the levels, instead of the traditional blood tests. We are advising the elderly patients to purchase glucometers so that they could avoid coming to hospitals and clinics,” said a medical practitioner in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/black-fungus-gangrene-threats-keep-diabetics-indoors/article34638141.ece
25 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||55 private COVID-19 hospitals get Remdesivir in E. Godavari||The East Godavari district authorities on Monday supplied 4,086 Remdesvir injections to 55 private hospitals treating the COVID-19 patients. “There is no shortage of Remdesivir. As many as 4,086 injections have been supplied, ensuring availability of two injections to each patient admitted to the designated private hospitals for the COVID treatment”, said Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy. In the past week, over 18,000 Remdesivir injections had been supplied to private hospitals. “We have a sufficient number of Remdesivir injections in our stores. However, the injection is issued to private hospitals only if they return the empty injection bottles and provide data of the receiver for audit,” said Mr. Reddy. The patients have been told to pay Rs. 2, 500 for one Remedesivir injection in private hospitals, and criminal cases would be booked against the management of the hospitals if they charged excess price. “There will be no need to panic about the availability of the drug. We are monitoring the supply and use in private hospitals round the clock,” Mr. Reddy said warning the public not to fall prey to the middlemen for the drug. “At least three criminal cases have been registered against three hospitals for collecting treatment fee from the beneficiaries of the Aaogyasri scheme. Two cases have been registered in Rajamahendravaram and one in Amalapuram,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/55-private-covid-19-hospitals-get-remdesivir-in-e-godavari/article34637672.ece
25 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hatcheries body donates Rs. 50 lakh||The East Godavari Shrimp Hatcheries Association (EGSHA) on Monday donated Rs. 50 lakh for facilities in COVID-19 hospitals in the district. Cheque hands over East Godavari Shrimp Hatcheries Association president S. Veerreddy and All India Shrimp Hatcheries Association secretary Madhusudan Reddy accompanied by Kakinada MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy handed over a cheque to Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hatcheries-body-donates-rs-50-lakh/article34637671.ece
25 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for holding local deity fest||The police on Monday arrested five persons for violating curfew guidelines and organising a local deity festival that resulted in a huge gathering of people at Gollala Maamidaada village in East Godavari district. On Sunday, a few hundred local people participated in a procession of a local deity as part of the festival celebrated every five years. Pedapudi sub-inspector T. Kranthi Kumar said five members of the festival organising committee were arrested and produced in a local court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-held-for-holding-local-deity-fest/article34637669.ece
25 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers to get Rs. 219 cr. crop insurance in East Godavari||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has said that Rs. 219.26 crore towards crop insurance would be deposited into the accounts of the claimants in East Godavari district on Tuesday. In a review meeting at his residence here, Mr. Kannababu said that 1.47 lakh farmers would get compensation for the loss of kharif crops in more than 1.7 lakh acres in 2020. The farmers who have insured the crop but failed to register the details of damage would be given an opportunity to claim the insurance in the coming days. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will release the insurance amount during a video conference,” said Mr. Kannababu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-to-get-rs-219-cr-crop-insurance-in-east-godavari/article34637670.ece
25 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Can’t you give vaccines free, Kerala HC asks Centre||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday asked the Centre why it cannot use the surplus dividend it got from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for administering COVID-19 vaccines free of cost to people, especially to the poor. The Bench made the oral observation when a writ petition challenging the Centre’s liberalised pricing and accelerated national COVID-19 vaccination strategy and other COVID vaccination-related cases came up for hearing. The Bench also asked the Centre what was the rationale behind its stance that the State should administer the vaccines free of cost to the people in the age group of 18 to 44 on its own, especially when the Centre did not supply the vaccines for this group for free. The court also orally pointed out that the cost for free vaccination for the whole population would be around Rs. 34,000 crore. The court asked the Centre why could not it utilise the surplus dividend of Rs. 53,510 crore received from the RBI for administering free vaccines, at least for the poor. Date of supply The court also asked the Centre to inform it when it could supply the COVID vaccines ordered by the State government. State Attorney K.V. Sohan submitted that the State had placed a purchase order for one crore doses of vaccine, including 70 lakh doses of Covishield and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin. Even though the order was placed, it was communicated by the Centre that vaccine supply other than through Centre’s channels would be limited for a couple of months. Therefore, the State government had initiated the process of inviting global tender for the purchase of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cant-you-give-vaccines-free-kerala-hc-asks-centre/article34637614.ece
25 May 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||New oxygen plants for Adoni, Nandyal: Buggana||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy on Monday said work on establishing two new oxygen generation plants was fast paced in Adoni and Nandyal district hospitals. Review meeting After a review meeting with the district officials and COVID-19 nodal officers here, Mr. Rajendranath said while the Adoni District Hospital would have its oxygen plant commissioned within a week, the one at the Nandyal Hospital would be operational after three weeks. “Asha Workers and ANMs are making door-to-door screening of all symptomatic people as part of the fever survey and the number of COVID tests has been the highest in the district,” he added. He appreciated the frontline workers for their dedicated work and also acknowledged that there was a shortage of doctors and paramedical staff at some places, which were being bridged by taking new personnel on temporary basis. Joint Collector S. Ramasundar Reddy also participated in the review meeting. Appreciating the gesture of agencies and individuals who contributed their mite by supplying oxygen concentrators, he said people and local MLAs were doing their best to support the COVID patients. Nandyal MP Pocha Bhrahmananda Reddy was offering support to Udayananda Hospital that treated scores of patients. ‘No gaps in supply’ The government was taking all possible measures to get oxygen from Odisha and Tamil Nadu in addition to Karnataka as per the allocations to the State to ensure there were no gaps in the supply, the Minister added. The Finance Minister also released a poster of a helpdesk-181 set up for children who are orphaned by COVID in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-oxygen-plants-for-adoni-nandyal-buggana/article34638228.ece
25 May 2021||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader held for ‘attacking’ YSRCP worker||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader and former Banaganapalle MLA B.C. Janardhan Reddy and eight of his followers were arrested in the early hours of Monday for an alleged attack on a YSR Congress party worker Koneti Durga Prasad in Banaganapalle on Sunday night. Police personnel led by Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Narasimha Reddy, in a pre-dawn exercise, took all of them into custody following a complaint filed by Mr. Durga Prasad last night alleging that the TDP leader had beaten him with sticks while he was passing in front of the MLA’s house. The police registered cases under sections 307, 324, 147, 148, and 149 of IPC and SC, ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. After the arrest, all of them were shifted to Dhone Hospital where they underwent COVID test, and then taken to Dhone Rural Police Station. In the evening, the DSP said that Mr. Janardhan Reddy tested negative for COVID and a warrant was issued remanding him to judicial custody for 14 days. The TDP leader was produced in the Allagadda court virtually and the judge remanded him to custody. The remaining eight persons, followers of Mr. Janardhan Reddy, will be physically produced in the court on Tuesday, the DSP added. Police picket arranged A police picket has been arranged in Banaganapalle under the supervision of Dhone Rural Circle Inspector as a huge number of TDP activists of Mr. Janardhan Reddy gathered at his residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-held-for-attacking-ysrcp-worker/article34638225.ece
25 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breather for health workers as cases see a dip||The improved recovery rate coupled with the fall in new COVID infections in South Coastal Andhra in the past 24 hours has come as a breather for the health workers in the region. At least 3,151 patients were discharged after recovery in Nellore and Prakasam in the past 24 hours, highest in the last two months. New cases in the districts also dipped to 1,206 after a long time, with Nellore reporting 503 infections and Prakasam 703, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Monday night. The number of active cases stand at 40,634 in the region, while the overall case tally increased to 2.13 lakh in the region. Over 1.71 lakh people, including 94,805 persons in SPSR Nellore district, have so far won the battle against the disease. However, deaths continued unabated as seven patients in SPSR Nellore district and three in Prakasam district succumbed to the disease during the period, taking the toll to 1,519 in the region. SPSR Nellore district accounted for 768 deaths and Prakasam district for 751. The number of active cases still remained high at 23,919 in Prakasam district. SPSR Nellore district accounted for 16,715 active cases.  ‘Allot beds for govt. staff’ Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Government Employees Association Prakasam district unit president Vinukonda Raja Rao urged District Joint Collector J.Venkata Murali to allot five-to-ten beds in notified private hospitals for government employees. He complained that the health insurance card issued by the State government was not accepted by many private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breather-for-health-workers-as-cases-see-a-dip/article34638234.ece
25 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control room set up to track storm’s movement||The Srikakulam district administration has set up an exclusive control room (08942-24055) at the Collector’s office to monitor the movement of Cyclone Yaas which is expected to have an impact on six mandals from Itchapuram to Santabommali in the next couple of days. At a review meeting, Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas said the support of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was sought to ensure that there are no disruptions in the supply of oxygen cylinders. He said NHAI authorities assured quick removal of fallen trees and debris from the highways to ensure hassle-free transport of vehicles from Odisha and other places. Mr. Nivas said that farmers were advised to protect their standing crops with the support of agriculture and revenue officials. He said tarpaulin covers and bags were distributed to shift the yieldings quickly to safe locations. “We directed local officials to ensure optimum usage of cyclone shelters by stocking food, kerosene, diesel and water. People have been requested to move to these shelters before the cyclone makes landfall,” he said. Fire stations on alert Srikakulam District Fire Officer Ch. Kripavaram has directed all fire stations to remain on alert in coastal areas. Meanwhile, Vizinaagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Monday directed officials to monitor the situation closely in Pusapatirega and Bhogapuram mandals of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-room-set-up-to-track-storms-movement/article34638259.ece
25 May 2021||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One in 10 Indians have thyroid problem, says doctor||Thyroid disorders have become one of the most common health concerns in the country with more people getting diagnosed with conditions such as hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism and others by the year. On the eve of World Thyroid Day, that is observed on May 25, experts stress the need for awareness among the public about thyroid problems which are seen in people of all age groups. Rakesh Bobba, endocrinologist at the city's Ramesh Hospitals, said that one in every 10 persons in India has thyroid problem such as hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism and thyroid cancer, and over 60% of them go undiagnosed. It affects people of all age groups and most women face thyroid issues as it is often inherited from family and also caused due to iodine deficiency. “Thyroid problems are undetected as most of the symptoms are non-specific. People often mistake them for other health issues and ignore them. This is where regular check-ups for thyroid problems play a key role. One should get tested at least once a year,” Dr. Rajesh says. Ninety to ninety-five per cent of the thyroid cases are chronic and medication should be taken lifelong to control the abnormality of the gland, he says. However, one can lead a normal and healthy life once a thyroid problem is detected, as there are many ways to control the abnormality, Dr. Rakesh says. While obesity doesn't cause thyroid problems, staying fit complements medication and the best result can be expected, he added. Regarding thyroid cancer, Dr. Rakesh says that it is an easily treatable cancer. Misconceptions Thyroid patients can eat everything without hesitation and lifestyle changes are needed to maintain overall body fitness. Dr. Rakesh said that thyroid medication could be continued along with medication for COVID and also when one gets vaccinated. However, diagnosis for new cases should not be conduct*ed when a person is infected with COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-in-10-indians-have-thyroid-problem-says-doctor/article34637662.ece
25 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing slump cuts cases, not deaths||Kerala reported 17,821 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, testing 87,331 samples. The reduction in new cases reflected lower weekend testing. The test positivity rate (TPR), which had averaged 22.6% over the past three days was 20.41%. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the lockdown was helping bring down disease transmission and active cases, which were over 4.45 lakh cases 10 days ago, and had come down to 2,59,179 cases. However, hospitalisations were rising. If 10 days ago, about 9% of patients had to go to hospitals, the figure rose to 14%. On Monday, 3,248 persons were newly admitted. COVID-19 deaths rose and on Monday, the State added 196 recent deaths to the official list. Thiruvananthapuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 2,570, Malappuram 2,533, Palakkad 1,898, Ernakulam 1,885, Kollam 1,494, Thrissur 1,430, Alappuzha 1,272, Kozhikode 1,256, Kottayam 1,090, Kannur 947, Idukki 511, Kasaragod 444, Pathanamthitta 333 and Wayanad 486 cases. Karnataka on Monday reported 25,311 new cases. The State reported 529 more deaths. Of the new cases reported, 5,701 were from Bengaluru Urban, and the city saw 297 deaths. Total active cases in the State stood at 4,40,435, while the TPR for the day stood at 23.28%. Ballari reported 19 deaths, Bengaluru Rural (18), Belagavi (17), Shivamogga (16), Dharwad (15), followed by others. Mysuru accounted for 2,680 fresh cases, Tumakuru 1,662, Hassan 1,156, Uttara Kannada 1,110. Andhra Pradesh reported 96 deaths and 12,994 new infections on Monday. Only 58,835 samples were tested, but TPR was 22.09%, higher than the previous day. Chittoor again reported the highest death toll in the past day with 14 fatalities, Kurnool and Vizianagaram 10 each, Anantapur nine and East Godavari and Visakhapatnam eight each, Guntur, Krishna, Nellore and Srikakulam seven each, West Godavari four and Prakasam three. Kadapa, which had been reporting fewer deaths recorded two. Most districts reported less than a thousand new infections. Chennai’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below the 5,000-mark after 25 days, with 4,985 people testing positive on Monday. A total of 34,867 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, even as 404 succumbed to the infection. While cases dipped below 5,000 in Chennai, Coimbatore saw a rise in infections, as its daily count surpassed 4,000 for the first time. A total of 27,026 people were discharged after treatment in the State. The number of people discharged (5,870) exceeded the fresh cases in Chennai.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-slump-cuts-cases-not-deaths/article34637622.ece
25 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Assembly to elect Speaker today||Election of the Speaker of the 15th Kerala Legislative Assembly will take place on Tuesday. The Left Democratic Front has fielded Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s M.B. Rajesh, who represents the Trithala constituency in Palakkad district, for the post. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has fielded Congress legislator P.C. Vishnunath, elected from the Kundara constituency in Kollam district, as their candidate. Two sets of nominations were filed for Mr. Rajesh by the LDF and one set for Mr. Vishnunath by the UDF by noon on Monday. All the nominations are valid and the election will commence on Tuesday when the House meets at 9 a.m. with pro-tem Speaker P.T.A. Rahim in the chair, Legislature Secretary S.V. Unnikrishnan Nair said.  Two make-shift polling booths will be set up behind the Speaker’s chair to expedite the voting and the ballot box will be kept near the chair. The legislators will be called row-wise starting from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Once the results are announced, the new Speaker will be escorted to the Chair by the Leader of the House and the Leader of the Opposition to assume charge. Of the 140 seats in the Assembly, the LDF has 99 legislators and the UDF 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-assembly-to-elect-speaker-today/article34637619.ece
25 May 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speaker prays at Tirumala||Speaker Thammineni Seetaram on Monday offered his prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara. He was accompanied by his wife T. Vanisri and other family members. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy accorded the Speaker a warm reception on his arrival at the Mahadwaram (main entrance) and escorted him into the sanctum sanctorum where he offered prayers to the presiding deity. Later, Mr. Seetharam was honoured with silk vastrams and was presented laddu prasadam and a memento.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speaker-prays-at-tirumala/article34638260.ece
25 May 2021||VELLA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay away from unscientific cures for COVID, says Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Monday appealed to people not to practice unscientific medicinal practices instead of consulting doctors for the cure of COVID-19. “Many people have lost their lives by resorting to unscientific medicinal practices. One should visit a doctor from the moment they detect COVID symptoms,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna told reporters after inaugurating a 12-bedded Village COVID Care Centre (V-CCC) at Vella village in East Godavari district. “The State government has provided every facility including COVID-19 testing, medical treatment, and COVID care facility. These facilities should be utilised,” the Minister said. V-CCC facility Government schools are being converted into V-CCCs, offering isolation facility for patients who do not have enough space at their homes for isolating themselves. “The V-CCC is being run by the Village Committee headed by the Sarpanch in support of the staff from the nearest Primary Health Centre. The V-CCC enables to maintain physical distance from the patients for the family members to prevent the further spread of the disease in the villages", said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. In East Godavari district, thousands of COVID-19 patients who are under home isolation have been shifted to the V-CCCs from their houses. The patients would be shifted to hospital only in the event of further treatment as per the recommendations of doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stay-away-from-unscientific-cures-for-covid-says-minister/article34638257.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly 13,000 new cases, 96 deaths reported in State||The State reported as many as 96 deaths due to COVID-19 and 12,994 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. Only 58,835 samples were tested during the past day, but the positivity rate was 22.09% which was higher than the previous day. The overall positivity rate of the 1.867 crore samples was at 8.53%. The cumulative tally increased to 15,93,821 and the toll reached 10,222. The recovery rate increased to 86.57% as 18,373 patients have recovered in the past day. The overall recoveries stand at 13,79,837 and 2,03,762 were undergoing treatment in the State. Chittoor tops deaths Chittoor has again reported the highest death toll in the past day with 14 new deaths. It was followed by Kurnool and Vizianagaram which reported 10 new deaths each. Anantapur reported nine and East Godavari and Visakhapatnam reported eight deaths each. Guntur, Krishna, Nellore and Srikakulam reported seven new deaths each while West Godavari reported four and Prakasam reported three. Kadapa which has been reporting fewer deaths only reported two deaths. Most of the districts reported less than a thousand new infections, while East Godavari reported the highest tally of 2,652 cases. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (1,690), Chittoor (1,620), Anantapur (1,047), Kadapa (874), Srikakulam (864), Kurnool (856), West Godavari (706), Prakasam (703), Guntur (670), Vizianagaram (535), Nellore (503) and Krishna (274). District tallies Thedistrict tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,08,508), Chittoor (1,76,630), Guntur (1,43,700), West Godavari (1,32,987), Anantapur (1,29,741), Visakhapatnam (1,28,344), Nellore (1,12,288), Kurnool (1,08,834), Srikakulam (1,03,690), Prakasam (1,01,085), Kadapa (90,410), Krishna (83,697) and Vizianagaram (71,012).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-13000-new-cases-96-deaths-reported-in-state/article34638250.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online training for healthcare workers launched||Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation Chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy and Managing Director N. Bangara Raju launched a programme to provide COVID-19-related online courses free of cost in collaboration with FIND & Future Learn. Mr. Reddy said the APSSDC, in association with Future Learn and other international collaborators like FIND which brings on-board content from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and African Society for Laboratory Medicine (ASLM), Public Health England and others, would provide several self- paced online courses related to COVID-19. Mr. Raju said the online courses on COVID included diagnostics and testing, laboratory training, effective nursing in times of crisis, psychological first aid and online webinars by Royal Colleges of Physicians of Edinburg and others.  Virtual sessions The virtual training sessions were aimed at upgrading the skills of professionals involved in COVID duties from testing to treating patients like laboratory managers, technicians, nurses and other healthcare professionals. APSSDC Executive Director D.V. Rama Koti Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-training-for-healthcare-workers-launched/article34637661.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||e-Pass must for travel during curfew hours in State: police||The State police department has asked the public to plan inter-State travel according to the curfew timings imposed in the State as well as the neighbouring States. In the wake of concerns over e-pass for inter-State travel, the Office of the DGP said that there will be no restrictions on inter-State and within the State travel between 6 a.m. and 12 noon during curfew relaxation hours. However, if one needs to travel within the State or cross borders during the curfew time (12 noon to 6 a.m.) passes from the respective States should be obtained. e-Pass by the State police can be obtained from appolice.gov.in and similar passes from other States can be obtained online through their respective websites. Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Odisha made e-pass mandatory. As Karnataka did not have an e-pass system yet, the A.P. police will also issue passes for travel in that State but the Karnataka government’s decision will be final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-pass-must-for-travel-during-curfew-hours-in-state-police/article34638251.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red Cross, Telugu NRI outfits to set up oxygen banks in State||Indian Red Cross Society, Andhra Pradesh State Branch chairman A. Sridhar Reddy has said that the society in association with Telugu associations in the U.S. and Malaysia is setting up oxygen banks and COVID helpline in all the districts. Dr. Reddy said that an oxygen bank was started in Guntur district on Monday and more would be inaugurated in other districts soon. He said IRCS, AP, would receive 500 oxygen concentrators within a week and over 1,000 oxygen cylinders were being sent to the State via seaway to Visakhapatnam. He said IRCS distributed over 50,000 home isolation kits in the State and 20,000 of them were sponsored by the Telugu Association of North America and 5,000 were sponsored by the Telugu Association of Malaysia. Dr. Reddy said that over 100 doctors were available for teleconsultation for COVID patients through helpline 040-40527744. North American Telugu Association donated 1,400 pulse oxymeters to district IRCS units on Monday. IT Serve Alliance, USA donated four ventilators to the State government and the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin is going to send 5,000 ventilators to the IRCS soon, Dr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-cross-telugu-nri-outfits-to-set-up-oxygen-banks-in-state/article34638252.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone Yaas likely to have mild impact on State: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday said that Andhra Pradesh is expected to be spared much of the impact of an impending cyclone named Yaas, which is likely to make landfall along the West Bengal-Odisha coast on Wednesday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy put forth his observation during a video-conference with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, which was also attended by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, and Andaman & Nicobar Lieutenant Governor Devendra Kumar Joshi on Monday. During the conference, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that going by the movement of the cyclone, its impact on Andhra Pradesh was not expected to be severe. However, the State government remained on high alert to face any contingency, he said. In a review meeting later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed officials to take steps to mitigate the impact of the cyclone which, as per latest reports, was heading towards West Bengal. The officials informed the Chief Minister that they have alerted authorities of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts regarding the impending cyclone. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed officials to ensure that COVID patients did not face any problems and that there are no disruptions in the supply of oxygen and electricity to hospitals. He suggested that alternative sources of oxygen be arranged in case supplies from plants in Odisha are cut off due to the cyclone. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, DGP Gautam Sawang, Principal Secretary A.K. Singhal (Health) and M.T. Krishna Babu (Transport) were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-yaas-likely-to-have-mild-impact-on-state-jagan/article34638262.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 700 tonnes of mango, banana processed at Nuzvid VHT plant||Andhra Pradesh State Agro Industries Development Corporation Ltd's Vapour Heat Treatment (VHT) Plant for fruits at Nuzvid has processed over 757 tonnes of fruits in the past year. According to the Corporation's district manager B. Renuka, the facility at Nuzvid has processed and packaged fruits with export quality for international and local markets. She said a variety of mangoes weighing 22 tonnes were exported to the U.K. and Germanyafter they were processed at the VHT plant. Similarly, 120 tonnes of mangoes were sold to Reliance Mart and 115 tonnes of mangoes were sold to More Supermarket, which is a chain of supermarkets. Also, 500 tonnes of banana were sold to local markets, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-700-tonnes-of-mango-banana-processed-at-nuzvid-vht-plant/article34637663.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP Mahanadu to be two-day virtual affair||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo has resolved to conduct Mahanadu, the party’s annual conclave, as a virtual meeting similar to last year. The two-day conclave has been scheduled to be held on May 27 and 28. The politburo, in its meeting chaired by TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, has decided to hold the conclave virtually considering the prevailing COVID situation. Party leaders strongly condemned the ‘illegal arrest’ of party leader and former Banaganapalli legislator B.C. Janardhan Reddy and other leaders in Kurnool district. The politburo took strong objection to the manner in which the State government filed an atrocities case against Mr. Janardhan Reddy. “The cases were lodged out of sheer political vendetta. The SC/ST Atrocities Act is being brazenly misused by the Jagan Mohan Reddy regime with no respect for the law of the land,” the politburo members said. Mr. Naidu termed it ‘shameful’ on the part of the government to victimise opposition TDP leaders instead of taking proactive measures to save people’s lives during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-mahanadu-to-be-two-day-virtual-affair/article34638261.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dhulipalla, Sangam Dairy MD get bail||The High Court granted bail to Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar, former MLA and chairman of Sangam Dairy, and its managing director P. Gopala Krishnan on Monday on the ground that the duo had been infected by COVID-19 and the prosecution was able to collect most of the required material in the form of documents. Justice K. Suresh Reddy passed the order with the condition that the accused stay within the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits for four weeks from the day of their release from the Rajamahendravaram jail, and furnish their address to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), which has been directed to issue notices 24 hours in advance if it requires their presence for investigating the case. Mr. Narendra Kumar and Mr. Gopala Krishnan are charged with committing irregularities in the management of Sangam Dairy, for which cases were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act. The main allegation is that Mr. Narendra Kumar got Guntur District Milk Producers’ Mutually Aided Cooperative Union Limited (of which he was chairman) incorporated as Sangam Milk Producers Company Limited under the Companies Act in a fraudulent manner by conniving with the then MD K. Gopinadh, District Cooperative Officer M. Gurunadham and others. Mr. Narendra Kumar is also accused of having certain resolutions of the union passed in favour of his family-owned trust Dhulipalla Veeraiah Chowdary Memorial Trust by conspiring with Mr. Gopala Krishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conditional-bail-for-sangam-dairy-duo/article34637620.ece
25 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veerraju’s six-year term as MLC comes to an end||BJP State president Somu Veerraju’s six-year term as a Member of the Legislative Council expired on Monday. Mr. Veerraju thanked his party, as well as the YSRCP, TDP and others for extending cooperation in his fight for solving people’s problems. In a press release, Mr. Veerraju recalled that he supported the governments whenever they did something good for the people but opposed them and fought them both in and outside the House over policies that were not in people’s best interests. The BJP veteran said he was happy over getting an opportunity to protest injustices done to the poor and getting certain things going in their favour, and in getting issues related to public health and various other sectors sorted out. He also said that he had exposed several shortcomings in the State government’s COVID-19 containment measures, keeping the best interests of the people in view.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veerrajus-six-year-term-as-mlc-comes-to-an-end/article34638254.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||There is no safety for Dalits in State, alleges Nara Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) general secretary Nara Lokesh has alleged that there is no safety for Dalits in the State. The TDP general secretary was in the city on Monday to meet the family members of anaesthetist Sudhakar, who died of cardiac arrest on Thursday night. Dr. Sudhakar was suspended from service for criticising the State government on its failure to provide PPE kits and masks to doctors and healthcare workers during the first phase of COVID-19 last year. Mr. Lokesh alleged that Dr. Sudhakar was targeted as he had found fault with the government for failing to supply masks and PPE kits to doctors, who were rendering services to COVID-19 patients, ignoring the threat to their own lives. The TDP general secretary alleged that Dr. Sudhakar was manhandled by the police on the national highway in the city and later labelled him as a ‘madman’. Mr. Lokesh alleged that Dr. Sudhakar had said that he was targeted by the local MLA as he had exposed the shortcomings at the hospital. A letter written by Telugu Mahila president Anita, giving details of the ill-treatment of Dr. Sudhakar by the police and the government, was taken up for investigation suo motu by the AP High Court. The High Court had ordered a CBI investigation into the alleged ill-treatment of Dr. Sudhakar. Mr. Lokesh alleged that the State government had exerted pressure on Dr. Sudhakar to admit his mistake, failing which he would lose his job. The CBI had submitted a report to the High Court on September 2, 2020, that there was a conspiracy angle in the case, Mr. Lokesh said. He said it was unfortunate that Dr. Sudhakar had died before he could get justice. He said that the TDP would stand by Dr. Sudhakar’s family and demanded that the State government provide Rs. 1 crore as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/there-is-no-safety-for-dalits-in-state-alleges-nara-lokesh/article34638265.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers seek supply of masks, sanitisers and gloves||Accredited Social Health Activist(ASHA) workers staged a protest demanding supply of masks, sanitisers and gloves, apart from risk allowance. Holding banners and placards, the ASHA workers, under the leadership of the ASHA Workers Union(CITU), raised slogans outside the urban primary health centre at Allipuram on Monday, demanding recognition of their services. Wearing masks and donning black stoles over their shoulders, they decried the failure of the government to recognise their services. Union honorary president P. Mani said that the ASHA workers were rendering yeoman service putting their lives at risk but they were often being criticised by the officials. They were attending to immunisation, pregnant women, delivery cases and conducting fever surveys and were being subjected to severe mental stress. Instead of encouraging them and appreciating their work, the officials were demoralising them, she alleged. The other demands of the ASHA workers include payment of Rs. 50 lakh as compensation to the families of those who lost their lives in the line of duty, allocation of beds to ASHA workers and their family members affected by COVID-19, providing the honorarium of Rs. 10,000 a month in a single instalment, provision of mobile phone for doing online work, implementation of welfare schemes and excluding of pregnant ASHA workers and those with long-term health problems from the COVID duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-workers-seek-supply-of-masks-sanitisers-and-gloves/article34638268.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to gain mileage out of doctor’s death, alleges MLA||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath from the YSR Congress Party has alleged that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) is trying to gain political mileage out of the death of anaesthetist Sudhakar, who died of cardiac arrest recently. While expressing condolences to the bereaved family members, the MLA recalled that Dr. Sudhakar had admitted that he was made a scapegoat in a greater conspiracy and had even expressed his appreciation for Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and his admiration for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Now, the TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son Mr. Lokesh were trying to show off their love for Dalits, he said. Referring to the visit of Mr. Lokesh to the city to console the family members of Dr. Sudhakar, the YSRCP MLA said that the TDP general secretary should have also called on the families of loyal TDP supporters and party leaders like Sanapala Seetharamanjaneyulu (former Corporator), Sanapala Panduranga Rao and former Mayor Sabbam Hari, who had all died recently in the city. This shows that Mr. Lokesh was only interested in trying to project that the TDP was supporting Dalits. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government has given the post of Deputy CM to a Dalit besides five other posts in the government, Mr. Amarnath said. Replying to queries, the YSRCP MLA held the TDP president responsible for the detention of ambulances on the border by the Telangana government. While the AP Reorganisation Act provided for retaining Hyderabad as the joint capital for 10 years, Mr. Naidu gave it up within one year, he said To another query on the allegations of Mr. Lokesh that two YSRCP MLAs were involved in the conspiracy involving Dr. Sudhakar, Mr. Amarnath said the findings of the probe would reveal the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-gain-mileage-out-of-doctors-death-alleges-mla/article34638270.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call to observe Black Day tomorrow||The CPI(M) district committee has appealed to the people to observe Black Day in the district on May 26 to mark the completion of six months of the farmers agitation in New Delhi. In a statement here on Monday, the party district secretary K. Lokandham said that the Black Day was being observed on the call given by the Kisan Morcha. He alleged that the Union government was content with serving the interests of corporate groups instead of going to the rescue of the common people, affected by COVID-19 crisis. He called upon people to hoist black flags to express their protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-to-observe-black-day-tomorrow/article34638271.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child care centre started at Bheemili and Narsipatnam||To ensure proper care of children whose parents are affected by COVID-19 and are under treatment, officials from the Women and Child Welfare Department, in association with Child Line and a some NGOs, has started two child care centres at Bheemili and Narsipatnam, in the district. Both the centres can accommodate about 30 children as of now. The district has been witnessing very rapid increase in COVID-19 cases in the second wave. In many families, both father and mother are affected by COVID-19 and being treated in hospitals, and their children are being left alone. Project Director, Integrated Child Development Society (ICDS), Sitamahalakshmi, said that the centres have all facilities for the children. “We have arranged cooks and caretakers to look after the children. Once parents test positive, their children will also be tested. In case they test negative and if their family members do not come forward to take care of them, the department will look after the children. People can reach us through 181, 1098 or even contact the department,” she said. “If the children feel home sick, we will also arrange video call facility (if parents are not on ventilator support),” District Child Protection Officer A. Satyanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-care-centre-started-at-bheemili-and-narsipatnam/article34638273.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pournami fete sans devotees at Simhachalam||The Vaisakha Pournami celebrations at Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam will be held without devotees, in view of COVID-19 restrictions, on May 26. The State government has directed officials not to allow devotees as there was a danger of virus spreading. Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala appealed to devotees not to go to the temple koneru (water body) near the foothills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pournami-fete-sans-devotees-at-simhachalam/article34638272.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1,690 new COVID cases, eight deaths||The district recorded as many as 1,690 new COVID -19 cases in the last 24 hours as on Monday morning. For the second day in a row, the cases have dropped below the 1,900-2000 mark that the district has been averaging in this month. The total cases have gone up to 1,28,856 and active ones to 19,350. The district also recorded eight deaths, taking the total toll to 846. As many as 2,142 persons, undergoing treatment, have been discharged or have recovered in the last 24 hours taking the total discharges to 1,08,660. In the last one week, the discharges rate has increased with the average count being over 2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1690-new-covid-cases-eight-deaths/article34638274.ece
25 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railways gives green signal for ROB||After about two years of deliberation between the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) and the East Coast Railway, the railway authorities have finally given the clearance for the construction of the Rail Over Bridge (ROB) at NAD Kotha Road. The ROB will be constructed under the supervision of railway authorities with the VMRDA funds. This was disclosed by VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao here on Monday. The Commissioner along with staff from the Engineering Department, visited the spot, where the ROB will be coming up. According to a release from the VMRDA, an MoU will be signed between the VMRDA and the railways for the construction of the ROB. The VMRDA has to pay Rs. 2,01,21,265 to the railways towards way leave charges, supervision charges and other departmental charges. RITES organisation is the project supervision consultants for the VMRDA and the cost of construction of ROB is estimated to be Rs. 16 crore. Construction of ROB will be completed by September 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railways-gives-green-signal-for-rob/article34638275.ece
25 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘VSP stir will continue till Centre revokes decision’||The relay hunger strike being observed by workers of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), under the aegis of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, continued for the 102nd day at the Steel Plant arch at Kurmannapalem here on Monday. Addressing the gathering, Porata Committee chairman Mantri Rajasekhar said that the struggle to save the steel plant would be continued till the Union government withdrew its decision to privatise VSP. Committee convener J. Ayodhya Ram said that the steel workers, who were contributing their mite to achieving production, overcoming the pandemic situation, would not tolerate if their patience was tested by the Centre. Committee co-convener Gandham Venkata Rao, committee leaders Murali Raju, M.D. Rafi, Neerukonda Ramachandra Rao, K. Avataram, M. Gopi Narayana, Maddi Appalaraju, Kommu Prasad, Rajeswara Rao, B.S. Chakravarthi, Umamaheswara Rao, Vemana Ramesh and Vamsidhar were among those who participated. Meanwhile, CITU Greater Visakha Committee president R.K.S.V. Kumar said the workers were ready for any sacrifice to save the steel plant. He was addressing the participants in the relay hunger strike being organised for the last 52 days at the Gandhi statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-stir-will-continue-till-centre-revokes-decision/article34638266.ece
25 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to relieve teachers from Nadu-Nedu works||The Andhra Pradesh State Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Upadhyaya Sangham on Monday urged the government to issue orders relieving all teachers from the second phase of Nadu-Nedu school renovation works. In an emergency meeting here, association president Samala Simhachalam said 140 teachers had lost their lives to COVID-19 in the last one month. Mr. Simhachalam, M. Shivanagarjuna and others paid tributes to the educational department officials, headmasters and teachers who succumbed to the virus recently. Mr. Simhachalam said that engineering department officials were capable of executing the works as per the government schedule. He urged the government to announce financial aid for the families of the deceased teachers and prioritise vaccination of all teachers in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-relieve-teachers-from-nadu-nedu-works/article34637660.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long arm of law||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-arm-of-law/article34637676.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharing the burden||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharing-the-burden/article34638236.ece
25 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Staff crunch hits healthcare in Bhadradri||Severe staff crunch at the public healthcare facilities and limited access to COVID-19 testing in the Agency mandals are impeding the efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus in far-flung tribal areas of the district. The worrying trend of several frontline healthcare workers including doctors contracting the Coronavirus while performing their duty is exacerbating the shortage of medical staff. Efforts by the district administration to recruit medical officers and other healthcare personnel on contract basis drew a lukewarm response so far. The staff crunch is leaving the medical staff overburdened. Of the total 65 sanctioned medical officer posts in the public health facilities including 29 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district, 12 posts are lying vacant, according to sources. The PHC in Komararam gram panchayat in Yellandu mandal is grappling with severe staff shortage even as the COVID-19 cases continue to swell in the Agency mandal. The PHC, presently, has only one doctor against the sanctioned strength of two medical officers, one staff nurse against three posts and one pharmacist against two sanctioned posts, sources added. The Community Health Officer (CHO) post is also lying vacant. “Our pleas for filling medical officer and other posts in the Komararam PHC went unheeded,” said Komararam MPTC member Ajmeera Bichha. A resolution seeking immediate filling of posts in the PHC was passed in the Mandal Parishad meeting more than six months ago and the copies of the resolution were submitted to the authorities concerned, but to no avail, the local body elected representative said. “How can the understaffed PHC cater to needs of more than 27,000 population living in 63 villages?” he asked. Around 273 COVID-19 cases were reported under the Komararam PHC and seven patients succumbed to coronavirus infection so far, he said. Meanwhile, District Medical and Health Officer Sirisha told The Hindu that the process of recruitment of doctors and nurses on contract basis was presently under way. Of the 12 vacant medical officer posts, one was filled on Saturday and two were likely to be filled on Monday, she said, adding that homoeopathy doctors were also being allowed to apply for the medical officer posts. Five medical officers in the district tested positive for COVID-19 recently and are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/staff-crunch-hits-healthcare-in-bhadradri/article34638151.ece
25 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Surge in virus cases in Agency areas||The rising tide of COVID-19 cases continue to wreak havoc in the tribal hinterland of the district with the pandemic claiming the lives of a Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO), a teacher and a father-son duo since Sunday night. Gundala MPDO G. Venkata Rao succumbed to COVID-19 while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Khammam on Sunday night. Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported, one each from Turubaka and Muthapuram Mukthi Gumpu villages in the Agency mandal of Gundala on Sunday. The mandal is grappling with steady surge in COVID-19 cases in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic. The regular medical officer of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in the mandal headquarters of Gundala reportedly contracted COVID-19 a few days ago and he is presently under home quarantine. Another medical officer was appointed in his place by the authorities on Sunday. Around seven medical staff, including two doctors, three nurses and other personnel, of the government hospital in Palvancha have reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 two days ago. This has prompted the district health authorities to make alternative arrangements by drafting staff from the nearby public health facilities and speed up the process of recruitment of healthcare personnel on contract basis. The actual number of deaths from coronavirus infections and post-COVID-19 complications is believed to be much higher as several deaths in interior areas are going unreported, sources said. In Tekulapally mandal, a 35 year old teacher, identified as Narahari, died due to suspected coronavirus infection at his native Bommanapalli village in the mandal on Sunday. In a heartrending incident, a father-son duo of the coal town of Yellandu succumbed to COVID-19 within a span of 12 hours on Sunday. Eighty-year-old Shivanandan, a retired employee of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) lost his battle to COVID-19 at a hospital in Hyderabad in the early hours of Sunday. His elder son Subash, 52, succumbed to the coronavirus infection during the course of treatment in a Hyderabad-based hospital on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surge-in-virus-cases-in-agency-areas/article34638152.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Transfer of aid to private school staff begins in State||The State government has commenced transfer of nearly Rs. 40.95 crore amount into the bank accounts of 2.05 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff working in private schools in Telangana as a relief at Rs. 2,000 per employee, following closure of schools due to the COVID-19 pandemic and non-payment of salaries by the managements. In addition, they would also be issued with 25 kg of fine quality rice each with a total worth of over Rs. 19.38 crore for May. The rice would be issued through the fair price shops in the areas where the private schools’ stay live for two days. Supply of rice and cash assistance are being given to the private school staff since April and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that it would be continued till re-opening of schools. Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indira Reddy launched the transfer of relief amount at Dr. Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute (MCR-HRDI) here on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, she said the government had taken the decision as a humane gesture to provide some relief to the employees of private schools. For April, 1,25,587 private school staff were identified for the benefit and were given about Rs. 25.12 crore amount and 3,139 tonnes of rice worth Rs. 11.89 crore. Later another 79,156 private school were identified for the government relief following several representations from the uncovered staff. The Minister stated that the 2,04,743 teaching and non-teaching staff were working for 11,406 private schools across the State. She stated that Telangana is the first State to provide such relief to private school staff although the revenue of the government was not on the expected lines due to the pandemic. She noted that with an aim to continue imparting of knowledge to students during the pandemic period, the government had conducted digital classes through special television channels and YouTube channels set up for the purpose. Special Chief Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, Director of School Education A. Sridevasena and others attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transfer-of-aid-to-private-school-staff-begins-in-state/article34638142.ece
25 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown hits the transgender community hard||Just when the transgender rights movement was picking up some steam, the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns have dealt a blow to the community. The problems of this sexual minority are unique. Right now, the transgender community is unable to work. In Hyderabad alone there are more than 3,000 transgenders and another 2,000 elsewhere in the State. Many of them earn their livelihood by seeking alms during the day or resort to flesh trade at night, but with lockdown in place a large number of transgenders is unable to fetch a single meal per day, while some who live in small groups are going to bed on empty stomachs. As they are not even able to seek alms in the four-hour lockdown relaxation, the transgenders or third-gender people are requesting the owners of grocery and vegetable shops to donate some grains and vegetables. “Both begging and prostitution are demeaning works. Because there is no other choice, we are forced to do it in order to survive, as there are no dignified or decent jobs for us in the society,” transgender right activist Rachana Mudraboina said. According to Mx. Rachana, their families have disowned them due to their gender identity. “As our existence is not documented in government records, we are not entitled to any social schemes, including free rice from fair price shops,” she said. With no Aadhaar cards and other government IDs for their new identity, they are not eligible for COVID-19 vaccine to protect themselves from the deadly virus. Apart from Mx. Rachana, other representatives of the community said that the second wave had hit them badly. “It took away some of our dear and loved ones,” they said. With no help from the government, influential representatives of the community are crowd sourcing funds to provide groceries and other essential supplies to the members. Thankfully, the Cyberabad police are helping out with groceries, counselling, legal aid and resolving their internal issues through their dedicated Transgender Help Desk at Gachibowli police station. The first-of-its-kind desk in the country, launched by the Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar in March helps the community members in enrolment in National Transgender Portal, conducts awareness for job and dignified lifestyle, apart from job placements according to the qualification and skills. As on Monday, the desk received 15 complaints, of them police registered FIRs in four cases and 11 were resolved through counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-hits-the-transgender-community-hard/article34637903.ece
25 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Small-towners show more discipline||Wary of the threat posed by the surging COVID-19 pandemic across the country, people living in small towns and district headquarters of Telangana are found to be much more cautious and disciplined. Heeding the advisory of the State government not to congregate in public places and follow the COVID etiquette, residents voluntarily cooperated. In a marked contrast, many city folk came out of their houses on to the roads much to the consternation of police. Though the police insisted on allowing only the genuine and valid emergency cases and essential services, the public outnumbered the police and had their way. But not without a cost as police seized thousands of vehicles apart from thrashing them with their batons. Speaking to The Hindu , Karimnagar Police Commissioner V.B. Kamalasan Reddy said by and large the public understood the imperative of staying at home and helped prevent spread of the virus. “This has helped the police manning the streets to attain a higher compliance to government directive,” he said. Mr. Reddy said that voluntary compliance is increasing every passing day and hardly 2% to 3% people are venturing out for no reason. However, they are caught and booked by the police. The Karimnagar police had engaged more than 250 volunteers to help police in maintaining social distance and mask-up rule during the relaxation time. Adilabad Superintendent of Police M. Rajesh Chandra maintained that roads wore a deserted look as they effectively enforced the lockdown. “By 10.05 a.m. all market areas are closed here and unnecessary movement of the public has also come down drastically,” he said. According to him more than 95 % residents are obedient and they have set up 33 pickets in the district, including 22 in the town itself. “We have identified 11 hotspots in the district and by effectively managing those spots were are able to control the entire district,” Mr. Rajesh said. Meanwhile, continuing surveillance for the second time in just three days, Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy on Monday too hit the roads in the city to monitor the enforcement of lockdown. With Saturday’s backlash on their high-handedness, the police in the capital adopted a toned down and a balanced approach while enforcing the lockdown. However, some incidents of police high-handedness were reported. At Miyapur a senior police officer picked up an argument with a senior photojournalist of a leading English daily while he was taking photos. The photojournalist was pushed away by the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/small-towners-show-more-discipline/article34637905.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Contact tracing, surveillance key to controlling pandemic’||Good public health practice entails “contact tracing and surveillance” as they are the key to handling a pandemic like COVID-19. And, lessons can be learnt how countries like South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan have managed to control the outbreaks to small numbers and prevented community transmission, said David Heymann, medical epidemiologist and professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “Rapid detection and response are very important. Contact training and surveillance will help us keep track of new outbreaks forwards and backwards, in keeping the virus transmission under check with local shutdowns when there is community transmission,” he said, participating in a webinar organised by Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad of the Public Health Foundation of India, on the weekend. Mr Heymann underscored the need to have local communities forming the crucial base for responding to a pandemic as “contact tracing cannot be done centrally”. The experience of United Kingdom, Europe and even United States is that unlike the countries mentioned above, they “waited and watched till the healthcare systems got overwhelmed”. However, vaccination of 60% of population in UK has helped, and he advocates quick one-dose vaccine (he mentioned Astra Zeneca or Covishield) to give some modicum of protection to the vulnerable population. “Every vaccine is working so at least one dose should be given to protect the vulnerable first and then the younger can be attended, though they could transmit faster if infected,” he said. The professor, who was involved with the World Health Organisation in control of the Ebola virus, said transmission is but “one-third of the virus possibly and the latest variant could possibly causing 30-40% more infection, however human behaviour is important”. The coronavirus is likely to stay and become endemic, yet it can be contained through human behaviour by not holding huge gatherings whether political or religious. Quick vaccination and natural immunity will help us through, but we all have to do a “better job” at it, he said. “If we are not close to one another, the viruses will not spread. What is most important is people take their own risk assessment in ensuring they don’t move out without a face mask covering nose and mouth, keeping social distance and washing hands,” he maintained. The professor also called for genome sequencing rates to be increased from 5-10% to keep track of the virus mutations within the country but it was also very difficult to predict when the variants of concern will arise as they are very unstable, he added. IIPH Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy, registrar M. Jayaram and IIPH-Bengaluru’s Giridhara R. Babu also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contact-tracing-surveillance-key-to-controlling-pandemic/article34638137.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tiny but mighty: pre-term baby fights off virus||A pre-term baby, who was born at 28 weeks and weighed just 1 kg, waged a successful battle against COVID-19 as well as pre-term health complications. He was born at a private hospital here on April 8. His mother suffered from severe form of COVID and was provided with mechanical ventilator support, which prevented her from breastfeeding her newborn initially. Doctors said the boy suffered from prematurity-related respiratory distress and his first COVID test result was negative. But he soon tested positive and was shifted to KIMS Cuddles, a unit of KIMS Hospital, on April 18. The baby was then put on ventilator support and shifted to COVID isolation ICU. “The newborn was nursed by our team of doctors and nurses in a specialised isolation neonatal ICU and provided ventilator support, intravenous antibiotics, and nutrition. The neonate was monitored with multi para monitors showing a real time display of its vitals such as blood pressure, oxygen saturations etc. The ventilator support was weaned to nasal ventilation and later to CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure). The newborn was managed with a combination of supportive care and steroids,” said C Aparna, clinical director-Neonatology, and senior consultant-Neonatology and Paediatrics at KIMS Cuddles. The parents were updated about the newborn’s condition through video calls. The mother, after recovery, was motivated to send expressed breast milk for the child. The neonate fought COVID for seven days, and was shifted out of isolation after recovery. However, the baby had to remain in intensive care as he suffered from pre-term health conditions and weighed around 950 grams. After 30 days of admission at the corporate facility, he was discharged on May 18 when he weighed around 1.8 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tiny-but-mighty-pre-term-baby-fights-off-virus/article34638132.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Communication gaps hamper Black Fungus drug procurement||Family members of a few Mucormycosis patients are staring at uncertainty, thanks to gaps in communication on procuring Liposomal Amphotericin B vials. Some who raised request for 60 or more vials of the anti-fungal medicine were issued only 5 or 6 vials after their e-application was approved while a few others who received approval were not informed about which stockist to approach. Procedure On May 19, the State government introduced an online application system for allotment of Liposomal Amphotericin B, Posaconazole and Isavuconazole. Application for the medicines is to be sent in a prescribed proforma to ‘ent-mcrm@telangana.gov.in’. After receiving approval from an expert committee, the applicants would receive an e-mail or SMS with the name of the stockist from whom medicine can be purchased. “After receiving the approval, we got five vials on May 21. Our requirement is 120 vials. When we sent an e-mail again, we received a reply from the government that our application was ‘already approved’. The stockist has asked for approval ID to issue more vials,” said Mukesh Barman, whose father-in-law is undergoing treatment for Mucormycosis, commonly known as Black Fungus, at a corporate hospital here. Social media help Some took to social media to request Health officials to provide the medicine at the earliest. As per the procedure put in place by the government, applicants who receive the approval have to be provided the name and phone number of the stockist from whom the medicine is to be procured. However, a few people got the nod but without the stockist’s details. ENT surgeon N. Raja Shekaram has urged the committee to check the health status of patients every three to five days to assess the number of vials needed as per severity of the fungal infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/communication-gaps-hamper-black-fungus-drug-procurement/article34638135.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cremation at Rs. 5 in Mahabubnagar||At a time when giving final send off (conducting last rites) to persons who lost their battle to novel coronavirus has not only become a social stigma in some cases but also a costly affair with those manning the crematorium/graveyard demanding hefty amounts for the purpose, the Mahabubnagar district administration has decided to do the job for a token amount of Rs. 5. After the incidents of some families abandoning the bodies of their members succumbed to Covid-19 in hospitals recurring both during the first wave of the pandemic last year and during the second wave now, the district administration has decided to establish a crematorium on two acres land with gas-fuelled incinerators. “The facility will be brought into use over the next 15 days. The families whose members die of Covid have to pay challan for Rs. 5 in the municipal office and bring the body to the crematorium for completing the last rites,” said Minister for Tourism and Culture V. Srinivas Goud, who represents the district headquarters constituency in the Assembly. The objective behind the idea is to give an honourable farewell to those died of COVID-19 infection. Terming the fight against Covid as a war with the unknown enemy, the Minister said the government has been doing its best to save the lives of infected persons by scaling up healthcare facilities and other necessary support. CT scan He explained that the district administration has convinced the private hospital and diagnostic centres’ managements to conduct computed tomography (CT) scan for Covid suspects and patients for Rs. 1,900 and also to allot 20% of their beds to Covid patients from poor families. Further, the private hospitals have also agreed to treat Covid patients from poor families for Rs. 30,000 for a week, the Minister stated in Mahabubnagar.  Private hospitals have agreed to treat Covid patients from poor families for Rs. 30,000 for a week. V. Srinivas Goud, Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cremation-at-rs-5-in-mahabubnagar/article34638144.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PIL plea in HC over Black Fungus||A lawyer has knocked the doors of Telangana High Court seeking a direction to State government to call for emergency global tenders for procurement of drugs to treat Black Fungus spreading at alarming rate in Telangana. Lawyer T. Jayant Jaisoorya, who filed a PIL petition on the matter, wanted the government to take all necessary measures to check further spread of Black Fungus also known as Mucormyosis. He also requested the HC to instruct the Union of India to enhance allocation of Liposomal Amphotericin-B and other life saving drugs which are used to treat patients affected by Black Fungus, to Telangana. During the ongoing second wave of COVID-19, instances of patients being treated for Coronavirus contracting Black Fungus are shooting up. In different parts of the State, a sudden surge of Black Fungus cases is being witnessed. Telangana government declared it as notifiable disease under the Epidemic Act-1897 five days ago. Not taking adequate steps to contain and check further spread of the disease by the government is unconstitutional and amounts to violation of the Right to Life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the lawyer contended. The lawyer stated in his pleas that there was no proper system of reporting Black Fungus cases in the State. As a result, the Centre is allocating meagre quantities of the drug to the State, he said. The State government prescribed a procedure of making online applications to secure the life saving drug. A committee headed by the DME has to recommend allocation of the drug to the patient. According to the petitioner, there is no system of tracking the status of the patients or their attendants applications for the drug. Despite knowing that any delay in securing the drug is likely to result in irreparable damage to patients, the State government is not taking any steps to secure larger quantities of the drug, the petitioner said. Quoting a report published by The Hindu , the petitioner said that 160 out of 200 beds in ENT hospital of Koti are being occupied by patients affected by Black Fungus. The petitioner also recalled that a division bench of the HC headed by Chief Justice Hima Kohli had already passed an order on May 15 to State government to explain how well it was prepared to tackle Black Fungus. The petitioner wanted the government to release media bulletins explaining number of Black Fungus cases being reported in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pil-plea-in-hc-over-black-fungus/article34638145.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP protest to highlight farmers plight||TS BJP leaders led by party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar held a day-long protest programme at the central office and at different places to highlight the plight of farmers facing procurement issues with regard to paddy across the districts. The party has accused the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government of ignoring the farmers woes as private purchasers have been beating down the price on the guise of damaged paddy due to recent rains and official procurement by the government agencies not up to the mark. It demanded appointment of special officers in each district to monitor the paddy purchase and other produce, ensure timely bank loans and also disbursement of Rythu Bandhu. “The farmers are already affected due to the COVID situation and it is a double blow with the government too not rushing to their rescue after making grand promises,” said Mr. Sanjay Kumar. His colleagues including general secretary Premender Reddy, P. Muralidhar Rao, Vijayashanti, P. Sudhakar Reddy and several others participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-protest-to-highlight-farmers-plight/article34638147.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Provide permanent passes to archakas: VHP||The State unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has asked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to provide permanent passes to archakas performing pujas and other traditional works in temples to ensure their hassle free movement to and from temples. The government could consider issuance of photo identity cards to priests from the local police stations, enabling them to perform their duties without obstructions. VHP State president M. Ramaraju, in a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, expressed concern over the reports of police high-handed behaviour on priests returning from temples, including seizure of their vehicles. He said priests are engaged in traditional dhupa deepa naivedyam in temples which is a time-bound process. Equally important is performing last rites in the traditional Hindu way between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. for which presence of the priests is required. The Chief Minister should declare pujas and performing last rites as essential service, he said. The archakas who were engaged in performing the last rites amid the COVID-19 pandemic scare should be declared as frontline warriors so that they could be given insurance cover. The government could also consider payment of honorarium to archakas on the lines of Karnataka as they are facing hardships since onset of the pandemic, he said.  The Chief Minister should declare pujas and performing last rites as essential service. M. Ramaraju, VHP State president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-permanent-passes-to-archakas-vhp/article34638149.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3,403 fresh infections, 21 deaths logged in State||As COVID-19 testing picked up slightly on Monday after the usual Sunday slump, the positive cases reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm increased to 3,403 along with 21 deaths, taking their cumulative total to 5,56,320 and 3,146, respectively. The increase in positive cases by about 800 is reported with the tests improving by about 17,000. Against 42,500 samples examined on Sunday, the tests conducted on Monday stood at 59,709. As 4,693 infected persons were declared recovered on the day, the number of recoveries has gone up to 5,13,968. According to the health bulletin, the active cases were 39,206 with reports of 2,261 persons awaited. There were 90 active micro-containment zones in the State on Monday, including 19 in Warangal Rural district followed by 13 in Hyderabad and 12 in Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3403-fresh-infections-21-deaths-logged-in-state/article34638130.ece
25 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. teacher found dead||A government teacher was found dead at her residence at FCI Colony of Vanasthalipuram here on Monday. The victim, Saraswathi, who works at ZPH School, Bahadurguda of LB Nagar, allegedly set herself ablaze following a heated argument with her husband Challam Balakrishna, who tried to rescue his wife and also suffered third degree burns. Their daughter in a complaint, told Vanasthalipuram police that she was attending online classes when she heard screams and rushed out to find her mother caught in the flames. [Roshini suicide prevention helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-teacher-found-dead/article34637907.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to hike salaries of contract staff||Telangana Medical Contract Employees and Workers Union members have requested salaries of medical staff employed on contact and outsourcing basis, to be increased as per Pay Revision Commission. Sanitation staff, patient care providers, and security staff are working for Rs. 9,400 per month salary. After deductions such as for PF, they receive Rs. 8,400. Besides the hike, the union members have requested Rs. 10,000 risk allowance during the pandemic, and grant of national holidays, and holidays on festivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-hike-salaries-of-contract-staff/article34637898.ece
25 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No entry for vehicles without passes||Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy has said that people coming to Telangana from other States will not be allowed to cross the inter-State borders without a valid pass from the originating States. However, there are no restrictions on the movement of ambulances and other vehicles carrying patients. The development came after police denied entry to vehicles at State borders on Sunday. He said in a release that all transport vehicles are allowed to ply on the National Highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-entry-for-vehicles-without-passes/article34638148.ece
25 May 2021||NARAYANKHED (SANGAREDDY District),TELANGANA||Doctors across world reach out to patients||Mahesh is a resident of this revenue division headquarters town located on the borders with Karnataka and Maharashtra. Few weeks ago his entire family, including his pregnant wife, tested positive. Almost all hospitals refused to admit her for treatment for COVID-19 due to the risks involved. Mr. Mahesh approached his friend P. Sudhakar Naik, a doctor by training and an officer in the Income Tax department, for help. The pregnant woman was admitted in a hospital at Hyderabad where she was treated and she has since returned home. After discharge from hospital the doctors have been in monitoring the health of the patients and advising them on medications to be taken, through telemedicine. Learning from Mr. Mahesh’s experience, Dr. Sudhakar Naik started ‘COVID Help Sangareddy’ WhatsApp group in which expert doctors and officers were part of the activity. Dr. Sudhakar roped in his friends who like him studied in Andhra Pradesh Residential Junior Colleges (APRJC) and later become doctors. They formed a group and connected with patients through a helpline number. 50 doctors on board Dr. Sudhakar has been able to get on board 50 doctors — 10 from UK and 40 from the USA — who are reaching out to the corona patients and advising them on the disease management and treatment. Recently, the volunteer group organised a two-day virtual programme — ‘Sarvodaya Expert Talk for Covid Warriors’ — which was addressed by a doctor in the USA who is originally from Hyderabad — Karthik Rao Polsani. Dr. Polsani interacted with doctors and other experts and shared his knowledge of ‘Management of COVID 19 for frontline doctors’, during the talk he focused on the basics of the treatment and the best practices that are being followed. On the second day of the programme, an orientation programme was organised for staff nurses, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs) and Aasha workers in dealing with corona patients. They were given tips on how to identify patients at an early stage, isolate them and treat them. The topic ‘Leading from the front – Basics for handling COVID- 19 for frontline workers (ANMs, Aasha and AWW)’ was organised by another doctor, a native of Mancherial, currently practising in Indiana in the USA — Samatha Madavarapu. Dr. Madhavarapu interacted with participants and shared her knowledge. She has been in constant touch with the ground staff in her village and guiding them in handling the patients. Dr. Sudhakar and his group, in association with the district administration launched the telemedicine helpline — 72072 18203 — on May 21. The group has organised a panel of 29 doctors who reach out to the patients through the helpline. “We are trying to bridge the gap between patients and expert doctors across the world through telemedicine. Doctors settled in various places are ready to help the needy. Attending 3-4 calls a day is no a problem for them,” Dr. Sudhakar Naik told The Hindu .  We are trying to bridge the gap between patients and expert doctors across the world through telemedicine. Attending three or four calls a day is no a problem for them. P. Sudhakar Naik, Income Tax officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-across-world-reach-out-to-patients/article34638138.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court seeks report on Gambhir buying COVID-19 drugs in bulk||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the drug controller to give a status report on its inquiry on how politicians such as BJP MP Gautam Gambhir were able to buy COVID-19 drugs in bulk amid shortages. Responsible act? “Mr. Gautam Gambhir must have done it to genuinely help the needy. Let us be clear about it. But the issue is, is that a responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others?” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh remarked. The High Court also directed the Drug Controller of Delhi government to probe into allegations of procuring and hoarding medical oxygen made against AAP MLAs Priti Tomar and Praveen Kumar. ‘Want prescription’ On Mr. Gambhir, the HC wanted to know how he was able to procure 2,343 strips of Tab Fabiflu when the drug was in such short supply in the city. The court also queried how a chemist was able to entertain such a prescription. “We want to see the prescription,” the High Court said, adding that a chemist is supposed to dispense medicines only to patients. “A chemist is not a bulk supplier.. he has undertaken a retail sale which has to be to a retail customer,” it said. “Mr. Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. He has been a national player... We are sure he had good intentions. But the way he has gone about it, he has actually done a disservice, unintentionally may be,” the court observed. Plea on FIR The HC’s direction came while hearing a petition seeking lodging of an FIR against politicians who allegedly were able to procure COVID-19 drugs in huge quantity. The Delhi police, in its status report, stated that 2,628 strips of Tab Fabiflu was bought by Gambhir Gambhir Foundation through one Manish of Garg Hospital. While 2,343 strips were distributed to patients, remaining 285 strips were deposited with Delhi government’s Director General of Health Services for distribution. Taking note of the report, the court said it needed to be probed how these medicines were distributed to several patients or attendants by Dr. Manish. It also noted the DCP concerned have collected the supporting documents in relation to the case. The High Court will hear the case again on May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-seeks-report-on-gambhir-buying-covid-19-drugs-in-bulk/article34638105.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sushil Kumar spends first night in lock-up on the floor||Two-time Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, who has been sent to six-days police custody in connection with a murder case, spent his first night in the lock-up on the floor with only a blanket for his comfort. “As per procedure, before putting him in the lock-up he was thoroughly frisked. He was asked to remove any ornaments, as well as his belt and shoes. No outside food was allowed to him. He ate food from the police mess. He was quiet and not interactive. After the paperwork, he was handed over to the Crime Branch at 3 a.m. for further investigation,” said a police officer. A senior officer said that during interrogation, they asked Mr. Kumar about his rivalry with the victim, 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankhar, and what led him to beat Sagar and others. He was also questioned about ownership and background of the property that was the cause of the brawl. “He answered several questions but remained quiet when asked about people who helped him after the incident when he was evading arrest, as well as the whereabouts of his phone and the CCTV video recordings, which he allegedly took from Chhatrasal Stadium after the brawl,” said the officer. The scooty that was recovered from him during the arrest belongs to a sportswoman. He stayed at her house on Saturday. On Sunday morning, he took her scooty to meet a contact to borrow some money, said the officer. The police said that Mr. Kumar and his accomplice Ajay will be taken to the stadium to recreate the scene of the crime for investigation purpose. “We will counter him with electronic evidence that establishes his role in the crime. The video of the brawl that was purportedly shot to create terror among wrestlers will also be shown to him to identify the other accused involved in the crime. “We have also discovered the role of Haryana-based gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi in the crime. We have to establish the role of each person during investigation,” said the officer. On May 23, Delhi Police, while seeking his custody, had stated in court that Mr. Kumar and his accomplices thrashed the victims “like animals” as he wanted to “establish his terror” in the area. After the brawl, he took away the recordings of CCTVs in the stadium. He was Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at the stadium and he had access to the CCTV room.  Railway may suspend him Meanwhile, the Delhi government has written to the Railway Board regarding the FIR lodged against Mr. Kumar. Once we receive the letter, then we will take action and he will be suspended, said Northern Railway spokesperson. A senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, Mr. Kumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an OSD at Chhatrasal Stadium. His deputation was extended in 2020 and Mr. Kumar had applied for an extension for 2021 as well which had been rejected by the Delhi government and he was sent back to his parent cadre — Northern Railway||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sushil-kumar-spends-first-night-in-lock-up-on-the-floor/article34638114.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Nobody dying for want of marriage certificates’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that it was caught up with the COVID-19 situation and “nobody is dying because they don’t have marriage certificate” while seeking adjournment of a bunch of petitions, seeking recognition of same-sex marriage. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, cited a circular of the High Court asking courts to take up only urgent matters during the pandemic while seeking adjournment of the petitions. The Solicitor General said all its law officers are working on issues which concern COVID-19 while urging the High Court to take up the petitions seeking recognition of same-sex marriages at a later date. Mr. Mehta also raised the issue of a roster of the Division Bench which will be hearing the bunch of petitions. Taking note of the submission, the court adjourned the hearing in the case for July 6, by which the Centre can seek clarification on the roster issue. Earlier, the Centre had opposed any changes to the existing laws on marriage to recognise same-sex marriage saying such interference would cause “a complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws in the country”. “Living together as partners and having a sexual relationship by same-sex individuals is not comparable with the Indian family unit concept of a husband, a wife and children which necessarily presuppose a biological man as a ‘husband’, a biological woman as a ‘wife’ and the children born out of the union between the two,” the Centre had argued. The court is seized of three separate petitions by same-sex couples seeking to declare that the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and Foreign Marriage Act (FMA) ought to apply to all couples regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation. A fourth petition on the subject was also filed by four individuals who too claimed that the denial of same-sex marriage was a denial of rights guaranteed under the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nobody-dying-for-want-of-marriage-certificates/article34638108.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pull up your socks, act on mosquito infestation’||The Delhi High Court on Monday expressed concern about controlling mosquito infestation in the city. It observed that control measures have taken a “back seat” in the Capital, noting that if the situation is not controlled immediately, the rise in vector-borne diseases could lead to more problems and complexities amidst the pandemic A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jameet Singh initiated a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on the issue of mosquito infestation and directed the Delhi government and municipal corporations to respond to the the work done this year. “We are initiating a suo motu PIL today... situation is very bad on mosquito infestation. With onset of monsoon, and looking at the pandemic, we may end up with a major problem,” the High Court remarked. Noting that every year there is a surge in vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya, the court said that this issue need not aggravate this year as the city was already facing the pandemic. The court said the government must pull their socks on this issue. “If it [vector-borne diseases] is not contained urgently, with the ongoing pandemic, the rise of vector-borne disease could lead to problems and complexities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pull-up-your-socks-act-on-mosquito-infestation/article34638107.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Reply to plea challenging GNCTD Act, HC tells govt.||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to respond to a petition filed by an AAP member challenging the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Amendment Act, which increases the powers of the Lieutenant- Governor. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said it has already issued notices to the government on two previous pleas on the same issue. The previous pleas were filed by a lawyer and another by a law student. In the fresh petition filed by Neeraj Sharma, who claims to be an AAP member, the court asked the Law Ministry and the Delhi government to also give their respective stand. Mr. Sharma contended that the amended GNCTD Act nullifies the decision of the Supreme Court. “This amendment nullifies the decision of the Supreme Court which has clearly held that the elected government of Delhi can take all decision within its jurisdiction and execute them without obtaining the concurrence of the L-G,” the petition argued. “In case of a difference of opinion on a matter between the L-G and the government, the former should make all efforts to resolve it and only in extreme case should refer the matter to the President for a decision,” the petition added. In the earlier petitions on the issue, the petitioner has argued that the Act would lead to confusion among the citizens as to who would be taking decisions for the Capital. It argued that vesting of powers in the L-G “would not be in harmony with the republican system of government”. The petition has sought that the Act, which came into force from April 27, be declared as unconstitutional and quashed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/reply-to-plea-challenging-gnctd-act-hc-tells-govt/article34638109.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||BCom student arrested in Remdesivir cheating case||A 20-year-old student was arrested for allegedly cheating a man of Rs. 36,000 on the pretext of providing him Remdesivir injection required for treatment of COVID-19 patients, the police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Sagar Chaurasia, resident of West Patel Nagar and is a BCom final-year student. Money transfer The police said that they received a complaint from a Dabri resident stating that he was in need of Remdesivir injection for a relative and got in touch with Ajay through social media. The accused promised to deliver the said drug for Rs. 36,000 and was asked to transfer Rs. 18,000 in his bank account as advance and then another Rs. 18,000. After the money was transferred, the phone was switched off. During investigation, the bank account and call detail records of the alleged mobile were analysed following which accused Sagar Chaurasia was arrested. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he used to act on one Akram Khan’s orders. He said Khan used to introduce himself as Ajay to people on social media and cheated several in the pretext of providing loan. Taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, he started cheating people on the pretext of providing them Remdesivir injection and oxygen cylinders, Mr. Meena said. The police said that efforts are being made to arrest Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bcom-student-arrested-in-remdesivir-cheating-case/article34638111.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Take action to protect Bhalswa lake from pollution, says NGT||The National Green Tribunal NGT) has directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to convene a meeting and take remedial action to protect the Bhalswa lake against pollution and encroachment. The green panel has also directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to monitor water quality data of the lake periodically and put it in public domain. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “It is an undoubted mandate of law to maintain the waterbodies in their pristine glory. Waterbodies perform important ecological functions. Not only do they add to the aesthetics, they help in water conservation, sustaining aquatic life and maintaining micro climate.” “Clean environment being part of right to life and also being part of directive principles of state policy, the State authorities have the duty to protect the same,” the Bench said. The Delhi Chief Secretary was directed to hold a meeting with representatives from the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to take remedial action in accordance with law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/take-action-to-protect-bhalswa-lake-from-pollution-says-ngt/article34638110.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for selling black fungus drug||A 46-year-old man and his driver was arrested for allegedly selling anti-fungal drug Amphotericin, used for treatment of mucormycosis, at an exorbitant rate, the police said on Monday. The suspect, Rajnish Shrivastava, whose firm ‘AmbuSmith Inc.’ deals in trading of medical equipments and ambulance modification, brought these injections from Lucknow and sold them in Delhi at a higher price. His driver, Murtaza Khan (36), also helped him in this business, the police said. In a complaint at Saket police station, two students stated that while they were trying to arrange Amphotericin-B for a patient, they came in contact with Shrivastava, who was selling it at Rs. 11,300 per injection, about 36 times the MRP. The complainants, who are members of a WhatsApp group that helps in arranging medicines for patients suffering from COVID-19 and black fungus, informed the police that Shrivastava had agreed to deliver 20 injections for Rs. 2.26 lakh. A police team waited near Max Hospital at Saket and 2 p.m. The accused called the complainants at Hauz Rani traffic signal near the hospital for delivery of the injections, DCP (South) Atul Thakur said. The accused tried to escape but the team apprehended them, the DCP said. Twenty injections were recovered from their car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-selling-black-fungus-drug/article34638112.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-D centre to study light properties||Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, on Monday announced that it will be setting up ‘Optics and Photonics Centre’ to study the fundamental properties of light and harnessing them in practical application. The institute’s Board of Governors has given its approval for the new centre that will seek collaboration with establishments like the Defence Research and Development Organisation, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Department of Atomic Energy, Indian Council of Medical Research. Joby Joseph, co-ordinator of the centre said, “The centre will play a pivotal role in the near future development of photonics-based quantum technologies, for next generation computing, etc..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-d-centre-to-study-light-properties/article34638115.ece
25 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Hisar administration withdraws cases registered against farmers||Following a meeting with the farmer unions amid massive demonstrations in the district, the Hisar district administration on Monday agreed to withdraw the cases registered against farmers for the May 16 violence during Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s visit. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Haryana Chapter, in a press statement, termed the acceptance of the demands as a victory of the farmers. “After a marathon discussion between the administration led by Hisar Divisional Commissioner Chander Shekhar and the Samyukat Kisan Morcha leaders, it was accepted that police cases registered regarding 16 May happenings and those prior to it will be withdrawn and a kin of the farmer who died today [on Monday] due to cardiac attack will be given job,” the statement said. Peaceful demonstrations An official statement from the district administration said the farmers were told to ensure that further demonstrations in the district should be peaceful. All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national president Ashok Dhawale; Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait; Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni; Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal; All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana, vice-president Inderjit Singh; and AIKS, Punjab, general-secretary, Major Singh Punnuwala, among others, were present. Earlier, defying the lockdown, a large number of farmers, including women, travelling in tractors, multi-utility vehicles and mini-trucks, started assembling at Krantiman Park in Hisar around noon from across the State, despite attempts by the police to prevent them from entering the city. Condemning the police action against the farmers, Mr. Rajewal said those in power had forgotten that they were the representatives of the people and the attack on the farmers in Hisar was an attack on the entire farming community. He also made an appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and calm to make this movement a success. Mr. Charuni said the farmers had gathered seeking the withdrawal of the cases registered against them and demanding action against the police officers for pelting stones at the farmers. He said the administration should also book the CM for violating COVID-19 protocols during the inauguration of the hospital on May 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hisar-administration-withdraws-cases-registered-against-farmers/article34638117.ece
25 May 2021||Kolkata,||43 doctors die in Bengal in second wave||As many as 43 doctors have died till date in West Bengal since March 20, when the second wave of COVID-19 began to hit the State, according to a doctors’ body, which called the figure “unacceptable and alarming”. “Considering that about 105 doctors died between April and December 2020 during the first wave, the number of 43 in just two months is unacceptable and alarming. And we are not even counting the deaths of nurses and other healthcare workers,” said Dr. Koushik Chaki, a founding member of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF), calling for immediate vaccination of healthcare workers and also their family members. Dr. Chaki dismissed the questions being raised about the effectiveness of the vaccine by some who pointed out that more than 30 of the 43 doctors who had died were fully vaccinated, saying: “The vaccine only reduces the risk and the severity of the infection. It would be unscientific to question the vaccine ” Dr. Rajiv Pandey, joint secretary of the WBDF, said: “The vaccination began around mid-January. There were many doctors who could take the second dose only by April, and it takes about a month or so for the vaccine to become effective. That should explain why even those who had received the vaccine happened to die.” According to the two doctors, an aggressive large-scale vaccination drive and compulsory wearing of masks was the only way out of the crisis. “Cases appear to be coming down across the country, but we cannot afford to be negligent. The vaccination drive appears to be in disarray. Many people are still not sure whether or where they will get the vaccine. The government should move quickly if we want to check a third wave,” said Dr. Chaki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/43-doctors-die-in-bengal-in-second-wave/article34638118.ece
25 May 2021||Mumbai,||BMC collects more than Rs. 48 crore in fines||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has collected more than Rs. 48 crore in fines since April 2020 from people for not wearing masks amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The civic body had announced that it would be deploying special squads for this purpose. While the BMC has collected Rs. 48,28,80,800, the Mumbai Police have collected Rs. 6,77,01,800 from errant citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bmc-collects-more-than-rs-48-crore-in-fines/article34637806.ece
25 May 2021||Pune,||Restrictions may stay in ‘red zone’ districts in Maharashtra: Minister||While the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government has hinted at easing lockdown restrictions across the State after June 1, Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Monday stressed that the curbs were likely to remain in place in 14 districts which had yet to show a significant decline in COVID-19 cases. Mr. Wadettiwar also said the local train services in Mumbai were unlikely to be open to the public after June 1. “The number of active cases is declining and there are demands for the government to ease the lockdown. We too are of the opinion that restrictions ought to be lifted with the exception of districts that are currently in the ‘red zone’… The decision of whether to lift curbs in these afflicted areas will be made depending on how the situation develops there over the next seven-eight days,” Mr. Wadettiwar said. If the situation did not improve in the 14 most-afflicted districts, then stringent regulation would continue to apply, the Minister said. The positivity rate is these districts which include Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Amravati, Akola, Osmanabad, Hingoli, Sindhudurg, Raigad among others is more than 15%, with the daily case and fatality rise particularly high in Satara (with a case positivity rate of 17%), Sangli (21%), Kolhapur and Osmanabad (both 20%) among these. “While it is true that cases in Mumbai have declined, it will not take much time for infections to spread once we open up the local trains given the inevitable crowding. So, the Mumbai local for the time being will continue to be restricted for the essential service staff only,” he said. Meanwhile, traders’ associations in Pune and Mumbai have written to the Chief Minister urging him to permit the reopening of shops from June 1 as lakhs of traders had incurred unsustainable losses in the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/restrictions-may-stay-in-red-zone-districts-in-maharashtra-minister/article34637808.ece
25 May 2021||Pune,||State records lowest daily surge in over two months||In its lowest single-day case spike in more than two months, Maharashtra reported 22,122 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as opposed to 42,320 recoveries as the State’s active case tally declined to 3,27,580. A reduction in fatalities was observed as well. A total of 592 deaths were added to the State’s death toll, of which 361 occurred in the last week. Of the 361, as many as 275 had been recorded over the past 48 hours while 231 had been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department figures. The total death toll has now risen to 89,212. The State’s total cases have reached 56,02,019 while its cumulative recoveries have climbed to 51,82,592 with the recovery rate going up to 92.51%. Pune reported nearly 2,000 new cases as its total cases crossed the one million mark to reach 10,01,148. Mumbai recorded 1,049 new cases to take its total case tally to 6,97,959 while the active count has declined further to 28,299. As many as 48 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 14,613. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered its lowest surge in over two months, with just over 500 cases taking the total tally to 4,86,872 of whom 16,562 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-records-lowest-daily-surge-in-over-two-months/article34637807.ece
25 May 2021||Pune,||‘BJP stands with Marathas, but will not agitate for quota’||While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced its intention to stand with the Maratha community over the quota issue, the party will not to take to the streets to agitate with their flags and symbols in order to avoid giving the matter a “political colour”, BJP State president Chandrakant Patil said on Monday. Speaking in Pune, Mr. Patil, however, said individual BJP leaders and workers were free to join in the protest at their level. The Maratha quota issue, he said, was for the State government to solve and there was little the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi could do about it. Mr. Patil’s remarks were a pointed rebuff to the leaders of Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), who have been exhorting the Central government and the Prime Minister to step in to resolve the thorny issue after the Supreme Court scrapped the Maratha quota law earlier this month. Incidentally, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, too, had sought an appointment with the Prime Minister to draw his attention to the reservation issue without success. “While it is Sambhajiraje’s belief that the PM’s intervention can help, I am of the opinion that this issue has more to do with the State than the Centre. After all, the Centre has maintained that the 102nd Constitutional Amendment does not prevent States from extending reservation to a backward community,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-stands-with-marathas-but-will-not-agitate-for-quota/article34637809.ece
25 May 2021||Vienna,||Iran inspection agreement extended by one month: IAEA||The UN nuclear watchdog and Iran have agreed to extend an understanding to monitor Tehran’s activities by one month, the agency said on Monday, while talks in Vienna try to save the 2015 nuclear deal. “The equipment and the verification and the monitoring activities that we agreed will continue as they are now for one month expiring on June 24th, 2021,” International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Director General Rafael Grossi said. Iran in late February limited the IAEA’s access to nuclear sites it has been monitoring as part of the 2015 landmark deal. An agreement, reached on February 21 for a duration of three months, allowed some inspections to continue. Mr. Grossi said that besides extending that understanding, Tehran had also agreed that information collected so far by agency equipment in Iran would not be erased. Current talks between world powers are aiming to bring the U.S. back into the deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-inspection-agreement-extended-by-one-month-iaea/article34637558.ece
25 May 2021||Naypyidaw,||Myanmar’s Suu Kyi defiant in first comments since coup||Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Monday voiced defiance as she made her first court appearance since being detained in a coup, vowing her ousted political party would live on. Myanmar has been in uproar since the February 1 putsch, with near-daily protests and a nationwide civil disobedience movement. More than 800 people have been killed by the military, according to a local monitoring group. The junta has threatened to dissolve her National League for Democracy — which swept elections in 2020 — over alleged voter fraud. The Nobel laureate — who has not been seen in public since the coup — sounded “healthy and fully confident” during the 30-minute meeting, her lawyer Min Min Soe said. “She wishes her people to stay healthy as well as affirmed the NLD will exist as long as people exist because it was founded for people.” Ms. Suu Kyi has been hit with a string of criminal charges including flouting coronavirus restrictions during last year’s election campaign and possessing unlicensed walkie-talkies. There have been weeks of delays to Ms. Suu Kyi’s legal case and her lawyers have struggled to gain access to her. The next hearing was set for June 7, Mr. Min Min Soe said, adding she had also met with former President Win Myint, who was ousted and detained along with Ms. Suu Kyi. As the lawyers left the compound in Naypyidaw, police arrested a legal representative of senior NLD figure Myo Aung, lawyers said. There was a heavy security presence in the capital, an AFP correspondent said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmars-suu-kyi-defiant-in-first-comments-since-coup/article34637561.ece
25 May 2021||Washington,||Blinken off to West Asia to push peace talks after Gaza ceasefire||Secretary of State Antony Blinken is heading to West Asia to press the Israelis, Palestinians and regional players to build on last week’s Gaza ceasefire by laying the groundwork for an eventual resumption in long-stalled peace talks. President Joe Biden announced Mr. Blinken would depart on Monday for a short visit to Israel, the West Bank, Jordan and Egypt for what will be the Biden administration’s highest-level in-person meetings on the crisis that erupted earlier this month. Mr. Blinken’s primary goal will be to shore up the ceasefire in the hope that it will hold, discuss an urgent infusion of humanitarian assistance into Gaza, stress the need for an end to intra-communal violence within Israeli cities and lay the preliminary groundwork for a return to peace talks, according to a senior State Department official. In a statement, Mr. Biden said Mr. Blinken will work with regional partners to ensure “the coordinated international effort to ensure immediate assistance reaches Gaza.” While Mr. Blinken will meet with the leaders of Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Egypt and Jordan, he will not see anyone from the militant Hamas movement that runs Gaza. Hamas is a U.S.-designated “foreign terrorist organisation,” and contacts between American officials and the group are banned. That means the U.S. must rely on third countries like Egypt and Qatar to pass messages to Hamas. Blinken said Sunday that the behind-the-scenes effort led by Mr. Biden paid off, securing a truce after 11 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-off-to-west-asia-to-push-peace-talks-after-gaza-ceasefire/article34637556.ece
25 May 2021||Mihtarlam,||Afghan security forces, Taliban clash near Kabul||Afghan forces clashed with Taliban fighters in a provincial capital about 120 km from Kabul, officials and witnesses said, prompting the Defence Minister to take charge of a counter-offensive. Violence has soared in Afghanistan since U.S. forces began their final pull-out on May 1, as the insurgents press on with a campaign to seize new territory. Fierce fighting erupted on Sunday on the edge of Mihtarlam, a city of around 1,40,000 people and the capital of Laghman province. At one point Defence Minister Yasin Zia took personal charge in the field, officials said. “With the arrival of reinforcements, the enemy has sustained heavy blows,” Gen. Zia, a former Army Chief of Staff, said. The Ministry said at least 50 Taliban fighters were killed in overnight fighting. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told AFP the insurgents captured 37 security checkpoints on the outskirts of the city. Both sides frequently exaggerate their successes and minimise losses. Fighting continued in some parts of Mihtarlam on Monday, with hundreds of people displaced. A student, who gave just his first name Zabihullah, said he went to school after government forces assured him they had control, but had to flee when fighting resumed. “I’m not sure which part of the city is safe now,” he told AFP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-security-forces-taliban-clash-near-kabul/article34637550.ece
25 May 2021||Minsk,||Belarus bans scribes from covering mass protests||Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko on Monday approved legislation that would ban reporters from providing real-time coverage of unauthorised mass events, piling huge pressure on independent journalists. Any Belarusian — not just a journalist — is banned from covering an unauthorised rally, as per the amendments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/belarus-bans-scribes-from-covering-mass-protests/article34637554.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal urges U.S. to provide vaccines on ‘priority’ basis||Nepal on Monday urged the U.S. to provide vaccines on a “priority” basis, according to an official statement. In a telephonic conversation with U.S.’s Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali asked for a share of the surplus Oxford-AstraZeneca doses that the U.S. intends to distribute among the developing countries, according to the statement. “Minister Gyawali conveyed the gratitude of the Government of Nepal to the United States for the generous COVID-related cooperation, which helped scale up the national capacity to address the pandemic. Commending the U..S leadership in garnering collaborative response against the global pandemic, the Foreign Minister requested the Deputy Secretary of State to accord due priority to Nepal during the distribution of surplus vaccines among the developing nations,” the official statement said. This comes two days after Nepal received the first emergency support from the U.S., which included ventilators, protection gears and oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-urges-us-to-provide-vaccines-on-priority-basis/article34637551.ece
25 May 2021||geneva,||Virus killed 1,15,000 health workers: WHO||At least 115,000 health and care workers have died from COVID-19 since the beginning of the pandemic, the WHO chief said Monday. At the opening of the World Health Organisation’s main annual assembly, Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus hailed the sacrifices made by health workers around the world to battle the pandemic. “We estimate that at least 115,000 health and care workers have paid the ultimate price in the service of others.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-killed-115000-health-workers-who/article34637553.ece
25 May 2021||London,||Boris Johnson sets wedding date: report||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his fiancee Carrie Symonds have set a wedding date for next year after delaying plans due to the pandemic, The Sun tabloid reported on Monday. Mr. Johnson will be only the second Prime Minister ever to marry while in office, following Robert Jenkinson in 1822. The couple have sent “save the date” cards for July 30 next year. Ms. Symonds, 33, former head of communications for the Conservative Party, gave birth to their son Wilfred in April last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/boris-johnson-sets-wedding-date-report/article34637557.ece
25 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Assailant stabs soldier, civilian in Jerusalem||An assailant stabbed two young Israeli men before being shot dead by police at a tram station in Jerusalem on Monday, Israeli police said. “Attacker shot and killed,” police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said. Hadassah medical centre said it was treating two men in their 20s for stab wounds. Both were in moderate condition and one was identified by the Army as a soldier. There was no immediate confirmation of the assailant’s identity. The incident happened a short distance from Sheikh Jarrah, which saw weeks of protests against the planned expulsion of Palestinians from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/assailant-stabs-soldier-civilian-in-jerusalem/article34637559.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A September exit, Afghanistan at the crossroads||In conflict resolution diplomacy involving multiple stakeholders, sometimes the venue becomes as important as the agenda of peace talks. The fragile Afghanistan peace process has been in disarray as the Washington-desired conference to be hosted by the United Nations in Istanbul, Turkey — earlier scheduled for late April-early May — remains suspended due to the reluctance of Afghan’s Taliban. Turkey had to announce the postponement of talks until the end of Ramzan. Now there is some hope of breaking the impasse as the Taliban have expressed an openness to attend the Istanbul summit with the rider that the final outcome will be achieved in Doha. Although it gives an impression of the Taliban snubbing Turkey, the real issue regarding Afghan peace, however, should be: ‘what’ is to be done, and not ‘who’ does it or ‘how’ it is done. An American calibration The Istanbul conference is being calibrated by the Biden administration with its plans to completely withdraw from war-torn Afghanistan. Rejecting the Pentagon’s preference for a conditions-based exit, United States President Joe Biden is insistent on withdrawing the troops on September 11, even without any power-sharing deal between the warring parties. With the rising level of violence, prospects of negotiating peace in Afghanistan seem bleak. Since the announcement of an exit date, Afghanistan continues to witness deadly attacks across its provinces. For instance, multiple blasts outside a girls school in Kabul recently was the worst terror attack in Afghanistan in a year. However, while adopting a tough posture, the Taliban have nonetheless kept the space open for engagement with the Afghan government. After a long pause in peace talks, they met in Qatar on May 14, the second day of a three-day ceasefire. Consensus still eludes the Taliban’s real motives. According to conventional wisdom, by indulging in arbitrary acts of violence the Taliban are demonstrating that they are capable of seizing by military force what is not offered to them on the negotiating table. It would, however, be more prudent to believe that there exists a gulf in the views of the field commanders, who would like to wait it out for the U.S. to depart as there is little value in making concessions during the talks, and the Taliban leadership, who may feel the urgency to resuming negotiations than completely abandoning them for fear of losing the international legitimacy they enjoy at the moment. Pakistan’s emergence Being the Taliban’s chief patron, Pakistan is the most important player in the Afghan conflict. After months of negotiations, the U.S.-Taliban deal was signed in February 2020, and Pakistan took full credit for it. Unlike his predecessor, Mr. Biden has not set timelines, upping the ante for many stakeholders. As the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan for almost two decades had kept Washington reliant on Rawalpindi for operational and other support, Pakistan not only treated the U.S. as its geopolitical pawn but also smartly mobilised this factor against India. With the disappearance of this lethal dependence, Pakistan faces an uphill task in conducting a viable Afghan policy. Therefore, Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s latest phone call to the U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken should be seen in this context. Expressing Pakistan’s desire for “close economic cooperation, enhanced regional connectivity and common vision for a peaceful South Asia”, the crux of Mr. Qureshi’s discussion was in laying stress on the need for “responsible withdrawal” of foreign forces, clearly indicating fear of a pyrrhic victory. No one knows better than Pakistan’s Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa that Pakistan cannot keep America invested in his country on military, economic, and societal fronts without partnering with the U.S. to ensure a smooth transition of power in Kabul. But western-backed and Taliban-opposed Kabul government’s relations with Pakistan continue to be characterised by deep hostility and mistrust. Despite a recent goodwill trip to Kabul by Gen. Bajwa, accompanied by the chief of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Lt.-Gen. Faiz Hameed, to assure the Afghan leadership of Pakistan’s support for an “inclusive power-sharing arrangement”, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has accused Pakistan of running “an organized system of support” for the Afghan Taliban. Dealing with the President An essential element of Mr. Biden’s plan is to make Mr. Ghani agree to dissolve his government and set up a new governing system that would include the Taliban, which could finally decide the future distribution of power and changes to the Afghan Constitution. But Mr. Ghani refuses to step down for an interim regime to take over, insisting that a new government should emerge through elections in which he promises not to run. Mr. Ghani is seen as a figure who has deepened divisions among an already fractured Afghan political elite, besides failing miserably to wean the Pashtuns away from the Taliban. Ever since his controversial re-election, rival contenders for power are increasingly attacking his legitimacy, challenging his motivations and grounds of support. On the contrary, the Taliban continues to display a large measure of cohesion, despite reports of its fragmentation. Without an immediate ceasefire, a tough summer awaits the Afghan security forces. Mr. Ghani could have had his way had Pakistan been the Taliban’s only patron. The Taliban now draw support from a wide variety of regional powers, including Russia, China and Iran. However, these countries too want the insurgent group to moderate its position. China, which has earned notoriety of being the free rider in Afghanistan, seems confused as the American exit looms large. Despite public rhetoric of asking the U.S. to leave, the Chinese policy makers have become more comfortable over the years with America’s military presence in Afghanistan which has suppressed many terrorist groups which threaten China directly or Beijing-friendly regimes in Central Asia. China and India Since the need to focus on great-power competition appears to have been factored considerably into Mr. Biden’s decision of strategic retrenchment from Afghanistan, it has serious implications for China; it would leave Beijing vulnerable to its spillover effects particularly in the restive Xinjiang province. That is why China has remained invested in all major regional Afghan-centric negotiations. Though it has a stake in the success of the Istanbul talks, its latest offer of hosting intra-Afghan talks in Beijing will only confound the current contradictions. Nevertheless if all regional frameworks fail to achieve Afghan peace, Beijing will not hesitate in asking for a potential UN intervention, as revealed by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. India has been the key regional backer of the Ghani government, supporting an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled” peace process. New Delhi rightly fears a Taliban-dominated regime in Kabul might allow Pakistan to dictate Afghanistan’s India policy. That is why India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, has underlined the need for “a genuine double peace” (within and around Afghanistan). But despite being offered a seat at Istanbul at the U.S.’s behest, New Delhi remains a peripheral player. As opportunism and strategic boldness seem to have become the main structuring poles of Afghan conflict resolution diplomacy, India’s policy preference for courting Kabul’s traditional political elite has faced a distinctive drawback; it has no leverage with the Taliban. Hence, there is nothing unethical in exploring the possibility of developing links with the amenable section of the Afghan Taliban. Finally, India and Pakistan The strategic competition between Washington and Beijing, China’s growing rivalry with India, and New Delhi’s tense relationship with Islamabad are some of the factors which will certainly affect the situation in Afghanistan as the U.S. leaves the country. Thus, any reduction in tensions between India and Pakistan, irrespective of who plays the mediator, will have an indirect stabilising effect on Afghanistan. Moreover, Pakistan has a direct stake in the success of peace talks because it is aware of the negative fallout of another cycle of violence in Afghanistan — unconstrained refugee flows and terror attacks inside its territory. It remains to be seen how border fencing along the controversial Durand Line can minimise this negative fallout. While the September 11 exit would bring the U.S.’s “forever war” to an end, it is unlikely to result in peace if Afghan stakeholders show their utter inability to take the process forward. But If the path of negotiations is either abandoned or accepted half-heartedly, it will be impossible to stop Afghanistan’s descent into chaos and civil war. Vinay Kaura is Assistant Professor, Department of International Affairs and Security Studies, Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. He is also a Non-resident Scholar at the Middle East Institute, Washington D.C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-september-exit-afghanistan-at-the-crossroads/article34637535.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The scale of Gujarat’s mortality crisis||By all accounts, the mortality impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has been exceptionally large. Crematoria, burial grounds, and, in some places, even riverbeds are full. Tragically, almost everyone has lost at least one person close to them. Given this reality, few people have much faith in official COVID-19 death counts. How many COVID-19 deaths are going uncounted? Could indirect effects of the pandemic, for example through economic distress and disruptions to health care, be contributing to a surge in mortality? Registration data insights These key questions, being asked for over a year, are even more pertinent now. In Gujarat, reports of overburdened crematoria and lengthy lists of obituaries indicate a severe crisis. Mortality figures from the civil registration system in Gujarat, reported recently by the Gujarati newspaper, Divya Bhaskar (https://bit.ly/3oNDnjw), provide some insight into the scale of the mortality crisis. To provide some context, official COVID death-counts largely reflect deaths in hospitals, of patients with confirmed COVID-19, where COVID-19 is listed as a cause of death. Deaths where doctors do not write COVID-19 as a cause of death on the hospital death certificate are missed. Additionally, government “death audit committees” may choose to omit deaths of patients with confirmed COVID-19 from official tolls, citing co-morbidities as the main cause of death. Finally, deaths at home, whether of those who were tested or not, and whether test results were positive or not, are largely missed by the system. In contrast, India’s civil registration system is supposed to register all deaths — COVID or not, at home or in a hospital. Civil registration has been improving, and across India about 86% of all deaths were registered in 2018. In Gujarat, civil registration is considered to be complete by the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India (https://bit.ly/3wt1Ahx).  Divya Bhaskar reported that during a 71-day period between March 1, 2021 and May 10, 2021, there were 1.23 lakh deaths registered in Gujarat. In the corresponding period in 2020, there were around 58,000 registered deaths. This suggests a large increase in mortality in 2021. Year-wise comparison However, 2020 was also a pandemic year, and the early days of the pandemic saw a very harsh lockdown. This likely prevented or delayed many deaths from being registered. Considering this, we compared registered deaths in Gujarat in 2021 to estimates of baseline mortality from previous years. The Sample Registration System, a continuous demographic survey, provides estimates of crude death rates in Gujarat until 2018. For the period 2015-2018, mean crude death rates were 6.075 deaths per 1,000. Taking Gujarat’s projected population in 2021, about 6.98 crore, we would expect about 82,500 deaths in a 71-day period. Using registered deaths between 2015-2018 for this calculation reveals a similar estimate. The 1.23 lakh registered deaths in Gujarat during March 1-May 10, 2021 were thus 50% higher than expected from baseline estimates. Moreover, the current COVID-19 wave may have caused delays in registration — the scale of the mortality surge could be even greater. Thus, in a little over two months, there were at least 40,000 “excess deaths” over and above what we expect from previous years’ data. This is around 10 times Gujarat’s official COVID-19 death count during this period of around 4,200 deaths. The increase in excess mortality mirrors the timing of the rise in recorded COVID-19 deaths, which rose sharply through most of April. This can be seen in the graph of annualised crude death rates. But we cannot assume that all Gujarat’s excess deaths are COVID-19 deaths. Some may reflect overwhelmed health-care facilities or worsening economic conditions. In fact, there is some evidence for possible indirect effects. The Divya Bhaskar report documents that 20% of the deaths that were registered were among people less than 25 years of age. This is an increase in both absolute and relative terms compared to 2018, when about 15% of deaths were below the age of 25. Because young people are less vulnerable to severe COVID-19, and because child mortality is especially sensitive to disruptions in health care, this suggests an increase in indirect mortality. Even factoring in a possible increase in indirect mortality, the data strongly suggest that the great majority of COVID-19 deaths in the State have gone uncounted. This is consistent with large mismatches observed between numbers of COVID-protocol cremations and recorded COVID-19 deaths. The work of journalists in Gujarat demonstrates the value of looking at mortality records from civil registration to examine the extent of the crisis. In addition to Gujarat, civil registration is complete in 15 States and Union Territories. Many people work hard to collect this data, and many more wait in government offices to report the deaths of their family members. The least governments can do is to make this data available so that we can better understand the scale of India’s COVID-19 crisis. Unreliability of official counts In summary, data from the civil registration system in Gujarat shows large increases in mortality, consistent with multiple accounts of the unreliability of official COVID-19 death reporting in the State. These official death counts are used to make claims about low infection fatality rates and low overall mortality. Analysis of excess deaths from the civil registration system highlights the systematic obfuscation in such official statements. Ultimately, Gujarat’s civil registration system death counts reinforce what we already know — that an unprecedented tragedy is unfolding. And that the government’s response has been severely lacking. Aashish Gupta is a PhD candidate in Demography and Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, U.S. Murad Banaji is a Senior Lecturer in Mathematics at Middlesex University London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-scale-of-gujarats-mortality-crisis/article34637539.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A single global tender for vaccine procurement||With only 20 million vaccine shots available for the entire month of May for the 600 million people aged 18-44 years in India, many State governments have resorted to floating global tenders for COVID-19 vaccines. This situation is another example of political promises being made without sufficient planning. It also points to a lack of political will to find sustainable solutions; inadequate coordination between States and the Union government; and a focus on optics during a public health emergency of unprecedented magnitude. Each of these is an indictment of the response to the pandemic in India. If not now, when can the Indian state be more responsive and responsible? Incoherent on all fronts There are many cons of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination, which began on May 1. We discuss them in this article, particularly in view of the scramble among States at the international stage as a result of this strategy. First, was the new liberalised strategy primarily intended as a fire-fighting measure in view of limited vaccine supply or as a stable, long-term measure? Reducing Central government monopsony can theoretically increase production. However, it is unlikely to manifest quickly enough to aid in successfully preparing for a third wave through vaccination, especially in the presence of limiting factors like reduced raw materials, which the government has itself admitted to. Supplies are projected to achieve substantial levels only by August 2021. However, considering that past announcements of vaccine production have not met the timelines, can we be assured of even that? Without any increase in supplies, expanding eligibility to the 18-44 years age group will only spread vaccines thinly, which makes little epidemiological and operational sense. If it is intended to be a long-term and stable measure, it would exemplify an imprudent and inequitable vaccination strategy by any nation in the face of an unprecedented national emergency. Second, uniform vaccine prices for all States can prevent exploitation of possible economies of scale. Leaving prices to an oligopolistic market favours unhealthy competition among States. The new vaccination strategy has now forced States to compete in an unfavourable international market, which negates any success at curbing domestic competition. States will have to procure doses at higher rates than a single national purchaser would. As a result of the new strategy, each vaccine dose will be costlier in India than in any other part of the world, until prices come down substantially. Making State governments pay higher prices for the vaccines essentially increases government expenditure, though the burden now has shifted to the States. Overall, the current approach is destined to be highly inefficient on all fronts for a country that is short of resources. The concomitant inequity is self-explanatory.  The solution is to boldly revisit the policy and use the limited vaccine supply for the adult high-risk and vulnerable group, identified as per the target population. This can be a State-specific decision led by subject experts without interference from the political circle. Don’t give false hopes to the rest, which can only lead to disillusionment, further diminish trust in government promises and compound other problems. Reconsider opening vaccination for the 18-44 years age group in August 2021, when vaccine supply is likely to stabilise. This can be done earlier if adequate supplies become available. The current scramble by States on the international stage is not only destined to be inequitable and inefficient, but also propagates a discordant image for a country which, until late, boasted of extending humanitarian aid by exporting vaccines. It only behoves the Central government to bear the costs and provide vaccines to the States. However, the bare minimum that the Central government can do now is to coordinate with the States and on behalf of all the willing States, float a single global tender for vaccine procurement. This is unlikely to yield much as most vaccine manufacturers hardly have any spare capacity for the next few months, but a single powerful purchaser is more likely to tip the balance in India’s favour, apart from accomplishing obvious efficiency and equity gains. The benefits of being the single purchaser are not alien to the current government — the Centre’s own flagship healthcare programme, the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, is an exemplar of such benefits. More specifically, on vaccination, the Centre-State division of labour has traditionally been one where the Centre procures vaccines and the States administer them. It was effective vaccine delivery that helped the state deal with the public health problem of polio. The Central government procured the vaccines and States dealt with delivery. An emergency is the worst hour to abruptly disturb this equation and saddle the States with additional procurement responsibilities. The fact that the federal government has provided vaccines free to all even in the United States, which is a poster child of laissez-faire and arguably, an inspiration behind many of India’s recent health policy pronouncements, should be an eye-opener. A rights-based approach Article 21 of the Constitution is often interpreted as embracing the right to health. The rights-based approach in health in operational terms connotes accessibility, availability and affordability, and the significance of these magnifies multifold during an emergency of the proportions we are seeing today. In recent times, various Indian courts have looked at COVID-19 vaccines and services from a rights-based approach. A health emergency comes largely within the purview of the Central government. It demands that the government act responsibly to ensure that COVID-19 vaccines are accessible, available, and affordable. It is never too late to take corrective measures. Chandrakant Lahariya has done extensive work on the vaccination programme of India, is a public policy and health systems expert and the co-author of ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’; Soham D. Bhaduri is a health policy expert and Chief Editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-single-global-tender-for-vaccine-procurement/article34637548.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Expanding the scope of POCSO||Over the last nine years, India has sought to “protect children from offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography” through the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). But POCSO has not been without controversy or deficiency. Recently, the Supreme Court had to injunct an interpretation of ‘skin-to-skin contact’ given by the Bombay High Court. Another fundamental defect of POCSO is its inability to deal with historical cases. With growing international jurisprudence around these issues, and in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, India must revise its legal and procedural methods to deal with historical child sexual abuse. Historical child sexual abuse Historical child sexual abuse refers to incidents that are reported late. Historical abuse is not just confined to institutions but also includes intra-familial abuse where it is difficult for the child to report the offence or offender at the earliest point in time. It often takes time for the child to recognise and comprehend the gravity of what transpired and become confident to report the offence. At first glance, this may seem to run counter to the established principle of criminal law: that every act of crime must be reported at the earliest and any delay in filing the complaint dilutes the efficacy of the prosecution’s case. Provisions in the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) prohibit judicial magistrates from taking cognisance of cases beyond a specific time period. Cases involving child sexual abuse not amounting to rape as defined under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and prior to the enactment of POCSO in 2012, would presumably be classified under the lesser, and somewhat frivolous, offence of outraging the modesty of a woman (Section 354 of the IPC). As such, any reporting of an offence, under Section 354 of the IPC, more than three years after the date of incident would be barred by the CrPC. Such a scenario renders historical reporting of child sexual offences which took place before 2012 legally implausible. This presents an insurmountable legal barrier against the registration of historical child sexual offences which took place before 2012.  While the limitation provisions were incorporated into the CrPC to avert delayed prosecution, the circumstances around child sexual abuse cannot and must not be viewed in the same manner as other criminal offences. Therein lies a compelling case to allow delayed reporting and prosecution with regard to incidents of child sexual offences. It is also now understood that delays in reporting sexual abuse after a considerable passage of time from the date of offence may be due to factors such as threats from the perpetrator, fear of public humiliation, and absence of trustworthy confidant. Another theory, proposed by Roland C. Summit, Professor of Psychiatry, is the accommodation syndrome — where the child keeps the abuse as a secret because of the fear that no one will believe the abuse, which leads to accommodative behaviour. As such, with growing research and empirical evidence pointing to behaviour justifying delayed reporting, there is a need to amend the law to balance the rights of the victims and the accused. One of the major drawbacks of delayed reporting is the lack of evidence to advance prosecution. It is believed that there would be less than 5% chance for gathering direct physical and medical evidence in such cases. India, in particular, suffers from a lack of procedural guidance as to how to prosecute historical cases of child sexual abuse. In contrast, the U.K. has issued detailed Guidelines on Prosecuting Cases of Child Sexual Abuse under the Sexual Offences Act of 2003 to assist the police in such cases. Need to review the law Also, in 2018, an online petition based on the plea of a child sexual abuse survivor gathered tremendous support. The survivor-petitioner, Purnima Govindarajulu, had unsuccessfully tried to register a complaint against her abuser after a delay of more than 40 years. After having failed to get traction with the police, she had launched an online campaign to raise awareness. Consequently, the Union Ministry of Law and Justice, at the request of the then Minister for Women and Child Development, clarified that no time limit shall apply for POCSO cases. Though this was a welcome clarification and would help strengthen the POCSO jurisprudence, it still fails to address the plight of children who were victims of sexual abuse before 2012. There is an urgent need to reform and revise our laws to account for various developments such as historical reporting of child sexual abuse. At the very least, the Union government must frame guidelines to direct effective and purposeful prosecution in cases which are not covered by the POCSO. Manuraj Shunmugasundaram is Advocate and Spokesperson, DMK. This article was written with inputs from Sasi Varadharajan, Advocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/expanding-the-scope-of-pocso/article34637543.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Muslim politics: Which way now?||The results of the Assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and earlier Delhi offer insights into the fresh churning in Muslim politics in India owing to the perpetuation of Hindutva politics. When the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) won five seats in the Bihar Assembly election in 2020, some secular voices interpreted it as a reflection of the party’s growing national footprint. They also saw it as a threat to Indian secularism as they saw the party’s advancement as a new trend of Muslims voting for Muslim parties in post-Partition India. But in the recent West Bengal election, AIMIM fielded seven candidates and drew a blank. In Bihar, the AIMIM received just 1.24% of the vote share and in Bengal, only 0.02%. A persisting myth In Bengal, it was argued that the Indian Secular Front, formed by Abbas Siddiqui, a cleric of the prominent Furfura Sharif, was going to be a spoiler for the Trinamool Congress by giving an advantage to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). However, a vast chunk of the Muslim votes went to the Trinamool, including from the traditionally loyal Muslim voters of the Congress and Left parties. Mr. Siddiqui’s party fought 27 seats and managed to win only one. Once again, the myth that Muslim voters are blindly loyal to Maulanas or the clergy was busted. These results have established once more that Muslim voters are exceptionally politically savvy and secular in their electoral preferences. This myth that Muslim voters are swayed by Maulanas , however, has a long history. It acquired national prominence when the Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, Abdullah Bukhari, appealed to Muslim voters to vote against Indira Gandhi in 1977. He appealed to voters to vote for her in 1980, which saw her return. Ever since then, nearly all the tall leaders of major ruling parties in New Delhi such as the Gandhis, V.P. Singh, Deve Gowda and even Atal Bihari Vajpayee have given credence to this myth through their gestures. In the 2004 parliamentary election, the Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Ahmed Bukhari, urged Muslims to vote for the BJP, which backfired. But the myth continues to have its own life, and fatwas are delivered at the behest of various parties. Politics of counter-polarisation In Assam and Bengal, Muslim voting behaviour was clearly dictated by the politics of counter-polarisation leading to the closing of ranks among Muslim voters as a response to the politics of polarisation. In Assam, Muslim voters endorsed the ‘grand alliance’ led by the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front. In Bengal, Muslim voters emulated the Muslim voters in Delhi who chose to abandon the Congress in favour of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) believing that Arvind Kejriwal would demonstrate his secular credentials once elected. However, Mr. Kejriwal’s conduct during the Delhi riots and later has led many to believe that he is anything but a closet secularist. The decision of most Muslim voters to move away from the Congress in Delhi and from the Left and the Congress in Bengal, on the one hand, and stay with the Congress as part of the ‘grand alliance’ in Assam and with the Left in Kerala, on the other, does not imply that they consider the Trinamool or AAP as being more secular than the Left or Congress. In their reasoning of the politics of counter-polarisation, Muslim voters hope to send an unambiguous message that parties like the Congress or the Left, while seeking future alliances, need to factor in the greater threat that Hindutva poses to their security and welfare instead of simply seeking to save their electoral turf. If they do not, they better face decimation. There is a fair chance that Muslim voters in Uttar Pradesh will emulate the voting wisdom of their counterparts in West Bengal. Given the colossal failure of the BJP government in dealing with the second wave of the pandemic, their decisions could contribute to the making of an anti- Hindutva politics. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, and is the author of the forthcoming book, Shikwa-e-Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/muslim-politics-which-way-now/article34637544.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Character challenge||The Government of India’s directive to microblogging platform Twitter that it remove the label ‘manipulated media’ from certain posts shared by functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including Union Ministers, has no legal leg to stand on. But it reveals that the Government of India is willing to go to any lengths to empower BJP functionaries to tarnish political opponents and misinform the public. The BJP functionaries circulated on Twitter what they called a ‘toolkit’ prepared by the Congress to disparage the government. The Congress has filed a police complaint that the BJP functionaries forged a document that does not exist. It has also written to Twitter to permanently suspend the accounts of those who circulated the forged documents. There is indeed a document that the Congress prepared on the opportunity costs of the Central Vista project for its internal use. The one circulated by the BJP leaders included additional pages on COVID-19. The BJP has failed to provide the digital footprint, or the copies, of what it calls the COVID-19 toolkit. There is no evidence that the Congress has done anything in the toolkit which was supposedly prepared in May; but the toolkit proposes courses of action that have already happened in April, an analysis by fact-checking platform AltNews has revealed. Toolkits are meant to be about coordinating future actions on social media, and not cataloguing past events. When challenged on facts, a BJP propagandist revealed the identity of a woman who was involved in the Central Vista research, leading to her bullying by cyber mobs. Twitter has not complied with the Centre’s directive, and at least six handles of BJP functionaries now have posts with the tag ‘manipulated media’. The reasoning behind the directive, in the absence of any legal provision to cite, by the Government of India is baffling. It has argued that the labelling was a “prejudged, prejudiced and a deliberate attempt to colour the investigation by local law enforcement agency”. By this metric, a private company must allow what it has determined as problematic content, until a state agency concurs. Twitter has a publicised policy that it may label tweets that include media that have been deceptively altered or fabricated. It could use its own mechanism or use third party services to make that determination. Twitter is a private entity whose relationship with users is guided by its terms of services. The IT Act that empowers the government to regulate content does not give it the power to order the removal of a label. Additionally, the government move raises serious concerns regarding arbitrary censorship and transparency. The Centre’s desperation to control any discussion on its failures, and shift the focus on to the Opposition is leading to such situations that embarrass a democracy. Rather than intimidate a private company, the BJP and the Centre should discipline its functionaries into more civility and truthfulness in their engagement with critics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/character-challenge/article34637530.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Losing time||The delay in the formation of the Ministry in Puducherry does not appear to be merely because Chief Minister N. Rangasamy was indisposed for some days. He took charge on May 7 before taking ill; he has now recovered from COVID-19, but there is no word on Cabinet expansion. The delay is a reflection of the uneasy relationship between Mr. Rangasamy’s N.R. Congress, and its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has been paying special attention to the Union Territory to become a major force. On the face of it, the delay is because of the Chief Minister’s hospitalisation and his home quarantine, which was over on Sunday (May 23). But his illness did not come in the way of the Centre making three BJP members nominated legislators of the Assembly. One reason that is holding up Ministry formation is the BJP’s demand for the Deputy Chief Minister’s post and a few ministerial berths, as stated by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, one of the point persons of the BJP for Puducherry. But it was evident that Mr. Rangasamy was not too enthused by the national party’s proposals. A few days before assuming office, he was on record to say that there was no precedent of Puducherry having had a Deputy Chief Minister, but would consider the matter if the Centre created such a post. However hard it may be for him, Mr. Rangasamy has to contend with the reality that the BJP’s strength in the Assembly is just one short of his party’s 10, after the nomination of the three MLAs. Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, on May 21, appointed K. Lakshminarayanan as the pro-tem Speaker of the Assembly, paving the way for the early swearing-in of MLAs. However, what bothers the people of the Union Territory — it has a population of about 12.5 lakh (2011 Census) — is that there is no full-fledged elected government in place during a raging COVID-19 pandemic. Between May 8, the day after Mr. Rangasamy became Chief Minister, and May 24, the number of active cases went up by 2,250; the total number of active cases stood at 15,835 on Monday. In this period, the toll rose by almost 50% and as on Monday, 1,382 persons have died since the outbreak of the pandemic. Puducherry does need a vibrant and imaginative Health Minister to beat the virus. This is also an opportunity for the N.R. Congress and the BJP to set aside their differences and show that they have genuine concern for the welfare of the people by forming the Council of Ministers at the earliest. This is no time for procrastination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/losing-time/article34637531.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||PM’s talks with DMK leaders||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, to-day [New Delhi, May 24] sounded the DMK in Parliament on a compromise solution for the controversial issue of the use of Hindi nomenclature for Central Ministers. The new proposal mooted by Mrs. Gandhi when she met Mr. K. Manoharan and Mr. Era Sezhian, Leader and Deputy Leader respectively of the DMK Parliamentary Party this afternoon, envisages the use of English nomenclature with Hindi equivalents in Roman script in brackets in Parliamentary documents. The DMK leaders did not commit themselves to the proposal. Mr. Manoharan will consult the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Mr. Karunanidhi, and then convey his party’s reaction to the new proposal. It appears that the DMK leaders had got scent of the compromise move on the use of both Hindi and English terms even in the morning. But at that time their information was that the English nomenclature would be used in brackets. They were opposed to this. The DMK members in both Houses of Parliament to-day raised their voice with all the force at their command against the use of Hindi nomenclature in Roman script in parliamentary papers circulated to-day. To soften their ruffled feelings, the Prime Minister said in the Lok Sabha that she would convene a meeting of Opposition leaders and find a satisfactory solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pms-talks-with-dmk-leaders/article34637541.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Malegaon riots||The “Pioneer” gives further details of the riots at Malegaon. For several weeks a dispute has been in progress between Mahomedan Zemindars and their Hindu tenants. The dispute seems to have arisen over the right of begar which the tenants refused to concede having taken an oath that none of them would work for the Zemindars except for wages at prevalent rates. A Zemindar is reported to have beaten a woman for refusing to grind some dhol for him. This led to collision between the tenants and Zemindars and the latter when negotiations failed, apprehending attacks from Hindus after firing a few shots by way of warning which produced no effect, opened fire on the unarmed villagers killing two instantaneously and seriously wounding about fifteen. The mob then dispersed and the Zemindars retired to their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/malegaon-riots/article34637540.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||FDI flows crossed $81 bn in FY21||Foreign direct investment (FDI) flows into India grew 10% in 2020-21 to touch a record $81.72 billion, with FDI equity inflows rising 19% to almost $60 billion, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said on Monday. Singapore emerged as the top investor with almost a third of all investments, followed by the U.S. which accounted for 23% of FDI and Mauritius from where 9% of the capital flows originated. FDI equity flows from the U.S. tripled during the year compared with 2019-20, while investments from the U.K. surged 44%. Sharp growth However, the sharpest growth among the top 10 FDI-origin countries was recorded from Saudi Arabia. Investments from the oil-rich nation jumped from a mere $90 million in 2019-20 to $2.8 billion last year. Top FDI destination Gujarat was the top FDI destination in FY21, accounting for 37% of the foreign equity inflows, followed by its traditional industrial rival Maharashtra that got 27%. Karnataka accounted for another 13% of the equity investments, indicating that the rest of the country got a disproportionately less 23% of foreign equity capital. “Computer software and hardware has emerged as the top sector during 2020-21 with about 44% share of the total FDI equity inflow followed by construction (infrastructure) activities (13%) and services sector (8%), respectively,” the Ministry said. As much as 94% of the equity FDI into Gujarat was routed into the computer software and hardware sector, with the State accounting for 78% of the total investments into the sector. Karnataka, with 9% of FDI equity receipts into the sector, was followed by Delhi that received 5%. In 2019-20, India had received $74.39 billion in FDI, with almost $50 billion coming in the form of equity investments. “Construction (infrastructure) activities, computer software and hardware, rubber goods, retail trading, drugs and pharmaceuticals and electrical equipment have recorded more than a 100% jump in equity during 2020-21,” the statement pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fdi-flows-crossed-81-bn-in-fy21/article34637520.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘GST Council should prioritise COVID relief, States’ cash woes’||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council, meeting this Friday after a gap of more than seven months, should prioritise giving relief on the taxes levied on COVID-19 vaccines and critical medical supplies, and rationalise GST rates to provide relief to sectors that are worst hit by the second wave, said regulatory experts. A mechanism for paying States their compensation dues for this year shall also be a knotty issue for the council to figure out, while little headway is expected on more contentious problems such as bringing petroleum products under the GST regime to reduce the burden of high retail fuel prices on the common man. The council should consider reducing the tax rates or zero rating the GST on essential material to combat COVID — from hand sanitizers to oximeters and oxygen concentrators, said Saloni Roy, senior director at Deloitte India. COVID-related expenditures incurred by employers for the welfare of employees and their families may also be considered as input tax credit, she said. “Individuals and companies importing oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, regulators and rakes are looking for exemptions or credits on these medical devices as in most of the cases, the imports are in public interest or for donation to State governments and NGOs,” said Abhishek Rastogi, who is arguing writs on these issues in the Bombay and Delhi High Courts. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said providing GST concessions and exemptions to COVID vaccines, and other equipment, as well as allowing input tax credit for firms undertaking vaccination drives or providing oxygen concentrators to their employees need to be taken up. States’ burden With five new finance ministers in the council from the States with newly formed governments, and three of them not aligned with the BJP-led government at the Centre, the equations in the council would be different from its last meeting in October. The meeting on October 12, 2020 had ended without a consensus with several Opposition States refusing to accept the Centre’s compensation formula for last year as revenues tanked in sync with the economy due to the national lockdown. States are still owed Rs. 63,000 crore from last year’s dues and GST cess collections are unlikely to meet this year’s compensation dues as well, following the spate of lockdowns across several States over the past two months. “Needless to say, the States are desperate for funds at the moment since the Centre has largely shifted the onus of improving the health infra and vaccination drives on the State governments,” pointed out Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. Apart from the early release of outstanding dues, States may also press for a parley on a possible extension of the five-year period for which they were guaranteed compensation under the GST regime, said Niraj Bagri, partner at Dhruva Advisors LLP ‘Rescue industry’ “Unlike last year, the second wave has proved to be much more lethal, even for businesses, and hence, any short-term measure may not yield desired results,” warned Mr. Bose, who hoped the Centre and States would come up with some sustainable measures to rescue the industry. While industries such as entertainment, hotels and tourism are impacted badly due to COVID and need relief measures, even sectors that continue to operate need support on many fronts, including getting due refunds quicker to free up their working capital needs. “GST refunds for several exporters including gems and jewellery and IT sectors are stuck, which must be processed quickly which will infuse liquidity and also give an impetus to our exporters,” said Siddharth Surana, adviser, strategy and business transformation, RSM India. “The gems and jewellery industry in our view has over Rs. 1,000 crore stuck in past accumulated input tax credits and due to backlog in refunds,” Mr. Surana said. “The council should consider reducing the GST rate for composition dealers, including the special rates for restaurants [presently at 5% with no input tax credit] and travel and tour operators for the period from April to September 2021,” he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-council-should-prioritise-covid-relief-states-cash-woes/article34637522.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Demand for IT professionals doubled in last 14 months: ISF||Demand for IT professionals has almost doubled in the last 14 months as most global enterprises are busy expediting digitisation and automation of their businesses, according to the Indian Staffing Federation (ISF), an apex body for temporary workers. “A majority of global organisations are accelerating digital transformation due to COVID and this momentum of transition will continue to remain even after the pandemic,” said Suchita Dutta, executive director at ISF. There is a sudden surge in demand for digital skills, especially around artificial intelligence, data science, cloud computing, information security and blockchain. As a result, temp role hiring for freshers and others too has seen a rise in calendar 2021, the ISF said. Citing a recent report, ISF said the expectations to enlist freshers among organisations had increased from 6% in 2020 to 15% in 2021. Also, the tech sector has been the top recruiter for freshers at 24%. However, the tech industry’s biggest challenge would be talent sourcing and retention of skilled resources and this scenario has resulted in increased demand for temp staffing, including that of freshers. According to HR experts, most tech firms are expected to be stung by high attrition levels in FY22. “Attrition is purely a supply by-product and companies will find it tough to retain people when the job market is flush with vacant positions,” said B.S. Murthy, CEO, Leadership Capital, a recruitment firm. For the quarter ended March 2021, most tech firms in the country reported an average attrition of 12-15%. However, both TCS and HCL reported a significantly lower attrition of 7.2% and 9.9%, respectively, while Cognizant led the attrition tally with 21% in Q4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-for-it-professionals-doubled-in-last-14-months-isf/article34637524.ece
25 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Grasim net rises 14% on ‘strong operational performance’||Grasim Industries Ltd. of the Aditya Birla Group reported consolidated net profit for the fourth quarter grew 14% from a year earlier to Rs. 1,715 crore on strong operational performance, the company said. Consolidated revenue rose 26% to Rs. 24,399 crore. Last year, profit after tax (after extraordinary items) included reversal of deferred tax liability, it said. For FY21, consolidated net profit dropped 2.4% to Rs. 4,305 crore. Revenue rose 1.6% to Rs. 76,398 crore. The board has recommended a dividend of Rs. 5 and a special dividend of Rs. 4 per equity share for FY21. The outflow on account of the dividend would be Rs. 592 crore. For FY22, the company has a capital expenditure plan (excluding paints and fertilizer) worth Rs. 2,604 crore that includes the VSF expansion project at Vilayat with Line 1 scheduled to be commissioned in the second quarter and Line 2 in the third quarter of this year. Epoxy expansion Other capital expenditure plans include investments in increasing its advanced-materials (epoxy) business capacity by 125 KTPA (kilo tonnes per annum) through brownfield expansion at the existing location of Vilayat in Gujarat. This would include standard and specialty epoxy products along with curing agents. Grasim would continue to play a proactive role in growing and supporting the demand growth, it said. In the Chlor-Alkali business, Grasim plans to invest in a 200-TPD (tonnes per day) caustic soda brownfield expansion project at Vilayat. This would take the total capacity to 1,400 TPD at Vilayat and primarily meet customer requirements in the country’s western region. The expanded capacities would be commissioned in 24 months after obtaining statutory clearances.  For FY22, the firm is planning capital expenditure worth Rs. 2,604 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/grasim-net-rises-14-on-strong-operational-performance/article34637516.ece
25 May 2021||Chennai,||India Cements posts Rs. 71.6 cr. net||India Cements Ltd. (ICL) reported standalone net profit of Rs. 71.6 crore for the quarter ended March 31, compared with a loss of Rs. 111 crore a year earlier. Total income grew to Rs. 1,461.44 crore compared with Rs. 1,169.92 crore in the fourth quarter of the previous year. “Our performance has been creditable given that we operated only at 50% capacity for whole year,” said vice chairman and managing director N. Srinivasan, who was reappointed as MD for five years effective May 26, subject to approvals. “Capacity utilisation rose from 35% in Q1 to 77% in the fourth quarter,” he added. He pointed out that the company had repaid debt of about Rs. 550 crore during the year. “We reduced both inventory and receivables.” For FY21, ICL recorded Rs. 222 crore in net profit (Rs. 35.5 crore loss) on a total income of Rs. 4,460 crore (Rs. 5,085 crore). The company declared a dividend of Rs. 1/- per share for FY21. On localised lockdowns, he said, “In the west and north parts of India, there is relaxation taking place and gradual relaxation in the middle of June is expected in the south also.”  On the outlook for the current fiscal, he said, “We are expecting pent-up demand. We hope to generate more [sales], prices are holding; volumes may be better than last year.” He added that the company was aiming to repay Rs. 600 crore more of debt this year. He also said that input cost pressures may persist this year but the costs could be passed on to the market. “We raised the price per bag by Rs. 10 in May. In June, it may go up by a similar amount.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-cements-posts-rs-716-cr-net/article34637526.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Zeta raises $250 million from SoftBank||Banking technology start-up Zeta received $250 million in investment from SoftBank Vision Fund 2, valuing it at $1.45 billion. “With Zeta, financial institutions can leverage a modern, cloud-native platform and improve speed to market, agility, cost-to-income ratio and user experience” said Bhavin Turakhia, CEO and co-founder. Munish Varma, managing partner, SoftBank Investment Advisers, said banking software was a $300-billion industry globally. Most banks still employed technology that was significantly older than their customers, adversely impacting user experience and engagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zeta-raises-250-million-from-softbank/article34637517.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||AI start-up Fireflies raises Rs. 100 crore||Voice intelligence and AI- assistant provider Fireflies.ai has raised Rs. 100 crore ($14 million) in Series A funding led by Khosla Ventures, with participation from seed investor Canaan Partners. The San Francisco and Hyderabad-based start-up, with presence in cities in India such as Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi, plans to use the capital to expand the 50-member team now distributed across five countries and 12 cities. While actively hiring across engineering, customer and marketing teams, it is also making engineering investments in technologies such as GPT-3 and scaling core engineering efforts to support customer demand, Fireflies said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ai-start-up-fireflies-raises-rs-100-crore/article34637518.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||SAT grants interim stay on Sebi's order against Yes Bank in AT-1 bond case||The Securities Appellate Tribunal has granted an interim stay on a SEBI order slapping a penalty of Rs. 25 crore on Yes Bank in a case of mis-selling AT-1 bonds.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sat-grants-interim-stay-on-sebis-order-against-yes-bank-in-at-1-bond-case/article34637527.ece
25 May 2021||Milan,||Milan back in CL after eight years||Seven-time European champion AC Milan is back in the Champions League after an eight-year break. And Juventus also narrowly qualified on the final night of Serie A. Two penalties from Franck Kessie on Sunday helped Milan to a 2-0 win at Atalanta, which had already claimed a top-four spot along with Serie A champion Inter Milan. Juventus won 4-1 at Bologna with two goals from Alvaro Morata plus scores from Federico Chiesa and Adrien Rabiot. Help from Hellas Verona Still, Juventus needed help and got it when Hellas Verona held Napoli to a 1-1 draw, leaving Napoli in fifth place. Amir Rrahmani had put Napoli ahead on the hour mark but Davide Faraoni quickly equalised for Verona. When Juventus’ game finished a few moments earlier, Bianconeri players watched the final moments of the Napoli-Verona match on the touchline before they could celebrate. Roma came back from two goals down against Spezia for a 2-2 draw to take seventh place and a spot in the new Europa Conference League for incoming coach Jose Mourinho.   The results: Serie A: Inter Milan 5 (Young 8, Eriksen 44, Martinez 55-pen, Perisic 64, Lukaku 71) bt Udinese 1 (Pereyra 79-pen); Sassuolo 2 (Kyriakopoulos 10, Berardi 78-pen) bt Lazio 0; Spezia 2 (Verde 6, Pobega 38) drew with Roma 2 (El Shaarawy 52, Mkhitaryan 85); Torino 1 (Bremer 29) drew with Benevento 1 (Tello 72).   Napoli 1 (Rahmani 60) drew with Hellas Verona 1 (Faraoni 69); Bologna 1 (Orsolini 85) lost to Juventus 4 (Chiesa 6, Morata 29, 47, Rabiot 45); Atalanta 0 lost to AC Milan 2 (Kessie 43-pen, 90+3-pen).   Sampdoria 3 (Quagliarella 20, Colley 44, Gabbiadini 64) bt Parma 0; Crotone 0 drew with Fiorentina 0; Cagliari 0 lost to Genoa 1 (Shomurodov 15).   LaLiga: Granada 0 drew with Getafe 0; Sevilla 1 (Gomez 90+2) bt Alaves 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milan-back-in-cl-after-eight-years/article34637691.ece
25 May 2021||BELGRADE,||Djokovic building up ‘to shine’ at Roland Garros||Novak Djokovic celebrated his 34th birthday this weekend at the Belgrade Tennis Centre which carries his name but with one eye on Roland Garros where he intends “to shine”. The World No. 1 is top seed at the pre-French Open event in the Serbian capital before heading to Paris where he seeks a second career triumph. “We are working so that I reach my maximum, that everything is perfectly adjusted in Paris, where I want to shine,” Djokovic said at a news conference on Sunday. Djokovic, who turned 34 on Saturday, has endured a roller-coaster clay court season. He lost in the third round at the Monte Carlo Masters before reaching the semifinals when Belgrade staged its first event of the spring in April. He then lost the Rome Masters final last weekend to Rafael Nadal, the 13-time champion at Roland Garros. “It brings me mental serenity and the joy of being able to prepare at home for one of the most important tournaments of the year,” said Djokovic. If he wins another Roland Garros, Djokovic will become the first man in more than 50 years to have won all four Majors more than once.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-building-up-to-shine-at-roland-garros/article34637641.ece
25 May 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Nortje and Markram among nominees for player of the year||Pacer Anrich Nortje and batsman Aiden Markram were among the names nominated for Cricket South Africa's (CSA) player of the year award, with the fast bowler featuring in the ODI as well as the Test list. Limited-overs captain Temba Bavuma and top-order batsman batsman Rassie van der Dussen have been nominated in the men's player of the year category. Markram, Nortje, Bavuma were joined by Test skipper Dean Elgar in the nominations for the Test player of the year award. David Miller, all-rounder Andile Phehlukwayo and van der Dussen have been nominated for the ODI award, besides Nortje. The nominees for T20 cricketer of the year award are Janneman Malan, Markram, spinner Tabraiz Shamsi and van der Dussen. All-rounder Shabnim Ismail led the nominees for the women's cricketer of the year award, a nomination list which also included hard-hitting batter Lizelle Lee, leg-spinning all-rounder Sune Luus and opener Laura Wolvaardt. The nominees for women's T20 player of the year are Anneke Bosch, Tazmin Brits, Ismail and Luus. In the women's ODIs player of the year list, the nominees are Ismail, Marizanne Kapp, Lee and Laura Wolvaardt. CSA also approved a new award named after one of its greats: the Makhaya Ntini Power of Cricket award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nortje-and-markram-among-nominees-for-player-of-the-year/article34637632.ece
25 May 2021||MELBOURNE,||Has BCCI ‘located’ the money Tuskers owe us, asks Hodge||Former Australia batsman Brad Hodge on Monday cheekily enquired if the BCCI has been able to “locate” the money that the now-defunct Kochi Tuskers Kerala owed him for representing it in the 2010 edition of the Indian Premier League. Played 14 games  The 46-year-old had played 14 games for KTK, scoring 285 runs at an average of 35.63. He was bought by Tuskers for $425,000 at the 2010 auction. “Players are still owed 35% of their money earned from 10 years ago from the IPL representing Kochi Tuskers. Any chance the BCCI could locate that money?” Hodge tweeted. Going by Hodge's tweet, Tuskers seem to owe the Australian more than $127,000. Hodge was reacting to a report published in the Telegraph about the Indian women's team not receiving its share of $550,000 ICC prize money from the BCCI. It must be noted that Kochi Tuskers was expelled after just one season for defaulting on its annual payment in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/has-bcci-located-the-money-tuskers-owe-us-asks-hodge/article34637636.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||It’s important to play session by session in England: Gill||India opener Shubman Gill feels the team is well prepared for the World Test Championship final (WTC) against New Zealand, but underlined the importance of playing session by session in English conditions. Gill is undergoing a 14-day quarantine in Mumbai along with the rest of the squad. It will be his first tour of England with the senior team, having made his debut in Australia in December last year. He did not have a great time in the home series against England and is looking to make amends in the WTC final against New Zealand at Southampton from June 18. “We did well in Australia. We have been playing well overseas and I feel we can’t be better prepared for this final. “As an opener, I feel I should be able to play session by session not just in England, but overseas in general,” said Gill told India TV. “It is very important to play session by session. In England, whenever there is cloud around, the ball swings more and when the sun is out, it gets easier to bat. It is important to assess those conditions as an opener," he said. Talking about the quarantine protocols in place now, Gill said: “It is very hard, you are in a room for 14 days and there is not much to do. “We are given workout schedules, we do that. We try to keep ourselves busy watching movies and spend some time on the i-pad, but it is very hard," said Gill, who has played seven Tests so far. Gill has been with the Test squad since 2019, but got his big break with the Boxing Day Test at the MCG in December last year. Asked about the time he spent with the team and the chats he has had with skipper Virat Kohli and opening partner Rohit Sharma, Gill said: “Virat bhai tells me to play fearlessly. “He speaks about mindset a lot... that you have to be in a good frame of mind when you go out to bat. He also shares his experiences. “When I am batting with Rohit bhai , we usually discuss where the bowlers will bowl, what the situation is like and when to take a risk.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-important-to-play-session-by-session-in-england-gill/article34637640.ece
25 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Parthasarathy, former TNTA VP, passes away||V.K. Parthasarathy, former State tennis player and former vice-president of the Tamil Nadu Tennis Association (TNTA), passed away here on Monday. He was 82. Parthasarathy is survived by wife Hema, daughter Rohini, son Arjun and their families. He donned the role of honorary secretary, TNTA, in 1989 when N. Sankar took over as President of the Association. Parthasarathy’s tenure continued till 1995. He later became the vice-president. ‘Pachu’, as he was known to his friends, trained under the legendary T.K. Ramanathan, father of Ramanathan Krishnan and grandfather of Ramesh Krishnan, along with a number of prominent players of the time. Vijay Amritraj, President, TNTA, said, ”Pachu was a fine gentleman and a tough opponent on the court. His contribution to the game of tennis and the Association was immense and will be remembered. May his soul rest in peace.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parthasarathy-former-tnta-vp-passes-away/article34637751.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Boost for Indian women’s football||Endeavouring to send the women’s national team to the 2027 FIFA World Cup, the All India Football Federation has charted a detailed plan in this regard, which has been “endorsed and supported” by both the Sports Ministry and Sports Authority of India. “We have laid a detailed plan for the (current) U-18 girls in our attempt to qualify for the 2027 World Cup. The plan has been endorsed and supported by the Ministry of Sports and SAI, for which we stay eternally grateful,” AIFF general secretary Kushal Das said. Last December, AIFF president Praful Patel had said the AIFF is hoping for the women’s team to qualify for the 2027 World Cup. Supporting his view, the sports ministry had asked the AIFF to prepare a “concrete and actionable” roadmap to work towards the team’s qualification in the 2027 edition of the world’s biggest football event for women. “We want to carry this message to all girls who aspire to play the sport, that the football federation stands by them,” Das said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boost-for-indian-womens-football/article34637680.ece
25 May 2021||Milan,||Ronaldo’s feat||Cristiano Ronaldo made more history on Sunday becoming the first player to finish the season as top scorer in three major leagues — England, Spain, and Italy. The 36-year-old scored 29 goals this campaign, five more than second-placed Belgian Romelu Lukaku for champion Inter Milan. The Portuguese striker was top scorer in England with Manchester United in 2008, and three times in Spain with Real Madird, 2011, 2014 and 2015. Ronaldo scored 21 goals in his first season after joining Juventus in 2018 and 31 in 2019 when he finished behind Lazio’s Ciro Immobile’s 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldos-feat/article34637692.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Elavenil Valarivan puts up big score||The reigning World No. 1 Elavenil Valarivan gave a glimpse of her readiness to shoot big scores in women’s air rifle with a tally of 630.4 in the MQS section of the European championship in Osijek, Croatia, on Monday. With the Indian Olympic team based in Zagreb in preparation for the Olympics, the team chose to utilise the European championship to have a taste of competition, even though the Indian shooters would not be eligible to contest the finals and shoot for medals. The 21-year-old Elavenil, who had won gold in the World Cup Final in China and the World Cup in Brazil in 2019, had a series of 106.0, 105.2, 103.8, 104.6, 105.8, 105.0. Elavenil was 0.4 point short of the topper in the regular event, Ziva Dvorsak of Slovenia.  Apurvi shoots 627.8  Former world No. 1 and world record holder, Apurvi Chandela, who had also won two World Cup gold medals in 2019, before the world was gripped by the pandemic, returned a score of 627.8 as her series ranged from 103.4 to 105.6. World Championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil shot 624.7 as her scores dipped in the third and sixth series. Modest show In men’s air rifle, Divyansh Singh Panwar (628.1), Deepak Kumar (627.4) and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar (625.0) had a modest performance. Sheng Lihao of China topped among the MQS shooters with 30.5. In the regular event, Vladimir Maslennikov of Russia was the topper with 631.8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/elavenil-valarivan-puts-up-big-score/article34637694.ece
25 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Don’t have anything personal against Azhar’||N. Shivlal Yadav said he doesn’t have anything personal against Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) president Mohd. Azharuddin. Shivlal has been nominated by the group led by secretary R. Vijayanand and it was contested by Azhar. The 64-year-old Shivlal told The Hindu on Monday that he is in the thick of things after being named as the HCA representative to attend the BCCI SGM on May 29 only after the AGM approved his nomination for the same. “What is there for me to prove? I have held the highest post in the BCCI — the presidentship. I have no role in the HCA but for this nomination pushing me to the forefront,” Shivlal said. “If the BCCI approves my nomination to attend the SGM, then I am surely going to attend it. “Once the BCCI okays my name, I don’t think anyone can question that decision. Even if the BCCI says that I should not attend, it is okay for me. I have accepted to be the HCA representative because it is according to the associations’s constitution,” he added. Rules On issues being raised against him that he is not eligible having held HCA office-bearer’s post for more than the stipulated nine years, Shivlal said he was not so naive to accept anything without knowing the rules. “I am eligible and that’s why I am attending it. It looks like they are fighting on false egos. For any decent administrator, he or she has to go by the majority opinion. Give and take “One has to adopt a give-and-take policy to sort out any issues,” Shivlal said on the HCA developments. “It is unfortunate that while other associations across India are prospering, HCA is in the news for all the wrong reasons. It is high time the house is set in order by sitting across the table to arrive at a consensus on any issue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-have-anything-personal-against-azhar/article34638120.ece
25 May 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Sport will return but gradually’||India is in still in the throes of a raging second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, but sports administrators in the country are cautiously optimistic about the future. In a panel discussion on Monday, for the Rotary Club of Bangalore, moderated by senior journalist Vedam Jaishankar on Sports in the shadow of COVID, Vivek Kumar, Founder-Director of the Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence, and M. Satyanarayan, Secretary, Karnataka State Football Association, held out hope that regular sporting activity would return, but gradually. “We saw last year when the government lifted the National lockdown, children and parents wanted to come back quite quickly,” said Vivek. “We thought things would restart only after schools started, but the return was quick. We are now having the second setback, but we are optimistic of coming back, having seen out one such phase.” New normal Satyanarayan sought to draw attention to the way finances will shape the return. “Bio-bubbles, which are going to be there for some time, will work for television sports, but for National and State-level competitions, they are unviable,” he said. “It will be a new normal for sports, like for life.” “The finances need to be worked out. Think about the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. “They have deep pockets and the tournament will happen. But will football fans, whose livelihoods have been hit by pandemic, spend money and travel to events?” Missing atmosphere Jaishankar shifted focus to the upcoming Tokyo Olympics and the festival atmosphere that will be missing. “Japan wanted to really highlight its culture and tradition by spreading the games across 100 towns and cities,” he stated. “But it is going to be all curtailed now. It is a big-money event, so they will try to hold it. But the frolic spirit will not be there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sport-will-return-but-gradually/article34637682.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI,||Asiad gold is long jumper Neena’s new goal||It’s almost two years since long jumper V. Neena took part in a national competition but it looks like nothing has changed. The 2018 Asian Games silver medallist, now the mother of a three-month-old baby girl Alexandra Jo Pinto, feels that she is very fortunate. “We did not have any competition the whole of last year because of the lockdown and this year, I’ve just missed a few. I’m very lucky that way,” said Neena, in a chat with The Hindu , on Monday.  “I think I’ve added some 10kg, I’ve been trying to lose that first.My plan is to come back to national competitions next year,” said Neena whose personal best (6.66m) came in 2016. “We have the Asian Games next year, a gold there is my new goal... also going to the 2024 Olympics.” At the 2018 Asiad, she lost the gold by 4cm (6.51m).“I did not get the board in any of my jumps in Jakarta. I think there was a sort of difference in my running steps,” said Neena, also the 2017 Asian silver medallist in Bhubaneswar. Incidentally, Vietnam’s Bui Thi Thu Thao, who won the Asiad gold, also took a break last year to prepare for motherhood. Priyanka Kerketta and Rintu Mathew took the top two spots, ahead of Neena, at the 2019 Ranchi Open Nationals, her last competition before the break. The two maintained the same order in the recent Federation Cup too. Strong fight “But when I come back next year, I expect a lot of young girls to give me a strong fight. There is Ancy Sojan and also Anju George’s trainee Shaili Singh,” said Neena, who is employed with the Railways. She has started working on her fitness at her home in Kozhikode and will soon start training with her husband, former sprint hurdler Pinto Mathew, at Pala. “I’m very comfortable with Pinto, the training timings can be very flexible too,” she explained. Despite the break, Neena feels that motherhood comes with many advantages too. “They say, one gets stronger after delivery, it’s a new experience for me, I want to see how it works.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asiad-gold-is-long-jumper-neenas-goal/article34637749.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vidit and Abhimanyu pull out of AICF’s online selection event||Hoping to qualify for next month’s chess World Cup by virtue of his high world ranking, Grandmaster Vidit Gujrathi withdrew from the AICF online selection tournament for the World Cup on Monday. The pull-out of Vidit and fellow GM Abhimanyu Puranik reduced the field to 17 players. The winner of the event will grab India’s lone qualifying spot for the World Cup, scheduled from July 10 to August 6, at Sochi (Russia). “Given my rating, I should make the list of those directly seeded for the World Cup,” said Vidit when contacted on Monday. “I have been playing the World Cup for the past three editions. “After qualifying from the Asian championship, I have made it twice in succession on my rating. So I have reasons to be confident of making it one more time,” said a confident Vidit. Elaborating the reason for his withdrawal from the Indian qualifying tournament, Vidit said: “After deliberations with those who know more about the qualification process, I thought it would be unfair to play the qualifying event and spoil someone’s chances of getting the available World Cup quota.” Vidit is ranked 23rd in the world, behind compatriots Anand (16th) and P. Harikrishna (21st). The list of 206 World Cup participants will be finalised in the first week of June. The top-50 players will join 78 first-round winners in the knockout tournament. 17 rounds With the withdrawal of two players, the round-robin tournament will now see 17 rounds, with one player getting a bye in each round. On the opening day, there will be three rounds, followed by four rounds each on the next two days. The last two days will see three rounds each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-and-abhimanyu-pull-out-of-aicfs-online-selection-event/article34637627.ece
25 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Milkha hospitalised, condition stable||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, who has tested positive for COVID-19, was on Monday hospitalised, with his son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh saying that it was a precautionary measure. The 91-year-old Milkha had been in home isolation at his Chandigarh residence after he tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. He has now been admitted to Fortis hospital in Mohali. Hospital sources said that Milkha’s condition was “stable”. “He has been hospitalised. He was weak and not eating since yesterday, so we had to hospitalise him. Though his parameters seemed all right, we thought it is safer to have him admitted where he would be under supervision of senior doctors,” Jeev said. “He is under the good care of the doctors there. He is a strong man, always positive and will recover soon,” added the golfer, who reached here on Saturday from Dubai after his father tested positive. None of the other family members, including Milkha's wife Nirmal Kaur, returned a positive test. “Wishing a speedy recovery to Flying Sikh Milkha Singh who has been admitted in hospital in Mohali for COVID-19 treatment. Get well soon, sir!” Punjab CM Capt. Amarinder Singh tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-hospitalised-condition-stable/article34637634.ece
25 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Jaffer joins race to be Mumbai’s coach||Wasim Jaffer, the former India opening batsman, has entered the race to be Mumbai’s next coach along with former teammates Amol Muzumdar, Sairaj Bahutule and Sulakshan Kulkarni. The deadline set by the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) for aspiring candidates to apply for the job expired on Monday evening. An MCA official confirmed that “at least nine applicants” have applied for the prestigious post. Controversial run Jaffer, after retiring last year as the highest run-getter in Ranji history, had a controversial run as Uttarakhand coach during the curtailed domestic season. He has also been the batting coach for Punjab Kings in the last two IPL editions. Jaffer will be vying for the pressure-filled job along with two other former Mumbai Ranji Trophy-winning captains in Muzumdar and Bahutule, both of whom were part of the Rajasthan Royals support staff. While Bahutule has been the Gujarat coach for the last two seasons, Muzumdar was in contention for the Mumbai coach’s post for the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Kulkarni has achieved the player-coach double of lifting the Ranji title. Interestingly, he combined with Jaffer, then the captain, for Mumbai’s title in 2012-13. The others who have applied are former Mumbai coach and 1983 World Cup champion Balwinder Singh Sandhu, former Mumbai assistant coach Pradeep Sunderam and former Afghanistan assistant coach Umesh Patwal. Two seasoned coaches, who have been involved extensively in Mumbai’s junior coaching set-up — Nandan Phadnis and Vinod Raghavan — have also applied for the role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaffer-joins-race-to-be-mumbais-coach/article34638181.ece
25 May 2021||KOCHI:,||Jamalu passes away||Former State volleyballer P. Jamalu, who played alongside stars like Cyril C. Vallor, Udayakumar and Abdul Razak in Kerala Police team a few decades ago, passed away Kunnamkulam, Thrissur, on Monday. He was 58. Ameerudzdin dead V.T. Ameeruddin, a coach who moulded many a talent while working at the Kannur Sports Division, passed away at Kozhikode on Monday. He was 58. “He was the coach who taught the basics of volleyball to a majority of players in the State. After his retirement from the Sports Council, he joined as a coach at EMA College, Kondotty,” said Nalakath Basheer, Kerala’s seasoned volleyball official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jamalu-passes-away/article34637851.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||HI inducts new umpires, technical officials||Hockey India has inducted 126 new umpires and technical officials into its panel, making them eligible to officiate in domestic tournaments in the sub-junior and junior categories. The umpires and technical officials, including judges, were selected after two sets of online workshops conducted between September 2020 to March this year. A total of 60 judges (21 female and 39 male) have been added to the list, besides 66 umpires (16 female and 50 male).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hi-inducts-new-umpires-technical-officials/article34637677.ece
25 May 2021||Belgrade,||Divij & Smith pair bows out||Divij Sharan and John-Patrick Smith of Australia was beaten 6-4, 5-7, [10-6] by Andre Goransson and Rafael Matos in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €511,000 ATP tennis tournament in here on Monday. In the WTA event in France, Karman Kaur Thandi was beaten 2-6, 6-4, 6-2 in the second and final qualifying round by Diane Parry of France. Karman had beaten Zheng Qinwen of China in the third set tie-break in the first round, which assured her of 12 WTA points.  The results:   €511,000 ATP, Belgrade: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Andre Goransson (Swe) & Rafael Matos (Bra) bt John-Patrick Smith (Aus) & Divij Sharan 6-4, 5-7, [10-6].   €189,708 WTA, Strasbourg: Qualifying (second and final round): Diane Parry (Fra) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 2-6, 6-4, 6-2; First round: Karman bt Zheng Qinwen (Chn) 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-smith-pair-bows-out/article34637681.ece
25 May 2021||PARIS,||Shapovalov to miss French Open||Canada’s World No. 15 Denis Shapovalov withdrew from the Roland Garros due to a shoulder injury on Sunday. “I am saddened to share that after consulting with my medical team I have made the difficult decision to withdraw from Roland Garros,” the 22-year-old wrote on Instagram. “Unfortunately, my shoulder has been bothering me over the last few weeks and, while all medical tests look good, it is for the best to play it safe and rest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shapovalov-to-miss-french-open/article34637695.ece
25 May 2021||Bengaluru,||John Michael passes away||John Michael, joint secretary of the Karnataka State Hockey Association (KSHA), passed away on Monday. John had been admitted to a hospital after contracting COVID-19. He was discharged after testing negative, but passed away at his residence, the KSHA stated. John was the father of the late international hockey player Sandeep Michael, who had passed away in November 2018, at the age of 33. John was associated with KSHA for around 25 years, in which he served the sport in various capacities. The KSHA condoled his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/john-michael-passes-away/article34637679.ece
25 May 2021||DUBAI,||Hussamuddin eases past Sabyrkhan||Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Mohammad Hussamuddin gave India a fine start by defeating the 19-year-old rising Kazakh boxer and Boxam tournament gold medallist Makhmud Sabyrkhan in a 56kg first round bout on the opening day of the Asian boxing championships here on Monday. Hussamuddin, 27, defeated Sabyrkhan 5-0. Against the taller Sabyrkhan, southpaw Hussamuddin mixed his body and head shots well. With the Kazakh showing more aggression in the second round, Hussamuddin maintained a safe distance, looking to counterattack. The Indian gave a good account of himself in a heavy exchange of punches in the final round to emerge winner. Hussamuddin will take on top seed Mirazizbek Mirzahalilov of Uzbekistan in the quarterfinals on Tuesday. World championships bronze medallist Simranji Kaur (60kg), Sakshi Chaudhary (54kg), Jasmine (57kg) and male boxer Sanjeet (91kg) will figure in quarterfinal bouts on Tuesday. Olympic-bound boxer Simranjit will face Uzbekistan’s Raykhona Kodirova, two-time World youth champion Sakshi will meet Ruhafzo Haqazarova of Tajikistan and Boxam silver medallist Jasmine will be up against Mongolian Oyuntsetseg Yesugen. Second-seeded Sanjeet, who received a first round bye, will meet Jasur Qurbonov of Tajikistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hussamuddin-eases-past-sabyrkhan/article34637626.ece
25 May 2021||Southampton,||NZ’s IPL contingent joins team’s training||The New Zealand players involved in the now-suspended IPL-14, including skipper Kane Williamson, have joined the team’s training session for the upcoming two-match Test series against host England, New Zealand Cricket (NZC) said on Monday. The IPL contingent comprising Williamson, Kyle Jamieson, Mitchell Santner, team physio Tommy Simsek and Chris Donaldson, the national team’s strength and conditioning coach, arrived in the UK last week from the Maldives, where they stopped over after their departure from India. “Back together! In positive news the IPL contingent have joined team training for the first time today. In not so positive news the team are training inside again,” the BLACKCAPS tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nzs-ipl-contingent-joins-teams-training/article34637629.ece
25 May 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI to donate 2000 oxygen concentrators||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Monday announced that it will donate 2000 oxygen concentrators to boost India’s efforts in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. A BCCI statement hoped that “this initiative will reduce the havoc unleashed by the pandemic”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-to-donate-2000-oxygen-concentrators/article34637625.ece
26 May 2021||May 25 2021 09:31 IST,||Sudoku — May 25, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-25-2021/article34638363.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Draw up a centralised vaccine procurement policy: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday requested the Central government to not take vaccination as a “joke” and to give approval for Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, and Pfizer vaccines and buy these vaccines for citizens of the country. Mr. Sisodia also wrote a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan urging the Central government to come up with centralised vaccine procurement and allocation policy to “prevent any further loss of life”. ‘Ready to pay price’ He also said that Delhi is ready to pay the price for the vaccines and experts have warned that the next wave is likely to affect children the most. “Scarcity of vaccines is ubiquitous all over the nation. In fact, districts in many States have not received vaccines at all and even the ones that had vaccines are now shut due to shortage. The Central government is fully responsible for this dearth of vaccines that the nation is currently facing. It has failed in its vaccine management completely,” the AAP Minister said in a video statement earlier in the day. He said that when the Delhi government raised the demand for vaccines, the Central government only provided four lakh doses and asked the State to float a global tender. “We reached out to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. Moderna and Pfizer told us that they are exclusively speaking with the Central government and will not distribute vaccines to any State governments,” he said. Mr. Sisodia questioned what the Central government was doing when other countries were eyeing procurement of vaccines and passing advance orders. “According to some statistics, the US and European Union ordered 70 crore vaccines in November 2020 itself. Today, the US has enough vaccines to vaccinate all citizens of the country. Britain gave approval for Pfizer in December, but we were sleeping then and we are sleeping now also. Britain has acquired enough vaccines to vaccinate 75% of its population in January itself but our government is busy vilifying States instead,” he said. The Minister said that it is time the Central government understood the gravity of the situation and procured vaccines from global companies. “It’s time to rise above petty politics and think about the safety of our citizens,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/draw-up-a-centralised-vaccine-procurement-policy-sisodia/article34637802.ece
25 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BKU outfit remains firm on Patiala protest||Dismissing Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal not to go ahead with their protest, which could turn into a super-spreader of COVID-19, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest farmer’s unions in Punjab, on Monday said it would go ahead with its three-day protest in Patiala. Sukhdev Singh, general secretary of BKU(U), told The Hindu the proposed protest against the ruling Congress government in Punjab for its alleged failure to control and manage the situation arising out of COVID-19 will be held as planned from May 28 with all precautions in place. Mr. Singh said imposing a lockdown was not an appropriate solution for battling COVID-19. “Instead, the government along with all stakeholders should organise a comprehensive information and education campaign surrounding COVID-19. It should also ensure adequate financial support for the livelihood, employment, income and business of the people in case the lockdown is inevitable. The vaccine against the disease should be made available to all people free of cost,” he said. Asking BKU(U) not to hold the protest, the Chief Minister had stated that the event could turn into a super-spreader and had the potential to negate the gains made by his government in tackling COVID-19 in the State. Captain Singh urged the farmers’ group not to act irresponsibly and jeopardise the lives of their own people with such reckless behaviour amid the pandemic, especially when there is a complete ban in the State on all gatherings and any violation of the ban would be highly detrimental to the interests of Punjab and its people. Such a ‘dharna’ would draw people mainly from the villages, which were in any case going through a crisis during the second wave of the pandemic, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bku-outfit-remains-firm-on-patiala-protest/article34638099.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||CM asks Centre to import Moderna, Pfizer vaccines||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said COVID cases had dipped significantly and the second wave had also waned but the Delhi government continued to make preparations to tackle an imminent third wave. Third wave Requesting the Centre to import vaccines, Mr. Kejriwal said both Moderna and Pfizer had refused to sell vaccines directly to State governments. “Now the cases are reducing significantly. For the country, this is the second wave but for Delhi, this is the fourth wave. This time, in the last week of April, around 28,000 cases were recorded but now they have come down to 1,500. The infection rate had reached 36% in the last week of April, which is now 2.5%,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “It seems that this wave is subsiding but there has been no laxity in the efforts by the Delhi government. We have already started preparing for the next surge in cases — the third wave,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal on Monday inspected an oxygen depot in west Delhi’s Mayapuri where around 6,000 oxygen cylinders imported from China are to be stored of which 4,400 have been received and the remaining are expected within 2 to 3 days. Mr. Kejriwal said the government was preparing depots of 2,000 cylinders each at three locations. “We faced a lot of challenges in importing these 6,000 cylinders from China as I understand that no such big consignment has been imported in India during this pandemic. Both HCL and Give India Foundation have donated for this, and we are very grateful to them for the same,” he added. The Delhi government, he said, had talked to representatives from Pfizer and Moderna with both stating that they would communicate with the Centre directly. There were a lot of COVID vaccines in the International market such as Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer and the Centre should talk to them and import vaccine doses, he said. “We talked to Moderna, we talked to Pfizer and talks concluded within 2-3 days, so why can’t this be the case that the Central Government calls, invites and talks to these companies and I think within 3-4 days deals and agreements can be made with all the companies. Why is the work not being done with urgency?” he asked. “I am happy that Bharat Biotech is willing to share its formula with everyone. The Centre should call, invite and talk to all 16 [vaccine manufacturing] companies and formally order and not request them that these 16 companies will start their production within the next few days,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-asks-centre-to-import-moderna-pfizer-vaccines/article34637805.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Those who have beaten COVID-19 must focus on mental health, eat well’||Deputy Medical Superintendent of Delhi government’s LNJP Hospital, Ritu Saxena, says people who have recovered from COVID-19 must eat a well-balanced diet and exercise regularly in order to fully recuperate from the disease What should people do after recovering from COVID-19? How much time does it take to recuperate? After recovering from COVID-19, people should try to keep their mental health strong. What we find is that the disease has a psychosocial impact on the person’s health. Also, concentrate on good nutrition. After any major illness, the body becomes weak. So, we have seen many patients getting bacterial infections after recovering and they are coming to the hospital with UTI or other infections. Exercising is also very important. If it was a very severe case of COVID-19, then the patient may take months to recuperate. If not, the patient recuperates in 15-20 days. What type of exercises should people do? Some people, who suffered a severe infection, get very weak during the illness and are not able to do any physical activity. Those who have mild symptoms should continue physical activity such as taking a stroll in an isolated area — even when they are positive. Also, they should do breathing exercises such as pranayam . Once they have recovered, they should go to open areas and do stretching, yoga, and continue with the breathing exercises. Take it light in the beginning and exercise as per the body’s demand. If you are feeling comfortable, then you can slowly increase intensity. What type of foods should people eat after testing negative? During COVID-19, many people suffer loss of taste and smell. So, once they have recovered, they want to indulge in sweets and junk food. They think they should do what they could not during the illness. People should not do this. Avoid take-out and junk food. You should eat fruits, vegetables, milk, and a lot of fiber — basically a healthy diet. You should also take nibu pani [lemon water], tender coconut water etc. for vitamin C and stay hydrated. Any medicine or supplements? People are taking all sorts of supplements. If you are okay after recovery, then taking a well-balanced diet will be enough. Vitamins are needed 15-20 days from the start of the disease. If you had severe infection and were hospitalised and still feeling very weak, then continue with supplements as per directions of the doctor. One should not take too much of supplements. Which patients, with existing conditions, should be careful? People with diabetes, chronic kidney disease, pregnant women, and immuno-compromised people, who had TB or HIV, should take more care than others. For people with diabetes, if they were given steroids, then their sugar levels may fluctuate, and they should be careful. What are the problems that patients face post-recovery? People who have recovered are complaining of body pain, weakness and some are even complaining of pain in one particular arm or leg. These are symptoms of vitamin deficiency. But the risky ones are where sugar levels are not in control, blood pressure is fluctuating, or fungal infection. Black fungus cases are increasing. It is usually seen in people who are on heavy doses of steroids. They should take care of hygiene and maintain proper sugar levels. We are also seeing white fungal infection, which happens most of the time inside the mouth. It can be easily taken care of by taking an oral antifungal, and also with vitamin supplements and proper diet. White fungal infection is seen in people recovering from any prolonged illness. How is the post-recovery phase different during this wave? One major difference is that during the last wave, people were getting better within a few days of testing negative. But this time, in the post-recovery phase also many are complaining of fever not subsiding and body pain. Even a month after getting infected, some are complaining of fever and dry cough. Last time, in most cases, people were recovering in 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/those-who-have-beaten-covid-19-must-focus-on-mental-health-eat-well/article34637800.ece
25 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||9,453 children went missing between Jan-July 2020: report||Atleast 9,453 cases of missing children were reported in Delhi and four neighbouring States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana between January-July 2020, according to data compiled from RTIs by NGO CRY. Nearly 75%, or 7,065, of the total missing children in these five States were girls, according to an analysis of the data. Madhya Pradesh led the five States with the maximum number of children missing at 5,446, followed by Delhi (1,828), Rajasthan (1,016), Uttar Pradesh (804) and Haryana (359).  Limited data The data was available only for 19 districts of U.P. out of the total 72. For Delhi, too, numbers for all police districts were not provided in the RTI. There was a nationwide lockdown in the country from March 25 to May 31, but children continued to go missing even though the numbers fell. “Our report shows that the numbers came down between March-April 2020 when lockdown was strictly imposed but a surge in numbers was seen immediately after relaxation in lockdown,” says Soha Moitra, the Regional Director, CRY (North). Another worrying trend is that the highest number of children who went missing belonged to the age group of 12-18 years. Out of 9,453 cases of missing children, 7,386 belonged to this category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/9453-children-went-missing-between-jan-july-2020-report/article34638102.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. begins study to find effect of double mutant strain||The Delhi government has started calling up about 2,550 people, who had tested positive for COVID-19, to understand the impact of mutations and variants of concern of the virus on people and vaccines, especially the double mutant strain, a senior Delhi government official said. Of the about 2,550 people, around 1,600 were detected to be infected with mutations and variants of concern during genome sequencing. The rest had tested negative for any of the mutations and variations of concern. “The idea is to mainly understand the effect of the double mutant on people, whether it is more deadly, infectious, or causing more reinfections. By collecting information from both groups of people, ones who were affected by variants and mutations of concern and others, we will be able to have a better understanding of the effect of double mutant,” the official told The Hindu.  The government has not officially announced any details about the commencement of the study. The decision to do the study was taken with an increase in double mutant strain of the virus (B.1.617) observed in Delhi, as per officials. Questions asked People are asked whether it was the first or the second time they were infected, whether it was a severe infection or not and other questions to understand how the double mutant strain of the virus is affecting people. “People are also asked whether they had taken the vaccine before getting infected. If yes, then whether they had taken both shots. For instance, if a large number of people who were infected by the double mutant strain of the virus say they got infected even after taking the vaccine, then it will show that vaccines are not working that well against it. But we have just started the process now and can’t say anything right now,” the official said. The government started calling up people over phone from Friday and the process is expected to be completed this week. The data compiled by the Delhi government will then be analysed by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Variants of concern The mutations and variants of concern that are being studied include the U.K. variant, the double mutant strain, and the South African variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-begins-study-to-find-effect-of-double-mutant-strain/article34637804.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Nothing wrong with Delhi govt. order putting all doctors in one category’||The Delhi High Court on Monday remarked that there was nothing wrong in the Delhi government’s decision allowing all doctors and medical staffers to function in a single category, irrespective of the differences in their seniority and specialisation, in treatment of COVID patients. Justice Rekha Palli was of the view that the May 16 notification appeared to be dealing only with COVID management duties of doctors. “What is the problem with this? What is your ego issue in this? I don’t see anything wrong in this. I am sorry a doctor is coming to court like this,” the judge remarked. Without L-G’s approval “Prima facie I see nothing wrong with the order. It is only with regard to COVID management,” Justice Palli said while hearing a plea which challenged the notification on the ground that it was arbitrary and issued without the approval of the Lt Governor as required under the amended GNCTD Act which came into force on April 27. The petitioner-doctor was aggrieved by the notification as it put allopathic and non-allopathic doctors as well as junior and senior residents in one category for treating COVID patients. Delhi government said the idea behind the notification was to ensure every ward was manned during the pandemic and only the authorised doctors can administer medicines or provide treatment. The court has listed the case for further hearing on May 27. The doctor posted at GTB Hospital said that the notification would “severely cast its negative impact on the treatment of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nothing-wrong-with-delhi-govt-order-putting-all-doctors-in-one-category/article34637795.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Gap in demand, supply of black fungus drug: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday said there was a “wide gap to bridge” between demand and supply of medicine — Amphotericin B — used for treating black fungus, which is primarily affecting COVID-19 recovered people. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said drastic steps are required, including exploring the possibility of importing the medicines to tide over the current requirement. The High Court was informed by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, that on May 21 there were around 200 cases of Mucormycosis (black fungus) in the Capital, but the number has jumped to 475 as on Monday. Stretched to the limit During the hearing, the Centre’s counsel indicated the expected supply of the medicine stock in May and June, early delivery of its import and ramping up of production. The Centre’s counsel acknowledged that there was gap between the demand and supply, but due to the present situation, the capacity for production whether in India or abroad, is “being stretched to the limit”. The court has directed the Centre to submit a status report with all the relevant details and listed the issue for hearing on May 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gap-in-demand-supply-of-black-fungus-drug-hc/article34637796.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhiites being looted due to govt. negligence’||The BJP on Monday alleged that the average Delhi citizen was cheated and looted by hospitals in the past 15 months due to alleged mismanagement and negligence of the Delhi government. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and spokesperson Richa Pandey Mishra alleged that the Delhi government had been patronising a “nexus” both overtly and covertly. “When the pandemic was setting its feet fast in the Capital and the matter about private hospitals fleecing people in the name of treatment came to the fore, at the intervention of Centre, the State government issued a circular fixing rates for beds in these hospitals,” Mr. Gupta said. “Delhiites are facing COVID-19 on the one hand, black marketing in the name of treatment on the other. Oxygen concentrators were selling at Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh per piece. Similarly, oxygen cylinders, which should be refilled for just Rs. 350 to Rs. 400, were being refilled for Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 30,000,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhiites-being-looted-due-to-govt-negligence/article34637797.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||L-G orders purchase of drugs for black fungus||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has asked for real time assessment and review of the requirement of drugs related to mucormycosis or black fungus treatment at Delhi hospitals. He has also directed for their immediate procurement. According to government sources, any additional and prospective logistical requirements in hospitals with regard to treatment of mucormycosis should also be addressed at the earliest, the L-G directed. “He has advised that a robust and effective system should be put in place across hospitals – government and private – for proper screening, diagnosis, reporting and treatment of the disease,” sources said. This, the L-G directed, should include the availability of essential drugs and healthcare facilities in accordance with the protocol and guidelines in place on the subject as issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “Simultaneously, in larger public interest, steps may also be taken to disseminate information about the infection and its prevention and cure amongst the general public to avoid any situation of panic, the L-G has directed. He has also sought an action taken report in this regard,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-orders-purchase-of-drugs-for-black-fungus/article34637798.ece
25 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||4 arrested for assaulting Muslim meat seller in U.P.||Four persons have been arrested in Moradabad for allegedly thrashing a Muslim meat seller, the police said on Monday. Video goes viral A video of the assault, in which the trader is seen being thrashed by a group of men allegedly led by a self-styled cow-vigilante ( gau rakshak ) with a lathi on Sunday, was widely shared on social media. Moradabad Senior Superintendent of Police Prabhakar Chaudhary said a case has been registered under serious clauses in the matter against five-six accused. The Moradabad police said that efforts were being made to arrest the remaining two accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-arrested-for-assaulting-muslim-meat-seller-in-up/article34638101.ece
25 May 2021||New Delhi,||Capital sees 1,550 cases, 207 deaths||Delhi reported 1,550 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,18,418, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 207 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 23,409. A total of 61,506 tests was done during the period, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 13,70,431 people have recovered and there are 24,578 active cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 2.52%, which means about six out of 100 people taking COVID-19 tests are positive. The TPR was 36.2% on April 22, but since then, it has stayed below it. A decrease in positivity is a good sign, as per experts. Meanwhile, 39 children below the age of 12 were admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital during the second wave of the infection till May 22, according to the hospital spokesperson. Also, a drive-through vaccination centre will be opened at Vegas Mall in Dwarka, by Chief Minister on Wednesday, said Aakash Healthcare. According to a government bulletin, there is no vaccine left for the 18-44 age group. Also, Covaxin stock will last for less than a day for vaccinating people above 45, healthcare and front-line workers. “How come vaccines are not available for the State governments, but is available at private facilities, who are inoculating people at very high costs of Rs. 850-1,250? At Rs. 1,000 per dose of vaccine, a family of five would have to spend Rs. 10,000 on vaccines. There are homes in Delhi who have a collective income of Rs. 10,000 a month. How can they afford this?” AAP leader Atishi asked. Ms. Atishi said that not getting Covaxin on time can create problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-sees-1550-cases-207-deaths/article34637803.ece
25 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Chandigarh allows shops to open||The Union Territory of Chandigarh on Monday decided to allow shops to open as the COVID-19 cases have started to drop. The decision was taken in a meeting presided over by Punjab Governor cum administrator of Chandigarh V.P. Singh Badnore here. An official statement said all shops will be allowed to remain open from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in view of the substantial reduction in the number of cases.  H.P. extends lockdown The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet has decided to extend the lockdown till May 31. In a meeting held in Shimla under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the Cabinet reviewed the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chandigarh-allows-shops-to-open/article34638100.ece
25 May 2021||Patna,||Bihar extends lockdown till June 1||The Bihar government on Monday extended the COVID-19 lockdown for a week, till June 1, even as there was a sharp decline in number of people infected in the State. “There has been a good impact of the lockdown with a decline in the number of infections. So decision has been taken to extend the lockdown period for a week from May 25 to June 1 in the State,” tweeted Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-extends-lockdown-till-june-1/article34638103.ece
25 May 2021||May 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Love notes and scented cards||What is your first memory of smell? Mine is of smelling my sister’s head the day she was born, August 16, 1979. I really liked that smell of a clean human scalp, talc, and also surprise. Forty years later, in late 2019, when people started losing their sense of smell at the start of the pandemic, in a collective anosmia, the question became even more pertinent. I also started asking it a lot as part of a project that I started in Goa last year, along with impresario Sacha Mendes. We called it called Dial-a-Perfume. A phone-based service to speak with people about their memories of smell in a world where the unthinkable was happening, where ‘loss of the nose’ had become a symptom. People would call and I would try and interpret their words into a fragrance, and sometimes even a unique hand ‘purificator’. These were called Oté , referring to hands in Japanese, a word that is believed to represent the final stages by which all actions become possible. To handle means to manifest, and hands create a passage from the conceptual to the real. We also use our hands for gestures that can, at times, be even more powerful than words, such as the mudra . The photos here are of me in my studio, playing with mudras in gloved hands, while taking breaks from making the fragrances. My longtime collaborator and close friend, artist Shivani Gupta, shot them. They felt so eerie at the time, and still do actually, that I was hesitant to share them.  The intimacy of perfumes  We set up a little perfumer’s table at Olaulim Backyards, nestled in the forests of the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary by the estuary of the Mandovi river, in the midst of frangipani trees, fragrant Konkan lime and cashew trees. And Mendes helped us create the link with the community over WhatsApp, as all our spaces were shut. Someone called us one Sunday and said that she would like to surprise her close friend in San Francisco. We chatted with her about her memories of happy smells and decided to make something. Of course, making an actual fragrance takes years, but for this project we decided to weave smells like a patchwork quilt, of streams of memories — the only thing that we could do in this complicated time. Then came the challenge of having to send something to San Francisco while being in a small village in Goa. Our studio and laboratory in Paris were shut at that time. Creating in the midst of global mayhem is not a simple thing; it demands a strong intuitive capacity, a love for the people calling, as well as the joint energies of many collaborators helping out. The lady talked at length about smoke, forests, leather seats and chalk, and we decided to send a perfumed letter to her friend (a lover, I presumed), but weren’t quite sure how to do it. None of the courier services were operating. In an ideal scenario, my perfumery should have been an online service where people could receive any fragrance they wanted with just a click. And, quite honestly, that is the reason why my perfume colleagues — such as those in Paris or, for that matter, any of the selective brands and even niche perfumeries, like my mentor and professor Marc Antoine Corticchiato — did so well despite the constraints. Because infrastructure was a lot more resilient where they were. But that is where being in a tiny village really helped us. One doesn’t realise how amazing India Post is. Martha, our neighbour down the street, worked there and very deftly packaged the fragrance and sent it off to San Francisco. It seems incredible right now that a love parcel from a tiny Goan village arrived safe and in time halfway across the world.  Come, smell with us  Most conversations with people who called us were highly emotional because smell does that — it makes every topic a poignant one. Never before had we received so many messages from people both in India and outside, asking us for our catalogue of creations which they intended to link to their travels as scented reminders, at a time when memories were all they had. It was less about a particular place and more about a celebration of their summer holidays in various places. Smells heal; they have that incredible capacity though we don’t exactly know how. In the midst of all this, both my parents living in New Delhi fell sick with COVID-19 in a very brutal way. While my dad was in the hospital, I created a card game to distract and help my mother convalesce with smells. Every card represented a mood, an emotion, and a state of well-being. The highlight of the day would be to pick a card, and its corresponding oil would be her fragrance for that day. I think these smells sustained her during that difficult period. My parents recovered and I went back to my riverside studio. Many of us now know what everyday life is without scent. Or when the sense of smell has been altered. It is a world where newborn babies do not have a smell, and where food tastes of nothing. Earlier, we had worked with a few people who were anosmic, but today this invisible disability is in the open and we can do something about it. Since March 2020, we have been conducting Smell Meditations with Minakshi Kanoongo, a Delhi-based yoga therapist, and sharing these meditations at large with whoever needs it. We still don’t know what we smell (there are contradictory studies about how smell molecules behave), and I so wish we could know that, but for those who have lost their sense of smell one thing is clear: everything or every time you smell, it builds a kind of muscle memory, similar to while dancing. So the most important thing is to keep smelling. Cut a lemon or an orange (citrus is the fruit of choice for the month of May), cut an apple, have a piece of ginger and smell it for a few seconds every day, consistently. *We recommend that all wellness routines be undertaken only after consulting a doctor   Smell Meditations, every Monday,   Wednesday and Saturday, on Google Meet. To sign up, DM the team @theperfumelibrary.     Jahnvi Lakhota Nandan is the perfumer-founder of The Perfume Library, a space dedicated to the design of perfumes and performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/love-notes-and-scented-cards/article34637793.ece
