26 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR/Kolkata,||Over 13 lakh evacuated as Yaas races towards Odisha coastline||Several thousands of people in coastal districts of Odisha are bracing for the impact of the very severe cyclonic storm, Yaas, which is set to hit the coast with wind speeds of 155-165 kmph early on Wednesday morning. The State government has moved over two lakh people from vulnerable areas to safety. In neighbouring West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said about 11 lakh people have been evacuated and given shelter in 4,000 cyclone shelters of the State. Ms. Banerjee said that there were reports of localised tornadoes at two places Halisahar in Nadia and Chinsurah in Hooghly district of the State. In view of the weather conditions, Kolkata Airport has decided to suspend flight operations from 8.30 a.m. to 7.45 p.m on Wednesday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclone was intensifying and moving north-northwest and is likely to make a landfall near north Odisha coast very close to Chandbali-Dhamra port. According to the IMD wind speeds would further increase to 155-165 kmph over northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha and adjoining West Bengal coasts including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Bhadrak, from early morning of May 26. The system will extend to Balasore district of Odisha from the forenoon of May 26. Tidal waves of height 2-4 metres are likely to inundate low lying areas of, Balasore, Bhadrak and about 2 metres above tide are likely to hit coastal areas of, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur Districts around the time of landfall. “We had started the process of evacuation from Monday. As of now, more than 2.5 lakh people have been evacuated and the process is going on,” said Pradeep Kumar Jena, Odisha Special Relief Commissioner, addressing a press conference here. The government said it was prepared for landfall near Bhitarakanika, Dhamra and Chandbali. It has also brought new areas such as parts of Dhenkanal, Angul and Sundargarh districts under disaster management operations along with Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Jajpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-13-lakh-evacuated-as-yaas-races-towards-odisha-coastline/article34645703.ece
26 May 2021||MANGALURU,||Miniature sculpture of the Buddha found||A miniature sculpture of the Buddha has been found in Alembi of 76 Badagabettu village in Udupi district. According to Associate Professor T. Murugeshi, the sculpture, made out of soft sandstone, looks like a replica of the Sarnath Buddha. The sculpture was found in the debris removed from an abandoned well in the village. Earlier, during excavation, a sculpture of Janardhana was found at a depth of about 23ft in the same well, Prof. Murugeshi of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva, Udupi district, said in a release on Tuesday. The sculpture of the Buddha is nine centimetres high and five centimetres wide. It is two centimetres thick. “The Buddha has been carved out very beautifully and is seated on a lotus pedestal in Dharma Chakra Pravarthana Mudre. Below the seat, six disciples are seated on either side of the Dharma Chakra. The Lord wears clothes and ear-rings. A small Ushnisha is shown on the top of the head. In the back of the head, a beautifully carved round lobe is seen. On the top corners, two Yakshas and, on either side of his back, two winged horses have been carved out,” he said. The sculpture is in the Gupta style. Earlier, a Brahmi inscription of the 4th or the 5th century AD carved out on an earthen lid was found in the same vicinity. Traditionally, the ancient Tulu Nadu was said to be ruled by the Kadambas of Banavasi. The Guptas and the Kadambas of Banavasi had matrimonial relations. Hence, the discovery of the Buddha sculpture is not an uncommon thing. But, it has thrown open a new chapter in the history of Udupi district and in the study of Buddhism in South India, Mr. Murugeshi said.  The Buddha has been carved out very beautifully and is seated on a lotus pedestal in Dharma Chakra Pravarthana Mudre; below the seat, six disciples are seated on either side of the Dharma Chakra and the Lord wears clothes and ear-rings. A small Ushnisha is shown on the top of the head. In the back of the head, a beautifully carved round lobe is seen. On the top corners, two Yakshas and, on either side of his back, two winged horses have been carved out. T. Murugeshi, Associate Professor, Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, MSRS College, Shirva, Udupi district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/miniature-sculpture-of-the-buddha-found/article34645814.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vaccine slots for 18+ booked in no time||It was like opening the flood gates when slot booking for vaccination at private hospitals for 18 to 44 age group was launched in the State on CoWin website on Tuesday evening. The slots were over in just a few hours. Managements of corporate hospitals in Hyderabad had anticipated the demand and made necessary arrangements. The slots at a corporate hospital in Nallagandla were booked for the next three days. Dr K T Devanand, CEO of Aster Prime Hospital in Hyderabad said they will start vaccinating a little over 100 each from 18-44 and above 45 years on Wednesday, and increase the slots in the coming days depending on the registrations. Corporate hospital managements are planning mass vaccination at workplaces, gated communities from this weekend. They were flooded with queries from corporates, residential welfare societies in this regard. However, corporate hospitals could not proceed with the drive since the State Health department did not permit this till Monday evening. Excitement levels surged when the State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday afternoon permitted Private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (PCVC) to give jabs to 18+ , and also conduct workplace vaccination. “We would also start vaccination at gated communities from this weekend provided they meet some requirements,” Dr Devanand said. CEO of Continental Hospital, Dr Riyaz Khan said that they have charted out plans for smooth conduct of vaccination for the 18+. “Continental Hospitals is signing up with most of the corporates. We plan to vaccinate over 75,000 people over the next three months. Around 600 doses will be available per day at our hospital,” Dr Khan said. Executive director of SLG Hospitals, DVS Soma Raju said they were expecting doses to be allotted from June 15. The State Health department has vaccinated 75,315 people on Tuesday. The vaccination drive resumed on Tuesday, after a gap of 10 days. Of the 75,315 people, 71,365 received second dose of COVID vaccine, and 3,950 were given first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-slots-for-18-booked-in-no-time/article34646165.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR orders tendering for lift irrigation schemes||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday gave the go ahead for tendering for 15 lift irrigation schemes that he announced at a public meeting ahead of the Nagarjunasagar Assembly by-election recently. Review meeting At a review meeting with irrigation officials, he asked them to invite tenders for the schemes in the ayacut of left canal of Nagarjunasagar from Devarakonda to Kodad. They were also asked to prepare the estimates of works by June 15 and then invite tenders. Energy Minister G. Jagdish Reddy was supposed to coordinate with officials in preparation of estimates for construction of canals and installation of pumps for the lifts. The estimates should be prepared scheme-wise but the tenders should be invited for all of them together. The lift irrigation schemes were announced at the time of laying of foundation stone for one of them at Nellikallu during Mr. Rao’s visit to Halia in Nagarjunasagar constituency to address a public meeting. An old tender for the lift at Nellikallu should be cancelled and a fresh one finalised within a week, Mr. Rao said addressing the officials. He asked them to complete the lining work on Distributary Below Manair (DBM) - 71 from Mailaram to Suryapet be taken up to ensure that the water of Kaleswaram project was lifted to fill all the tanks, reservoirs and check-dams. The flow of water from Pranahita river was forceful after June 20. The same should be lifted and filled in tanks, reservoirs and check-dams in the radar of the canal network of Kaleswaram project. The water availability in the project from Ellampalli to Dummugudem was up to October end. He reminded them about the belief of farmers that the crop was not exposed to pest attack if they took up sowings in ‘Rohini karte’. They also believed that crop yield was higher in such sowings. So, the tanks and reservoirs should be filled with water by then. Mr. Rao enquired about the works in progress on medium irrigation projects in Adilabad. He also enquired about work on lifts in Armoor and Balkonda constituencies. The work on Sitammasagar project in Khammam district should be completed by June next year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-orders-tendering-for-lift-irrigation-schemes/article34646172.ece
26 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Vaccine scarcity hits State’s fight against COVID||The pace of COVID-19 vaccination in the State is proceeding at a snail’s pace with vaccine scarcity, erratic supply and the difficulty in getting a vaccination slot leaving many in the 45-plus age group without the protection of even a single dose. The Centre’s opening up of COVID vaccination for the 18-44 age group on April 1, while vaccine scarcity was very much being felt and when vaccination of the most vulnerable group of senior citizens was nowhere near completion, has complicated the drive. The State’s initial plan had been to push ahead with vaccination. However, the plan, which had got off to a great start, was derailed in no time when the vaccine supply from the Centre began dwindling.  With the Centre announcing that it would no longer be supplying vaccines for inoculating the 18-44 age group and that States had to fend for themselves, Kerala stopped the supply of vaccines to private hospitals since May 1 and the campaign is now restricted to a handful of government hospitals. Following the chaotic scenes at vaccination centres, the State has stopped spot registration. But the vaccination slots available online are so limited that these get booked in no time. The government has purchased close to 8.5 lakh doses directly. But this is being used exclusively for vaccinating the priority groups and those with comorbidities in the 18-44 age group. “Right now, the vaccination of those in the 45-plus group and that of the 18-44 group is proceeding at a snail’s pace. Many who are 60 plus and considered the most vulnerable to COVID have not received even a single dose of vaccine. The data from CoWin show that only 33,37,977 doses have been administered amongst this group. The Centre has extended the inter-dose interval of Covishield vaccine from 12 to 16 weeks,” a Health official said. Covaxin out of stock However, Covaxin’s dosage interval remains eight weeks . Many in the 45-plus age group who have taken the first dose of Covaxin and who are due for the second dose are in a fix now because the State has totally run out of Covaxin stock. Though additional supplies are expected soon, this would be in very limited quantities and an individual’s odds of getting a vaccination slot remain low. Meanwhile, studies which indicate that a single dose of vaccine offers very low protection against the virus variant B.1.617.1, the dominant strain in circulation in the State, has raised alarm that a chunk of the elderly are remaining vulnerable to infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-scarcity-hits-states-fight-against-covid/article34645872.ece
26 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Shrouds ‘removed’ from sand burials in Prayagraj||In a curious move, the administration in Prayagraj has allegedly removed the saffron and yellow shrouds from bodies buried in the sand on the ghats of the Ganga days after it was reported that the bodies could be of suspected COVID-19 victims. Visuals widely shared on social media showed cleaners deployed by the administration removing the shrouds, many of which traditionally also carry the name of Lord Ram, and the wooden stubs from the mounds of sand at Shringverpur Ghat. A senior official, however, claimed that only shrouds that were scattered on the ghat were being removed while those on mounds of sand where the bodies were buried were not touched. “We are only cleaning the dirty clothes and shrouds that people leave behind or abandon on the side of the ghats,” Soraon Sub-Divisional Magistrate Anil Kumar Chaturvedi told The Hindu . Mr. Chaturvedi said such cleaning drives are not new. Asked what was the trigger for the present drive, the SDM said the place looked dirty of late and cited the media attention that the ghats were receiving. “ Bahut gandagi log kar diye hain. Media ke log jaa rahe hain na, kharab lag raha hai dekhne mein (People have left a mess out there. Now journalists are visiting the ghat and it doesn’t look good),” he said. Ever since countless bodies were found floating in the Ganga in different parts of Uttar Pradesh, followed by the discovery of shallow graves on sandy ghats in Unnao, Kannauj, Prayagraj and Raebareli among other districts, the State government announced support money for poor people who could not afford to cremate their dead in order to dissuade them from disposing of the bodies in the river. At many places, the administration has not allowed any new bodies to be buried on the ghats and set up pickets in several districts and patrolling by police on boats. In Prayagraj too, Mr. Chaturvedi said they had put a stop to the burials. He said they were concerned that the bodies would rise to the surface during the rainy season. Priyanka questions drive Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted a video showing some men removing the shrouds from bodies on a ghat. She questioned the cleaning on the ghats. “Did not get treatment when alive. Many did not even get last rites with honour. Did not find a place in the government data. Now, even the Ramnami is being snatched from their graves,” she wrote. Ms. Vadra said this was disrespect of the deceased, religion and humanity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shrouds-removed-from-sand-burials-in-prayagraj/article34646143.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Preterm baby loses mother to COVID-19; put on ventilator||A newborn, who lost her mother to COVID-19 just days after her birth, is on ventilator support at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in the city. Fortunately, the baby girl has not contracted the infection. The seven-day-old is a preterm baby delivered after eight months of pregnancy by a woman who turned out to be COVID-19 positive. The woman died of complications from the infection on Monday evening. “The baby is moderate preterm and weighs 1.8 kg. In such babies, all the vital organs are not fully developed. The baby has been put on ventilator support, but her condition is stable. We hope the baby will fully develop and come to a normal condition in the next 8-10 days,” said Chikkanarasa Reddy, professor of Paediatrics, Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute. Tulasi Devi, medical superintendent, Gosha Hospital, where COVID-19 positive pregnant women and new mothers are being treated, said that since March, when the second wave hit the city, 513 pregnant women have been admitted with COVID-19, and 270 deliveries have been done at the hospital. Seven of the newborns developed COVID-19 infection, but all were cured and discharged, she added. Of the 513 admitted till date, 402 have been discharged. “Twenty pregnant women admitted with us have succumbed to COVID-19. The mother of the baby on ventilator support at Bowring Hospital was a SARI case and had her delivery at our hospital, but was later shifted to Bowring for specialised care,” she said.  The baby has been put on ventilator support, but her condition is stable. We hope the baby will come to a normal condition in the next 8-10 days Chikkanarasa Reddy,professor of Paediatrics, Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/preterm-baby-loses-mother-to-covid-19-put-on-ventilator/article34645745.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||New IT rules come into force today; will comply, says FB||While the new stricter rules for social media intermediaries such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Google. Twitter and Telegram, come into effect on Wednesday, a majority of platforms are yet to fully comply with ‘The Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021’. There is no clarity on the immediate consequences of non-compliance. However, experts say these companies could lose the ‘safe harbour’ protection that currently gives them protection against liability (civil as well as criminal) for content posted on their platform by third party users. In reply to a query, social media giant Facebook on Tuesday said it “aims to comply” with the provisions of the revised IT Rules and continues to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. “Pursuant to the IT Rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies. Facebook remains committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platform,” a spokesperson said. Meanwhile, in an emailed response, instant messaging firm Telegram said it has complied with “almost all the new IT laws” and has informed the concerned authorities regarding the compliance in writing. Indian microblogging platform Koo, has said that it has met the compliance requirements of the new rules. Twitter and WhatsApp did not comment on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-it-rules-come-into-force-today-will-comply-says-fb/article34645706.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State’s COVID tally crosses 16 lakh, 106 die in a day||The State’s COVID tally crossed the 16-lakh mark as it reported 15,284 new infections and 106 new deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. So far during the pandemic, at least 3.01% of the State’s 5.34 crore population have been infected with the cumulative tally of confirmed cases reaching 16,09,105. In the first wave between March 2020 and February 2021 (12 months) over 1.66% of the population got infected, and in the second wave between March 2021 and till date (3 months) over 1.44% got infected and there were nearly two lakh active cases. In other words, at least 3% of the population has been infected and 0.64% of them succumbed to the virus so far during the pandemic. The death toll stands at 10,328. Only 72,979 samples were tested in the past day and 20.94% of them turned positive. The daily positivity rate was not less than 20% during the past 17 days and that of the 1.87 crore samples tested so far was 8.58%. The tests per million ratio was at 3.51 lakh and the confirmed cases per million ratio was at 0.30 lakh. The number of recoveries crossed 14 lakh, with 20,917 recoveries in the past day. So far, 14,00,754 persons recovered from the disease and the recovery rate increased to 87.05%. The active case tally at 1,98,023  was below two lakh after 12 days.  New deaths and cases Chittoor reported 15 new deaths and was followed by Prakasam and West Godavari which reported 11 and 10 new deaths in the past day. Anantapur, East Godavari, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported nine new deaths each while Kurnool and Vizianagaram reported eight new deaths each. Srikakulam reported seven deaths and Guntur and Krishna reported five new deaths each. Kadapa reported one death in the past day. East Godavari continues to report the highest tally. With 2,663 new infections, it was the only district to report more than two thousand new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (1,970), Visakhapatnam (18,40), West Godavari (1,412), Kurnool (1,387), Anantapur (1,034), Srikakulam (991), Prakasam (978), Guntur (802), Nellore (648), Krishna (568), Vizianagaram (555) and Kadapa (436). The district tallies and the percent of infections they account for in the State tally were as follows: East Godavari (2.1lakh and 13.1%), Chittoor (1.7 lakh, 11.1%), Gutur (1.4lakh, 8.9%), West Godavari (1.3 lakh, 8%), Nellore (1.1%, 7%), Kurnool (1.1 lakh, 6.8%), Srikakulam (1 lakh, 6.5%), Prakasam (1 lakh, 6.3%), Kadapa (0.9 lakh, 5.6%), Krishna (0.8 lakh, 5.2%) and Vizianagaram (0.7 lakh, 4.4%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-covid-tally-crosses-16-lakh-106-die-in-a-day/article34645692.ece
26 May 2021||GUNTUR,||Jagan: famers’ welfare is of paramount importance||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the welfare of the farmer is of paramount to the welfare of the State and promised that every step will be taken to protect their interests. Addressing a meeting held in virtual mode, after crediting Rs. 1,820.23 crore into the accounts of 15.15 lakh farmers as part of YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme, Mr. Jagan said: “We have spent Rs. 83,000 crore for the welfare of farmers in the last 23 months. We are providing Rs. 13,500 for more than 52 lakh farmers and in five years, we will be giving farmers Rs. 67,500 under Rythu Bharosa. After crediting Rs. 3,900 crore into the accounts of farmers under Rythu Bharosa, we are able to do more by crediting Rs. 1,820 crore into accounts of 15.15 lakh farmers under YSR Crop Insurance Scheme for kharif 2020. In this month alone, we have credited Rs. 5,800 crore into the accounts of farmers. We know that 62% of people in the State depend on agriculture and allied activities.” The Chief Minister said he had witnessed the crop damage in kharif 2020 and that made him realise the need for bringing in the YSR crop insurance scheme. Mr. Jagan blamed the previous TDP government for keeping pending arrears of Rs. 3,778 crore and not paying the crop insurance for the year 2018-19. The Chief Minister said the State government was spending Rs. 17,430 crore on free power scheme for farmers. Further, it had set up 10,778 Rythu Bharosa Kendras attached to village secretariats and was guiding the farmers at every stage. Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/famers-welfare-is-of-paramount-importance-jagan/article34645659.ece
26 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Polls have dented BJP’s invincibility’||The recently concluded Assembly elections in various States had essentially busted the myth that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) juggernaut is unstoppable, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. In an interview with The Hindu after he led the Left Democratic Front (LDF) back to power for a second consecutive term in Kerala, Mr. Vijayan said the electoral victory of the LDF in Kerala and the ascension to power of the DMK alliance in Tamil Nadu had buoyed the prospects of a national alternative to the BJP at the Centre. “So certainly, alternatives will emerge,” he said. On the COVID-19 pandemic, he said the Central government had displayed a lack of original thinking to get the devastated economy up and running. The Centre should have put money into the hands of the people and increased social spending. Stating that the the country’s economy is in reverse gear, Mr. Vijayan said India had recorded a dismal minus 8% growth in 2021. However, Mr. Vijayan was confident that the pandemic would not bridle Kerala’s development. “Kerala had thought outside the box earlier itself and identified alternative sources to supplement our developmental initiatives. Also, we are implementing special schemes to increase agricultural and industrial production. The State will build on its IT services, agro-processing and tourism strengths,” he said. Health insurance Mr. Vijayan said Kerala would enter into a health insurance system through a State Health Agency under the Health Department “by coordinating the various health insurance schemes that are currently being administered.”  Kerala thought outside the box and identified sources for developmental initiatives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polls-have-dented-bjps-invincibility/article34645695.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Claims on Sambhaji in book on State’s history triggers row||A book by a senior journalist, which tracks the State’s history from the times of the Satavahanas, has stoked controversy over its allegedly “unproven” claim about Chhatrapati Sambhaji, warrior king and son of Chhatrapati Shivaji. Several politicians and organisations parties have demanded an apology from the author and a ban on the book. In his Renaissance State: The unwritten story of the Making of Maharashtra, Girish Kuber, editor of leading Marathi daily Loksatta , has written that Chhatrapati Sambhaji killed queen Soyarabai, one of the wives of Chhatrapati Shivaji. She was Sambhaji’s stepmother. However, according to many, this claim finds no mention in historical documents. Sambhaji Brigade, a radical Maratha organisation, has sought a ban on the book claiming it not only propagates wrong history but also defames Sambhaji. On Monday, Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati, a direct descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji, wrote to Harper Collins, publishers of the book, that “some imposter writers are doing this to gain publicity”. He said, “the whole writing is referenceless, and an act of repugnance.” He also demanded that the publishers recall all books from the market. Dr. Amol Kolhe, Lok Sabha MP (Nationalist Congress Party), who acted as Sambhaji in a popular Marathi television series, said there was a historical flaw in this claim as various documents reveal that Soyarabai was alive even after those who conspired against the Maratha empire were killed.He requested Mr. Kuber to edit the objectionable sentence. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole too demanded apology from Mr. Kuber and ban on the book. The book’s publishers have not commented so far. Meanwhile, Mr. Kuber told The Hindu, “Whatever I have written has been referenced from several scholarly works by respected historians, including Jadunath Sarkar and Jaswant Lal Mehta. A list of the sources I have drawn from has been included in the book at the end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/claims-on-sambhaji-in-book-on-states-history-triggers-row/article34645787.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Hospital booked for denying treatment||A private hospital was booked by the Vijayanagar police on Tuesday for allegedly denying treatment to a 64-year-old COVID-19 patient for not buying Remdesivir injection offered by it for Rs. 15,000 per shot. The patient, instead, sourced the medicine from the Health Department. After finding out that the family had complained to the HealthDepartment, the hospital discharged the patient and later allegedly refused to readmit her even after shedeveloped health complications. She subsequently succumbedto the infection. The matter was brought to the notice of Rajendra, health officer of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), who filed a complaint with the jurisdictional Vijayanagar police. Based on the complaint, the police have registered a case against Bharathi Hospital in Prashanthnagar, charging the hospital management under the Essential Commodities Act and under Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code. Dr. Rajendra, in his complaint, stated that the victim, who was from J.P. Nagar, was admitted to Bharathi Hospital on May 8 after testing positive for COVID-19. The hospital demanded Rs. 15,000 from the family to give Remdesivir to the patient.  As the family could not afford this, they sought help of the BBMP, which arranged the injection through the drug inspector of the area. The hospital staff, agitated that the family had complained about them, discharged the patient the next day, stating in the discharge summary that the patient had recovered. Soon after returning home, the patient developed breathing problems and was taken back to the hospital, where she was refused admission.  Not the only case  The hospital had similarly discharged a 52-year-old patient from Mahalakshmi Layout, Mahalakshmipura. According to Dr. Rajendra, the patient was admitted on May 6, but the hospital discharged him the next day saying that he had recovered. When he developed health complications, his family took him back to the hospital, but he was allegedly denied admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospital-booked-for-denying-treatment/article34645746.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. wants tweets of 11 Union Ministers tagged||The Congress party has written to Twitter asking them to flag tweets by 11 Union Ministers referring to the alleged “Congress toolkit” as “manipulated media”. It argued that all the tweets have content similar to what BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra posted, which has been tagged as such. Twitter, in response, had sought the URLs of the said tweets. All the tweets that the Congress has listed out are from May 18 when Mr. Patra first posted a screenshot of the alleged “Congress toolkit”. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala in his letter to Twitter said these tweets were posted with “clear mal-intent to exploit the social media space to spread lies and malicious propaganda throughout the territory of India”. Tweets of Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dharmendra Pradhan, Giriraj Singh, Piyush Goyal, Prahlad Joshi, Thawar Chand Gehlot, Harsh Vardhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat are listed. “It is also a matter of fact that people tend to believe ‘true’ any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister,” Mr. Surjewala said, arguing that it becomes even more important that their tweets are classified as “manipulated media”. The Congress has filed an FIR against Mr. Patra in Raipur in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-wants-tweets-of-11-union-ministers-tagged/article34646144.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||No home quarantine in 18 Maharashtra districts||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced stopping of home quarantine in 18 districts whose COVID-19 positivity rate is higher than the State’s average. Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said this would ensure better health care facilities to patients in districts which were showing higher positivity rate. “COVID care centres in these districts will be preferred as isolation facilities for patients. This is essential to break the chain of infection,” he noted. The positivity rate in Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Beed, Raigad, Pune, Hingoli, Akola, Amaravati, Kolhapur, Thane, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmadnagar and Latur is higher than the State average, he said. Mr. Tope, who held a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Collectors of all districts, said authorities have been directed to concentrate on focused testing. “Increasing testing numbers without proper direction won’t help control the virus spread. Focus should be on high risk and low risk contacts to break the chain,” he stated. Mr. Tope said 2,245 cases of mucormycosis had been reported from the State, with 120 deaths. Global tenders had been floated for Amphotericin B, the drug needed to treat it, Mr. Tope said adding 60,000 vials would be available by June 1. “We have to manage for three days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-home-quarantine-in-18-maharashtra-districts/article34645793.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||K.M. Abraham to head CM’s 21-member team||In a major revamp of the Chief Minister’s Office, former State Chief Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, K.M. Abraham, has been appointed Chief Principal Secretary to Pinarayi Vijayan in his second stint as Chief Minister. Dr. Abraham’s new assignment is in addition to the existing posts of CEO, KIIFB, and Chairman of the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council. The appointment is with immediate effect, as per the order issued by General Administration Department Principal Secretary K. R. Jyothilal on Tuesday. The others who are part of the 21-member team are CPI(M) leader and former Rajya Sabha member K.K. Ragesh who is the Private Secretary, Dinesan Puthalath, Political Secretary, and R. Mohan, Officer on Special Duty. Prabhakara Varma N. has been appointed Secretary (Media). M.C. Dathan is Mentor (Science), and P.M. Manoj is the Press Secretary. A. Rajasekharan Nair is the new Special Private Secretary and C.M. Raveendran, P. Gopan, and Dinesh B.T. are Additional Private Secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/km-abraham-to-head-cms-21-member-team/article34645870.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Six drown, two missing as boat capsizes in river||Six persons, including five children, drowned while two more persons are still missing in Sileru river when a country boat reportedly capsized in the river in the AOB region, under Chitrakonda police station limits of Odisha, on Tuesday morning. As per the latest reports, six bodies have been recovered. All the victims reportedly hail from two villages of Odisha and the incident occurred when they were heading to their native villages from Jonnalamamidi on the Andhra side. According to Sub Inspector of Sileru Police Station Ranjith, about 35 persons had arrived from Hyderabad to Sileru check-post in a vehicle and reached Jonnalamamidi on foot. The persons work as labourers in Hyderabad and were on their way to Guntawada and Konduguda villages in Odisha. They took the river route to avoid the police checking at the Odisha border, due to lockdown and fear of being quarantined, the police said. The labourers hired boats from Jonnalamamidi. The first batch of 17 members took two boats and reached their village. The second batch, with 18 persons boarded two boats with nine in each. One boat capsized close to the shore. A few from the sunken boat swam to the other boat and tried to board it and while doing so the boat capsized. Of the 18, 10 swam to the shore, while eight went missing, including six children. The location of the accident is in the AOB region, and the banned CPI (Maoist) holds some sway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-drown-two-missing-as-boat-capsizes-in-river/article34645700.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Three firms respond to State’s tender on vaccines||Maharashtra government said on Tuesday that three companies have responded to its global tender for anti-covid vaccines but the quotes do not indicate a supply schedule. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on the other hand, has received response from eight suppliers. However, following a request by some suppliers seeking more time to complete the paperwork, the BMC has extended the deadline for Expression of Interest (EoI) to June 1. “We have received rates from Pfizer, Sputnik and Astra-Zeneca. to our global tender. However they have not come up with a supply schedule,” said Maharashtra’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope. He said India needs a national import policy to avoid unnecessary competition between States seeking vaccines. “If the Centre decides to buy them and distribute, then the pricing will be reasonable and the State’s share can be paid directly to Centre,” he said. Meanwhile, of the eight who have responded to BMC’s tender, seven have offered to supply Sputnik V and one Astra-Zeneca/Pfizer. One of these suppliers has offered to supply Sputnik Light. An official said they were checking professional relationship between the vaccine producers and suppliers, adding that deadline was unlikely to be extended beyond June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-firms-respond-to-states-tender-on-vaccines/article34645788.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Quiet adieu||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quiet-adieu/article34646141.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The quiet adieu||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-quiet-adieu/article34646140.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Auction house withdraws Adimoolam’s paintings||The Netherlands-based auction house Hessink’s temporarily withdrew nine paintings of renowned painter K.M. Adimoolam that were about to be auctioned on Wednesday after his family alleged that they were not his works. The paintings were part of 133 works of various artists being auctioned from the private collections of Lalit Verma, a Puducherry-based curator, art collector and photographer. Among them were 10 paintings listed as the works of Adimoolam. ‘Bought in early 70s’ Mr. Verma contested the family’s allegations and said the paintings were acquired directly from Adimoolam in the early seventies by his late father-in-law (whose name Mr. Verma wanted withheld), who was a well-known collector and patron of arts. Aparajithan Adimoolam, son of Adimoolam, an artist himself and head of Visual Arts Department at Kalakshetra Foundation, said he got to know about the auction on Tuesday after a collector sent him the online link at Hessink’s. Apart from the first one, an abstract oil painting, the remaining nine were not his father’s, he said. He said the paintings were “poorly drawn” and “awkwardly composed” for the calibre of Adimoolam, a finest draughtsman known for his realistic and highly stylised painting. Stating that the paintings did not fit into Adimoolam’s oeuvre, he said they were mentioned as done in 1970-71, after the artist finished his famous series on Mahatma Gandhi in 1969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/auction-house-withdraws-adimoolams-paintings/article34645786.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Army, Navy deploy relief teams in Bengal||With severe cyclone Yaas set to make landfall on the Eastern coast on May 26, the Army and Navy deployed relief and diving teams in West Bengal in coordination with the local administration. In addition, the Navy and Coast Guard have also kept ships and aircraft on standby. Two Navy diving teams and five Flood Relief Teams (FRT) have been deployed.Page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-navy-deploy-relief-teams-in-bengal/article34645701.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC nixes CBI petition for custody of TMC leaders||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to let the CBI use West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s “siege” of and “dharna” at the premier investigating agency’s premises as a pretext for curbing the personal liberty of four TMC leaders arrested in the Narada sting tapes case, forcing the CBI to drop its appeal for their custody. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai said the agency was free to separately proceed against Ms. Banerjee, her Law Minister Moloy Ghatak and other TMC leaders for allegedly barging into its offices on May 17. But it would not allow their alleged actions hurt the rights of the accused, presently under house arrest. “Take it that we do not appreciate of dharnas and all… But if some Chief Minister or Law Minister takes law into their hands, should the accused suffer? We do not like to mix the issue of liberty of citizens with whatever illegal acts of politicians… We will not do that,” Justice Gavai addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-nixes-cbi-petition-for-custody-of-tmc-leaders/article34645704.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Special drive to vaccinate super-spreaders||The State government has identified LPG delivery staff, fair price shop dealers, petrol pump workers, auto and cab drivers and some other categories of workers as super spreaders for the purpose of vaccinating them for COVID in a special drive.Page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-drive-to-vaccinate-super-spreaders/article34646169.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||All roads lead to Bengaluru for patients||COVID-19 patients from other districts of Karnataka are seeking admission in Bengaluru hospitals in considerably large numbers now. This is a reversal of the earlier trend when Bengaluru patients went elsewhere seeking beds, unable to find them here as the caseload in the city was very high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-roads-lead-to-bengaluru-for-patients/article34645749.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Sputnik V offered to State in global tender||The response to Karnataka’s global tender to procure vaccine for COVID-19 has come for the supply of the Russian-made Sputnik V. The two responses have not come from the manufacturer, but from companies acting as suppliers of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sputnik-v-offered-to-state-in-global-tender/article34645751.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Bed allotment scam: prime suspect held||The CCB, on Tuesday, arrested Babu, 34, one of the prime suspects in the bed allotment scam. The accused is said to be known to Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy, who had earlier claimed to have exposed the bed allotment scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bed-allotment-scam-prime-suspect-held/article34645750.ece
26 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Six drown in Odisha as boats overturn||Six persons drowned and two were reportedly missing after two fishing boats capsized in the Sileru river in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Monday evening. The incident took place when over 30 members of migrant families were trying to sneak into Odisha in the night fearing lockdown. Three persons managed to swim ashore while the body of a child was fished out later. Five bodies were retrieved on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-drown-in-odisha-as-boats-overturn/article34645848.ece
26 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam extends curfew as cases increase||The Assam government on Tuesday extended the COVID-19 curfew from May 31 to June 5 in view of the jump in the infection rate over the last 48 hours. Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua said the no-movement duration in the urban and semi-urban areas will continue to be for 17 hours from 12 noon to 5 a.m. with traders required to shut shop by 11 a.m. The curfew timing in the rural areas has been stretched from 11 to 15 hours with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-extends-curfew-as-cases-increase/article34645849.ece
26 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Resume dialogue with agitating farmers: Hooda||Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda has urged the Centre and the State government to resume dialogue with farmers who have been agitating against the new farm laws. He said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has tried to break the deadlock and sent a proposal to the government for talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/resume-dialogue-with-agitating-farmers-hooda/article34646146.ece
26 May 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal is the new CBI Director||The Narendra Modi government late on Tuesday night appointed Maharashtra cadre IPS officer of 1985 batch, Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, currently Director General of the Central Industrial Security Force, as CBI Director for two years. Mr. Jaiswal served as Maharashtra DGP before being made the chief of CISF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/subodh-kumar-jaiswal-is-the-new-cbi-director/article34646147.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||First Nearby||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday was informed that out of the 150 ventilators provided by the Union government under the PM Cares Fund, 17 ventilators had extremely serious flaws that could be life threatening for patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nearby/article34645790.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Second Nearby||In yet another instance of disagreement in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government , the Congress has extended its support to construct an oil refinery at Nanar village in Ratnagiri district. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already announced that the State government will not proceed with the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-nearby/article34645791.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Third Nearby||Maharashtra recorded 24,136 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the State’s infection tally to 56,26,155, while 601 fatalities pushed the death toll to 90,349, the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-nearby/article34645792.ece
26 May 2021||Belagavi,||1,260 new positive cases reported in Belagavi||Belagavi district reported 1,260 new COVID-19 positive cases, taking the total number of active cases to 17,833. As many as 844 persons were discharged on Tuesday. This is one of the highest number of discharged patients on a single day. The all-time highest number of recoveries was 971 on May 21. Interestingly, the rate of recovery in the last 10 days has been 56.13% which is more than the rate of case positivity at 55%. A press release said that there were 24 deaths recorded due to SARI, between April 22 and May 10. The epidemic and related conditions have claimed 483 lives in the district till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1260-new-positive-cases-reported-in-belagavi/article34645812.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bay of Bengal, fomenting Yaas, hotter than normal for season||Climate scientists say the Bay of Bengal, where Cyclone ‘Yaas’ has formed, is at least two degrees warmer than what is normal for this time of the year. “The north Bay of Bengal is exceptionally warm with temperatures up to 32 degrees Celsius. Distance to landfall is short, preventing it from drawing that energy and intensifying into an extremely severe cyclone,” Roxy Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said on Twitter. Generally, cyclones in the Bay of Bengal are ferocious and cause significant devastation. Amphan was a super cyclone that ravaged West Bengal in March last year. It was the strongest storm that hit India’s eastern coast since the super cyclone of 1999, that struck Paradip, Odisha. Before Amphan, Fani in 2019 also hit Odisha, causing immense damage that lasted weeks. Cyclones in the Bay of Bengal are not unexpected in May and result from increased ocean surface temperatures. The formation of storms in this period are favourable for drawing in the monsoon into the Andamans and subsequently to the Kerala coast. Researchers have pointed to trends that suggest a relative decrease in the number of cyclones in the Bay of Bengal and a rise in the Arabian Sea. About 60% of the cyclones that form in these seas make landfall in India causing damage and devastation, according to data from the Earth Sciences Ministry. First warning The India Meteorological Department (IMD) first warned on May 19 the likelihood of the formation of Yaas, even as Tauktae was still to completely abate after landfall over Gujarat. The maximum windspeeds from Yaas, a name furnished by Oman’s meteorological agency, are expected to touch 125 kmph, lower than recorded from Tauktae, which landed at the Gujarat coast earlier this month, and was categorised as an ‘extremely severe’ cyclone, which is only one category lower than the highest ‘super cyclone’ grading on the weather agency’s cyclone grading scale. Yaas is expected to heighten into a ‘very severe’ cyclone by Tuesday noon and make landfall between the Odisha and West Bengal coasts by Wednesday morning. “It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island around Balasore (Odisha) during noon of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm,” said an IMD statement on Monday. With the advent of the storm, rains and gale force winds are expected in northern Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Sikkim. Tidal waves up to 4 metres in height are expected over the West Bengal and Odisha coasts as the storm approaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bay-of-bengal-fomenting-yaas-hotter-than-normal-for-season/article34645617.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI made ‘statement of law’ at CBI panel||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana’s opinion in the high-level committee to avoid officers with less than six months left to retire for appointment as CBI Director is a simple “statement of law”. It was not a comment on the professional prowess of those who now find themselves outside the zone of consideration. Two senior IPS officers, Y.C. Modi and Rakesh Asthana, went out of contention for the post. Mr. Modi retires in May. Mr. Asthana in July. The CJI was clear during the meeting chaired by the Prime Minister and attended by Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of largest Opposition party, on Monday that the committee’s selection of officers should be able to withstand the “scrutiny of law in the future”. For this, officers with a “few days left” in service should not be considered. In this context, 10 of the senior most officers of the 1984 batch, scheduled to retire soon, were not considered. The six-month minimum residual tenure rule was introduced by the Supreme Court in a March 13, 2019 order. Though the order in the Prakash Singh case pertained to the appointment of DGPs, it was extended to CBI Director too. The order, pronounced by a three-judge Bench led by then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi, had clarified that the “recommendation for appointment to the post of Director General of Police by the Union Public Service Commission and preparation of panel should be purely on the basis of merit from officers who have a minimum residual tenure of six months, that is, officers who have at least six months of service prior to retirement”. The apex court had indicated the possibility that officers with only a few days of service may be in an insecure state of mind. In the Prakash Singh case, the Supreme Court had stressed the point that appointment of DGPs “should be purely on the basis of merit and to insulate the office from all kinds of influences and pressures”. As on date, the CBI has jurisdiction to investigate offences pertaining to 69 Central laws, 18 State Acts and 231 offences in the IPC. The Director is to hold the post for not less than two years as held by the Vineet Narain judgment of 1998. He/she may not be transferred except with the previous consent of the high-level committee. The CJI had also studied a Supreme Court judgment, Union of India versus C. Dinakar, reported in 2004, in the context of the appointment process. In this, the apex court had held that “ordinarily IPS officers of the senior most four batches in service on the date of retirement of CBI Director, irrespective of their empanelment, shall be eligible for consideration for appointment to the post of CBI Director”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-made-statement-of-law-at-cbi-panel/article34645629.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mucormycosis: avoid damp, dusty places||It takes around four weeks for the effect of steroids administered to COVID-19 patients to wear off and it is important to keep oneself protected during this time. Patients, especially those in the high-risk category for mucormycosis, should avoid visiting damp and dusty places for a few weeks post recovery, Arun Sharma, Director, National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases (NIIRNCD), Jodhpur, and a community medicine expert, told The Hindu . He said if it is unavoidable, they are strongly advised to wear a three-ply mask and gloves and fully cover legs and arms. “It is vital to keep COVID-19 patients’ oxygen mask and canula sterile to prevent mucormycosis. It is necessary to keep a regular check on water used in oxygenation for any possible contamination.” Mucormycosis (black fungus infection) is caused by a group of moulds known as mucormycetes, which are present in the air, water and moist surfaces, in damp places. It appears as black spots in the nasal cavity, mouth and throat. A healthy person’s immunity does not allow it to cause infection. However, it can cause severe infection in an immunocompromised person. The Central government on Tuesday allocated an additional 19,420 vials of Amphotericin-B to all States/UTs and Central institutions. Dr. Sharma said doctors should guide a COVID-19 patient about how to look for its early signs. “At the hospitals, doctors and nurses should check for the symptoms in patients being treated with steroids or other immunosuppressive agents,” he said. On why so many patients are getting affected, Dr. Sharma said mucormycosis is generally affecting COVID-19 patients who are prescribed steroids or those who have uncontrolled diabetes. “Though steroids are an effective treatment for some patients who develop severe inflammatory response. But they should always be given under medical supervision. If given too early, too much and for too long, they can make one susceptible to catching secondary bacterial or fungal infections,” he said. Doctors say Amphotericin-B is not a commonly used antifungal drug and with a low safety profile it’s used for very severe, life-threatening fungal infection or for mucormycosis, for which cases were low previously. Vikramjeet Singh, senior consultant, Department of Internal Medicine, Aakash Healthcare, Delhi, said: “Now due to COVID infection and some other factors, the incidence of mucormycosis has increased and we have started using Amphotericin-B in these cases. For post-COVID mucormycosis, this is the only drug which can be given. “Due to the shortage of the drug, it is the patients of mucormycosis who are suffering. But the situation is improving and we are hopeful that patient survival rate will be good,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mucormycosis-avoid-damp-dusty-places/article34645645.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||PNB fraud case: Mehul Choksi goes missing||Mehul Choksi, alleged mastermind of the Rs. 13,578-crore Punjab National Bank fraud case, who is said to have gone missing in Antigua where he has been facing extradition proceedings, already has an Interpol Red Notice pending against him. Therefore, he can be detained in any of the Interpol member countries and deported to India. Choksi went missing on May 23 and the Antiguan police are trying to locate him, as reported in the local media. The development comes weeks after the United Kingdom’s Home Department approved the extradition of Choksi’s nephew and another key accused, Nirav Modi, following a verdict by the Westminster Court against him in February. CBI request It was on the CBI’s request that the Interpol had issued the Red Notice against Choksi in December 2018. He had fled India along with other key accused persons in January 2018, days before the CBI registered cases against them for cheating the bank through fraudulently issued Letters of Undertaking in favour of their companies. It later turned out that Choksi had taken Antiguan citizenship by registration in November 2017. In a statement to the Antiguan media, the fugitive diamond merchant had then claimed that he took the citizenship to expand his business interest in the Caribbean and to get visa-free travel access to about 130 countries. Now, an Antiguan passport holder can travel to as many as 165 countries without getting any visa. Despite requests from the Indian agencies, the Antiguan authorities have not yet executed the Interpol Red Notice against Choksi. Having lost the first round of legal battle in the U.K., Nirav Modi has now approached the High Court there seeking permission to contest the decisions of the Home Department and the Westminster Court. Given that he has not been granted bail even once, after he was arrested in London on March 19, 2019, Indian agencies are hopeful that his plea would also be dismissed to facilitate his early extradition for facing trial in India. “We have also been pursuing the case against Choksi diligently. In view of the reports about him having gone missing, we may request the Antiguan authorities for an update on his whereabouts,” said a government official. In the recent past, the Indian agencies have been able to bring two key accused persons in the AgustaWestland case from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Christian Michel and Rajiv Saxena. Lobbyist Deepak Talwar was also brought from the UAE in connection with another case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pnb-fraud-case-mehul-choksi-goes-missing/article34645612.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘It’s a blatant attempt to intimidate Twitter’||M.V. Rajeev Gowda , who heads the Research Department of the Congress, speaks on the BJP’s charges on the alleged ‘Congress toolkit’ seeking to tarnish India’s image, Twitter’s alleged bias towards the Congress and raids on the micro-blogging website by Delhi police.  The Twitter offices in Delhi were raided by the police, following the entire Congress toolkit controversy. This is a blatant attempt to intimidate Twitter, by using the state machinery to defend the party. The Government of India has no authority to censor Twitter which, after its own independent fact-checking, put out the tag “manipulated media” on the post by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. Their investigations must have thrown up evidence to show that the post was manipulated. Now the BJP, to cover their own forgery, is using the Delhi Police. What is the truth behind the BJP allegations that the Congress created a toolkit to specifically call out the B.1.617 as ‘Indian Strain’ or ‘Modi Strain’ to defame India and specifically Prime Minister Narendra Modi?  This a conspiracy that has been hatched at the highest levels of the BJP to deflect attention from the devastation that India is experiencing. And now that they are exposed and senior leaders, including Cabinet Ministers, could go to jail for it, they are panicking. By your own admission at least one of the documents — the one of the Central Vista — is not fake. How did the leak happen?  The document on the Central Vista is a fairly straightforward summary of the issue critiquing the government. And which is what the Opposition does. Hold the government accountable for its actions and inactions. We don’t know how it leaked. It is not a public document. It was only meant for internal circulation. Maybe, some members who are on the mailing list, defected during the recent polls or the BJP stole it.  The BJP alleges that Twitter is biased towards the Congress. Your comments? I don’t know anybody who knows anybody on Twitter. It is up to Twitter to follow their established policy and practices that are used globally to fact check.  The Government of India has no authority to censor Twitter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-a-blatant-attempt-to-intimidate-twitter/article34645634.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Toolkit: 2 Congressmen get notice||Notices have been served on two people associated with the Congress to join a probe into a complaint submitted by the party with the Delhi Police. Sources said that the notices were served on Congress social media head Rohan Gupta and spokesperson M.V. Rajeev Gowda. “Notices were served around the same time when the complaint was submitted on Thursday [May 20]. The intention was to ask them to explain the complaint and share necessary reasons,” said a police officer privy to the probe. The Delhi Police on May 24 visited micro-blogging website Twitter’s office in Delhi and Gurugram to serve them a notice following a ‘Manipulated Media’ tag on a tweet by BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra on May 18, wherein he had shared a document calling it ‘Congress Toolkit.’ On May 20, the Youth Congress submitted a complaint alleging that the document shared was fake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toolkit-2-congressmen-get-notice/article34645638.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear plea on post-poll riots||The Supreme Court on Tuesday decided to examine a petition accusing the West Bengal government and the Director-General of Police of complicity with goons who had spread “terror and fear” after the Assembly polls. A Vacation Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai scheduled the petition filed by five residents of West Bengal for hearing in the week commencing on June 7. “Petitioners are aggrieved with the post-electoral violence in Bengal from May 2 causing bombing, murder, gang rape, outraging of modesty of women, arson, kidnapping, loot, vandalism and destruction of public property, which led to a widespread fear and terror in the minds of ordinary residents of the State, ultimately forcing them to leave their homes,” the petition, represented by senior advocate Pinky Anand, said. The petition said the State government and the police had “sponsored” the goons. Th police had threatened people against filing complaints in cases in which cognisable offences were committed. The petitioners sought the constitution of a special investigation team and setting up of a fast-track court to investigate and try the cases. The plea said the court should “protect the State from internal disturbance and ensure that the government in the State is carried on”. It asked the court to direct the Centre to “deploy Central protection forces, including armed forces, for the restoration of law and order in West Bengal”. The court also made the National Human Rights Commission, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the National Commission for Protection of Women and Child Rights parties in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-plea-on-post-poll-riots/article34645639.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||PM must call meet with CMs: Sharma||Deputy leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to convene a meeting of Chief Ministers to formulate “an effective vaccination policy” as the current one was in “shambles”. Mr. Sharma, who recovered from COVID-19 last month, cited his own example to underscore the importance. “Despite taking both the doses, I got COVID positive but it is the vaccine that prevented it from becoming severe,” he said while speaking with The Hindu . “The vaccination drive is in a shambles and people are suffering and despairing. In a democracy questions will be asked and those in authority made accountable. There is no wisdom in denials and challenging scientists and epidemiologists,” he stated. ‘People feeling let down’ People were “suffering and feeling let down” and it was more important to save lives rather than stand on “pride and ego”. India, which was continental in size, could not be micromanaged by centralisation of power in one or two offices without “disastrous consequences”, he said in a statement. “Accelerated universal vaccination, devolution, empowering the States and investing in public health infrastructure alone can meet the challenge.” In a global crisis like the COVID-19 pandemic, the States could not be expected to import vaccines, he pointed out as import, exports, Customs and trade policy were all Central subjects. “Democracy is about cooperation and dialogue. Prime Minister has a mandate as an elected leader of the country. So have the Chief Ministers, whose constitutional mandate must be recognised. India is a federal country and the spirit of Constitution must be respected. The path of confrontation between the Centre and the States hurts India’s national interest,” he noted. “Prime Minister Modi has spoken of cooperative federalism. It is time to walk the talk. I urge him to take the initiative for a sincere and honest dialogue with Chief Ministers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-must-call-meet-with-cms-sharma/article34645650.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,||India records 3,967 new deaths||India recorded 1,98,238 new COVID-19 cases and 3,967 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,71,45,906 cases and 3,11,229 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 34,285 new infections, followed by Kerala (29,803) and Maharashtra (24,136). Maharashtra recorded 1,137 new casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (588) and Tamil Nadu (468). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the health bulletins of the respective States. More than 20.58 lakh samples were tested in the country on Monday (the results for which were made available on Tuesday), which is around 1.29 lakh tests more than those conducted on Sunday. It is also 2.95 lakh more tests than those conducted on the previous Monday (May 17). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 12% as on May 24 compared with 17.6% recorded a week before. Nearly 24.3 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday, which is over 14.8 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. As on May 24, India administered an average of 15.28 lakh doses daily, which is significantly fewer than the average daily doses given as on April 24, which stood at 26.13 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-3967-new-deaths/article34645652.ece
26 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Resume talks with farmers: Hooda||Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda (Congress) on Tuesday urged the BJP-led governments at the Centre and the State to resume the process of dialogue with farmers, who were agitating against the Centre’s farm laws. “Haryana’s borders with Delhi have been the epicentre of the movement since the day it began and the State government should have convinced the Centre to find an honourable solution. The protests are happening on our land and hence it is the responsibility of the BJP-JJP government to convince the Central government to accept the demands of the farmers and find a respectful solution,” he said. “The movement has completed six months and a large number of farmers are sitting on protests site near Delhi. In such a situation, we urge the government to hold talks with them in a positive mindset.” Mr. Hooda said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, umbrella body of the farmer unions spearheading the protest, has tried to break the deadlock and sent a proposal to the government for talks. “The government should now also take two steps forward and try to make talks fruitful,” he said. Senior leaders of the Punjab-based political outfit Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukat) said party workers would hoist black flags in solidarity with the farmers on May 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resume-talks-with-farmers-hooda/article34645621.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||ICMR unlikely to commission new COVID-19 serosurvey||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is unlikely to immediately undertake a fourth national serology survey to estimate the extent of exposure to the coronavirus since January. Officials told The Hindu that though discussions were still on, undertaking such a study presented newer logistical challenges and the ongoing vaccination drive could lead to erroneous inferences. The ICMR has conducted three national serology surveys since May 2020 and found that the exposure to the virus was much higher than that was reported by confirmed cases. The third serosurvey that measured the spread of infection between August and December found that 21% of India’s adult population and 25% of those in the 10-17 age group may have been infected. However, India’s devastating second wave began around mid-March amidst a vaccination programme that prioritised healthcare, frontline workers and senior citizens. Serology surveys take blood samples from participants and measure antibodies to check past exposure to the virus. However, because vaccinations also trigger an antibody response after two weeks, they could be misleading. “Serosurveys lose their scientific relevance once vaccination starts in the population,” Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, told The Hindu . HCWs overburdened Another official said that with hospitals and healthcare infrastructure in several districts being entirely occupied in dealing with the surge in cases, to be able to conduct a serology survey at this point would be challenging. “We have had discussions on this. A fourth survey would give useful insights but there are logistical challenges in the districts. However we may revisit this question next month,” Samiran Panda, Head, Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, ICMR, said. Manoj Murhekar, Director, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, who has been part of the ICMR surveys, said only in some infectious diseases was it possible to differentiate antibodies from a vaccination from one in a naturally acquired infection. “A fourth survey would also have to account for the waning of antibody levels and may require an entirely new survey design.” Independent experts however, said that with vaccinations on, conducting serology surveys on a smaller, defined group was possible. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has surveillance studies done on a section of its employees across constituent laboratories in India. “This is a defined group that we can easily follow,” said Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. Other than overarching numbers, the serology surveys have also revealed patterns of infection in urban, rural areas, slum and non-slum regions. It also gives an indication of whether a significant fraction within a region had reached threshold immunity levels to keep future outbreaks in check.  Serosurveys lose their scientific relevance once vaccination starts in the population Balram Bhargava Director-General, ICMR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-unlikely-to-commission-new-covid-19-serosurvey/article34645647.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||States submit feedback on Class 12 exams||Class 12 students of the Central Board of Secondary Education will find out the date and format of their board examinations in a week’s time, with State governments submitting their feedback to the Centre on Tuesday. Senior Education Ministry officials claimed that the feedback was overwhelmingly in favour of conducting the examinations, although they said States were split on whether the examinations should be in the regular three-hour format or the reduced 90-minute, multiple choice question format. However, a senior official said no response had yet been received by Tuesday evening from Maharashtra, which had called for the examinations to be cancelled. Call for vaccinations Punjab and Delhi have both called for vaccinations to be conducted before the examinations are held. Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla wrote to the Centre on Tuesday, urging that all Class 12 students be vaccinated before exams, adding that exams be held in selected, essential subjects only, with shorter question papers. “The examinations should not be conducted until the safety of all stakeholders are ensured,” he said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has already said that if vaccinations could not be done, examinations must be cancelled. Several other Congress-ruled States, however, are prepared for the examinations to go forward. Rajasthan has chosen the first option offered by the Centre, preferring to conduct the regular three-hour examinations, according to the State’s Education Secretary Aruna Arora. Chhattisgarh has chosen to go with a controversial open book format for its own State board examinations, but said it would follow whatever the Centre decides with regard to the CBSE exams, according to the State’s Additional Secretary for Education Alok Shukla. Tamil Nadu’s School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh told journalists that the State was prepared to conduct the examinations, but that it must be done keeping the pandemic situation in mind. Bihar Education Minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary said that while the Class 12 examinations play a vital role in students’ lives, they could not be held in the current situation. He suggested that a tentative date be announced for now, and also raised the possibility of an online examination. Karnataka’s School Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that as Class 12 students would be seeking admission to professional courses, holding examinations seemed inevitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-submit-feedback-on-class-12-exams/article34645648.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plane wedding: DGCA must take action, say experts||The DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) must punish SpiceJet for the mid-air wedding on Sunday over Madurai instead of making the pilots and cabin crew, who were only following the instructions given to them by their airline, scapegoats, say aviation safety experts. “The wedding party onboard SpiceJet’s plane could not have been organised without the full knowledge of the company. It was a pre-planned flight, which involved a route that had to be specially programmed, and included manual orbitting over Tenkasi,” said aviation safety expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan. “The special route taken by the pilots indicates they had specific instructions from the operations team in the airline. For the company to say they didn’t know there were going to be rituals performed onboard is a pure lie,” Mr. Ranganathan noted. A former DGCA official, who has overseen flight safety issues, said,“The biggest violation by the airline is allowing a wedding group of more than 160 people when wedding events of more than 50 are banned by the State.” SpiceJet on Monday said a travel agent in Madurai chartered a plane for a post wedding “joy ride” and it had denied permission for conducting any activity onboard as well as briefed its client on COVID-19 protocols. The DGCA has derostered the plane crew and ordered an investigation into the incident for violation of COVID-19 protocols. The photos viral on social media show the bride and groom exchanging garlands in a packed aircraft, carrying more than 160 passengers. However, none of the passengers can be seen wearing face visors and PPE suits, which are mandatory for passengers occupying the middle seats. The ex-DGCA official said, “The DGCA has repeatedly warned airlines that passengers violating COVID-19 protocols must be offloaded and put on no-fly list. If neither the cabin crew nor pilots took action against the passengers, there is a need to probe whether they had special instructions to look the other way.” “The rules and protocols that apply for regular passenger flights are often not enforced for non-scheduled or chartered operations. There are many loopholes. It is likely that the airline will be let off without any penalty under the same excuse,” the former DGCA official observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plane-wedding-dgca-must-take-action-say-experts/article34645614.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Panel to define offences of speech, expression||A panel constituted by the Union Home Ministry to suggest reforms to the British-era Indian Penal Code (IPC) is likely to propose a separate Section on “offences relating to speech and expression.” As there is no clear definition of what constitutes a “hate speech” in the IPC, the Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws is attempting for the first time to define such speech. “Who will decide what constitutes a hate speech? Legally speaking, for criminal Sections to be invoked, any such speech has to lead to violence or disturbance of law and order. We will refrain from using the word ‘hate speech’ as it is a loaded term, merely criticising someone is not hate speech,” G.S. Bajpai, Chairperson of the Criminology Centre at National Law University (NLU), Delhi, one of the members of the committee, told The Hindu . The committee is expected to submit its report soon. Bureau’s definition The Bureau of Police Research and Development recently published a manual for investigating agencies on cyber harassment cases that defined hate speech as a “language that denigrates, insults, threatens or targets an individual based on their identity and other traits (such as sexual orientation or disability or religion etc.).” Earlier in 2018, the Home Ministry had written to the Law Commission to prepare a distinct law for online “hate speech” acting on a report by a committee headed by former Lok Sabha Secretary General T.K. Viswanathan who recommended stricter laws. The committee was formed in the wake of Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, that provided punishment for sending offensive messages through communication services being scrapped by the Supreme Court in 2015. In 2019, however, the Ministry decided to overhaul the IPC, framed in 1860 and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) after seeking suggestions from States, the Supreme Court, High Courts, the Bar Council of India, Bar Councils of States, universities and law institutes on comprehensive amendments to criminal laws. The suggestions received by the Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws will be examined by the Ministry before the changes are adopted. “The committee is examining a gamut of subjects pertaining to reforms in the IPC. Instead of ad hoc changes, it was decided that all the pending issues such as those on hate speech as recommended by the Viswanathan committee can be examined and comprehensive changes are brought in,” said a Home Ministry official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-define-offences-of-speech-expression/article34645636.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Polls have dented BJP’s invincibility: Kerala CM||As part of the system, road accident victims would get free treatment in the first 48 hours. Twenty lakh families would get free in-patient treatment for up to Rs. 5 lakh. He said the rest would be able to avail up to Rs. 2 lakh through the Karunya Scheme. Kerala has prepared a blueprint for employing 20 lakh graduates. The Cabinet had broached the matter at its first meeting, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan said the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)’s “myopic” criticism about the Chief Minister assuming the Minority Welfare Department had aroused pity. (The IUML had purportedly said Mr. Vijayan had insulted Muslims by appropriating a portfolio that was rightfully theirs.) Mr. Vijayan said the government had prioritised minority welfare by bringing it directly under the CM's office adding that Muslim and Christian social organisations had welcomed the move. Moreover, minorities had reposed faith in the LDF in the Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polls-have-dented-bjps-invincibility-kerala-cm/article34645606.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 13 lakh evacuated as Yaas draws closer||More than 4, 000 response personnel in 52 units of National Disaster Response Force, 60 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force, 200 fire service team and 86 tree cutting units have been rushed to cyclone affected areas.  Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director General Meteorology, Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata said that for West Bengal most significant damage will be due to storm surge in Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas districts. “For Purba Medinipur, the storm surge will be 2 -4 meters above astronomical tide and for South 24 Parganas the storm surge will be 2 metres above the astronomical tide level,” Mr Bandyopadhyay said. Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University said that storm surge is a matter of concern because the cyclone will coincide with the full moon tide and the water level in the seas and river may rise further leading to breach of embankments.  The Chief Minister said she will spend the night at the State Secretariat monitoring the situation from a “war room” on a real time basis. During the day Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also visited the State Secretariat and met the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-13-lakh-evacuated-as-yaas-draws-closer/article34645608.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Col. Panjab Singh, 1971 war veteran, passes away||Col Panjab Singh, Vir Chakra awardee and a decorated veteran of the 1971 war passed away at the Command Hospital in Chandimandir, in Haryana on Monday due to post-COVID complications, the Army said on Tuesday. He was 79. Col. Singh had lost his elder son Anil Kumar to COVID-19 on May 21. In the 1971 war, during Operation Cactus Lilly, the 6th Batallion of the Sikh Regiment occupied 13 kms of front on the heights above Poonch in Jammu and Kashmir covering two strategic points, the loss of which would have directly threatened Poonch. Col. Singh, then a Major, commanded a company deployed at Tund, an Army statement said. Col. Singh was awarded the third highest wartime gallantry award, the Vir Chakra, on December 24, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/col-panjab-singh-1971-war-veteran-passes-away/article34645610.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||SC nixes CBI plea for TMC leaders’ custody||Mr. Mehta replied, “But they [CM] were doing it for them [accused]”. Justice Gavai observed, “So, therefore, you proceed against the (CM, Law Minister) for attempting to take the law into their hands… … You have yourself quoted Lord Denning’s ‘Be ye never so high, the law is above you’.” Mr. Mehta said, “I used to believe in that”. “Well, we still believe in it!” both Justices Saran and Gavai said in unison. The law officer said the incident suggested a larger malaise in the State. The role of the investigating agency was “reduced to nothing”. “This is an extraordinary situation. There was a complete collapse of rule of law, and this is happening repeatedly… CBI offices with the arrested four men was in a state of siege on May 17. Unruly mobs pelted stones. Officers could not step out to produce the accused before the magistrate... If these facts cannot move My Lords’ conscience, there is nothing more I can say,” he expressed his disappointment. The Bench, which refrained from commenting on the merits of the case, reacted to this by pointing out that a five-judge Bench of the Calcutta High Court was already “examining every factor regarding the case” following a split verdict on the question of bail. Mr. Mehta submitted that the State had a Chief Minister who has a “track record” to “bring out supporters”. He said the bail was granted to the four men earlier by a CBI court in a vitiated atmosphere with the Chief Minister sitting outside in dharna. Justice Gavai replied, “We don’t think our judiciary, even the district judiciary, is so weak.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-nixes-cbi-plea-for-tmc-leaders-custody/article34645615.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army, Navy deploy relief teams in West Bengal||With severe cyclone Yaas set to make landfall on the Eastern coast on May 26, the Army and Navy deployed relief and diving teams in West Bengal in coordination with the local administration. In addition, the Navy and Coast Guard have also kept ships and aircraft on standby. As part of the preparations in West Bengal, the Navy said two Navy diving teams and five Flood Relief Teams (FRT), comprising specialised Navy personnel with associated equipment and inflatable boats, have been deployed to the State. “In addition, one diving and two FRT each have been positioned at Digha and Frazerganj on May 23 and 24 respectively. One FRT has been kept on standby at Diamond Harbour, for redeployment as necessary, at short notice,” it said in a statement. In addition, the Indian Navy is also positioning Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) material for about 500 people at its depot centre at Kolkata, for subsequent distribution if required.  The Army said that 17 integrated cyclone relief columns, comprising specialised personnel with associated equipment and inflatable boats, have been deployed in West Bengal. “Columns have been prepositioned at Purulia, Jhargram, Birbhum, Bardhaman, West Midnapur, Howrah, Hoogly, Nadia, 24 Parganas North and South,” the Army said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-navy-deploy-relief-teams-in-west-bengal/article34645618.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Facebook says it will comply with new IT rules||While the new stricter rules for social media intermediaries such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Google. Twitter and Telegram, come into effect on Wednesday, a majority of platforms are yet to fully comply with ‘The Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021’. There is no clarity on the immediate consequences of non-compliance. However, experts say these companies could lose the ‘safe harbour’ protection that currently gives them protection against liability (civil as well as criminal) for content posted on their platform by third party users. In reply to a query, social media giant Facebook on Tuesday said it “aims to comply” with the provisions of the revised IT Rules and continues to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. “Pursuant to the IT Rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies. Facebook remains committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platform,” a spokesperson said. Meanwhile, in an emailed response, instant messaging firm Telegram said it has complied with “almost all the new IT laws” and has informed the concerned authorities regarding the compliance in writing. Indian microblogging platform Koo, has said that it has met the compliance requirements of the new rules. Twitter and WhatsApp did not comment on the issue. While Google did not specify whether it was in full compliance with the new rules, a company spokesperson said, “We respect India’s legislative process and have a long history of responding to government requests to remove content where the content violates the local law or our product policies. We have consistently invested in significant product changes, resources, and personnel to ensure that we’re combating illegal content in an effective and fair way, and in order to comply with local laws in the jurisdictions that we operate in.” Prasanth Sugathan, Legal Director at Software Freedom Law Centre, India explained that the new rules are a set of compliances which the intermediaries have to abide by in order to keep the safe harbour protection intact. “The primary consequence of non-compliance...would be that significant social media intermediaries would end up losing the safe harbour protection granted to them under Section 79 of the IT Act. This could open up an entire plethora of unpleasant possibilities. It could leave Intermediaries open to incurring liability (civil as well as criminal) for the acts done by third party users,” he said. Mr. Sugathan added that the exact scope of criminal liability that these platforms would have to face, is something one will have to wait and see.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facebook-says-it-will-comply-with-new-it-rules/article34645619.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Adhir faults DoPT in CBI chief selection process||The conduct of the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has been “obnoxious” during the selection process of a new CBI Director and the meeting of the selection panel should be deferred, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said in a dissent note that was submitted to the high-powered selection committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana is the other member of the committee that decides on CBI chief appointment. 16 names shortlisted Objecting to the manner in which DoPT, the nodal ministry for all important positions in Central institutions, had shortlisted 16 names out of a list of 109 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers at the eleventh hour, Mr. Chowdhury batted for cancelling Monday’s meeting. However, as the CBI did not have a full-time director since February, the panel decided to go ahead with the meeting. The 16 names, whose dossiers were sent to the committee members on the day of the meeting, included present chief of the Border Security Force (BSF) Rakesh Asthana (Gujarat cadre,1984 batch) and the National Investigation Agency chief Y.C. Modi [Assam-Meghalaya cadre, 1984 batch], both considered favourite officers of the ruling dispensation. However, as The Hindu reported on Monday, they were excluded, as the CJI insisted on sticking to a rule that said a candidate should have six months or more for retirement. Mr. Chowdhury too is learnt to have strongly argued against these officials.  Dissent note The committee eventually shortlisted three officers — VSK Kaumudi [Andhra Pradesh, 1986 batch], Kumar Rajesh Chandra [Bihar, 1985 batch] and Subodh Kumar Jaiswal [Maharashtra, 1985 batch]. In his dissent note, Mr. Chowdhury cited the Supreme Court judgment in the Anjali Bharadwaj versus Union of India case concerning the appointment of the Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) and argued for absolute transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adhir-faults-dopt-in-cbi-chief-selection-process/article34645626.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Six held in BJP activists’ murder case, says Bengal||The West Bengal government on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that FIRs had been registered and several arrests made in connection with the murder of two BJP activists in the violence following the poll victory of the Trinamool Congress. The State’s submission came in a hearing of a petition filed by the family members of two dead men for a CBI or a SIT (special investigation team) probe into the incidents. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai asked the State to file an affidavit and scheduled the case for hearing immediately after two weeks. “FIR stands registered, the investigation is on and three people have been arrested in each case,” senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, for West Bengal, submitted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-held-in-bjp-activists-murder-case-says-bengal/article34645630.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Rajiv case: Swamy opposes Stalin’s proposal||Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy has written to President Ram Nath Kovind opposing Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s recommendation to remit the sentences of seven life-term convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Mr. Swamy asked the President “to reject the stale and anti-national recommendation of the State government of Tamil Nadu”. The letter said the 18 others killed along with Rajiv Gandhi included young police officers whose children were cruelly orphaned. “Does Shri Stalin mean to suggest to you that the life of such a young national leader in the prime of his political life, and one who had been Prime Minister of India, and who may well have been on his way to once again to become Prime Minister of India, is worth only a certain quantum of years of undergone sentence by these foreign terrorists?” Mr. Swamy asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajiv-case-swamy-opposes-stalins-proposal/article34645635.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhagavat tatva jnana||The ultimate knowledge or jnana is the awareness of the Bhagavat Tatva, the Truth of the Supreme Brahman. The fifteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita contains the essence of what the Lord has explained in entire 18 chapters. This is also what the Mahabharata, the Puranas, the Itihasas and the Vedas reinforce to mankind, pointed out Sri Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The Lord talks highly of this sastra and shows that through Bhagavat tatva jnana the jiva can realise his moksha swaroopa. The Lord is the Purushottama, the Akshara Brahman who is alone the Supreme Reality. Sastras speak of Brahman as Nirguna, and as Saguna when engaged in creation. This is explained in the Gita as the Akshara and Kshara. The Akshara Brahman is Nirguna and beyond all the changes that take place constantly in this world. This is the most wonderful aspect of Brahman. All creation is subject to change, that is, birth, growth and decay. All bhutas are the forms and beings in creation that are constantly changing even within their short-lived span of existence. They are thus Kshara. But they are all the manifestations of the Akshara Brahman. Sastras make a distinction between the temporary reality of the world in which we live, the Vyavaharika Satya and of the Ultimate Reality, the Paramartika Satya. The world appears to be real to each one until such time when dissolution takes place. The manifold manifestation is possible because of the Maya Shakti of the Akshara Brahman. Brahman, along with the inseparable Maya Shakti brings forth all this creation and other activities. But He stands apart from it even when He supports it and sustains it at all times. Without any ambiguity one should realise Him and then realise He is one with the atma within each and every aspect of creation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhagavat-tatva-jnana/article34645640.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC notice to Haryana, U.P. and Delhi||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday issued notices to the Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments on a complaint that farmers’ protests violated COVID-19 norms, endangering themselves and others. The NHRC said the complainant alleged that the situation was likely to worsen with an inflow of protesters. The complainant said farmers have planned to observe Wednesday as a “black day”, marking six months of protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-notice-to-haryana-up-and-delhi/article34645605.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telecom infra providers gear up for cyclone||Telecom infrastructure providers, along with service providers, have taken steps such as readiness of Cell on Wheels, arrangement of spare batteries, adequate amount of diesel and generator sets and ramping up of teams to mitigate the impact of cyclone ‘Yaas’, the Tower & Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA) said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telecom-infra-providers-gear-up-for-cyclone/article34645622.ece
26 May 2021||Guwahati,||YouTuber booked for slur on MLA||The police in Arunachal Pradesh have sought an update from their Punjab counterparts on a YouTuber wanted for a racial slur against a Congress MLA of the State. Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu said on May 24 that FIRs had been filed against Punjab-based YouTuber Paras Singh for mocking MLA Ninong Ering. The YouTuber also made a racist remark against the State and its people, the FIRs said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youtuber-booked-for-slur-on-mla/article34645623.ece
26 May 2021||Kolkata,||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee hospitalised||Former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was on May 25 admitted to a private hospital in the city. Mr. Bhattacharjee had tested positive for COVID-19 last week and was undergoing treatment at his Palm Avenue residence. His health parameters, particularly oxygen saturation, started declining from May 24 evening and doctors decided on providing him institutional care. On May 25, he was admitted to Woodlands Hospital. Mr. Bhattacharjee was West Bengal Chief Minister from 2000 to 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-hospitalised/article34645624.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||OSCs to be set to aid women survivors||The Central government will set up One Stop Centres (OSCs) across 10 missions to provide assistance to Indian women who are survivors of gender-based violence. The missions where the OSCs will come up are Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, UAE, Jeddah and Riyadh in Saudi Arabia, Australia, Canada and Singapore, an official of Ministry of Women and Child Development said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oscs-to-be-set-to-aid-women-survivors/article34645627.ece
26 May 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Jaiswal is new CBI Director||The Modi government late on Tuesday night appointed Maharashtra cadre IPS officer of 1985 batch, Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, currently Director General of the Central Industrial Security Force, as CBI Director for two years. Mr. Jaiswal is widely experienced, having served as Maharashtra Director-General of Police before he was made the chief of the CISF and also served in the CBI earlier. The government has picked him from a panel of three officers who were shortlisted by the Prime Minister-led panel consisting of CJI as well as leader of the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaiswal-is-new-cbi-director/article34645631.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Flag tweets of 11 Union Ministers too’||The Congress party has written to Twitter asking them to flag tweets by 11 Union Ministers referring to the alleged “Congress toolkit” as “manipulated media”. It argued that all the tweets have similar content to what BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra posted which had been tagged as such. The Twitter, in response, had sought the URLs of the said tweets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flag-tweets-of-11-union-ministers-too/article34645632.ece
26 May 2021||New York/Geneva,||WHO seeks ‘more info’ on Covaxin||The World Health Organization has said “more information” is “required” from Bharat Biotech, which is seeking emergency use listing (EUL) for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin. A pre-submission meeting is expected “to be planned May-June 2021,” a guidance document on the WHO website said. Bharat Biotech submitted Expression of Interest on April 19. Bharat Biotech says it expects emergency use authorisation from WHO for Covaxin during July-September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-seeks-more-info-on-covaxin/article34645641.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Rajasthan HC challenges own order on arrest||In a rare move, the Rajasthan High Court approached the Supreme Court against its own single-judge order, directing the DGP not to arrest till July 17 people booked for offences entailing up to 3-year jail term, which was stayed by the top court on Tuesday. The High Court challenged the order on the ground that the direction will “create a situation of lawlessness”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-hc-challenges-own-order-on-arrest/article34645880.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State likely to set up panel to handle students’ complaints||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Tuesday that his department was considering to constitute a committee to handle complaints of sexual abuse and harassment from students. “It is important to receive such complaints and ensure that genuine complaints are acted upon. We need an accessible system in place that can work on the ground, similar to how the Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) are in touch with the schools in their jurisdiction,” he said. ‘Probe under way’ The police, he said, were probing the allegations of sexual harassment against a Chennai private school teacher. “While the Department of Education has issued guidelines for the conduct of online classes, it is clear now that many schools are not strictly following them. We will go through the guidelines again and reiterate the best practices...,” he said, of the charge of misbehaviour against the teacher during online classes. He underscored the need for all schools to have an internal complaints committee under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. ‘No complaints received’ After the arrest of its teacher, G. Rajagopalan, on the charge of sexual harassment, the school reiterated that the management had never received any written complaint from anyone in the past. In a statement, the school said the issue was first brought to the attention of the management through social media and a formal inquiry had been initiated. “We have never received any written complaint on this matter from anyone. The behaviour of one teacher does not in any way detract from the highest standards of professionalism that our teachers uphold. For us, our students’ welfare is absolutely sacrosanct,” the principal said. The statement said the school welcomed all assistance by the authorities concerned to deal with the situation. It said the management acted swiftly to suspend the teacher and take steps to avoid recurrence of such incidents. “In our over 60 years’ legacy, we have never had such a situation with an errant teacher. It is a wake-up call for all schools and we have to be ever vigilant. We are constituting a special senior group, drawn from both legal and non-legal backgrounds, to guide us to ensure that such incidents don’t recur again,” the dean said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-likely-to-set-up-panel-to-handle-students-complaints/article34646111.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More volunteers to help COVID-19 patients||Over 5,000 volunteers from various non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are set to start helping city residents manage the pandemic. This is in addition to the 14,000 volunteers who have already been helping residents in various aspects of COVID-19 management. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Tuesday launched the distribution of the Greater Chennai Corporation COVID-19 Brigade badges for volunteers who help patients and other residents affected by the pandemic. As many as 85 NGOs with 1,073 volunteers have already registered. The volunteers with the badges will be allowed by the police to visit various neighbourhoods of the city during the pandemic to help residents. They will provide services in different capacities, including assisting in COVID-19 Care Centres and homeless shelters and for supplying food. In COVID-19 Care Centres, the volunteers will improve communication between doctors and family members of patients, provide information about the patients’ condition and advise family members on key aspects of patient management services. They will facilitate food distribution to family members of the patients in the COVID-19 Care Centres. The volunteers will also provide food for the homeless persons in the city. The number of homeless persons is expected to have increased after the pandemic. The NGOs will also provide accommodation for homeless persons. Mr. Bedi has instructed officers to permit street vendors who are willing to start selling essential commodities using push carts or tricycles. The mobile vendors have been asked to use a public address system to announce the sale of essential commodities in a neighbourhoods. The vendors have been asked to display prices. The Commissioner has also directed officers to give vaccination for the differently abled at their homes. The differently abled are requested to call helpline 1800 425 0111 or 9700799993 to get the vaccine. Meanwhile, the Corporation has ordered all private hospitals to report the number of COVID-19 patients under their care on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-volunteers-to-help-covid-19-patients/article34646085.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs appeal to government for assistance||MSME units across Tamil Nadu have made an appeal to the Centre and the State governments, seeking financial support and other forms of assistance to help them tide over the COVID-19 crisis. In a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, The Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries’ Association (Tanstia) requested that fixed charges for Low Tension supplies and demand charges for High Tension supplies be waived for the lockdown period. The association also asked the government to permit workers to travel on two-wheelers as MSME units cannot afford to arrange buses or other modes of transport for them. S. Anburajan, president of Tanstia, said soap and detergent manufacturers should be considered as essential manufacturers as these products are used for hygiene purposes. He said existing units producing oxygen and other essential goods should be considered for working capital assistance from the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation at a subsidised rate of interest. A letter was also sent to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, requesting the withdrawal of the Sarfaesi Act or at least an exemption for units that have taken loans of up to Rs. 5 crore with immediate effect, which would help them survive. “To help the entrepreneurs, ESI and PF for the lockdown period (at least three months) should be paid by the Union government without any pre-condition. This will be of great support to the industry,” Mr. Anburajan said. The Guindy Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association has written to the Finance Minister stating that more than 80% of the MSME units would become NPA and would be forced to shut down if the government did not provide immediate support. Association president K.V. Kanakambaram has requested the RBI and banks not to impose NPA norms on the MSME units for a period of two years and give additional packages for restructuring of the units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-appeal-to-government-for-assistance/article34646113.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM district secretaries may get more powers||Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan is likely to reorganise the party in the mould of Dravidian parties where the district secretaries will have more say and be empowered within the organisation. A party source close to Mr. Haasan said the previous party structure of having so many front groups within the organisation headed by district secretaries are likely to be done away with. “Although nothing has been finalised, it is likely that the party is unlikely to have so many general secretaries in the ‘mutated version’ promised by our leader. The organisation’s state and district secretaries will be empowered,” the source said. In a video message on Monday, Mr. Haasan said he would remain in active politics as long as he was alive, putting an end to speculation about his future course of action. Despite departure of a number of second-in-line office-bearers accusing Mr. Haasan of being authoritarian and being non-transparent in running the party, the party sources said that the president and the party cadres continue to be upbeat. The party spokespersons believe that departures had not affected the party’s organisational backbone, which is intact since the district secretaries have not left along with them. Though the party leadership and the cadres are disappointed with the results where its vote share fell to under 3% in the State Assembly elections, many within the party feel that empowering those working on the ground since the party’s inception and the fan club members who have been with Mr. Haasan for the last 40 years will rejuvenate the party. Another round of announcements about the new appointments in the party is expected in the coming weeks, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-district-secretaries-may-get-more-powers/article34646108.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco warns local officials||One of the foremost complaints among the electricity consumers is that “local officials are not responding properly” to power cut in their areas. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has taken a serious view of this issue and has directed the local officials in the rank of Assistant Engineers (AEs) and Assistant Executive Engineers (AEEs) to not only attend to calls, irrespective of their timing, but also be courteous to the public. A senior official of Tangedco said based on the several complaints received from various parts of the city, the Electricity Minister and Chairman and Managing Director, during a review meeting, directed the Chief Engineers to advise the Superintending Engineers (SEs) to give strict instructions down the line of the official machinery to be prompt in attending to calls from consumers. The local officials have also been asked not to pass any unnecessary comments to the public as the conversation could be recorded and posted on the social media. The official said letters from the CE offices of north and south had been sent to the local officials. They have been told that strict action would be taken if they fail to act on the complaints received from the consumers.  The local officials have been asked not to pass any unnecessary comments to the public as the conversation can be recorded and posted on social media||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-warns-local-officials/article34646087.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure supply of vegetables, milk to people, CM tells officials||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday directed officials to ensure the smooth supply of essentials such as vegetables, fruits and milk to the public during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. Chairing a meeting with Ministers and senior officials in the Secretariat, Mr. Stalin reviewed the supply of essential goods to people across the State, especially in Chennai. On Tuesday, vegetables and fruits to the tune of 6,509 tonnes were supplied through 13,096 vehicles, an official release said. On May 24, over 4,900 tonnes of vegetables and fruits were supplied through 6,296 vehicles across the State. As for Chennai, over 1,400 tonnes of vegetables and fruits were supplied across 200 wards of Chennai city through 1,670 vehicles. Mr. Stalin directed the officials to ensure that vegetables and fruits were available at fair prices. Just as the way supplies were ensured in urban areas, they should be ensured in rural areas too, he said. The Chief Minister directed officials to ensure coordination between the Horticulture and Agriculture departments, the Greater Chennai Corporation and other local bodies to ensure supplies reached the people. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam, and Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-supply-of-vegetables-milk-to-people-cm-tells-officials/article34646102.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily tally dips while fatalities continue to be high||The number of persons testing positive for SARS CoV-2 infection continued to fall in the State with 34,285 more cases detected on Tuesday. The number of active cases in the State stood at 3,06,652. The Medical Department recorded 468 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll to 21,340. Meanwhile, 28,745 persons were discharged, taking the tally of those discharged to 15,83,504 in the State. As on Tuesday, 19,11,496 persons have tested positive for the infection, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. Chennai district reported 4,041 new infections and 4,446 persons were discharged. The district reported 88 deaths, taking the toll to 6,546. As on Tuesday, 47,553 persons were under treatment, either at home or in health facilities, in the district. So far, the tally of infections stood at 4,87,691 and 4,33,592 persons have been discharged. Cases continue to remain high in Coimbatore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. Coimbatore recorded 3,632 new cases and 24 deaths. Chengalpattu clocked 1,870 new cases and 36 deaths while 1,495 persons were discharged. As on date 16,630 persons were undergoing treatment. In Tiruvallur, 1,425 new cases were detected while 1,015 persons were discharged and 36 deaths were recorded on Tuesday. As on date 13,041 persons are undergoing treatment. There were no new deaths in the districts of the Nilgiris, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Sivagangai. While 134 persons whose deaths were recorded on Tuesday had no pre-existing health conditions, 334 others who died had co-morbidities. The youngest person to lose life owing to the infection was a 25-year-old woman from Thanjavur who was admitted on May 19 to the medical college hospital there after testing positive a day before. She died on May 23 and the hospital recorded her death as due to COVID-19 pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-tally-dips-while-fatalities-continue-to-be-high/article34646105.ece
26 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Voices of dissent against dual leadership in AIADMK||The desirability of persisting with dual leadership in the AIADMK is once again in focus. Since the party’s defeat in the Assembly election, coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami have been issuing statements separately on issues of public importance. Even on Tuesday, the former came out with a press release, urging the State government to ensure that the vehicles reportedly impounded by the authorities despite having the necessary approvals be returned to the owners. Though the statements of Mr. Panneerselvam were issued under the AIADMK’s letterhead, they are not being sent by the party to the media through its official e-mail but are being sent through informal channels. But in the case of Mr. Palaniswami, it is through the party machinery that his statements are being circulated to the media under the letterhead, identifying him as Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister, with Fort St. George (housing the Secretariat and the Assembly) as the postal address. In the last three weeks, the leaders issued two joint statements of significance, which pertained to the expulsion of former Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel and cautioned the party cadre not to float forums named after any leader. Otherwise, their attitude is a matter of concern, acknowledge a cross-section of functionaries, contrasting the present situation with what was prevalent when the party was in power. At the time, the two leaders invariably issued statements collectively on all issues. While a young office-bearer feels that it would be in the interest of the party that Mr. Panneerselvam cedes his space fully to Mr. Palaniswami, who ensured an impressive performance by the party in the western parts of the State during the recent election, a supporter of the former Deputy Chief Minister claims that it is Mr. Panneerselvam who is conducting himself as the true Leader of the Opposition, if one is to go by “quick and favourable responses” of the government to his statements. Notwithstanding the debate between the two camps, those who have not closely identified themselves with either of them say the two leaders should decide amongst themselves as to who should have full control over the party, and this should be resolved early for two reasons. Urban local body elections may be held immediately after the present wave of the COVID-19 pandemic gets weakened. The ruling DMK, currently pre-occupied with the management of COVID-19, may start paying attention to efforts aimed at weakening the principal Opposition party. “If we are to safeguard the organisation against any move by our adversary and secure at least 40% of the seats in the local body polls, the two leaders should come to an understanding on the idea of single leadership, which will only facilitate cohesive functioning of the AIADMK,” says a former Minister, who hails from the northern belt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voices-of-dissent-against-dual-leadership-in-aiadmk/article34646100.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs former AIADMK MP to give away property worth Rs. 500 crore to two investors||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed appeals preferred by former AIADMK MP K.C. Palanisamy against an order of the Company Law Board (CLB) declaring two investors in his Cheran Enterprises Private Limited as the beneficial owners of 25 acre of property reportedly worth about Rs. 500 crore. The court also confirmed the Board’s order directing the jurisdictional Registrar to register a sale deed vesting the property in favour of the investors if the former MP fails to execute the sale deed on his own. Justice G. Jayachandran held that the former MP never made any genuine attempt to repay Rs. 75 crore invested by ORE Holding Limited of Mauritius and Rs. 4 crore by non-resident Indian Nandakumar Athappan of Singapore in 2004. Therefore, now, the appellant could not resist the CLB’s 2015 order, passed in two execution petitions, declaring ORE Trust and Mr. Athappan as the beneficial owners of 17.15 and 7.80 acre belonging to Vasantha Mills, a subsidiary of CEPL, the judge said. Though it was argued on behalf of the former MP that the present value of the property was nearly Rs. 500 crore whereas the principal and interest payable to ORE and Mr. Athappan was far less, the judge pointed out that the immovable property to be conveyed was not only for the money invested in 2004 but also for the investors to relinquish their rights in CEPL and its subsidiary companies and exit the company as desired by the former MP. The judge pointed out that it was the former MP who had approached the CLB in 2005 for framing an exit scheme, with respect to one of the investors, due to the differences that had arisen between him and the investors. On the other hand, the investors had approached the CLB seeking an investigative audit to determine the amount of money allegedly misappropriated by the former MP. While disposing of their petitions by a common order in 2008, the CLB directed the former MP to repay the money invested by the two investors with simple interest of 8% within 12 months from November 1, 2008. In the event of failure to repay the money within the stipulated time, he and his group companies were directed to convey the 25 acre property to the two investors. Though the need to convey the property had arisen long ago, the former MP and his companions “had at no point of time shown any sign of complying with the first limb of the CLB’s order.” Instead, the matter was taken on several rounds of litigation before the High Court and the Supreme Court before the investors could finally approach the CLB once again in 2011 to execute its 2008 orders. The Board allowed the execution petitions in December 2015 and hence the present company appeals were filed in 2016. Finding no reason to allow the appeals, Justice Jayachandran said: “In a matter involving an exit scheme framed under the Companies Act, one party is eased out from the management of the Company for a consideration. In such circumstances, the money invested is not the sole criteria for fixing the quid pro quo. “There are several other factors that come into play to ascertain the quid pro quo to ease out the deadlock for smooth exit. Weighing the money invested in the year2003-04at one hand and the present value of the property at another hand is not fair or equitable test for proportionality.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-former-aiadmk-mp-to-give-away-property-worth-rs-500-crore-to-two-investors/article34645837.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School teacher arrested on charges of sexual harassment||G. Rajagopalan, 59, a teacher at a reputed school in the city, was arrested by the police on charges of sexually harassing girl students and was remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. Allegations of sexual harassment and misconduct against the teacher circulated on social media on Sunday and soon went viral. On Monday, he was picked up by the police’s Special Wing for Crime Against Women and Children from his residence at Nanganallur. A special team under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner, Crime against Women and Children, H. Jayalakshmi and Deputy Commissioner, T. Nagar, D.N. Hari Kiran Prasad interrogated him. His laptop and mobile phone were seized and scrutinised for evidence. He was teaching accountancy and business studies for Plus One and Plus Two students. He shared obscene content with his girl students besides asking them for pictures and videos. He confessed to his deeds during interrogation, the police said. After receiving a complaint from a victim, Rajagopalan was booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. On Tuesday, he was remanded in judicial custody till June 8. The Child Welfare Committee (Chennai South) has issued summons to the dean and principal of the school where Rajagopalan was employed. Rajkumar Muthukrishnan, chairperson, said they had been asked to appear before the CWC on May 31. The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in a press release, said they had issued summons to the school director, the principal, the chief educational officer, the person who shared the allegations on social media and Rajagopalan, asking them to appear before the commission on June 4. R.G. Anand, member of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in a letter to the Director General of Police Tamil Nadu, said they had taken suo motu cognisance of the issue based on newspaper reports, and asked for strict action to be taken under the relevant sections of the POCSO Act. “An action taken report along with authenticated copies of relevant documents may be shared with the commission within three days of the receipt of this letter,” Mr. Anand said. He has also called for the students to be provided with counselling and psycho-social support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teacher-arrested-on-charges-of-sexual-harassment/article34646082.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rules against former AIADMK MP||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed appeals preferred by former AIADMK MP K.C. Palanisamy against an order of the Company Law Board (CLB) declaring two investors in his Cheran Enterprises Private Limited as the beneficial owners of 25 acres of property reportedly worth about Rs. 500 crore. The court also confirmed the Board’s order directing the jurisdictional Registrar to register a sale deed vesting the property in favour of the investors if the former MP fails to execute the sale deed on his own. Justice G. Jayachandran held that the former MP never made any genuine attempt to repay Rs. 75 crore invested by ORE Holding Limited of Mauritius and Rs. 4 crore by non-resident Indian Nandakumar Athappan of Singapore in 2004. Therefore, now, the appellant could not resist the CLB’s 2015 order, passed in two execution petitions, declaring ORE Trust and Mr. Athappan as the beneficial owners of 17.15 and 7.80 acres of land belonging to Vasantha Mills, a subsidiary of CEPL, the judge also said. Though it was argued on behalf of the former MP that the present value of the property was nearly Rs. 500 crore, whereas the principal and interest payable to ORE and Mr. Athappan was far less, the judge pointed out that the immovable property to be conveyed was not only for the money invested in 2004 but also for the investors to relinquish their rights in Cheran Enterprises Private Limited and its subsidiary companies and exit the company as desired by the former MP. Exit scheme The judge pointed out that it was the former MP who had approached the CLB in 2005 for framing an exit scheme, with respect to one of the investors, due to the differences that had arisen between him and the investors. On the other hand, the investors had approached the Company Law Board seeking an investigative audit to determine the amount of money allegedly misappropriated by the former Member of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rules-against-former-aiadmk-mp/article34646091.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin visits HLL Biotech||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday visited HLL Biotech Limited, a Union government enterprise in Chengalpattu district and urged the Centre to allocate funds to activate the unit for producing vaccines. Mr. Stalin said that the Tamil Nadu government would extend all help for producing vaccines from the vaccine lab of this unit at Thirukazhukkundram, an official release said. HLL Biotech Limited Director Vijayan, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-visits-hll-biotech/article34646096.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||U.S. honour for expert||Lakshmanan Sathyavagiswaran, a member of the Pathology/Biology section, American Academy of Forensic Sciences, has been awarded the “AAFS Distinguished Fellow Award” at the American Academy of Forensic Sciences’ 73rd Annual Scientific Meeting, held virtually in February this year. Dr. Sathyavagiswaran is a consultant in Infectious Diseases/Forensic Pathology - Medicine to the DMEC at Los Angeles County, located in Arcadia, California, USA. He has numerous publications in various journals, many book chapters and presentations in several conferences to its credit, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/us-honour-for-expert/article34646098.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children suffer only mild symptoms: experts||Addressing the concerns of parents during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, experts at The Hindu ’s webinar as part of the Wellness Series, emphasised that in a majority of cases, children experience only mild symptoms and recover well at home. The webinar titled ‘COVID-19 and Children’, presented by Kauvery Hospital, had three panellists: Janani Sankar, a senior consultant paediatrician at Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, Chennai; D. Senguttavan, chief consultant paediatrician, and D. Suresh Chelliah, a senior consultant paediatrician, both from Kauvey Hospital in Tiruchi. On worries that children were being more affected during this wave, Dr. Chelliah said that was not the case and children were less affected than adults. “More children are being identified because we are testing more than last year,” he said. Common symptoms, he added, were cough, runny nose, irritability, refusal to eat and fever. “Most children will recover at home but in case of a persisting fever and difficulties in breathing or vomiting, parents must take the child to a doctor,” Dr. Chelliah said. Dr. Sankar said very few children required hospital admission. Most were given symptomatic treatment at home. “Children who do get admitted are usually older or those with respiratory symptoms, who have been admitted due to fear of pneumonia,” she said, and even they recovered well. She also spoke about multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), which usually occurred a few weeks after the viral infection.. “These children require immediate care,” she said, but added that when identified and treated in time, they also recovered well. Dr. Senguttavan highlighted the need for children suffering from chronic illnesses to continue receiving medical care. He also spoke about the pyscho-social effects of the lockdown on children, and gave parents tips on how to help them cope. “COVID-19 can also affect the mental health of the child...there is not much awareness in this area,” he said. Fear of the virus and schools being closed could affect children, he added. Reducing negative talk, teaching children about COVID-19 with reliable information and connecting with extended family virtually were some of the steps he recommended. A number of audience questions were answered, including precautions to be taken while breast-feeding an infant when COVID-19 positive, the procedure to take care of asymptomatic children at home and suggestions for safety measures to be considered for children while playing outdoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-suffer-mild-covid-19-symptoms-say-experts/article34646090.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on emotional well-being to be held on May 28||A webinar titled ‘Emotional Well-Being at the time of COVID-19’ will be held as a part of The Hindu Wellness series presented by MIOT Hospitals on May 28. It will feature a conversation between Dr. S.P. Kurinjinathan, head of psychiatry, MIOT Hospitals, with R. Sujatha, deputy editor (reporting), The Hindu.  The webinar will focus on how working from home and extended work hours have become the new normal, and have led to reduced family time; how the use of gadgets for online classes affect children’s concentration; and the effect the lack of physical activity has had on children and how they were missing out on childhood fun. The discussion will also focus on the psychological effects of contracting COVID-19 or when tending to a family member with the disease. The webinar will begin at 11:30 a.m. on May 28. To register, visit: http://bit.ly/MIOTTH2 or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-emotional-well-being-to-be-held/article34646081.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM Medical College Hospital gets oxygen concentrators from Taiwan||The SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Kattankulathur has received 10 oxygen concentrators from the National Tsing Hua University (NTHU), Taiwan. Hospital authorities said the donation was part of the ‘Love from NTHU, Taiwan’ campaign. Funds for the machines were raised through voluntary donations from the NTHU Alumni Association and the institute’s Centre for India Studies. SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) is a strategic partner of NTHU. As part of this, a dedicated Taiwan Education Centre has been established on SRMIST’s campus. Weichung Wang, director of the programme office for the Taiwan Education Centre in India, NTHU, said the donation was a result of the concern they felt for the people of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-medical-college-hospital-gets-oxygen-concentrators-from-taiwan/article34646083.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camps to be held for 18-44 age group||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started special vaccination camps at 200 locations, giving priority to residents in the age group of 18-44 years. Residents aged above 45 will also be administered the vaccine at the special camps, which will function in addition to the primary health centres. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has ordered officers in all zones to increase the number of vaccinations to 30,000 every day. On Monday, around 23,000 residents received the vaccines. Resident welfare associations have been requested to make arrangements for the vaccination of persons in the age group of 18-44 on their premises, with the support of the Corporation. Companies have been asked to request special camps for their employees. Residents can send the details of those in need of vaccination to 9498346494 through WhatsApp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camps-to-be-held-for-18-44-age-group/article34646077.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ITC Hotels receives platinum certification||ITC Hotels has received the platinum level certification under DNV’s My Care Infection Risk Management Program for its ‘WeAssure’ hygiene protocol, which has over 40 new standard operating procedures to reduce risks of infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/itc-hotels-receives-platinum-certification/article34646078.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two auto majors suspend production||After Hyundai Motor India Ltd., a few more automobile manufacturers have temporarily suspended operations in view of the COVID-19 situation in the State. On Tuesday, Royal Enfield announced holidays between May 27 and 29. The firm said that it would resume operations on May 31 from 7.15 a.m. Renault Nissan Automotive India Pvt. Ltd. announced that it was suspending operations from May 26 to 30. The management would closely monitor the situation and announce resumption of operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-auto-majors-suspend-production/article34646103.ece
26 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2.24 lakh people vaccinated||A total of 2,24,544 persons were given COVID-19 vaccination on Tuesday, including 1,89,578 in the 18-44 age group. In the 2,544 sessions held as many as 979 healthcare workers; and 2,314 front line workers were vaccinated. As many as 23,119 persons with co-morbid conditions in the age group of 45 to 59 years were administered vaccines. A total of 8,554 senior citizens were inoculated in a day. In the last 121 days, 75,57,666 beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Bed availability On Tuesday, the State had 13,722 beds, including 2,487 with oxygen support; 10,855 non-O2 beds; and 380 beds in ICUs in the hospitals. Health officials said districts communicated dynamically bed vacancies from time to time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/224-lakh-people-vaccinated/article34646106.ece
26 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation permits more vehicles to sell vegetables, fruits||In an effort aimed at easing the distribution of vegetables and fruits to the city’s residents, the Coimbatore Corporation had permitted more traders for sales using their vehicles. And, as of Tuesday, 520 vehicles were on road supplying the essential commodities, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said here on Tuesday. The Corporation had deployed 70 vehicles that were attached to the four farmers’ markets, permitted nearly 400 traders to sell using their vehicles and then there were 30 to 40 big and small apartments that had made their own arrangements. In all, there were 520 vehicles, Mr. Pandian told reporters here on Tuesday while adding that the Corporation was doing more by permitting push cart vendors to sell vegetables and fruits. To help the vendors get the permit to sell, the Corporation had posted a person at the MGR Wholesale Market, who would give the permission on the spot. This was also to help the vendors earn a livelihood during the lockdown, the Commissioner added. The Corporation had also deployed over 2,000 personnel to conduct door-to-door check on people. Initially, the Corporation had deployed 800 persons on the task. As it proved to be inadequate, the Corporation increased the number of persons doing door-to-door check to 1,500 at 300 each a zone for the five zones. Further, it increased the number by another 200. The personnel were on the streets, checking every household. They checked the people for fever symptoms, their oxygen level using pulse oximeter and collected other details, the Commissioner said in response to a question. On the steps taken to control the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Pandian said conservancy workers were on the job spraying disinfectants. The Corporation had also deployed three or four tractor-mounted sprayers a zone to spray disinfectants. Therefore, it would be off the mark to say that the civic body did little to control the infection spread. In response to a question, the Commissioner said the city saw 1,500 to 1,800 persons turn COVID-19 positive a day in the last few days. It had increased sample collection for early detection of infected persons. Likewise, the civic body staff were also testing the primary and secondary contacts of persons who had turned positive. Given the lockdown and the increased sample collection, the Corporation hoped to see a decline in positive cases in the next few days, he said. He also promised to set right the dissemination of information regarding vaccination and look into the issue of pregnant women being turned away at Corporation’s urban primary health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-permits-more-vehicles-to-sell-vegetables-fruits/article34646133.ece
26 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Reaching out to the elderly couples||Many elderly couples, who stay alone in Coimbatore city, had unusual visitors who knocked on their doors in the last two days and checked whether they wanted any assistance. Thanks to the new initiative by City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor who instructed all the 15 police stations in Coimbatore city to visit elderly persons and couples who live alone and ensure that they do not have any struggle during the intense lockdown. Police personnel in charge of beat patrols at each police station started visiting senior citizens from Monday. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), said the Coimbatore City Police had already identified 371 elderly couples who live alone within the limits of the 15 police stations. The data was collected when the city police introduced sectoral police officers for each police stations earlier this year to work closely with the public. “Police personnel visit these elderly people and check whether they need any assistance. If they require medicine, grocery or vegetables, the police arrange them,” he said. However, the police will only facilitate such items and will not bear the expenses. “The response was overwhelming. Many couples told our personnel that they were very happy for the mere fact that the cops came to their door steps to check whether their were safe and sound,” Mr. Stalin added.  ‘Call police for help’ Mr. Damor said that senior citizens and destitute could call the police COVID-19 control room for getting essential services and goods. The control room would function round the clock. It could be reached on 0422 2305758. Farmers, traders and others who made emergency travel and faced hurdles at vehicle checking points could also call this number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reaching-out-to-the-elderly-couples/article34645832.ece
26 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade in Coimbatore seeks time to file GST forms||The trade in Coimbatore has appealed to the Central government to give time to file GSTR-3B for April 2021. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has said that traders with more than Rs. 5 crore turnover needed time to file the GSTR – 3B. Relief to tax payers The government has given relief to the tax payers through nil or reduced interest for certain period if there is a delay in discharging the tax liability. However, with the State under lockdown, businesses are closed. Hence, the trade needs time till June 26, said Chamber president C. Balasubramanian. Delivery date The Railway Suppliers Association has urged the Railways Ministry to re-schedule the delivery date for the suppliers without penalty as MSMEs here have shut down operations because of the lockdown. The lockdown has disrupted the supply chain and hence the units are unable to clear the goods. Hence, the Railway Minister and Railway Board should reschedule the delivery dates and allow suppliers to voluntarily withdraw from the purchase order, the Association said. Subsidy The Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises has appealed to the State government to extend 50 % subsidy to the micro and cottage units in electricity charges for three months. The State government should also come out with a separate loan package for these units, said J. James, president of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-in-coimbatore-seeks-time-to-file-gst-forms/article34646138.ece
26 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MGR market re-opened||The wholesale vegetable market here - MGR market - reopened on Tuesday to sell in bulk to traders who sold vegetables on vehicles. The market has 120 shops and 82 traders. According to a trader at the market, on Tuesday they sold vegetables to all those who were selling through vehicles across the city with the permission of the Corporation. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian visited the market on Monday night and Tuesday. The volume of sales at the market will be relatively less as the retail outlets are closed now. However, they will continue to sell to those who are using vehicles to take vegetables to different neighbourhoods in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-market-re-opened/article34646117.ece
26 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) sets up help centre||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has set up a COVID-19 help centre to support the affected. The “Left Help Centre for COVID-19” is set up at the party’s office on second street (extension), Gandhipuram. It can also be reached on 9443884053, 9488708832, 8056444815, 9994158832, 8189802073.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-sets-up-help-centre/article34646119.ece
26 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Workers donate to CM’s relief fund||Conservancy workers in Wards 32 and 39 on Tuesday donated Rs. 28,100 towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. They presented the cheque for the amount to the Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-donate-to-cms-relief-fund/article34646134.ece
26 May 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ministers review COVID situation in Dindigul||Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy and Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani chaired a COVID-19 review meeting here on Monday. Mr. Periyasamy said the government was taking all necessary steps to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sakkarapani urged the industrial establishments to let their vacant spaces be used to set up COVID care centres. He asked the sanitary inspectors to monitor the supply of food and medicines to COVID-19 patients under home quarantine. With vegetables and fruits mobile vehicles flagged off, it should be ensured they reached the doorsteps of the people, he said. Collector M. Vijayalakshmi, Additional Director of District Rural Development Agency G. Muthu Meenal, Member of Parliament P. Velusamy, Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya and Vedasandur MLA S. Gandhi Rajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-review-covid-situation-in-dindigul/article34646229.ece
26 May 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||SSM group donates Rs. 1 cr. to CMPRF||The SSM group of mills, Dindigul, has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to support the government in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The representatives of the SSM group handed over the cheque to Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy in the presence of Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssm-group-donates-rs-1-cr-to-cmprf/article34646228.ece
26 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||109 positive cases reported at Kottamalam village||A total of 109 COVID-19 positive cases were reported at Kottamalam village that is located in Talavadi Block near the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border here on Tuesday. On Sunday, health department officials received information that many villagers were suffering from fever after which a health team from the Upgraded Primary Health Centre at Talavadi visited the village. However, villagers are reluctant for swab tests and stayed indoors. Officials of the health and revenue department pacified them after which 630 samples were lifted from 5 p.m. to 11.30 p.m. and sent to the laboratory at Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. On Tuesday, test results were declared in which 109 persons tested positive. All were shifted to Covid Care Centres at Talavadi. Sources in the health department said that the village has over 400 families and many were working at garment manufacturing companies in Tiruppur and also in Mysuru. They used to traverse forest area for 10 km and cross the border to reach villages in Karnataka. “Due to lockdown, people in other places returned to the native which could have resulted in the spread of virus”, the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/109-positive-cases-reported-at-kottamalam-village/article34646123.ece
26 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles increased in Erode||With more traders opting to sell vegetables and fruits in vehicles in residential areas, the number of vehicles increased from 140 on Monday to 255 here on Tuesday. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that there are 3,200 streets in all the 60 wards in four zones in the civic body limits and added that all the streets cannot be covered by mobile vehicles. “The vehicles station at a particular point in the street and residents can inform the civic body office if vehicles did not reach their area”, he said. While 140 vehicles sold vegetables, fruits and essentials on Monday, 255 vehicles served the people on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-increased-in-erode/article34646125.ece
26 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Perundurai hospital to get more beds||A 300 oxygen-bedded facility being established at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai will be ready for occupancy from May 28, said Minister for Housing and Rural Development S. Muthusamy here on Tuesday. Vaccination camp The Minister inaugurated a vaccination camp for media persons on the Collectorate premises. Addressing the media, the Minister said oxygen beds were available in less numbers in both government and private hospitals and hence, steps had been taken to increase the beds in government hospitals. He said oxygen beds at the District Headquarters Hospital had been increased from 131 to 250 and the beds would be ready for occupancy in two days. Likewise, 100 beds were added to the existing facility at the GEMCH, taking the total number of oxygen beds to 650 now. “Work is on to establish 300 more beds at the hospital that will be ready on Friday,” he added. He said a help desk would be established at GEMCH to guide patients, visitors, and care givers in giving swab tests and to handover the items given by attender to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perundurai-hospital-to-get-more-beds/article34646124.ece
26 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles seized||A total of 1,015 two-wheelers and 31 four-wheelers were seized by the district police for violating lockdown restrictions. With the government enforcing total lockdown, the police have intensified monitoring on the inter-district borders and 42 places within the district. Vehicle checks are being conducted round the clock at Kalaimadu Silai, Panneerselvam Park, GH Roundabout, Collectorate Junction, Sathy Road and other arterial roads in the city. Cases are registered against motorists for plying without valid reasons. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai said that effective enforcement led to sharp decline in the number of motorists moving on the road on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-seized/article34645833.ece
26 May 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Narikuravars of Shoolagiri village fear starvation during lockdown||“It has been four days since I ate. Staying alive has become a chore,” says a weeping woman of indeterminate age. “There is no rice, no vegetables, no oil,” she says. An old man, runs his hands over his stomach tucked in from emaciation and says he has not eaten for two days. “We somehow survived the first coronavirus [wave]. But, we can’t survive this,” he says. Narikuravars of Kariyasanthiram village in Nerigam panchayat in Shoolagiri are apprehensive of the prospects of starvation, as the lockdown imposed over the last week because of the COVID-19 pandemic has pushed them deeper into hunger and destitution. A wrenching video account of hunger and destitution has surfaced from the village calling for help from the Krishnagiri district administration. Cooped up in their tin-roofed tenements on the periphery of the village, this nomadic community that eked out a living on the streets by selling wares and lived on daily sustenance has been pushed into a static mode and abject poverty. Shoolagiri has seen surge in COVID-19 cases next to Hosur, with many villages witnessing abnormal number of funerals as “home deaths.” In its wake, this colony of Narikuravars has come to be viewed as potential spreaders. “If we go out, the police lathi charge us and the villagers beat us. We live in the forest (outside of the village). There is no rice, no groceries, no pulses. We are 200 families. Please send us help,” says another woman with folded hands. Unlike the first, the second wave of cases accompanied by mortalities and flooded hospitals has shrunk space for public action by volunteers, leaving those like this nomadic community out of the civic action radar. The Hindu shared the video with Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy. The Collector said, there were 135 family cardholders in the colony, with supplies of dry rations already made through those cards. However, a team was being sent to offer them help. A Hosur-based NGO had also come forward to provide help, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikuravars-of-shoolagiri-village-fear-starvation-during-lockdown/article34645841.ece
26 May 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews COVID-19 management in Krishnagiri||Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi held a review of COVID management and containment measures and the health infrastructure in the district with the line departments here under the aegis of Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy. Mr. Gandhi took stock of the beds with and without oxygen support currently in the district. According to the administration, of the total 512 beds at the Government Medical College Hospital in Krishnagiri, 360 beds are allocated for COVID care centres and all the allocated beds are equipped with oxygen support. According to the administration, six committees have been constituted for COVID management and triaging of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-reviews-covid-19-management-in-krishnagiri/article34646116.ece
26 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plan to sell vegetables, fruits||The district administration and Madurai Corporation have planned to deploy 500 vehicles to sell vegetables and fruits at the doorsteps of the residents during the intensified complete lockdown period, said Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy here on Tuesday. After inspecting the vehicles at Arignar Anna Maligai here along with Collector Aneesh Sekar and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, he said the Corporation, Agricultural Department, Horticulture Department and traders of Paravai and Mattuthavani vegetable markets were working together for selling vegetables to the public during this lockdown period. Steps will be taken to supply groceries also to the residents at their doorsteps. It has been decided to distribute kabasura kudineer and medicines to the villagers. A total of 150 vehicles were sent for selling vegetable kits to the public including 50 vehicles of Madurai Corporation, 40 vehicles of Horticulture Department and 48 vehicles of Agriculture Department on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-sell-vegetables-fruits/article34645890.ece
26 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure ambulances are available in time’||The State government should immediately take stock of the number of ambulance vehicles across each district and ensure that no patient waited for more than 15 minutes for the emergency vehicle to reach the destination, said AIADMK MLA R. B. Udhayakumar on Tuesday. He told reporters after distributing ‘kabasura kudineer’ to the people of his Thirumangalam constituency, he alleged that a 31-year-old COVID-19 patient Bharanikumar of Mooduvarpatti died on Monday as he was waiting in vain for an ambulance for hours. The patient, who required oxygen and admission in hospital, was waiting for an ambulance. As the ambulance did not turn up, he managed to get into a goods vehicle and reached the Government Hospital after travelling 30 km. Again, the patient, who was admitted in the ward was unable to get a bed with oxygen and finally died as the waiting time was too long. The former minister said that they had furnished the number of ambulances available with the call centre during the AIADMK regime. As per demands or requirements, the vehicles were allotted. ‘We ensured that the waiting time was not more than 20 minutes,’ he said. Based on input collected during door-to-door survey by Village Health Nurses for fever or other ailments, senior officials could relocate ambulances to any particular hamlet or panchayat. Thus, vehicles could reach and pick up patients to the nearest hospitals for treatment following a call. In Madurai, 1,453 patients tested positive for COVID-19 and 16 died on Monday. According to the information, 753 were from corporation limits and 700 from rural pockets. The district administration should concentrate on the welfare of the people in rural habitations as Madurai has 420 panchayats and 13 panchayat unions, Mr Udhayakumar said and hoped the officials would act swiftly and bring down the number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-ambulances-are-available-in-time/article34645883.ece
26 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gandhian dies||Gandhian and secretary of Gandhi Memorial Museum in Madurai, K. M. Natarajan, who was 89, succumbed to COVID-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital here on Monday night. Curator and Administrative Officer of Gandhi Memorial Museum K.R. Nanda Rao said that Natarajan suffered from breathlessness and admitted to the GRH on May 19. Despite the treatment, he succumbed to COVID-19. Historian Ramachandra Guha had tweeted that Natarajan was a stalwart of the Bhoodan movement, and a close associate of Vinoba Bhave, and J. C. Kumarappa. He was a wise, compassionate and courageous human being. In 1952 Natarajan resolved to take up Mahatma Gandhi’s call to boycott foreign clothes and opted for the handspun khadi thereafter. When Vinoba Bhave came calling to Tamil Nadu for ‘Bhoodan’ movement, Natarajan followed his inner voice. Natarajan, who is the Chairman of Tamil Nadu Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Madurai, had also helped in restoring the rights of soil tillers in Vilampatti and Valivalam under the guidance of doyen of Sarvodaya movement in south India, Sankaralingam Jagannathan. Natarajan was a Senate member and Academic Council member of Gandhigram Rural Institute and Madurai Kamaraj University. He had won several awards including the Best Gandhian Constructive Worker by the Gandhigram Rural Institute in 2009. Natarajan was also the Chairman of Tamil Nadu Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Madurai. He was also the editor of ‘Sarvodaya Talisman’ , a Gandhian bi-monthly magazine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhian-dies/article34645885.ece
26 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Import drug to treat black fungal disease’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has urged the Union Minister for Health Harsh Vardhan to take efforts for importing Liposomal Amphotericin B, a drug to treat mucormycosis, black fungal disease, immediately. Stating that amidst the increasing spread of COVID infections in southern States, the black fungal infection was adding to the problems. Many states including Tamil Nadu have understood the gravity of the situation and have declared it as a notified disease. “Though the number of infected persons with black fungal disease is less than corona infections, mucormycosis was causing significant increase in mortality rate and is considered as a serious disease to treat,” he said. Eminent ophthalmologist Venkatesh Prajna, chief doctor, Aravind Eye Hospital, and Ashok Grover, chief ophthalmologist, Gangaram Eye Hospital, have recommended Liposomal Amphotericin B as the chosen drug for the treatment for fungal disease. “However, this drug is in severe short supply. Domestic manufacturers may not be able to ramp up production in a short span of time,” he said. Stating that the drug was available outside India in abundance, he said that India required it only for thousands of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/import-drug-to-treat-black-fungal-disease/article34645886.ece
26 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 information centre set up||Backward Classes Minister S.S. Sivasankar on Tuesday stressed the role of NGOs in aiding government’s effort to battle COVID-19. In a virtual address to mark the launch of a COVID-19 care information centre by ‘Savenation-Tamil Nadu,’ an NGO in Madurai, he said such measures would be useful for the needy in this hour of medical emergency. The government alone could not deliver to those in need of assistance. Such initiatives by NGOs would motivate people rather than pushing them into depression or other kinds of illness, he said. Frontline Editor R. Vijayashankar said there was plenty of information on social media on COVID-19. While most people were not able to discern, NGOs could guide them. People would benefit through proper dissemination of information. N. Ezhilan, Thousand Lights MLA, said the new government had added 7,500 oxygen beds, 16,000 COVID beds and 2,000 COVID care centres across the State. The Centre had earmarked Rs. 35,000 crore for procuring vaccines from two private players. Instead, they could have examined the modalities of commencing production in public sector plants. The State government and NGOs initiated several steps to deliver results to a large number of people. They could be accessed through helplines 9342078679 and 9342315242. Advocate C.J. Rajan welcomed. Evidence executive director A. Kathir spoke. Advocate Tamilarasan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-information-centre-set-up/article34645888.ece
26 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for people between 18 & 44 begins||A total of 57,800 vials of COVID-19 vaccine have been allocated to Madurai district for vaccinating people aged between 18 and 44. As many as 50,100 vials of Covishield vaccine and 7,700 vials of Covaxin vaccine have been allotted to Madurai district. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inspected the Arignar Anna Maligai here on Tuesday where vaccine was administered to those aged between 18 and 44. Vaccine for those aged between 18 and 44 was administered only to a select group of people. In the first phase, frontline volunteers, people who were selling vegetables and other commodities through vehicles approved by the government, food delivery persons and other frontline workers were covered. Urban Primary Health Centres at K. Pudur, Ansari Nagar, Munichalai, and Thideer Nagar are conducting special vaccination camps for those aged between 18 and 44. Madurai Corporation conducted camps for those aged between 18 and 44 at Mattuthavani Fruit Market, SIDCO Industrial Estate, East Veli Street, Ansari Nagar, K.Pudur and Bye Pass Road on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-people-between-18-44-begins/article34645892.ece
26 May 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||10 die in Madurai||A total of 1,358 new COVID-19 positive cases and 927 discharges were recorded in Madurai on Tuesday. Ten persons died of the viral infection, increasing the district’s overall toll to 823. There were 16 deaths reported in the district on Monday. Virudhunagar registered 10 deaths – the victims included four women and two persons below 50 years of age – and 1,015 fresh cases. A total of 404 persons were discharged from various hospitals. The death toll in the district now stands at 349.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-die-in-madurai/article34645887.ece
26 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three labs to face action for unauthorised COVID-19 testing||The Puducherry Health Department has asked the district administration to initiate action against three private laboratories for conducting COVID-19 tests without permission. The labs are Selvan Lab, Red Clinic Lab and ECG, Reddiayarpalayam and M. S Diagnostic Lab, Lawspet. The department had also sought proceedings against East Coast Hospitals, Moolakulam, for charging fees in excess of the fixed rate for antigen and RT-PCR test. Following complaints of unauthorised labs collecting throat swabs for COVID-19 tests and charging higher fee than rates fixed by the government, the department had appointed a committee, comprising R. Murali, L. Ravivarman and M. Neelathachi for conducting an inquiry. According to an official, an inquiry conducted by the committee in the labs on Monday found that Selvan, Red Clinical and MS Diagnostic were collecting samples from people on their premises for COVID-19 tests. They also collected samples from patients at their residences and sent it for testing in labs at Chennai and Kancheepuram. The committee in its report said the test results were not shared with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme wing of the Department but instead directly sent to the patients. “Bill/invoice was not maintained by the labs. However, written registers of the labs showed that they collected Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500 for each RT-PCR test,” the committee said in its report. As far East Coast Hospital was concerned, the committee said the department had fixed Rs. 500 for RT-PCR, but the hospital collected Rs. 4,000 for the tests. The bill receipts collected from the hospital showed that they charged Rs. 1,500 for antigen though the department had asked them not to collect more than Rs. 500. The committee had recommended stern action, including cancellation of licence, against the labs for exploiting the patients, the official told The Hindu . According to another official, there were reports of a few more labs conducting unauthorised tests and collecting exorbitant fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-labs-to-face-action-for-unauthorised-covid-19-testing/article34646093.ece
26 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 26 deaths, 1,237 fresh cases||The Union Territory recorded 26 deaths, including that of a 22-year-old youth in Karaikal, even as 1,237 new cases were confirmed from 9,148 tests, against 1,571 recoveries on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded 23 deaths and Karaikal three. The patients, including 12 women, were in the 22 to 85 tears age range and 16 of them had no co-morbidities. The region-wise cumulative toll was Puducherry (1,150), Karaikal (150), Yanam (82) and Mahe (26). The new cases were from Puducherry (915), Karaikal (222), Yanam (75) and Mahe (25). The test positivity rate was 13%, case fatality rate 1.43% and recovery rate 82.81%. The active cases stood at 15,475, including 1,884 in hospitals and 13,591 in home isolation. The bed occupancy status in Puducherry was JIPMER (509), IGMCRI (399) and Covid Care Centres (609). The COVID-19 dashboard showed the availability of 48 oxygen beds in Puducherry region while none of the allotted 216 ventilator beds was vacant. The Union Territory has so far recorded 98,219 cases and 81,336 patients have recovered. Of an estimated 9,97,437 tests conducted by the Health Department to date, over 8.69 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 86 healthcare workers, 129 frontline staff and 2,536 members of the public got vaccinated in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory. The total number of vaccinated persons aggregated to 2,45,940, including 34,320 healthcare personnel, 21,173 frontline workers and 1,39,936 members of the public. Of this segment, 50,433 have been fully vaccinated.  Vellore logs 516 cases The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 39,609 with 516 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 34,403 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 4,560. The district's death toll is 646. In Ranipet district, 420 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 31,611. In Tirupattur district, 473 new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 20,163. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases were 955, taking the total number of cases to 37,578. Out of this, 30,028 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 7,163.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-26-deaths-1237-fresh-cases/article34646097.ece
26 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||More vehicles deployed to spray disinfectants in Pudukottai||Pudukottai municipal authorities have deployed 12 more vehicles to spray disinfectants in all wards falling under their limits. The exercise was being carried out earlier through 10 vehicles. Municipal authorities said the rise in COVID-19 cases in Pudukottai prompted them to augment the number of vehicles. Teams of sanitary workers were being engaged for spraying disinfectants at various places including central bus stand, bazaar areas and containment zones in Pudukottai Town. Spraying of disinfectants was being done in the morning and evening in all 42 wards. Some of the containment zones in Pudukottai municipal limits included Shanmuga Nagar, Kamarajapuram, Periyar Nagar and Kamban Nagar. The addition of vehicles for spraying infectants would enable coverage of narrow lanes and bylanes as well. The intense lockdown period was being made use of for spraying disinfectants as there was hardly any movement of public and vehicles, the authorities further said adding that the additional vehicles used for the purpose also belonged to the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-vehicles-deployed-to-spray-disinfectants-in-pudukottai/article34646259.ece
26 May 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Milk supply through Aavin’||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Tuesday said milk would be supplied through 250 Aavin agents in the district from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. In a press release, she said arrangements had been made to supply vegetables, fruits and grocery items in COVID-19 containment zones through anganwadi workers. Arrangements had also been made to supply vegetables, fruits and grocery items to 497 village panchayats through vehicles from 6 a.m. to noon. The timings for supply of essentials to every village panchayat had been planned accordingly. Vendors had been advised to wear masks and gloves. People must wear masks, ensure personal distancing and take precautionary measures while buying and extend full cooperation to the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-supply-through-aavin/article34646257.ece
26 May 2021||S. PrasadCUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Wedding party claims to be heading to hospital, police send them by ambulance||False claims by a wedding party, telling police that they were headed to a hospital in Puducherry for an emergency, landed them in trouble. The police seized the SUV they were travelling in and sent them in an ambulance, exposing their lies. According to police sources, a team was conducting checks on Bharathi Road in Cuddalore, during the intense lockdown on Monday, when they flagged down a vehicle and asked five persons to state their reason for travel. The group did not have an e-pass for emergency travel. One of the women passengers in the vehicle claimed that they were proceeding to a hospital for an emergency. The woman was dressed in finery, and this led to suspicion, said an officer. “We came forward to provide an ambulance to the party if one of them needed hospitalisation, as they claimed. The woman suddenly changed the story and claimed that it was her husband who had an ailment in his eye, and they were heading to a hospital in Thavalakuppam,” the police officer said. The police arranged for an ambulance, made the family get into the ambulance and directed the driver to take the group to the hospital in Puducherry. However, on the way to the hospital the passengers pleaded with the driver to help them disembark on the way as they had no necessity to go to the hospital. This proved that none of them needed hospitalisation. They were only trying to hoodwink the law enforcement authorities, police said. The group was returning to Puducherry after attending a wedding in Chidambaram, police said. Police booked a case against the couple and three others under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wedding-party-claims-to-be-heading-to-hospital-police-send-them-by-ambulance/article34646089.ece
26 May 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||50 beds allocated to treat black fungus cases at Salem GH: Minister||Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji said that a separate ward with 50 beds have been arranged to provide treatment for black fungus cases at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. Speaking to reporters after reviewing the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the district here on Tuesday, the Minister said that the ward had been classified into two categories, COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 wards and 25 beds each have been allocated for COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients to undergo treatment for black fungus. Mr. Balaji said that measures have been taken to increase medical oxygen allocation to the district in upcoming days. The Minister also held discussions with district administration officials, MLAs and MPs. However, opposition MLAs did not attend the meeting. Mr. Balaji said that steps are being taken to reduce the total positivity rate here by the end of lockdown period. Mr. Balaji said that bed strength in the district was increased on a war-footing and 11,700 beds are available for COVID-19 treatment here and added that the COVID-19 treatment centre near Salem Steel Plant would begin its operation latest by Thursday and trials have started.   Mr. Balaji said that authorities have been advised that a person should be informed about swab test status by 24 hours of testing. On complaints regarding charging for electricity bills, Mr. Balaji said that if public feel that they have been charged beyond their usage they can send images of their meter readings to the Whatsapp number issued by the department or carry it while going to pay the electricity bills and they would be charged only for their usage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-beds-allocated-to-treat-black-fungus-cases-at-salem-gh-minister/article34646129.ece
26 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase testing centres’||Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami urged the State government to increase tests and testing centres on a war-footing to contain spread of COVID-19. Mr. Palaniswami on Tuesday held discussions with District Collector and Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Palaniswami said, “The government should increase number of tests and testing centres to contain spread of the disease. About 6,900 cases was the highest daily caseload reported during our regime and 90,000 tests were being taken per day then. Today, about 35,000 cases was being reported on a day and about 1.60 lakh tests are being taken. It should be increased to 3 lakh tests per day.” Mr. Palaniswami said that he had already written to Prime Minister to provide sufficient stock of vaccines to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-testing-centres/article34646137.ece
26 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man attempts self-immolation demanding bed for kin||A taxi driver attempted self-immolation in front of the Salem Collectorate here on Tuesday demanding bed for his father at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Tuesday. According to police, Saravanan has visited the Hospital on May 23 demanding a bed for his father who has tested positive recently. Allegedly, a bed was not allotted for past two days and feeling depressed, Saravanan tried to self-immolate. Police personnel on duty immediately rescued him and rushed to a hospital. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-attempts-self-immolation-demanding-bed-for-kin/article34646127.ece
26 May 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination of physically challenged begins||Vaccination of the physically challenged in Amar Sevan Sangam at Aayikudi near here commenced on Tuesday. Collector G. S. Sameeran, who inaugurated the vaccination, said the inoculation of the physically challenged between the age of 18 and 44 on priority basis had commenced in Amar Seva Sangam. Besides 36 differently-abled persons, 122 public between 18 and 44 had been vaccinated on Tuesday. In Tirunelveli district, Speaker M. Appavu inaugurated the vaccination of the public between 18 and 44 years of age at Thisaiyanvilai. Mr. Appavu also inaugurated the sale of fruits and the vegetables from vehicles at Thisyaiyanvilai by the town panchayat administration. The Speaker inaugurated the vaccination also at Idaiyankudi and Uvari, where disinfection was done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-of-physically-challenged-begins/article34646230.ece
26 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring blood sugar level daily can help prevent mucormycosis, say medical experts||Checking blood sugar level every day after recovering from COVID-19 might eliminate the risk of contracting mucormycosis, according to medical experts here. Unusual increase in blood sugar being the key factor for the fungal infection, it would be advisable, particularly for diabetics who have recovered from COVID-19, to monitor the levels at least thrice daily for six months, S. Gurushankar, chairman, Meenakshi Hospital, Thanjavur, said. Early detection will result in better treatment outcome. Typically, COVID-19 patients develop symptoms of mucormycosis such as numbness or pain on one side of the cheek, stuffy nose and swelling in the eyelid for two to 10 days after discharge from hospital. As the infection brings down immunity level, the mucormycosis sneaks in and induces the body to produce more sugar and iron, key nutrients for the fungi to spread, Dr. Gurushankar explained. The COVID-19 infection creates a pre-diabetic state in may patients, said consultant ENT specialist P.Isaac Richards. Use of steroids in COVID-19 management results in shooting up of glucose to a very high level, which shuts down the body’s immune system for easy entry of the fungi. Detailing the diagnosis, Dr.Isaac Richards says nasal endoscopy, histopathological examination and culture and MRI scan to assess the extent of infection’s spread is required and has to be followed by a minimally invasive surgery to debride dead tissues along with the fungus, after which anti-fungal therapy has to be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-blood-sugar-level-daily-can-help-prevent-mucormycosis-say-medical-experts/article34646250.ece
26 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA starts providing free food||SASTRA Deemed to be University on Tuesday began distribution of free lunch to health service providers in Kumbakonam. A press release said the institution decided to provide lunch to around 500 health service providers and, to begin with, food was distributed to 250 persons on the first day. The mass-feeding exercise was in addition to the activities being carried out in front of SRC, Kumbakonam, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-starts-providing-free-food/article34646251.ece
26 May 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Fake e-pass holder’s vehicle impounded||The police impounded a four-wheeler and detained its owner after it was found that he had a fake e-registration for travel from Chinnamanur to Periakulam in the district on Tuesday. Police said Saravanan of Chinnamanur, when intercepted at a check-post, claimed that he was proceeding to Periakulam to attend a funeral. A senior officer at the check post said that they did random checks on such e-pass holders and impounded the vehicles. In this case, based on the confession of the car owner, they arrested a browsing centre owner Prakash, who had aided in getting the pass for the wrong reason. The district had been witnessing huge numbers of Covid-19 positive patients that on May 24, according to the State medical bulletin, there were 32,541 positive cases, 26,265 were discharged and 5,973 active cases in hospitals and covid care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-e-pass-holders-vehicle-impounded/article34646231.ece
26 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to pinpoint reason behind mucormycosis||The Department of Medical and Family Welfare will constitute a multi-disciplinary research team, comprising 10 experts drawn from various branches of medicine, to determine what causes mucormycosis in some COVID-19 patients, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said. Speaking to reporters in Thoothukudi on Tuesday, Mr. Subramanian said there were diverse opinions regarding the cause of the fungal infection, with diabetes, dialysis for renal failure or steroids administered to COVID-19 patients during the course of treatment being cited as reasons. While European countries had rejected the steroids theory, a few others had suggested that the contaminated water being used in some instances for producing oxygen may have caused the infection. “So, to pinpoint the reason for this medical condition, we are in the process of constituting a multi-disciplinary, 10-member committee with experts drawn from various fields of medicine. The experts will meet this week to start their research,” Mr. Subramanian said. He was in Thoothukudi to review anti-COVID-19 operations and the ongoing vaccination drive. The Minister categorically rejected the charge that COVID-19 deaths were being under-reported. He said there was no need for the State government to cover up the deaths. “In fact, there will be a sense of fear among the people if we give them the real data on deaths and this, in turn, will compel them to take every possible precautionary measure, including vaccination,” he noted. On the availability of medical-grade oxygen for treating COVID-19 patients, Mr. Subramanian said the State, which had been in a tough situation with regard to oxygen stock till 10 days ago, was now in a comfortable position, thanks to the steps being taken by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Besides bringing medical-grade oxygen from various States, infrastructure was being created in some government hospitals for establishing oxygen plants so that Tamil Nadu would be in a comfortable position even if it had to face the anticipated ‘third wave’ of COVID-19, he added. The Minister said Tamil Nadu, which had received 80 lakh doses of vaccines so far, had already administered 70 lakh doses. Moreover, 12 lakh doses meant for the 18-44 age group had arrived, even as those above 45 years of age were being covered systematically. “Our objective is to vaccinate every resident of Tamil Nadu, for which we have floated global tenders for supplying 3.50 crore [doses of] vaccines. We expect all vaccine producers, including the manufacturers of Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V, to take part, and the lowest bidder will be the supplier,” Mr. Subramanian said. He said the number of new cases was coming down across Tamil Nadu, including in Chennai. Secretary, Department of Medical and Family Welfare, J. Radhakrishnan, Collector K. Senthil Raj, Ministers Anita R. Radhakrishnan and P. Geetha Jeevan, and senior officials accompanied the Minister during his visits to the containment zones, vaccination centres, the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and the Tiruchendur Government Hospital. Mr. Subramanian conducted similar inspections and a review meeting in Kanniyakumari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-pinpoint-reason-behind-mucormycosis/article34646115.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteer group supplies free food to patients||At a time when COVID-19 pandemic has caused untold sufferings, particularly in families where all members have tested positive, a group of like-minded volunteers of Mannachanallur on the outskirts of the city have risen up to the occasion by supplying food at their doorstep free of cost. The philanthropy of the group began when C. Balachandar, 55, an astrologer, reached out to a few homeless elders, who were forced to go to bed on an empty stomach due to the immediate fallout of the national-level lockdown clamped in March last. On observing their sense of relief, Mr. Balachandar formed a group by teaming up with R. Kirubakaran of Thuraiyur and S. Venkatesh, R. Radhakannan, S.Manojkumar, T.Balaji and V. Ragu of Mannachanallur to distribute food packets to homeless and stranded people. Though the initiative was originally intended for a short period, the ravaging spread of the virus in the second wave has forced them to regroup again to expand their ambit of service by taking into account the struggle being faced by COVID-19 patients, who are in home isolation, to get food. While a few members share the expenses, others take time out to distribute the food packets to needy patients in Mannachanallur, Srirangam and No 1 Tollgate. One of them has circulated a message on WhatsApp, inviting the needy patients to contact at 9788682220 for delivering food to them. They meet regularly in the evening to list out the food requirement of patients. The food is readied by Mr. Venkatesh, proprietor of Sakthi Vilas restaurant in Mannachanallur, on actual cost basis and distributed through the team members thrice a day. “We get 20 to 25 calls a day for food from COVID-19 patients. As a team, we feel immensely happy to extend the small help from our side when they are in distress,” says Mr. Balachandar. Beneficiaries of the philanthropy have been expressing gratitude. “It is unfortunate that I could not be present with my aged mother, who is under home isolation for the last few days. The help offered by the Mannachanallur volunteers is timely indeed,” says a woman resident at a locality in No.1 Tollgate area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteer-group-supplies-free-food-to-patients/article34646253.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||72 deaths in delta||Districts in the central region accounted for 72 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday and 4,913 fresh cases of infection. While Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts recorded 20 deaths each on a single day, there were 17 casualties in Tiruchi. While 10 patients succumbed to COVID-19 infection in Karur district, Ariyalur recorded four deaths. One death was reported in Tiruvarur district. According to a medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts continued to register more than 1,000 cases a day. A total of 1,110 fresh cases were reported in Tiruchi, and Thanjavur was close behind with 1,105 cases. The daily count was 614 in Nagapattinam district and 905 in Tiruvarur district. While Pudukottai registered 355 fresh cases, it was 296 in Perambalur. Karur and Ariyalur registered 313 and 215 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-deaths-in-delta/article34646256.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two more COVID Care Centres to come up||As the number of fresh COVID-19 cases from Radhapuram area is on the rise, two more COVID-19 Care Centres, each with 200 beds, are coming up in St. Antony’s College of Education at Kumarapuram near Mannaarpuram Junction and Universal Engineering College near Valliyoor. Speaker M. Appavu and Collector V. Vishnu visited these colleges on Tuesday to check the beds being kept there and the other allied facilities that are being created to receive the patients. While the asymptomatic COVID-19 patients are being allowed to undergo treatment even as they are in home quarantine, those who have minor symptoms are being referred to the COVID-19 Care Centres, which have been established at Koodankulam, Munanjipatti, Gandhimathi School near Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Sivananda Hospital at Pattamadai, SCAD Polytechnic at Tharuvai and Government Engineering College, Palayamkottai. Mr. Vishnu ordered the establishment of COVID Care Centres at St. Antony’s College of Education at Kumarapuram and Universal Engineering College near Valliyoor. Mr. Vishnu also ordered officials to ensure power supply to every bed so that oxygen concentrators can be used if the situation demands. “Each of these COVID Care Centres will have 200 beds ,” said Mr. Appavu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-covid-care-centres-to-come-up/article34646233.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||More stores for door delivery||The Corporation has roped in a few more grocery stores to supply at doorstep: Nellai Fresh Super Market, Tuckerammalpuram 98430 54036, 98434 54036, 98431 54036 and 98433 54036, City Supermarket, Melapalayam, 95859 98908, 86828 93680 and 99407 71307, Big Bazaar, Perumalpuram 70101 24207, 86376 89270, 84510 54151 and 73045 58608, GRM Supermarket, Thatchanallur 99436 03004 and 99436 03005, APP Nadar Stores, Perumalpuram 75982 23030 and 75984 23030, Thalavai Budget, Tirunelveli Town, 97863 18088, 80121 86589 and 0462 – 4562333, Natchiyar Supermarket, Palayamkottai, 99941 04488, 94881 84444 and 99446 30333, PSP Traders, Tirunelveli Town, 94434 51974, PSP Enterprises, Tirunelveli Town, 76393 09463 and 0462 – 2331624.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-stores-for-door-delivery/article34646234.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Generation of power hit in KKNPP reactor||Technical snag hit power generation in the second reactor of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) on Tuesday evening. Sources in the KKNPP said the technical snag that developed in the generator section of the second reactor with the capacity of generating 1,000 MWe around 5.30 p.m. hit the electricity generation. Consequently, generation of 1,000 MWe power was hit in the second reactor even as the first reactor was generating 1,000 MWe power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/generation-of-power-hit-in-kknpp-reactor/article34646235.ece
26 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Accidental swapping of bodies in Tiruppur causes stir||The Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur will hold an inquiry on the alleged accidental swapping of the bodies of two patients who died of COVID-19 at the hospital on Tuesday. According to police sources privy to the development, the relatives of an 83-year-old man from Tiruppur who died of COVID-19 at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday faced a rude shock after unzipping the body bag at a crematorium in the city on Tuesday afternoon to find out that it was a different body. The relatives informed the Tiruppur South police, who conducted an inquiry along with Revenue Department officials at the hospital. Inquiries revealed that the bodies were accidentally swapped at the mortuary with another deceased with a similar name and that the body was already cremated earlier in the day. The officials made arrangements to hand over the ashes to the relatives and no police complaint was lodged, according to the sources. When contacted, authorities at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital said that investigations were under way to ascertain how the bodies were swapped despite the relatives having signed the relevant forms before accepting the body. A senior doctor said that the body bags used by the hospital for those who die of COVID-19 do not have transparent films that allow relatives to see the faces of the deceased, which might have been one of the reasons for the incident to occur. “We have now placed orders for such bags [with transparent films],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accidental-swapping-of-bodies-in-tiruppur-causes-stir/article34646120.ece
26 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Additional milk being procured from dairy farmers: Minister||To ensure that dairy farmers are not adversely impacted by the total lockdown, the State government has started procuring nearly two lakh litres of additional milk per day, said Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons following inspection of Aavin outlets in Tiruppur, he said the sales of milk through Aavin had increased in the State amid the lockdown. Noting that Aavin recently cancelled contracts with 11 franchises in Chennai that allegedly sold its milk and milk-based products over the maximum retail price, Mr. Nasar said action would be initiated against outlets for such violations. In Tiruppur district, nearly 2.3 lakh litres of milk was being procured every day from the dairy farmers in 441 milk cooperative societies functioning under the Tiruppur District Cooperative Milk Producers Union, a release said. Mr. Nasar, along with Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, inspected the milk cooler at Sankarandampalayam near Dharapuram and Aavin retail outlets in Tiruppur Corporation limits.  Special Correspondent from Coimbatore adds  The Minister visited Aavin milk booths, parlour, and milk plants in Coimbatore and interacted with customers. He visited the booths in RS Puram, Pappanaikenpalayam, Gandhipuram, Telugupalayam, and Lakshmi Mills. He told presspersons that ministers, elected representatives, and officials were ensuring that the public were able to get the essential needs such as milk and vegetables without any problem during the lockdown. According to a release, Coimbatore district currently has about 15,000 Aavin card holders and those who want to get a card can do so by logging on towww.aavincoimbatore. com Those who want to buy Aavin milk in bulk for functions get reduction in prices and the milk cans will be delivered at the door step of the customers. Aavin Coimbatore procures 1.78 lakh litres of milk a day through 349 societies and sells nearly 1.65 lakh litres of milk a day. It has appointed officials to ensure that the public get the milk packets without any hassle during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-milk-being-procured-from-dairy-farmers-minister/article34645836.ece
26 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Journalists asked to stay away from events||As a step towards ensuring better safety of journalists working in the Nilgiris, the Public Relations Office of the district administration has urged journalists to temporarily stay away from events organised to initiate government services or schemes. Risk of infection In a note circulated to accredited media persons in the Nilgiris, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) stated that the loss of lives of journalists across the State was of deep concern. They urged journalists to not attend any government events to minimise the risk of infection to journalists. The PRO office also stated that they would share all information as well as video and pictures with journalists of the events so that they could work from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/journalists-asked-to-stay-away-from-events/article34646126.ece
26 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Food packets distributed||Soldiers from the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) distributed food packets to residents in far-flung parts of the Nilgiris, a press release from the MRC said. The villagers, who received the food packets, had lost their livelihoods due to the pandemic. The smile on their face was the motivation for these ‘Thambi warriors’ to continue helping their countrymen in these difficult times, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-packets-distributed/article34645834.ece
26 May 2021||UDHAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead in Mudumalai buffer zone||A 15-year-old pregnant elephant was found dead in the Singara beat of the Singara Forest Range on Monday evening. A post-mortem was performed on the carcass on Tuesday. Deputy Director of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), Buffer Zone, L.C.S. Srikanth, said the autopsy revealed that the animal had suffered a fall after trudging through unsteady ground and was unable to extricate itself. The autopsy had also revealed that the elephant was carrying a 15-month-old foetus. “Apart from this, the animal also seems to have been attacked by a tiger while it was stuck, which could have been another causative factor in its death,” said Mr. Srikanth. Veterinary Assistant Surgeon from Theppakadu performed the post-mortem on the elephant, which was attended by top Forest Department officials from MTR. After it was ascertained that the animal died of natural causes, the carcass was left to scavengers. “There is a vulture population in the region as well as other scavengers like striped hyenas which depend on wild animal carcasses to survive. So we have left the carcass out in the open for them to feast on,” said Mr. Srikanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead-in-mudumalai-buffer-zone/article34645835.ece
26 May 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates vaccination in Villupuram||Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi on Tuesday inaugurated the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group at the Municipal School at Poonthottam in Villupuram district. Minister for Minorities Welfare and Non-resident Tamil Welfare K.S. Masthan accompanied him. The Health Department launched the drive in the district after the State Government issued a directive as to who should receive the vaccine on priority. Mr. Ponmudi said Villupuram district had received 22,400 Covishield and 4,000 Covaxin doses for the priority group. Special camps would be held in the district for administering the COVID-19 vaccine. The government has also supplied pulse oximeters to ration shops functioning in all village panchayats in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-vaccination-in-villupuram/article34646094.ece
26 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Homes for children of COVID-affected parents||Virudhunagar district administration has arranged shelter, food and protection for children, whose parents are either under treatment or dead due to COVID, in two homes in the district. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said that the District Child Welfare Committee and the District Child Protection Unit have identified V.V. Vanniyaperumal Anbu Illam for boys and Annai Therasa Children’s Home in Sattur for girls. Those who come across such destitute children can inform the Chairperson, CWC, M.M.S.S.S. Reception Home, 1/648, Lakshmi Sundaram Theatre Road, Gandhi Nagar Street, Pandian Nagar, Virudhunagar 626-001. They can also call 80569-09657 or 81224-28370. They can also contact District Child Protection Officer, 2/818 VOC Nagar, Soolakkarai Medu, Virudhunagar – 626-003. Contact numbers 04562-293946 or 75986-37481, 93459-05822 or 96007-36187. People can also seek help through Childline 1098, the statement added. Thoothukudi In a statement, Collector Dr. Senthil Raj said children below the age of 18 may be in need of temporary or permanent care and shelter after their parents are either admitted to the hospital for COVID-19 treatment or had passed away due to the viral infection. When the public, service organisations or the social activists come to know about these children, they may alert Childline (1098), Thoothukudi Child Protection Unit (0461 – 233118 or 73058 97305) and Thoothukudi District Child Welfare Committee (0461 – 2337655 or 99429 32260) so that appropriate measures can be taken to protect these children by admitting them to government-approved homes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homes-for-children-of-covid-affected-parents/article34646236.ece
26 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar Dean transferred, Sangumani to take charge today||Virudhunagar Government Medical College Dean R. Suganthy Rajakumari has been transferred and replaced with Dean of Sivaganga Medical College J. Sangumani. Dr. Sangumani was earlier Dean of Madurai Medical College after a long stint as teaching faculty there. He is likely to take charge on Wednesday. The transfers come close on the heels of Dr. Suganthy accusing Collector R. Kannan of humiliating her. Dr. Suganthy had written to Director of Medical Education stating that she would give voluntary resignation from service. She claimed she was humiliated by the Collector, who had issued her a show-cause notice the very next day after she had joined duty in Virudhunagar. The Collector sought her an explanation for her absence in the video conference with the Health Secretary on May 19 and the subsequent meeting with district officials the same evening. Claiming that she was unaware of the meetings, Dr. Suganthy told the Collector that she could not meet him as she had gone to her residence in Madurai, and it was raining. The Collector had charged her of negligence during pandemic and also for allowing her husband to intervene in the issue. Dr. Suganthy has, since, proceeded on leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-dean-transferred-sangumani-to-take-charge-today/article34646227.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,632 new cases, 24 deaths in Coimbatore||A total of 3,632 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, registering a slight decrease from Monday’s 4,277 cases. On Tuesday, the district had 34,253 active cases and 2,689 persons recovered from the disease. The toll in the district rose to 1,072 with 24 more people dying of the infection. Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported 25 new COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday and its daily caseload continued to stay above the 1,800-mark for the second consecutive day with 1,854 new cases. The surge in cases took the overall tally past 50,000-mark to 50,554 cases. According to the Health Department, the 25 deaths occurred between May 17 and the early hours of Tuesday, which took the overall toll to 364. As many as 13,807 patients were active cases in the district. Out of the 36,383 patients who have recovered so far, 736 patients were discharged on Tuesday from various treatment centres. As of Tuesday, Tiruppur district reported 101 vacant beds in government and private hospitals and 669 vacant beds in COVID-19 care centres. In the Nilgiris, 475 persons tested positive on Tuesday, raising the tally so far in the district to 16,126. While 73 persons have died so far in the district, 3,005 are undergoing treatment. Erode reported 1,555 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 46,366. While 956 persons were discharged, 12,389 continue to be under treatment. Thirteen persons died, raising the toll to 265. Salem district reported 928 new cases on Tuesday and Namakkal reported 717 cases. While 18 persons died of the infection in Salem, four persons died in Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3632-new-cases-24-deaths-in-coimbatore/article34646122.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Auction house withdraws Adimoolam’s paintings||Highlighting that Adimoolam’s interest was shifting from representation to abstraction in this period, he said the late artist used colours minimally till about 1978-79 when he moved on to oil on canvas. “But these nine works are full of colour, subjects are unusual and do not have any context,” he said. He added that the artist’s works in each period, right from his early academic drawings, were clearly demarcated in his collection, ‘Between the Lines’, published in 1997. The well-known artist Trotsky Marudu, a contemporary of Adimoolam, who worked with him during the seventies, said he was suspicious of the lack of availability of very high-resolution images at the auction house’s website. “There are no technical difficulties in making such images available. If they encouraged interested buyers and enthusiasts to bid online, why did they not make such images available for verification,” he said. While Adimoolam’s work was influenced by folk art and terracotta figurines in temples, the iconography seen in these nine paintings was something the late artist had never used, he said. He added that Adimoolam could never have done these paintings. Mr. Verma said the paintings were part of a collection that was acquired in entirety by his father-in-law. Stating that it possibly explained why they did not match with the artist’s other works, he said this lack of resemblance itself could not be a reason to doubt the authenticity. “It is not unusual for artists to get inspired and experiment with new styles for a short period and move on to something else,” he said. “If we wanted to forge his work, we could have created something that resembled his other paintings. Why should we create something very different,” he quipped. Reiterating that the paintings were authentic works of Adimoolam, he said such allegations would bring disrepute to arts in India, which were already struggling. Initially a spokesperson for Hessink’s told The Hindu that they found it unusual that Adimoolam’s family did not approach the auction house immediately when they thought the paintings looked suspicious. Mr. Aparajithan, however, said he sent an email to the auction house on the evening of Tuesday, the same day he got to know about the auction. A representative of the auction house said it had stringent policies and took complaints about authenticity very seriously. However, he added that it did all possible due diligence, including verification of the artist’s signature and provenance and compared his other works, and confirmed its authenticity based on the details provided by Mr. Verma. On Tuesday night, the auction house confirmed in an email that it had temporarily withdrawn the paintings “until further clarification and expert analysis”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auction-house-withdraws-adimoolams-paintings/article34646109.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns private hospitals in Tiruchi||Collector S. Sivarasu on Tuesday warned of touch action against private hospitals refusing to treat COVID-19 patients covered under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme. The Collector said he had received complaints that a few hospitals, who were permitted to treat COVID-19 patients, refused admission under the scheme on the pretext of insufficient ventilator support, but admitted other positive patients. The fee cap on treatment of insured patients was said to be the main reason for the reluctance on the part of private hospitals. No private hospital should deny permission to patients covered under the health insurance scheme. They must be given treatment free of cost. The State government would take the violators seriously. Patients, who were denied admission, could lodge complaints against the hospitals. Mr. Sivarasu said the daily case count in Tiruchi district had been brought down to 1,100 from 1,500. The numbers needed to be brought down further. “A close analysis of recent cases reveals that the number of patients needing oxygen support has come down slightly. It is a positive indication.” The next one week was crucial. If fresh cases were brought down to less than 1,000 a day, it would be a big relief to all, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-private-hospitals-in-tiruchi/article34646255.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||Coimbatore   Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Role of IOT in Healthcare and Fitness Monitoring’, 11 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Professional development webinar, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34646135.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bed scam prime suspect held||The CCB, on Tuesday, arrested Babu, 34, one of the prime suspects in the bed allotment scam. The accused is said to be known to Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy, who had earlier claimed to have exposed the bed allotment scam. According to the police, Babu is a resident of Roopena Agrahara. He used to run the racket through Nethravathy, a social activist, and Rohith Kumar, who were arrested by the police some time ago. While Nethravathy and Rohith used to get customers for the beds through their WhatsApp network, Babu used to coordinate the bed availability details. The accused would give a commission to Nethravathy and Rohith while keeping the lion’s share of the money they would get from the bed allotment scam, which differed with each person based on their financial status, a senior police officer said . Sources in the Bommanahalli war room said Babu was with Satish Reddy when the MLA stormed the war room with a crowd of over 50 people demanding beds. Among other things, they manhandled IAS officer Yeshawantha. Police sources said that Babu was a known associate of the personal assistant of Satish Reddy, and but they had no information of his direct links with the MLA. Satish Reddy was not available for comment. Responding to similar allegations of his involvement in the bed allotment scam, he had earlier told The Hindu that he had only asked for beds for residents of his constituency, which was being misconstrued as ‘bed blocking’. ‘Role of BJP’ The opposition Congress argued that the arrest of Babu, who they alleged is an associate of the MLA, had ‘exposed’ the BJP’s role in the alleged bed allotment scam. “Entire bed blocking scam was being done by the BJP. The strategy of the MP to communalise the issue blaming innocents to get away has now been exposed. Tejasvi Surya, where are you now? Will you be open to investigation of your role?” said a tweet by the Karnataka Congress. Satish Reddy was with Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya when he stormed the South zone war room, live streamed an ‘expose’ of the alleged scam and read out names of 16 Muslim employees, most of whom lost their jobs, though there has been no evidence of wrongdoing on their part. At that time, Satish Reddy had made communally loaded statements against the 16 employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bed-scam-prime-suspect-held/article34645756.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM inspects extended Purple Line||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inspected the extended Purple Line on Mysuru Road on Tuesday. The CM said that trial runs from Mysuru Road to Kengeri (7.53 km) have been completed and the line will be opened for commercial operations in July. As per the plan, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is likely to approach the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for clearance by the third week of June. BMRCL has spent Rs. 1,560 crore for building the infrastructure and Rs. 360 crore for land acquisition. The CM said that the entire extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road to Challaghatta (the station located after Kengeri) will be operational by March, 2022. Once the Mysuru Road station to Kengeri line gets operational, the entire length of the Purple Line will be 26 km. It will cost Rs. 56 to travel from Kengeri to Baiyappanahalli. Officials estimate that the opening of the extended line will benefit 75,000 passengers. The extended line has six stations; Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal and Kengeri. Parking facilities have been provided at Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnanabharathi, and two-level parking at Kengeri Bus Terminal with bus bays on either side of the station. The general public will be allowed to use the station for road crossing without entering the paid area. At Kengeri Bus Terminal station, which is located off-road, BMRCL has plans to build a Foot Over Bridge to connect the bus terminal. Each station has space on the roof to generate 250kw of solar power. The CM said that the Karnataka government is committed to complete the ORR-airport line from Central Silk Board to Kempegowda International Airport via K.R. Puram and Hebbal in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-inspects-extended-purple-line/article34645760.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sputnik V offered to State in global tender by two suppliers||The response to Karnataka’s global tender to procure vaccine for COVID-19 has come for the supply of Russian made Sputnik V. The two responses have not come from the vaccine manufacturer, but from companies that are acting as suppliers of the Russian vaccine. While the Mumbai-based Bulk MRO Industrial Supply, a U.S. government-registered vendor, has offered to start supply of the first batch of Sputnik V within two weeks of receiving the order, the second vendor, Bengaluru-based Thulasi Systems, has offered to start supply in 30 days. Two days’ time Both, however, have sought two days’ time for making the financial bid, said sources in the government with knowledge of the tendering process. The Karnataka government’s deadline for global tender to procure two crore vaccine doses ended on Monday and details of the tender participation emerged on Tuesday. Besides looking to procure vaccines in the international market, the State has also placed orders for two crore Covishield vaccines from Serum Institute and one crore Covaxin vaccines from Bharat Biotech. “After the financial bid and documents are received in the next two days, they will be scrutinised. Negotiations will have to happen with the two companies only after that. The decision on procurement of vaccines will be ultimately taken by the government,” said a source. Initially, the government had decided to break the tender into four parts for 50 lakh doses each for better negotiation of price, but later went for one tender. The negotiation for the quote would depend on the number of participants, sources said. Sputnik V is the third vaccine in the country to receive regulatory approvals for use after Covishield and Covaxin. Currently, Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratory has tied up with Russian Direct Investment Fund for the Sputnik production in the country. Karnataka is among the many States that have floated global tender to procure vaccines, and so far, the States have not yet been able to firm up procurement.  Sources said both companies are yet to submit certain documents that had been asked as part of the tender process and for mandatory verification. They have assured to submit the same in two days, sources said. Both suppliers, sources said, have claimed to have permission from Russia to import and supply the vaccine in India. “Scrutinising the document is the first challenge now and later to accept the financial bid. The companies have also not indicated the size of the batches that will be supplied,” said a government source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sputnik-v-offered-to-state-in-global-tender-by-two-suppliers/article34645779.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, all roads lead to Bengaluru||COVID-19 patients from other districts of Karnataka are seeking admission in Bengaluru hospitals in considerably large numbers now. This is a reversal of the earlier trend when Bengaluru patients went to districts seeking beds, unable to find them here, as the caseload in the city was very high. Now, while the number of cases reported in the city are declining, those in other districts are rising. In fact as per Tuesday’s health bulletin, only 27% of the total 22,758 cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban, while the remaining were from other districts. R. Ravindra, Medical Director, Suguna Hospital, said that patients were coming to his hospital from Hassan, Chickballapur, and Kolar districts. “They are coming here because there are no beds available in their districts. Some are coming here because their relatives are here and they feel that they will get access to better medical care here,” he said. Last month getting a bed in hospitals in Bengaluru was a difficult task. However, in the last fortnight, most hospitals do have vacant general beds. While admission in private hospitals under the government quota require the BU number generated at the time of testing, private quota beds do not require it. Even if a hospital demands BU number for patients from other districts, in many instances, the patients undergo another rapid antigen test in the same hospital and provides a Bengaluru address of their relatives and get admitted in the hospital, said a source. Prasanna H.M., president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said that over the past few days, the majority of their intensive care unit beds were occupied by patients from other districts. “We have been treating patients coming from Tumakuru and Hassan,” he said. Patients and their families say that they are forced to come to Bengaluru as the quality of ICUs and specialised care is not up to the mark. Ranjanna S., a private company employee whose relative tested positive in Hassan, said that he insisted that his uncle be brought to Bengaluru as he knew a few specialists in the city and as an ICU bed was not available in hospitals he had enquired with. “It was extremely difficult to arrange an ambulance and maintain the oxygen saturation level. But when it comes to saving a life, we are willing to ensure all hardship to ensure that he recovers. He is now undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city,” said Mr. Rajanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-all-roads-lead-to-bengaluru/article34645767.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Confusion over BU number persists||Raghava recently had a harrowing experience when the civic body’s war rooms refused to allot a bed to his father without a Bengaluru Urban (BU) number, contrary to clear orders from the Karnataka government not to insist on the same. “My father’s RT-PCR report was negative. But he developed severe symptoms and a HRCT scan revealed severe infection. The helplines refused to allot a bed without a BU number, and I was also not guided on how to get a BU number,” he said. Citizen volunteers manning helplines to help patients book beds also have a similar complaint. “Zonal war rooms are unhelpful if there is no BU number. There is no clarity on the procedure to be allotted a BU number based on the HRCT scan report. Each one passes the buck and we are made to call several people, with no help eventually,” lamented Shyalaja, a volunteer with one of the citizen helplines. While many like Raghava are forced to take a paid bed in a private hospital, not everyone will be able to afford the same. Valuable time is lost in securing a bed, which may adversely impact the health of patients, volunteers point out. Kumar Pushkar, the officer in-charge of bed allotment in the city, said there was a clear procedure in such cases. “It has come to our notice that the zonal war rooms are not guiding callers properly. I have issued instructions on the same and the process will be streamlined shortly. We will also post clear guidelines on BBMP’s website,” he said. A patient can get a bed allotted by the civic body with an SRF ID, which is issued when a sample is taken for a test, and a HRCT scan report certified by a doctor assessing the report as the patient being infected with COVID-19, Mr. Pushkar said. “All such cases with no BU numbers are being referred to the central war room helpline 1912 by the zonal war rooms. Patients and their family members must call 1912 directly if they do not have a BU number. Those at the central war room collect SRF ID, ask the caller to send the HRCT scan report through WhatsApp and assign a temporary CTP number and allot a bed. The patient needs to produce the HRCT scan report and a doctor’s certificate at the hospital during admission,” Mr. Pushkar explained. In some cases, patients have not been tested, but have been diagnosed with COVID-19 in the HRCT scan; they do not have even an SRF ID. The civic wants such patients to take a Rapid Antigen Test and get an SRF ID, as it is needed to track the patient in their database.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-over-bu-number-persists/article34645753.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Third wave: Government constitutes task force||The Karnataka government has constituted a task force to look into ways to mitigate the third wave, apart from augmenting existing medical infrastructure in terms of availability of oxygen and increasing the number of ICU beds, in the eventuality of an increase in COVID-19 cases, said Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). He told reporters on Tuesday that high-level discussions were being held with private hospitals and private medical colleges. Acknowledging the decrease in number of COVID-19 cases in the city, he said there was no room for complacency and urged citizens to continue to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB). “The world over, countries have tried to prevent the third wave. Despite several measures, cases have risen in many countries, such as Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. If we ignore CAB, the third wave cannot be prevented,” he pointed out. He said that with the reduction in cases, bed availability had improved to some extent. On Tuesday, 250 workers engaged by contractors, who are executing the K-100 stormwater drain project in the city, were vaccinated. The civic body has also taken up vaccination of workers in 20 different categories, including those aged between 18 and 44, and has been vaccinating workers in crematoria and graveyards, autorickshaw drivers, and employees of Bescom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/third-wave-government-constitutes-task-force/article34645754.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KIA processes 6.5 lakh kg of pandemic relief materials||After the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic, Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) received 6.5 lakh kg of COVID-19 related relief materials. From April 1 to May 19, more than 5.42 lakh kg of imported and 1.07 lakh kg of domestic inbound cargo were processed. During the period, 101 international flights and 35 domestic flights carried COVID-19 related cargo. A release from the BIAL on Tuesday stated that most of the material originated from Wuhan in China and Singapore. Among the relief materials received are oxygen concentrators, ventilators and zeolite, a component required for oxygen generation, while COVID-19 vaccines and PPE kits were the top domestic inbound cargo. The airport processed 7.8 metric tonnes of COVID-19 related materials, including 200 oxygen concentrators which were imported from Guangzhou in China, for the Karnataka government. The other major shipment received was 150 tonnes of zeolite, which was imported from Rome, Italy by DRDO. “A dedicated team has been formed to enable quicker and priority handling for COVID-19-related cargo. The cargo terminals have dedicated truck docks for faster delivery of COVID-19 shipments. Flights carrying vaccines are allocated parking stands in front of the respective terminals to enable quicker and seamless processing of the cargo,” the release said. To facilitate processing, the cargo terminal operators at the airport have demarcated 1,000 square feet within the premises for handling and faster clearance of COVID-19 related shipments.  A dedicated team has been formed to enable quicker and priority handling for COVID-19-related cargo. The cargo terminals have dedicated truck docks for faster delivery of COVID-19 shipments BIAL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kia-processes-65-lakh-kg-of-pandemic-relief-materials/article34645758.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State releases funds to pay salaries of RTC staff||The State government has released Rs. 325 crore to pay the salaries of employees of the Road Transport Corporations (RTCs), but with many riders. The order issued on Monday states that Rs. 81.25 crore has been released for April and Rs. 243.75 crore for May. A senior official of the KSRTC told The Hindu that as the employees went on 15-day strike in April, the government has released funds for the remaining 15 days. “As per the no-work-no-pay policy, employees who had taken part in the strike will not get salaries for 15 days. The rest will get full month’s pay for the month of April.” The employees of the four corporations associated with the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League went on strike from April 7 to 21. The officials had claimed the strike resulted in revenue loss of Rs. 20 crore per day. In the last week of April, the corporations had requested the state government to release Rs. 975 crore to pay salaries of the staff from April to June. The RTCs have been badly hit by the strike and lockdown guidelines to contain the spread of the COVID-19. After the imposition of lockdown, the corporations have been running only a few buses for the benefit of people carrying out essential services. Conditions apply While releasing funds to the corporations, the government imposed several conditions. The order states that for the next academic year, if RTCs issue concessional student passes, the cost should be borne by students and the corporations and the government will not provide any financial assistance. The corporations have been told not procure new buses till further orders and minimise maintenance cost of buses. The State government also asked the RTCs not to pay overtime and other allowances to employees, cut down expenditure on unnecessary posts, and not take up projects investing funds of the State government or the corporation’s own funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-releases-funds-to-pay-salaries-of-rtc-staff/article34645781.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical personnel going the extra mile with dance, music||“Nagu… nagu.. nagu.. nagu… chukki tare naachuvante omme nee nagu…” (smile… smile… just smile once to put the stars to shame). Recently, videos of medical personnel in PPE kits jiving to the beats of this popular Kannada film song inside an ICU at a private hospital went viral on social media. The staff even ensured a few patients admitted there moved to the beats. Over the past few days, videos of medical personnel – doctors and nurses – posted in the ICUs of many private hospitals dancing to cheer the patients are being widely circulated on social media. Samit Havinal, a doctor and proprietor of Shreyas Hospital, says that the ICU is a scary, depressing environment for patients, especially those who are recovering from COVID-19. “Many patients are frustrated, depressed and anxious. Music therapy definitely helps in cases of ICU psychosis,” he says. Some patients’ attendants gave portable speakers and requested the medical staff to play some prayers. “This sparked an idea to play peppy songs through the speaker in the ICU. The staff also jumped on board. When the patients saw the staff in PPE kits dancing, they became cheerful. This definitely has a role to play in their recovery,” he says.  A similar initiative was taken at Dr. Chandramma Dayananda Sagar Institute of Medical Education and Research. Madan Gaikwad, special officer, told The Hindu that propping patients up mentally is half the battle won. “There were patients who were reluctant to get physiotherapy. But by making them move to whatever extent they can whilst on the bed is passive physiotherapy and also keeps them in good spirits,” he says. Dr. Gaikwad also says that since music and dance have become a regular feature in the ICU, the mood of the patients admitted there has been elevated. “It’s a win-win. The medical staff are stressed and overworked. Dancing to music, even if it is just for just around 3 minutes, relaxes them and offers them a diversion,” he says. Music and dance therapy has also been introduced in the COVID-19 ward at Sapthagiri Hospital in Hesarghatta. Patients admitted here are seen holding hands and dancing along with the medical staff in PPE kits.  On the efficacy of such alternative therapy, Shubha Madhusudhan, clinical psychologist, says the mind plays an important role in recovery. “The ICU and hospital environment are depressing. Such activities will divert the mind, elevate the mood and relax the patients. A little movement, however restricted by the tubes attached to the patients, empowers them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-personnel-going-the-extra-mile-with-dance-music/article34645769.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Respond to plea on lockdown violation by CM’s son, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to respond to a plea that complained that B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and some of his family members were allowed entry to Sri Nanjundeshwara temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru district in violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction on an application, filed on behalf of H.M. Venkatesh of Nyja Horatagarara Vedike, pointing out discrimination in enforcing lockdown norms as VIPs were allowed to enter temples when entry is prohibited to the public. Crossing border Pointing out that the Chief Minister’s son was even allowed to perform certain rituals in the temple, the vedike in its representation to the district administration, a copy of which was submitted to the court, had asked how Mr. Vijayendra and his family members were allowed to cross districts when lockdown prevented citizens from travelling from one district to another, except in cases of specified emergencies. Meanwhile, the Bench rejected a plea for recovering of amount spent for treating COVID-19 patients from political and religious leaders who organised events in which norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing were violated. The Bench passed the order while hearing a PIL petition filed by Letzkit Foundation on instances of violations of COVID-19 norms of wearing masks and social distancing by political parties and eminent persons. Why no FIR? In another PIL petition, the Bench observed that Commissioner of Police, Belagavi, appears to be unaware of the provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, and regulations that enable authorities to register First Information Reports for violations as no FIR was registered for violations committed during a political congregation attended by Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Belagavi in January. Pointing out that the Police Commissioner has not stated whether conditions imposed in the permission granted for the congregation were adhered to or not, the Bench asked the Commissioner to file a fresh affidavit explaining why no FIR was registered, while observing the State government appears to have not communicated the court’s order to the district authorities on requirement of registering FIR for such violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/respond-to-plea-on-lockdown-violation-by-cms-son-says-hc/article34645783.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Let Congress vaccinate’ campaign launched||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Tuesday launched an online campaign to create awareness about the importance of vaccination and to build pressure to allow the Congress to directly procure vaccine worth Rs. 100 crore using MLA funds. More than 20,000 people lent their support to the campaign on the day of the launch and shared their videos on Twitter and Facebook asking the BJP government to permit the Congress to procure vaccine directly. “I request Congress workers to make people aware of how vaccination can defeat COVID-19, how the government has been slow in procuring vaccines, and how the Karnataka Congress has a proposal to directly procure vaccines, if only the government would let us. #LetCongressVaccinate,” KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said in a tweet. “The Congress has been repeatedly asking for permission for vaccination from the government but we have not been granted it yet. On behalf of the party, we need your wholehearted support so that we can build pressure on the government and show to them how vaccines can be procured and administered to people, in a totally transparent, fair, and efficient manner,” he said. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah also asserted that the BJP government has failed miserably on COVID-19 front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/let-congress-vaccinate-campaign-launched/article34645776.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gram panchayats asked to set up micro-management zones||Following surge in COVID-19 cases in rural areas of Karnataka, the State government has instructed Panchayat Development Officers, health officers, and police officials in gram panchayats (GPs) to set up micro containment zones to prevent the spread of the virus. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters here on Tuesday that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would interact with selected GPs having more COVID-19 cases on Wednesday to obtain feedback on the preparations made at the GP levels. Officials have been told to supply rations and medicines to the people residing in containment zones at the GP level, the Home Minister said. The health authorities have been told to trace primary and secondary contact people at the GP level to contain the spread of the disease, he added. At the district level, hospital authorities have been communicated to set up separate wards for providing treatment for people infected with black fungus and child patients (paediatric wards).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gram-panchayats-asked-to-set-up-micro-management-zones/article34645763.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 claims Sapna Book House founder||Suresh C. Shah, 84, founder of Sapna Book House, the largest bookstore chain in Karnataka, succumbed to COVID-19 in Bengaluru on Tuesday afternoon. He was diagnosed with the infection on April 24 and had been hospitalised since May 1. He developed cardiac issues and passed away on Tuesday, said Nijesh Shah, Group President, Sapna and also the grandson of Suresh Shah. Suresh Shah, the son of a cotton broker from Mumbai, hailed from Dhoraji, Gujarat. He started his career as a railway coolie while he was still in high school and went on to head the Bombay Coolie Association. He discontinued studies and joined a distribution company, which deputed him to Bengaluru to open a branch in the early 1960s. He quit his job and started Sapna Book House in a small rented shop in Majestic in 1967, which later grew to become one of the largest book stores in Asia. Suresh Shah also started publishing in Kannada and is counted as one of the leading publishers of books in the language. “Though he is not from Karnataka, his contribution to Kannada is immense. He was the first to publish omnibus editions of complete works of Shivaram Karanth, Nisar Ahmed and others,” said Kum. Veerabhadrappa, a noted writer whose works have consistently been published by Sapna.  He was the first to publish omnibus editions of complete works of Shivaram Karanth, Nisar Ahmed and others Kum. Veerabhadrappa, writer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-claims-sapna-book-house-founder/article34645755.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea against minor being made seer adjourned||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday adjourned hearing in a PIL petition questioning the legality of anointing a minor as the 31st seer of Udupi Shiroor Mutt, while permitting the petitioners to amend the petition. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, which heard the petition filed by the managing trust of Sri Shiroor Mutt Bhaktha Samithi, Udupi, represented by P. Lathavya Acharya, and others, while pointing out to counsel of petitioners that certain pleas cannot be permitted in a petition filed in the nature of public interest litigation, observed that the government cannot be a silent spectator when allegations are being made about violation of a minor child’s rights, as the petition referred to a representation made to the police. It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that 16-year-old Aniruddha Saralathaya was forcibly anointed as seer of Shiroor Mutt in violation of laws protecting the rights of minor children. The petition also said that the anointment ceremony was held in violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-against-minor-being-made-seer-adjourned/article34645829.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘File fresh plea against sale of land to JSW’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday granted liberty to a litigant to file a fresh PIL petition challenging the State government’s decision to sell 3,667 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, at a meagre Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre, while disposing of the present petition as it was in proper order as per the court’s procedure. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order while disposing of the PIL petition filed by K.A Paul. The petitioner had questioned the Cabinet decision of April 27 to sell the precious land to the company as per an old agreement. Advocate S. Doreraju, appearing for the petitioner, pointed out to the Bench that petitioner was initially wanted to argue the personally but now has engaged his service while seeking time to rectify the procedural shortcomings in the petition as even JSW Ltd. was not made a party to the proceedings. As advocate said that he would withdraw the present petition and file a fresh one, the Bench permitted withdrawal with a liberty to file a fresh petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/file-fresh-plea-against-sale-of-land-to-jsw/article34645775.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force set up to eliminate single-use plastic||The State government has constituted a State-level special task force under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary to the government for preparing a comprehensive action plan for elimination of single-use plastics (SUP) and implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, and implementing it in mission mode. The task force has 16 members, including the chairman. The meetings of the task force will be convened once in two months, said an order. The State government designates the Directorate of Municipal Administration as the nodal department for urban areas and Rural Drinking water and Sanitation Department as nodal department for rural areas. In Bengaluru, the task force would be set up under the Chief Commissioner of BBMP. In districts, it will be under Deputy Commissioners. The terms of reference for State-level task force includes assessment of plastic waste generated in State with respect to collection, recycling and end of life disposal and identify gaps in plastic waste management (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) - policy, implementation, enforcement, infrastructure etc. It has been asked to suggest measures for strengthening policy, regulatory, institutional mechanisms/structures for the implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 and phasing out of single use plastic in the State; develop policies for supporting the adoption of alternatives to identified single-use plastic items prohibited under PWMR, 2016; take measures to strengthen ULBs/GPs for segregation, collection, storage, transportation, processing and disposal of plastic waste, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/task-force-set-up-to-eliminate-single-use-plastic/article34645777.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||22,758 fresh cases in Karnataka||As many as 22,758 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Tuesday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state stood at 20.22 lakh. Of the new cases , 6243 were reported in Bengaluru Urban. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate for the day stood at 21.13 %. The number of tests conducted was 1.07 lakh. The case fatality rate of the day stood at 2.58 %. The number of COVID-19 related deaths reported was 588, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 26,399. Meanwhile, 38,224 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of discharges to 20.22 lakh. Of the total cases, 4.24 lakh are active cases in the state. As many as 64,156 people were vaccinated, taking the total so far to 1.23 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/22758-fresh-cases-in-karnataka/article34645766.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four Bengaluru students win at international science fair||Three girls and a boy from Bengaluru were among winners at the Regeneron International Science and Engineering Fair, held virtually last month. Aria Vikram, National Public School; Chinmayi Ramasubramanian, Sri Kumaran’s Children Home; Vishnu Sampathkumar, National Public School, Indiranagar; and Tanvi Palsamudram, The International Public School, were among the 17 winners from India. As many as 1,833 finalists from 64 countries, regions and territories across the world participated in the fair for $5 million in awards and prizes. Team India comprised winning projects at the IRIS National fair, a programme of EXSTEMPLAR Education Linkers Foundation funded by Broadcom and supported by Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. The Regeneron International Science and Engineering Fair, a programme of Society for Science, is the world’s largest international science competition for high school students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-bengaluru-students-win-at-international-science-fair/article34645770.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-learning app launched||The Union government’s initiative for school students, Deeksha platform, an e-learning app, was launched for SSLC, PU, and competitive examinations. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar released the app. Examination practice code, an innovative programme for II PU students, was also launched. Mr. Kumar said this will help PU students to better prepare for the upcoming examinations. He said DESERT has launched a focus reunion programme to prepare students for 10th standard examination. Each subject will have an e-text book, at least two model question papers, detailed videos, and chapter-based practice questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-learning-app-launched/article34645773.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Action sought against schools that have begun online classes||The Karnataka Private Schools Parents’ Associations’ Coordination Committee has urged Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar to initiate legal action against the managements of private schools that have started online classes and have been forcing parents to pay academic fees. Letter to Minister In a letter to the Minister on Tuesday, the coordination committee sought the constitution of fee determination committee for the 2021-22 academic year, apart from a committee of experts to recommend teaching modules for the academic year. Results withheld The department has also been urged to initiate action against the managements of private schools that have withheld students’ results and are threatening to fail them if fees are not paid by the parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought-against-schools-that-have-begun-online-classes/article34645774.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||State breathes easy for now, as oxygen supply remains steady||Karnataka on Tuesday managed to tide over the crisis caused by the disruption in oxygen supply owing to the breakdown in production units that resulted in over 20% lower supply. While the shortfall had caused anxiety among the hospital administrators, the supply of oxygen remained unhindered on Tuesday as buffer stock was used. The units that had broken down in Ballari started functioning by Tuesday evening and had already started supplies. “All the oxygen producing plants in JSW Steel premises are up and there is no problem in production,” Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati confirmed to The Hindu . The breakdown of oxygen generation plants, on JSW premises, in Ballari, led to short supply by 220 tonnes of oxygen of the about 850 tonnes supply from the State. Of the total 1,015 MT allocation, the State received 728 MT on Monday, resulting in a total shortfall of 286.64 MT. The State consumed 813 MT and 793 MT of oxygen on Sunday and Monday, respectively. The government on Tuesday allocated 845 MT across the State. Meawhile, the buffer stock helped the State tide over the crisis since 175 MT (part of the Centre’s special allotment) came in handy. Buffer stock of about 110 tonnes in the district was also used. In addition, the State received about 376 MT from different sources since Monday, Nodal officer for oxygen management Munish Moudgil said. He also said that the Central allocation of 1,200 MT will come to the State of which 850 MT is being produced locally. As of now about 850 MT has been the assured supply to State, which is close to the actual daily consumption. Hospital administrators said that they faced no difficulty in getting oxygen supply on Tuesday while many small private hospitals said that they had already made backup plans for oxygen cylinders. However hospital management members were still making sure that they conduct their audits properly to ensure that oxygen wastage is reduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-breathes-easy-for-now-as-oxygen-supply-remains-steady/article34645765.ece
26 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Village accountant booked||A woman suffered a fracture in her right hand after a village accountant beat her up with a cane while enforcing lockdown in Mudigere town on Monday. Shabana, a resident of Mudigere, has complained to the police against village accountant Girish, attached to the Taluk Office in Mudigere. Chikkamagaluru district administration has declared lockdown in the district to control the spread of COVID-19. As part of the lockdown guidelines, only home delivery of essential items is allowed. Shabana, who works as a maid, was on her way to a shop to procure vegetables when the village accountant beat her up. When The Hindu contacted tahsildar of Mudigere H.M. Ramesh, the officer said that the incident happened while the village accountant was engaged in dispersing the crowd. “A complaint has been registered with the police. The police will investigate the incident,” he said. When asked if the village account is allowed to carry a cane, the officer replied in the negative. Mudigere Police have registered a case against Girish on the charge of causing hurt and insult.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/village-accountant-booked/article34645816.ece
26 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Plaint against man who accused Gonibeedu police of torture||The Gonibeedu police in Mudigere taluk have registered a case against Punith K.L., who had accused a Police Sub Inspector of torturing him and forcing him to drink urine, based on a complaint filed by a woman. The police registered the case on May 23 on charges of house-trespass, use of criminal force on the woman with the intent to disrobe, cause hurt and criminal intimidation. The complainant alleged that Punith attempted to molest her when she was alone in her home on April 10, 2021. When she raised an alarm, he slapped her and ran out of the house. Later, he contacted her again and threatened to circulate photos and audio clips of his conversations with her among people in the village if she did not cooperate with him. She clarified that she could not file a complaint early due to the lockdown. Her complaint against Punith was registered a day after his complaint accusing PSI Arjun Horakeri of torture was registered. Punith had complained senior police officers that the PSI took him into custody on May 10 and tortured him in the police station. Following his case, the PSI was suspended and the case was handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Western Range IGP Devajyoti Ray, who visited the Gonibeedu Police Station on Monday, interacted with the staff members and also spoke to Punith on the issue. The officer told presspersons the complaint filed by Punith and the one filed by the lady, would be investigated by the CID. “The CID has collected relevant information from the police station. I have directed the police staff to cooperate with the investigation,” he said. Allegation Punith has alleged that the complaint against him was a ploy to divert the attention from his case against the PSI. “Policemen, who want to protect the PSI, have forced the lady to file the complaint against me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plaint-against-man-who-accused-gonibeedu-police-of-torture/article34645771.ece
26 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||11 COVID-19 deaths||Hassan reported 11 more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,164 fresh cases of infection on Tuesday. With this, the total number of deaths touched 943 and the number of active cases rose to 76,209. Of the dead, three are from Hassan taluk, two each from Arkalgud, Arsikere and Belur taluks, one each from Alur and Channarayapatna taluks. So far, 62,267 have recovered from the infection and 12,999 are in treatment. Of these, 162 are in intensive care units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-covid-19-deaths/article34645817.ece
26 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Infected people being convinced of the need to go to care centres||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that extensive awareness programmes are being conducted and efforts are being made to convince COVID-19 positive patients of the need to undergo isolation at COVID Care Centres (CCCs) in the district. In a press release, Mr. Patil has said that out of the 7,000 active cases of COVID-19 in the district, 3,700 patients are in home isolation. “As many as 17 COVID Care Centres have been set up in the district with 100-bed facilities made available in the taluk centres. This apart, centres are being set up in the hobli level. As people are reluctant to take shelter in these centres, they are being convinced of the need to go to these centres and recuperate,” he said. He has also said that institutional isolation centres will be set up in villages that reported more number of positive cases. These centres will be set up within the next two or three days. While infection among children is being reported in the district, there is no emergency-like situation and there has been no deaths among children in the district. Children’s ward He has said that elaborate arrangements have been made to face a possible third wave of the pandemic and already, ICUs and ventilators required for children’s ward to be set up at KIMS Hospital have arrived. While 250 oxygen beds have been kept ready, an additional 400 oxygen beds are being readied. Time for buying seeds In an order issued on Tuesday, the Deputy Commissioner has permitted farmers to purchase seeds, fertilizers and pesticides between 6 a.m. and noon during the lockdown period which will be in place till June 7. Farmers will be allowed to visit Raita Sampark Kendras in their respective gram panchayats and hoblis and shops in Hubballi Dharwad to purchase seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, the Deputy Commissioner has said. Those who want to visit shops in Hubballi-Dharwad are required to get permission letters from village accountants or Panchayat Development Officers.  These facilities with 100-bed capacity are being made available in the taluk centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infected-people-being-convinced-of-the-need-to-go-to-care-centres/article34645822.ece
26 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Masks, sanitisers for police personnel||Managing Director of Swarnaa Group V.S.V. Prasad on Tuesday handed over 2,100 masks and 2,100 sanitiser bottles for police personnel attached to the Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissionerate. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) K. Ramarajan received the donation from Mr. Prasad and thanked the group for the assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/masks-sanitisers-for-police-personnel/article34645824.ece
26 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||330 villages in Ballari district free of COVID-19 cases||Ballari, one of the worst-hit by COVID-19 in the State with a high number of positive cases and deaths, has something positive to cheer for. As per information provided by Ballari Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer K.R. Nandini, 330 of the total 1,038 villages in the district continue to be safe from the pandemic. “There are 1,038 villages that fall under 237 gram panchayats across the 11 taluks in undivided Ballari district and 330 of them have not reported a single case so far,” Ms. Nandini said. The remaining 708 villages together have reported 12,042 positive cases and 7,032 people have recovered from the infection, she added. There are 5,010 active cases in rural areas as on Tuesday. The report Ms. Nandini released on the status of COVID-19 in Ballari villages showed that 147 villages have more than 10 active cases and 561 villages less than 10 active cases. Harapanahalli taluk is on the top of the COVID-safe grid with 91 unaffected villages followed by Kudligi with 61, Sandur 38, Huvina Hadagali 30, Sirguppa 26, Ballari 22, Hagari Bommanahalli 21, Kottur 20, Hosapete 11 and Kampli with 10 villages. Kurgod is the only taluk that does not have any village free from COVID-19 cases. Sandur taluk, which has 112 villages spread across 26 gram panchayats, is on the top of the infections list with 1,784 people contracting the deadly virus and Ballari taluk, which has 69 villages in 25 gram panchayats, reported has 1,417 cases. Harapanahalli, which is the largest taluk with 225 villages in 37 gram panchayats, has reported 1,307 positive cases followed by Kudligi with 1,265, Hagari Bommanahalli 1,181, Sirguppa 1,125, Hosapete 1,112, Huvina Hadagali 1,039, Kurgodu 842, Kampli 573 and Kottur with 397 cases. Harapanahalli tops the list of number of active cases with 674 followed by Hagari Bommanahalli with 593, Sandur 590, Sirguppa 556, Huvina Hadagali 540, Hosapete 505, Kurgod 472, Kudligi 390, Ballari 289, Kottur 213 and Kampli with 188 cases. “Gram panchayat task forces have been activated in all the villages to handle the pandemic. Besides, Family Protection Task Forces have been formed and each such team will cover 50 families. The team members will visit houses and conduct a survey to identify infected persons. They will distribute medical kits to families whose members have tested positive for the disease through Rapid Antigen Test,” Ms. Nandini said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/330-villages-in-ballari-district-free-of-covid-19-cases/article34645818.ece
26 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Vaccinate frontline workers on priority’||In its efforts to provide protection to all frontline activists who have been working for the containment of COVID-19, the Ballari district administration has taken up a special vaccination drive. At a meeting in Ballari on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati directed the Health Department officials to cover all frontline activists during the drive and submit a report early. “As per directions of the State Task Force, vaccination for frontline workers should be taken up on priority. Different departments should prepare a list of frontline workers and submit a report within a day. Fix a date and vaccinate all of them. None of the frontline workers should be left out of the drive,” he said. People with physical and mental disability, teachers and volunteers deputed for COVID-19 duty, government transport employees, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, workers employed in the supply of electricity and water, postal staff, employees in the judiciary, street vendors, house keeping and security staff of government offices, employees of Women and Child Development Department, mediapersons, workers employed in the supply chain of medical facilities, suppliers of cooking gas, workers of oil and pharmacy industry, employees of Food Corporation of India, inmates of destitute homes, caretakers of aged and destitute people, APMC workers are among those categorised as frontline workers as per the new guidelines, Mr. Malapati added. Ballari Corporation Commissioner Preeti Gehlot, Additional Deputy Commissioner P.S. Manjunath and other officers were present. Earlier in the day, the Deputy Commissioner flagged off a COVID-19 awareness chariot to spread awareness among the people. The initiative is being taken up by the district administration in association with Azim Premji Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccinate-frontline-workers-on-priority/article34645821.ece
26 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Section 144 imposed in Kalaburagi district||As a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner V.V Jyothsna on Tuesday announced imposition of Section 144 (3) of the Cr.PC in the district starting at 6 a.m. on May 27 till 6 a.m. on May 31. The order is aimed at preventing public gatherings with a view to breaking the chain of COVID-19 transmission. She said that no gathering of people will be allowed for religious and non-religious purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/section-144-imposed-in-kalaburagi-district/article34645819.ece
26 May 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘All not well in MRPL recruitment, reserve 80% posts to local candidates’||The two-year row regarding recruitment to 223 non-executive posts at Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd., (MRPL) over non-preference to Karnataka residents has intensified after the company completed the recruitment process recently. Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) Karnataka president Muneer Katipalla said only 13 from Karnataka, including four from undivided Dakshina Kannada, were selected in the process while 58 from Uttar Pradesh and 39 from Bihar were selected. He alleged a Rs. 10-crore scam in the process and claimed candidates from one coaching centre were selected. Brushing aside MP Nalin Kumar Kateel’s statement on Saturday that MRPL has agreed to withhold the recruitment process as eyewash, Mr. Katipalla said already 184 candidates had reported to duty and were allotted quarters. Elected representatives of the region have miserably failed to protect the interest of local population and they should tender resignation, he demanded. Though Kannada Development Authority chairperson T.S. Nagabharana in 2019 asked MRPL to follow the Sarojini Mahishi report on preference to local candidates, MPs from the State failed to persuade the Union government in giving suitable directions, he said. At that time also, the elected representatives including Mr. Kateel did not raise voice for local candidates. Social activist Dilraj Alva said people of Dakshina Kannada had lost fertile lands for MRPL in return to the promise of preference to local people in employment. However, the company did not keep its word and every time, people had to fight for their employment rights, including the land losers. The present recruitment process was no different and there was need for a high level probe into the alleged scandal in recruitment, Mr. Alva demanded. MRPL Managing Director M. Venkatesh in 2019 stated unless the State government brings out legislation compelling central PSUs to give preference to local candidates; the company could not do anything as it was governed by recruitment policies of the Centre. Two years down the line, nothing has changed and he told The Hindu on Sunday that the company was caught in cross-fire. Mr. Katipalla said there was strong suspicion of scandal in the recruitment involving the selection officer and others. The Centre should order a high level probe into the recruitment process besides conducting fresh recruitment reserving 80% of seats to local candidates, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-not-well-in-mrpl-recruitment-reserve-80-posts-to-local-candidates/article34645828.ece
26 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMC Hospital starts appointment registration through SMS||Those aged 18 and above in need of appointment for vaccination in three centres of KMC Hospital in the city can message their details and contact numbers through WhatsApp to Ph: 9448254700. An SMS will be sent back informing them of the date on which they can go for vaccination. According to a spokesperson of the hospital, first dose will be given only to those aged between 18 and 44 and not to those in the above 45 category. Only second dose is being given to those in the 45 and above category. Second dose will be given to those who have taken their first dose 84 days prior to when their second dose is due. Such people can walk in to the KMC facilities without any registration. The hospital charges Rs. 850 for a dose of Covishield. The spokesperson said that people should first register their names on Co-WIN portal where they will get a beneficiary identity number. They have to send this identity number through WhatsApp along with their names and contact numbers between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. to Ph: 9448254700. The hospital will register the appointment and inform the beneficiary of the place and time through SMS. KMC Hospital re-started vaccination for 18+ and 45+ categories on Monday. Apart from KMC Hospitals in Ambedkar Circle (Jyothi) and Attavar, vaccination is being organised at KMC Hospital Attavar’s Marina Sports Complex and at the Durga Sanjeevani Manipal Hospital in Kateel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmc-hospital-starts-appointment-registration-through-sms/article34645826.ece
26 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Equal treatment for languages’||Kannada Development Authority (KDA) chairperson T.S. Nagabharana on Sunday said nothing could be done to halt MRPL recruitment process at present. It was for the Central government to make reservation rules for local candidates in recruitment to its departments and public sector undertakings. Articles 343 and 344 of the Constitution giving primacy to Hindi language should be amended and all 22 languages in the VIII Schedule of the Constitution should be given equal priority. Then only local candidates could be given priority in central government recruitment, he said adding already the problem was latent in the recruitment to nationalised banks. MPs from Karnataka should have brought pressure on the Centre to ensure rights of local candidates. In fact, the word “central government” should be changed to “federal government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/equal-treatment-for-languages/article34645830.ece
26 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CFTRI’s ozone-based air disinfection system to combat droplet infections||The CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) in Mysuru has come up with an ozone-based disinfection system which can also be used for combating transmission of droplet infections like COVID-19. “Ozone is known for water purification. We have tried to standardise it for air disinfection,” CFTRI director Sridevi Singh told The Hindu . “Ordinarily, any premises that is sprayed with hypo/formaldehyde or any other chemical compounds for sterilization or disinfection needs to be closed for around 2-24 hours. But, through ozone-based disinfection, a room or any premises is safe to enter in 20 to 30 minutes,” she said while adding that ozone, which breaks down to molecular oxygen, is also chemical-residue free. Also, when other chemical disinfectants are sprayed in a room having electronic items, there can be corrosion over a period of time. Comparatively, ozone is safe as it is used in extremely small (calculated in parts per million) quantities, she said. The scientific know-how for the ozone-based disinfection system developed by CFTRI has already found an industry partner. “The licensees are based in Nagpur and Coimbatore. Already, about 20 units have been installed at various locations,” she said. Air disinfection are commonly needed in hospitals, operation theatres, besides food industries like ice cream plants etc. Dr. Singh pointed out that the scientists carried out rigorous tests with indicative microbes as well as COVID-19 virus with varying ozone concentration for safety and efficacy in compliance with various regulatory guidelines. “After disinfection, we found a substantial reduction in pathogens and the room was safe to enter after 20 minutes,” she said. The concentration of ozone and the time period for disinfection has been worked out along with factoring of temperature and humidity effect into process design. The ozone based air disinfection has to be used under unoccupied condition, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cftris-ozone-based-air-disinfection-system-to-combat-droplet-infections/article34645772.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hospital booked for denying treatment||As the family could not afford this, they sought help of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Civic officials arranged for an injection through the drug inspector of the area. The hospital staff, agitated that the family had complained about them to civic officials, discharged the patient the next day. They stated in the discharge summary that the patient had recovered. Soon after returning home, the patient developed breathing problems and was taken back to the hospital, where she was refused admission.  Not the only case The hospital had similarly discharged a 52-year-old patient from Mahalakshmi Layout, Mahalakshmipura. According to Dr. Rajendra, the patient was admitted on May 6, but the hospital discharged him the next day saying that he had recovered. When he developed health complications, his family took him back to the hospital, but he was allegedly denied admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-booked-for-denying-treatment/article34645757.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Need a lift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-a-lift/article34645762.ece
26 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Steps to hike farmers’ income by 50%: Prasad||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government aims at increasing the income of farmers by at least 50% while promoting sustainable agriculture practices, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. “There is a need to increase farmers’ income so that they can live a dignified life. Farmers should be able to sell their produce at a good price. The government will prepare and implement projects along with making necessary interventions to enhance their income. Steps will be taken to promote online trade in a big way,” Mr. Prasad told The Hindu . The government wishes to promote a farming movement wherein everyone takes up agriculture of some sort with the aim of not leaving a single inch of land fallow. “We may not be able to achieve self-sufficiency in food production in the near future, but can meet our needs to a large extent by increasing the production of vegetables, paddy,” he says. The Agriculture Department will divide the State into different zones based on geography, soil characteristics, and climate. “Farmers will be encouraged to do agriculture suitable to the respective places. This will help in increasing production and will ensure hassle-free procurement and marketing,” the Minister says. Safe food The government will focus on the production of ‘safe food items.’ “Health is the most important thing in our life. Taking it into account, our thrust will be on producing safe to eat vegetables, paddy, fruits, and other food items,” he says. According to Mr. Prasad, the biggest challenge to the farming community is climate change. “Climate change and global warming are a reality. We are vulnerable to climate change. Cyclone Tauktae caused damage to the tune of Rs. 729 crore in the agriculture sector in the State. It is high time that we plan accordingly and promote eco-friendly farming trends and living, and minimise the threat of climate change,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-hike-farmers-income-by-50-prasad/article34645928.ece
26 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha tally shoots up again||After a relative lull in the past couple of days, Alappuzha witnessed a spurt in daily COVID-19 infections on Tuesday when it reported 2,482 cases. The fresh cases include 2,478 patients who contracted the virus through local contact, while the source of infection of four others remains unknown. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 22.95%. Among the 2,482 cases, 379 were reported from Alappuzha. Kayamkulam (109 cases), Pathiyoor (80), Kumarapuram (79), Panavally (73), Aroor (71), Aryad (69), Arattupuzha (67), Purakkad (57), and Arookutty (53) also logged a high number of cases. As many as 2,015 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 23,404. On Tuesday, the police registered 29 cases and arrested 13 people for violating the restrictions imposed to tackle the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 793 people for not wearing face masks, 628 people for violating physical distancing norms, and seven people for violating quarantine norms. Kottayam As many as 1,555 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of this, 1,540 persons including a health worker contracted the virus through local transmission. TPR for the day was 19.37%. After a brief gap, Kottayam municipality witnessed a sharp surge in cases with 244 persons testing positive, followed by Athirampuzha with 81 cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 1,546 recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 9,898 while 52,267 persons remains under observation. In Pathanamthitta, 1,076 persons tested positive for COVID-19 during the day. Of the fresh cases, 1,068 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day stood at 19.3%. With 75 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamathitta with 70 cases. The district also reported nine COVID-19-related deaths during the day. Meanwhile, 1,506 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 10,565 while 24,106 persons are under observation. (with inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)  Test positivity rate in Alappuzha stands at 22.95%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-tally-shoots-up-again/article34646238.ece
26 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tribal settlements in Idukki witness spike in cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in tribal settlements in the district has shown a spurt with Kurathikudy, near Adimali, reporting the highest number of 120 cases. As many as 1,382 persons have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 so far in the tribal settlements and the incidence is higher in settlements nearer to the towns. Health experts have warned that the chances for spreading the virus among the settlements are high due to the community system of living followed by the tribespeople. During the first wave, only 10 tribespeople were infected. Awareness campaign The Health and the Forest Department have intensified awareness campaign and made measures to check the spread of the virus. Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) district programme officer K.S. Sreerekha said that during the second wave of the pandemic, a large number of cases were reported among the tribespeople. Settlements like Kurathikudy that were near towns reported high number of cases as the tribespeople depended on the towns nearby for their needs. In most of the tribal colonies, five to six persons lived in one or two rooms. Many houses had only a room. If one person was infected, it was transmitted to others immediately, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-settlements-in-idukki-witness-spike-in-cases/article34646240.ece
26 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||How Edamalakkudy kept COVID-19 at bay||Even though COVID-19 cases spiralled with the second wave of the pandemic, Edamalakkudy in Idukki has successfully resisted the onslaught of the virus with not even a single case reported so far. How the tribal grama panchayat in the Munnar forest division combated the virus merits studies. The reclusive Muthuvan community took some stern measures from the beginning of the first wave itself to shield Edamalakkudy, having 24 settlements, from the infection. The first step was a ban on outsiders from visiting the hamlets. Supported by the Forest Department, the entry to Edamalakkudy was limited at the Eravikulam National Park. “Each kudi (settlement) has a mooppan (chieftain) as head. Decisions of the chieftains are obeyed by the community and sometimes common decisions are taken at the chieftains’ meetings,” says Tribal Development Officer Santhosh Kumar S. “One such common decision they took last year was to take precautions to counter COVID-19 in the settlements itself, following which they limited their travel,” he says. “One or two members from each settlement can move outside and the general system is self-quarantine for a week if the member moves from one settlement to another or to Munnar for meeting the common needs of a settlement,” he says. The camp office of the Edamalakkudy grama panchayat is at Devikulam, 38 km from the panchayat headquarters at Societykudy. Due to lack of infrastructure inside the forest, the office is functioning there since the panchayat formation in 2010. More than panchayat council members, the tribal chieftains wield influence and are regarded highly among community members. Chieftains hold sway “When a decision is taken at a meeting of mooppans with us, it is followed in letter and spirit in each settlement,” says Mr. Santhoshkumar. “ The COVID protocol worked at the micro-level at Edamalakkudy through the tribal chieftains,” he says. District Medical Officer Priya N. says Edamalakkudy is a case study for preventing the pandemic as the tribespeople took it upon themselves and behaved more responsibly, limiting their interactions with the outside world. She says four staff nurses stay there to meet the health needs of the panchayat. Edamalakkudy, with a population of 2,236, has the lowest density of 21.09 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/how-edamalakkudy-kept-covid-19-at-bay/article34645930.ece
26 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ambulance staff save life of pregnant woman, child||Timely intervention by the staff of Kanivu 108 ambulance saved the lives of a pregnant woman and the infant at Vattavada in Idukki district. Relatives of Kausalya, 20, from Vattavada, were taking her to the hospital in a car as she went into labour at 1.30 a.m. on Tuesday. A message seeking help of the ambulance was sent from a primary health centre to the health control room. Without wasting time, medical technician B.S. Ajeesh and pilot Noufal Khan rushed to the spot. Preliminary care While the ambulance reached near the car at Pampadumshola national park, Ajeesh realised that there was no time to move her to a hospital and made arrangements for the delivery inside the car. Kausalya gave birth at 2.15 a.m. After giving preliminary care to the child and the mother, they were shifted to the ambulance and rushed to a private hospital in Munnar, and from there to another at Adimali. The mother and child were healthy, said the hospital sources. Health Minister Veena George has lauded the act of the ambulance staff. Ms. George said such humane care by health workers needed to be appreciated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambulance-staff-save-life-of-pregnant-woman-child/article34646239.ece
26 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Trapped sloth bear cub rescued||A sloth bear cub that had got stuck in a wire snare inside a teak plantation of the Kerala Forest Department at Shanamangalam, near Kattikulam in Wayanad district, was rescued by forest officials on Tuesday . The one-year-old bear cub was spotted by front-line forest staff during a routine patrolling around 10 a.m. A team of forest officials led by North Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer Remesh Bishnoy and Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary warden S. Narendra Babu reached the spot to rescue the animal. The villagers said poachers normally set up snares in buffer zones and plantation areas to trap animals such as hare and wild boar. However, this was the first instance of a bear being ensnared, they said. A team of officials led by K. Rakesh, range forest officer, Begur; assistant forest veterinary surgeon A. Aneesh; and members of the Rapid Response Team rescued the animal from the trap. Later, it was released into the wild as the animal was found healthy and there were no external injuries on it, Mr. Bishnoy told The Hindu . The forest officials registered a case in connection with the incident. Mr. Bishnoy said the department would launch anti-snare patrolling in all forest fringe areas in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trapped-sloth-bear-cub-rescued/article34645911.ece
26 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Two display black fungus symptoms in Kannur||Two of seven persons admitted at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital have shown all the symptoms of Mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus, a rare but serious infection caused by the fungus called mucormycete. Black fungus cases have been reported from other districts in the State earlier, but no cases had been detected in Kannur and Kasaragod districts so far. According to health officials at the medical college, the seven suspected cases of black fungus have been getting treated at the hospital for the past one week. Medical College Hospital Superintendent K. Sudeep said that no cases of Mucormycosis had been confirmed in the hospital so far. However, two of the patients from Kasaragod district were showing all the symptoms of Mucormycosis. The test reports of the patients had pointed to fungal infection. However, this could be ascertained after the biopsy reports were received, he said. Dr. Sudeep said the other five patients were from Kannur district and they were being monitored. None of them had shown any symptoms of the disease till now. He said the fungal infection was not contagious but affected patients with weakened immune systems and underlying conditions, particularly uncontrolled diabetes, and irrational use of steroids and voriconazole anti-fungal therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-display-black-fungus-symptoms-in-kannur/article34645908.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Administrator acting like a dictator: MP||Lakshadweep Administrator Praful K. Patel is pursuing an “imperialist-corporate agenda” and is behaving like a dictator, cutting down the powers vested with democratic institutions and offices, P.P. Mohammed Faizal, MP, has said. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday through a voice message, the Lok Sabha member from Lakshadweep, said that the Administrator was acting in a way that disturbed the people. He said that the Lakshadweep islands had been free of serious crime as vouched by the National Crime Records Bureau. However, the Administrator had brought into force the Goonda Act as if to contain crime. His action required an explanation, the Nationalist Congress Party MP said. The Administrator had also, in the guise of protection of animals, banned beef from the menu and ordered the closure of dairy farms. The animals mentioned in the so-called animal preservation regulation were cows, buffaloes and bulls whereas there were other animals that needed better protection, he said. Overstepping authority The Administrator had also curtailed the authority of the district panchayat and ordered that those who had more than two children could not contest the panchayat elections. These were instances in which the Administrator was overstepping his authority, he added. The MP also questioned the need for building roads in keeping with national highway standards, which would result in houses being demolished. The constitution of the Lakshadweep Development Authority itself was questionable. The provisions that land could be taken over without the consent of the people and that they might not be paid compensation did not augur well for the people, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/administrator-acting-like-a-dictator-mp/article34645926.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Blister beetles causing distress in Kakkanad||Blister beetles are causing distress in Kakkanad area with close to 100 people developing blisters on face and other parts of the body. The number of panic-stricken patients seeking medical help after spotting the blisters has increased over the past few weeks. The reports of the spread of black and white fungus infections in the post-COVID situation has added to the fear of patients, according to medical practitioners. The toxin, Paedrin, released by the blister beetle causes the burn sensation. Toxin The health condition caused by the toxin is called Paederus dermatitis or blister beetle dermatitis, said Dr. Joseph Chalissery, dermatologist of the Cooperative Hospital, Kakkanad. A significant number of such cases were reported during the lockdown period last year when around 200 patients turned up at the hospital between May and June. This time, around 100 such cases have been reported, he said. The blister needs to be clinically differentiated from the serious diseases like herpes zoster and other fungal and contact dermatitis. Clinical diagnosis is carried out to find out the cause of the blister. Antibiotic cream and oral antibiotics and topical steroids may be needed in some cases, said Dr. Chalissery. George Mathew, former scientist of the Forest Health Division of the Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi, said the insects were commonly found in buildings located along the forested areas and rubber plantations where fallen leaves were left to decay. The insects breed on the surface layer of soil where the leaves decay during rainy season. The insects display an aggregation behaviour. At night, they would move to light sources. They are found in the wooden and tile roofing of old buildings, said Dr. Mathew. Rainy season The insects usually breed during rainy season. The identification of the breeding points is important to control the population of the insect. Once the source is spotted, the insects can be destroyed by using some soil pesticides. In houses and other buildings, the insects can be trapped using sticky traps. Mechanical collection of beetles using a vacuum cleaner and killing the beetles by application of kerosene is recommended, he explained. Sticky traps may be set up on the roof of buildings so that the insects get entangled in it. Use of sticky glue at specific locations on the roof has also been suggested, he said.  The number of panic-stricken patients seeking medical help has increased over the past few weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blister-beetles-causing-distress-in-kakkanad/article34645873.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL eyes value-capture finance to mobilise alternative revenue||Faced with mounting operational expenses and fall in patronage, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is readying plans to increase non-ticketing revenue, including through value-capture finance. This comes in the wake of fear that Kochi metro’s loss this fiscal will be much more than the Rs. 310-crore loss it incurred in 2019-20, with the pandemic ruining hopes of an increase in passenger footfall and income from real estate and advertisements. “The metro agency is currently heavily dependent on the government for its sustenance. With any increase in income from passenger footfall a far cry, plans are afoot to garner income from value-capture finance. In this, direct beneficiaries of the system of mass rapid transport like commercial establishments and houses/apartments located 500 m away from the metro corridor can be brought under a higher tax structure (whereby a portion of the tax paid will go to the metro agency) . This is because they benefit considerably from transit-oriented development (TOD) that the metro ushered in during the past four years,” informed sources said. A relook at feeder services available in the vicinity of metro stations too is on the cards, to ensure first and last-mile connectivity. The Kerala Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) is expected to take a call on these aspects. Likewise, an app that would integrate the metro with other commuting modes and ensure seamless travel too is in the pipeline. They would increase footfall in metro trains and in other modes of public transport, sources added. Metro sources said that an aggressive drive to market approximately 60,000 sq.ft. retail space and 50,000 sq.ft. office space in prominent Kochi metro stations will be carried out in June. “Efforts are on to make optimal use of built-up and open spaces that we own. Contrary to popular belief, the rent for our retail and commercial spaces is lower than the market rate. A mode to lease out space for medium-term use too is being readied. The advantage would be that metro passengers and others can walk up to these shops or office spaces. Similarly, a revisit of the advertisement strategy for exterior and interior of stations and trains too is on the cards,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-eyes-value-capture-finance-to-mobilise-alternative-revenue/article34645913.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Enriching minds in pandemic times||The ravages of COVID-19 has not diminished any bit the love for the written word. In fact, more and more people are finding solace and companionship in books. The demand for books in COVID-19 isolation and quarantine had been sufficient to prompt the Ernakulam District Library Council to launch home delivery of books through a group of volunteers who are part of the ‘Akshara Sainyam’ or the Army of Letters. About 20% of the 480 libraries in the district, which are affiliated to the Library Council, have started delivery of books to homes where there are COVID-19 patients or those who are in quarantine, said M.R. Surendran, president of the Ernakulam District Library Council on Tuesday. He said that more and more libraries are coming forward to implement the scheme, in which members of the ‘Akshara Sainyam’ also double up as volunteers helping out COVID-19 patients by supplying food, medicines and other necessities. Volunteers are aged between 18 and 40 and there has been enthusiastic response from young people to join the group, Mr. Surendran added. Libraries can be contacted by those in need of books and volunteers will deliver books on their doorsteps. Books are sanitised both before delivery and when they are taken back. Secretary of the Kanayannur Taluk Library Council D.R. Rajesh said that volunteers have been making the venture a success. Youth volunteers, besides delivering and collecting books, are also involved in the operations of rapid response teams at ward level working to help COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine. P.M. Balakrishnan, advisor and long-term associate of the Kairali Vayanasala in Vazhakkala, said that the library membership has been growing and there are around 1,000 members and about 12,000 books in the library. Members of the ‘Akshara Sainyam’ have begun to deliver books to people in quarantine and the operations have been successful so far. The library has been engaged in holding online book appreciation sessions to encourage people to read even during the COVID-19 lockdown, he said.  Books are sanitised both before delivery and when they are taken back||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enriching-minds-in-pandemic-times/article34645919.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||TPR drops to 20.22% in district, caseload too registers fall||The test positivity rate (TPR) in Ernakulam dropped to 20.22% on Tuesday, when 3,063 people tested positive and 15,141 tests were done. The active caseload has also dropped to 40,586, and a total of 3,917 people were considered to have recovered on the day. As many as 528 people are admitted in ICUs, a slight dip from 541 on Monday. While 331 people were newly admitted at treatment centres, 207 were discharged. Thrikkakara recorded 134 new cases, followed by Chellanam with 89, Thripunithura 87, Pallipuram 85, Palluruthy 83, Edathala 77, Vengola 75, Maradu 66, and Kalamassery 65. Kumbalam saw 62 new cases, Fort Kochi 61, and Elamkunnapuzha, Kumbalangi and Cheranalloor 56 each. Ten health workers tested positive. A total of 32,678 people are recovering at home, 707 at government hospitals, 2,267 at private hospitals, 62 patients at INHS Sanjivani, and 1805 at FLTCs, SLTCs and domiciliary care centres. As many as 94,923 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-drops-to-2022-in-district-caseload-too-registers-fall/article34645917.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||UGC move on blended learning opposed||Teacher organisations in Kerala have opposed the decision by the University Grants Commission to go for blended learning by allowing higher education institutes to teach up to 40% of each course online and the remaining 60% offline. The commission had asked the stakeholders to submit their feedback on the concept note prepared by an expert committee on blended mode of teaching on or before June 6. Terming the initiative as ‘anti-people’, Jogy Alex, president of All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association, said that the new policy adversely affects the poor and rural students in the country, where the digital divide is a terrible reality.  Explaining that hundreds of students, especially those belonging to economically and socially backward communities were yet to get access to digital education in this pandemic period, K. Anilkumar, president of the Government College Teachers’ Organisation, said that blended learning will further divide the digital gap being experienced by these students.  Premachandran Keezhoth, general secretary of the Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association, said that blended learning was a follow-up of the National Education Policy approved by the Union government. “We fear that the intent was to place technocrats above the teachers by promoting the digital mode in such a big way. The decision would also impact the appointment of new faculty members in colleges in view of the 40% digital mode of teaching and evaluation,” he said. N. Manoj, president of the Association of Kerala Government College Teachers, said that the Centre was trying to push proposals like the National Education Policy and blended learning without the required discussions amidst the pandemic crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ugc-move-on-blended-learning-opposed/article34645922.ece
26 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Prioritise vaccine for judicial officers, staff: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the State government to vaccinate judicial officers and staff of the High Court and subordinate courts against COVID-19 on a priority basis. The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice M.R. Anitha directed the State government to ensure that the district collectors take up the matter of inoculation of the staff of subordinate courts with the principal district judge of each district and devise methods to provide vaccination on a priority basis. Their registration should be facilitated through the salary disbursal application, SPARK. The directives were passed on a public interest litigation seeking to include judicial officers, staff and lawyers in the priority category for COVID-19 vaccinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prioritise-vaccine-for-judicial-officers-staff-hc/article34645931.ece
26 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘UGC’s draft syllabus excludes critical histories’||The University Grants Commission’s (UGC) draft history syllabus for undergraduates (UG) is a culmination of the efforts by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government to exclude critical histories of people and social formations included in many of the Indian universities, according to the Kerala History Congress (KHC). “If implemented, this will result in taking history writing back to the times of the colony and strike at the very roots of secular and professional history writing. Instead of looking at Indian history based on a problem-centric approach, the new draft again brings into operation the James Mill version of a history divided into Hindu, Muslim and British periods,” said Sebastian Joseph, general secretary, Kerala History Congress. Fails in objective “The draft syllabus despite stating certain objectives in the preamble such as total history approach, focus on micro as well as macro aspects of Indian history and openness to recent historiographical engagements is set to fail in accomplishing any of these. Even when the draft mentions inclusion of recent trends in historiography, no such modules are seen in any of the core and elective courses outlined in the syllabus,” Prof. Joseph said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ugcs-draft-syllabus-excludes-critical-histories/article34645923.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Remand of Ravi Pujari extended||The remand of Ravi Pujari, the gangster who was arrested by the Crime Branch early this year in connection with the Kochi beauty parlour shooting case, was further extended by a trial court here on Tuesday. C. Deepu, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, extended the remand of the accused till June 8, on an application filed by the Crime Branch. The Crime Branch case is that the accused allegedly hired two persons in 2018 to open fire outside the beauty parlour run by actor Leena Maria Paul in Panampilly Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remand-of-ravi-pujari-extended/article34645920.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Demand for priority in vaccination||The Southern Railway Track Maintainers’ Unity has shot off letters to the Chairman of Railway Board and General Manager of Southern Railway, seeking inclusion of track maintainers in the priority list for vaccination against COVID, since hundreds of personnel in the sector died due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-priority-in-vaccination/article34645921.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vaccination needs to be expedited: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has observed that unless the entire population is vaccinated against COVID-19, there can be no escape from the pandemic. The Bench comprising K. Vinod Chandran and Justice M.R. Anitha added that the task should be expedited even if it entailed considerable expenditure to the State. The Bench made the observation in an order passed on a public interest litigation pleading for free COVID vaccination for all. The court pointed out that according to the Centre, the monthly manufacture of the three vaccines - Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V - together would be around 13.2 crore doses by July 2021. The projection would mean that the entire population was expected to be inoculated only in another ten months, which the country or the people could ill-afford. The disparity between the haves and have-nots would get further accentuated for the reason of the 50% supplies being sourced from the open market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-needs-to-be-expedited-hc/article34645932.ece
26 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects Saritha’s bail petition||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed the bail plea of Saritha S. Nair, an accused in a case relating to swindling of money from a job seeker, offering him a job in the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). The prosecution allegation was that Saritha and the other accused had offered a job as store assistant to the brother of complainant Arun from Neyyattinkara in Bevco and took Rs. 11.49 lakh from him. However, the job was not provided. The petitioner had been in custody since her arrest on April 23. Opposing the bail, the Public Prosecutor submitted that the petitioner was involved in more or less similar other cases. If the petitioner was released on bail at this stage, there was a likelihood of the petitioner repeating similar offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-rejects-sarithas-bail-petition/article34645933.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Plea to include original vaccine name in certificates||A petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Tuesday seeking a directive to the Centre to include the original name of the Covishield vaccine, Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, as well as the passport number in the vaccination certificates of Non-Resident Indians employed in Saudi Arabia. Travel to Saudi Arabia In their petition, Mustafa Vadakkam Parambil, vice president, Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre, Jeddah, and another NRI said non-inclusion of the original name of the Covishield name and the passport number in vaccination certificates would affect NRIs’ travel plans and their prospects of rejoining duties in Saudi Arabia. If travellers were immunised with two doses of the kingdom’s approved vaccine, several conditions, including institutional quarantine, would be waived, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-include-original-vaccine-name-in-certificates/article34645934.ece
26 May 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Care centres for migrant labourers in Kollam||As part of COVID-19 containment measures, various local bodies in the district will arrange domiciliary care centres for migrant labourers. The centres will come up in Kollam Corporation, Mayyanad panchayat, and Karungapally and Kottarakara municipalities. The first centre currently functional at Government Model Higher Secondary School, Karunagapally, has 50 beds while the municipality will provide free food for the patients. Containment measures According to municipal chairman, Rs. 50 lakh has been set aside for containment measures at the taluk hospital and Mynagapally primary health centre. The care centres in Mayyanad grama panchayat will be functioning at HKMS School in Mylapore. Meanwhile, the Kollam Corporation has started two more community kitchens at Government UP School, Kureepuzha, and ARM Auditorium, Ayathil. While the first kitchen will offer food to the residents of Thrikkadavur, Saktikulangara and Thevally, people residing in Vadakkevila and Ayathil can avail themselves of the the services of the second. The authorities of the Perinadu grama panchayat have distributed pulse oximeters and Ayurvedic medicines in all the 20 wards. The panchayat also has two care centres with 60 beds and food will be provided from the Janakeeya hotel. Apart from the care centre, the Kunnathur panchayat has arranged transportation for those engaged on COVID-19 testing. Punalur municipality at present has two care centres functioning at Kelankavu and Nellipally. Ambulance services The Vilakudy grama panchayat in Pathanapuram has deployed a total of 20 teachers for ward-level containment measures. They will be in charge of coordinating various activities and finding quarantine violations. The care centre started by the Chittumala block panchayat has 100 beds with all the facilities. A sum of Rs. 26 lakh has been allotted for the centre, which also has ambulance services with oxygen support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-centres-for-migrant-labourers-in-kollam/article34646241.ece
26 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam sets a model in COVID care||As the second wave of COVID-19 that hit the region gradually begins to subside, Kottayam appears to have set a model in pandemic prevention by providing critical care to the maximum number of patients while maintaining one of the lowest mortality rates in the State. According to officials, the district has the highest number of oxygen beds in the COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTC) and second-line treatment centres (SLTC) in the State, which has helped it to keep the mortality rate at 0.19%, second only to Idukki. Out of the total 2,421 oxygen beds in all SLTCs in the State, Kottayam accounts for 24.4% with 591 beds while it has 681 beds across the FLTCs, which is 23.64% of the total beds in all FLTCs in the State. 44,700 in govt. centres As per estimates, 44,700 persons or 26.3% of the total COVID-19 patients in Kottayam were provided treatment through State-owned health-care mechanism. At the same time, about 1.7 lakh patients received treatment in their homes. The total number of deaths stood at 317. Officials have attributed the lower mortality to a decentralised approach to treatment. Apart from the two COVID-19 special hospitals in the district, opening of domiciliary care centres in all the grama panchayats, 23 FLTCs based on block panchayats and municipalities and seven SLTCs ensured sufficient care to the patients, they pointed out. ICU beds Also, the number of ICU beds and ventilators was in hospitals were raised gradually. Similarly, centralised facility for oxygen supply was ensured in most of the hospitals and SLTCs. According to M. Anjana, District Collector, the district was now focused on equipping the district to counter a possible third wave. “Efforts are on to enhance the health infrastructure and ensure sufficient medical oxygen for the district. This includes setting up oxygen generators and concentrators in maximum number of hospitals,” said Ms. Anjana. Oxygen plants As part of this, steps are in place to set up oxygen plants in the two COVID hospitals and seven SLTCs using funds from various sources, including PM Care. Further, plans are also afoot to set up an oxygen generation and filling plant at Kanjirappally with help of the private sector at Rs. 1.14 crore, besides procuring 10 tanks of one kilolitre liquid oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-sets-a-model-in-covid-care/article34646244.ece
26 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam MP reviews rail doubling works||Reviewing the progress of the much-delayed track doubling between Ettumanur and Chingavanam, Kottayam MP Thomas Chazhikadan has directed Railways to complete the works before December 2021. A delegation led by Mr.Chazhikadan on Tuesday visited the worksite, including the location near the Muttambalam and Poovanthuruth ROBs which witnessed major landslips during heavy rain last week. The MP also directed railway officials to clear the obstructions to vehicular traffic at the landslip site at Muttambalam, besides ensuring safety of a house located near the landslip site at Poovanthuruth. In view of the rising number of accidents involving two-wheelers, directives were issued to expedite the works to lift the approach roads to the ROB at Nagampadom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-mp-reviews-rail-doubling-works/article34646246.ece
26 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS takes exception to Satheesan’s remarks||Taking strong exception to the remarks by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan criticising various religious and community organisations in the State, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has urged the Congress leadership to ascertain whether those statements are in line with the party’s tradition. In a statement on Tuesday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said it was not the Leader of the Opposition but the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) that should declare the policy decisions of the Congress. He further sought to know the KPCC’s opinion on Mr. Satheesan’s approach towards community organisations and its leaders as well as on the Sabarimala issue. “While the religious and community organisations have no right to intervene in the internal affairs of a political organisation, what its leadership should understand is that just like any individual, these outfits too hold the right to analyse and register their opinions on the functioning of such parties,” he said. Holding that a majority of the candidates in the recent Assembly elections had sought the NSS’ support irrespective of their political affiliations, Mr. Nair sought to warn the politicians against the practice of approaching the community organisations in times of need and ditching them afterwards. ‘Cheap statements’ “The Leader of the Opposition too had visited the NSS headquarters ahead of the elections and later sought the support of its taluk union and Karayogam office-bearers by meeting them in person. And he now appears overjoyed by the latest position and keeps making such cheap statements,” added Mr.Nair. The NSS, according to Mr. Sukumaran Nair, will maintain the same political stance towards all parties and coalitions. “We will acknowledge the virtues of this government and whenever it commits a mistake, that too will be conveyed promptly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-takes-exception-to-satheesans-remarks/article34645874.ece
26 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||TPR falls to 16.69%, 1,855 new cases in Kozhikode||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) in Kozhikode district dropped to 16.69% on Tuesday. As many as 1,855 fresh cases and 2,815 recoveries were reported from here. According to the District Medical Officer, 11,566 samples were tested on the day. There were 1,819 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 31 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 631 locally acquired infections, Feroke 90, Vadakara 54, and Azhiyoor 51. The active caseload in the district was now 24,144, of whom 19,168 were under home isolation. 2,147 cases in Thrissur There were 2,147 fresh cases in the district on Tuesday while 2,489 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate was 20.36%. Four local bodies in the district had TPR higher than 50% on Tuesday. The local bodies with high TPR were: Chovvannur (53.85); Kadappuram (61.68); Kattakambal (56.41) and Kuzhur (61.22). Active cases in the district were 13,355 and 93 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 2.25 lakh COVID-19 cases were reported from the district and 210 lakh people have recovered. According to official statistics, 2,123 people, including seven health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 347 people were above the age of 60 and 161 children below the age of 10. In all, 7,512 people are under homecare. As many as 10,547 samples were taken for the test on Tuesday.  Vaccination In all, 6.23 lakh people have taken the first dose of COVID vaccine while 1.61 lakh people took the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-falls-to-1669-1855-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article34645906.ece
26 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Several bedridden patients unwilling to take COVID-19 jab||At least some of the completely bedridden patients in Kozhikode are unwilling to take COVID-19 vaccination because they are scared that it will complicate their existing health conditions. The State government had recently directed health workers to ensure that all bedridden patients are given both doses of the vaccine. Consent of the patient is required for the purpose. However, a few of the nurses providing palliative care in the district said that completely bedridden patients were not keen on taking the jab. “All these people are in such a condition that they cannot move around without the help of caregivers. They are in a weak physical and mental condition. They have heard from elsewhere that those who undergo vaccination have side effects such as fever, headache, cold, and body pain. These patients are scared if it will complicate their situation,” a nurse, who did not wish to be named, told The Hindu . Since the government direction was to cover all bedridden patients, healthcare workers are now including patients who are not completely confined to their beds on the list of those who should be vaccinated. In Kodiyathur Kodiyathur grama panchayat recently held a drive to vaccinate over 100 bedridden patients in its jurisdiction. Patients who had registered with the Kodiyathur Pain and Palliative Care Association were given the jab over a period of two to three days. The Health Department and the grama panchayat authorities joined hands for the drive. A team consisting of two nurses, two palliative care volunteers, and a doctor were engaged. They stayed back for around half an hour to see if there were any complications. The Health Department, however, does not seem to have any idea about those who are unwilling to take the vaccine. A senior official said that instead of the regular half-an-hour observation period, such patients should be kept under surveillance for at least three days. Volunteers and nurses trained in palliative care should visit their houses regularly during the period. They should be included in rapid response teams as well, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/several-bedridden-patients-unwilling-to-take-covid-19-jab/article34645901.ece
26 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||SHRC calls for report on colony||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the District Collector and the Secretary of the Social Justice Department to submit a report on the plight of Kolottu Kunnu Colony residents in Kozhikode city within three weeks. The Commission has suo motu registered a complaint based on media reports. Most dwellings in the colony, located near Pottammal Junction on Mavoor Road, are makeshift huts covered in flex sheets. There is no proper road to the colony. Toilets do not have walls and are covered using old sarees and plastic sheets. The residents complained of ill-timed water supply that stops by day break, making it difficult for them to collect enough water. The colony houses around 20 families, mostly comprising daily wage labourers. They started residing on the land owned by the Public Works Department, 27 years ago. There were 42 families initially, but most of them shifted elsewhere. The residents have said that they cannot get a housing loan or building license to better the condition of their houses as the land did not belong to them. The PWD had initiated proceedings to provide title deeds for the land a few years ago, but it was put on hold. Title deeds for the land on which their houses are located is a major demand of the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-calls-for-report-on-colony/article34645899.ece
26 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Direction to open Akshaya centres||District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has directed Akshaya centres in the district to start functioning even during the lockdown. The direction comes in the wake of complaints that the public was unable to procure application forms and submit certificates for emergencies in the absence of Akshaya centres. The Collector said the centres could remain open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. following COVID-19 protocol and that only four people could enter the centre at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/direction-to-open-akshaya-centres/article34645898.ece
26 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Emergency teams to be expanded||The Kozhikode Corporation is expanding its ward-level emergency response teams by incorporating more youngsters into them. Mayor Beena Philip had convened a meeting of representatives of youth organisations on Tuesday as part of the Corporation’s disaster management programme. The team will be divided into groups for warning, rescue, shelter management, first aid and life support. They will be provided online training under Trauma Care Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emergency-teams-to-be-expanded/article34645900.ece
26 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Prabha’ project to serve differently abled launched||Connected Initiative, in association with a collective of National Service Scheme volunteers in higher secondary schools in Kozhikode, Composite Regional Centre for Persons with Disabilities (CRC) and Able World, has come up with ‘Prabha’ (Persons with disabilities Rehabilitation and Basic Health Assurance), a comprehensive project for the service of differently abled persons. The CRC and Able World had launched “CoWe Care Kerala”, a project for differently abled, which included services such as a help desk for COVID vaccination, medicines when required, ambulance service, online therapy service and psychological assistance. Creating awareness A first of its kind initiative in the State, Prabha aims to create awareness on such programmes among the over 30,000 differently abled persons in the district and a scientific study of their physical, mental, social and financial conditions. The data thus collected will be analysed and submitted to the government to be used for projects to help the differently abled in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prabha-project-to-serve-differently-abled-launched/article34645907.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||Five made permanent Judges of Kerala HC||The Law Ministry on Tuesday notified the elevation of five additional judges of the Kerala High Court as permanent Judges. Justices Conrad Stansilaus Dias, Pulleri Vadhyarillath Kunhikrishnan, Thirumuppath Raghavan Ravi, Bechu Kurian Thomas and Gopinath Puzhankara, additional judges of the Kerala High Court, would be Judges of the High Court with effect from the date they assume charge of their offices, the Law Ministry notification said. According to the Law Ministry website, the Kerala High Court has a sanctioned strength of 47 judges, but is functioning with 40 judges now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-made-permanent-judges-of-kerala-hc/article34645935.ece
26 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s active case pool on the decline||Kerala reported 29,803 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,43,028 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) which had averaged over the past three days at 22.6% was at 20.84% on the day. The State’s active case pool continues to dip and with 33,397 recoveries on Tuesday, and it now has 2,55,406 patients. However, hospitalisations continue to remain high, indicating that a significant proportion of people with moderate or severe symptoms are continuing to reach hospitals. On Tuesday, with 3,303 persons newly getting admitted to hospitals, 38,740 patients are being treated in hospitals. COVID-19 deaths continue to be reported in three digits and on Tuesday the State added 177 recent deaths to the official list, taking the cumulative COVID-19 fatalities to 7,731. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients have risen to 4,027, with the number of those on ventilator support also rising to 1,517. In Thiruvananthapuram, the active case pool is steadily declining and on Tuesday has 17,990 cases. But the district has the highest number of hospitalisations in the State with the figure rising to 6,209. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 5,315, followed by Palakkad 3,285, Thiruvananthapuram 3,131, Ernakulam 3,063, Kollam 2,867, Alappuzha 2,482, Thrissur 2,147, Kozhikode 1,855, Kottayam 1,555, Kannur 1,212, Pathanamthitta 1,076, Idukki 802, Kasaragod 602 and Wayanad 411 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-active-case-pool-on-the-decline/article34645940.ece
26 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccine priority for those going abroad||The State government has issued orders that students and others going abroad for higher studies or for jobs, for whom COVID-19 vaccination might be compulsory, will be included in the priority group for inoculation in the 18-44 age group.  Earlier, when opening up vaccination for the 18-44 age group, the government had prioritised those with comorbidities for receiving the shots. It also notified 32 categories as front-line workers for prioritisation in vaccination amongst this age group. Following requests from various departments, the government has notified another 11 categories as priority groups for vaccination in the 18-44 age group. Apart from students going abroad, these include field staff of Food and Civil Supplies Department, Food Corporation of India, Postal Department, Social Justice, Women and Child Development, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, Ports departments, seafarers and teachers posted in examination valuation camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-priority-for-those-going-abroad/article34645939.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Theft at Bevco warehouse: one held||The Attingal police on Tuesday arrested one person and took three others into custody in connection with the burglary at a warehouse of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). The accused, identified as Renjith, 42, of Vakkom, was remanded in judicial custody. The police were yet to divulge the details of the others in custody. According to the police, at least seven persons are believed to be involved in the theft of around 130 cases of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) bottles from the warehouse over several days between May 9 and 20. The investigation team had identified the perpetrators in the case, official sources said. The burglary came to light after excise officers confiscated 54 litres of IMFL from a car near Varkala a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theft-at-bevco-warehouse-one-held/article34646247.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tech varsity to conduct final-year exams online||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has decided to conduct the final semester examinations of all programmes online. Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. approved the recommendations of the academic and examination Syndicate sub-committees in this regard. The exams will be held from June 22 to 30. Students can appear for the exams from their homes. Detailed guidelines for conducting the examinations will be published soon. Dr. Rajasree said certificates and grade cards would be made available to students by the third week of July, taking into account their campus placement and higher learning opportunities. With online classes set to continue the next academic year, the university has issued guidelines for the conduct of academic activities that will commence in the digital mode in June. While class duration has been limited to a maximum of five hours, extra sessions of one hour per day can be held for ‘honours’ and ‘minors’. Classes for the final semesters will continue in accordance with the existing academic calendar, while those for the others will be conducted from Monday to Friday. Heads of departments have been tasked with preparing weekly schedules for online classes. They must essentially comprise a mix of live, pre-recorded and discussion sessions. Short pre-recorded videos can also be used. Recordings of live online sessions must be shared with the students. The faculties have been urged to promote ‘flip-classroom’ method by conducting live interactions based on pre-recorded videos or learning materials provided earlier. The university has also directed colleges to grant attendance ‘favourably’ by considering class works submitted for the benefit of students who are unable to join sessions due to internet connectivity problems. Institutions must also entrust ‘advisors’ with keeping tabs on regular absentees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tech-varsity-to-conduct-final-year-exams-online/article34645875.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cancellation of trains extended||Railways have extended the cancellation of four pairs of special trains by another 15 days from May 31 due to poor patronage. Train 06316 Kochuveli-Mysuru special stands cancelled up to June 15 and train 06315 Mysuru-Kochuveli special till June 16; train 06347 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Junction special till June 15 and train 06348 Mangaluru Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central special till June 16; and train 06791 Tirunelveli Junction-Palakkad Palaruvi special up to June 15 and train 06792 Palakkad Junction–Tirunelveli Junction Palaruvi special till June 16, a railway release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancellation-of-trains-extended/article34645937.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Birth anniversary observed||The birth anniversary of K. Ramakrishna Pillai, editor of Swadeshabhimani , who was exiled from erstwhile Travancore, was observed under the aegis of the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club on Tuesday. Former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Speaker M. Vijayakumar were among those who paid floral tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birth-anniversary-observed/article34646248.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Actor held in connection with wife’s death||Unni Rajan P. Dev, son of the late Malayalam actor Rajan P. Dev, was arrested by the Vattappara police on Tuesday in connection with the death of his wife two weeks ago. A budding actor, Unni was taken into custody by a team led by Nedumangad DySP Umesh Kumar J. from his house at Karukutty, near Angamaly, around 11 a.m. His wife Priyanka had allegedly committed suicide at her house in Vembayam on May 12, a day after she had submitted a complaint at the Vattappara police station against Unni and his family alleging that they subjected her to mental and physical torture in the name of dowry. The accused who recovered from COVID-19 on Monday has been booked under Section 498(a) of the Cr.PC that pertained to cruelty against woman by her husband or relative and Section 306 of the IPC relating to abetment to suicide. His mother Santhamma, who also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, has been named second accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-held-in-connection-with-wifes-death/article34645877.ece
26 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Dentist develops life-saving device, wins patent||Innovative technology developed by a dentist to reduce the impact of collisions during accidents has been accorded a patent by the Government of India. R.S. Dhanya, a teaching faculty in public health dentistry at PSM Dental College, Akkikavu, Thrissur, has developed a device to reduce the severity of the impact of accidents by absorbing the intense energy generated by the collision, in several stages within seconds. Thus, it can reduce injuries and save valuable lives. “Collision during vehicle accidents creates impact energy depending on the nature of accidents. The ‘recoil effect’ or bouncing back effect occurs when the absorbed energy tries to be released immediately. The system also has technology to prevent this,” explains Dr. Dhanya, who holds an MDS degree in Public Health Dentistry. Technically, it is a mechanical system, so it is more reliable and relatively inexpensive. The device can be installed on the front, rear and sides of light, medium and heavy vehicles, she adds. In addition to vehicles, the device can be used in crash guards, pillars of bridges, railway lines, culverts of bridges, road medians, handrails, ships, harbours, boats, boat-jetties, seaports and most areas where there is probability for occurrence of collision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dentist-develops-life-saving-device-wins-patent/article34645903.ece
26 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Urban Family Health Centres get NQAS recognition||Thrissur district has won a rare recognition in the health sector with all its Urban Family Health Centres securing National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS). There are seven Urban Family Health Centres in the district. Of them, Aanappuzha, Kachery, V.R. Puram, Paravattani, and Guruvayur centres had already won the NQAS recognition earlier. Now, Pokkalengad and Gosayikkunnu centres have won it . NQAS certification is on the basis of many parameters, including quality of hospital, patient-friendly atmosphere, and environment-friendly projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urban-family-health-centres-get-nqas-recognition/article34645909.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID claims 43 more lives in capital||COVID-19 has claimed 43 more lives in Thiruvananthapuram district, taking the death toll to 1,499. The single-day largest spike was recorded in the district when deaths that occurred between May 17 and 24 were attributed to the deadly disease on Tuesday. The ages of the deceased ranged from 26 to 92. Thiruvananthapuram recorded a slight increase in COVID-19 caseload when 3,131 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Test positivity rate The test positivity rate also increased to 21.2%. The active cases count stood at 17,990 with 3,112 people recovering from the illness. The district administration placed 4,160 people in quarantine, taking the number of those being monitored in the district for COVID-19 symptoms to 84,479. A total of 5,815 were permitted to conclude quarantine during the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-claims-43-more-lives-in-capital/article34645876.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Symbolic protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/symbolic-protest/article34645915.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cleansing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleansing-act/article34646226.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lockdown view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-view/article34646224.ece
26 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 black fungus cases in Anantapur in one day||Anantapur district on Tuesday reported 13 new cases of mucormycosis, also called black fungus, taking the total number of patients being treated in the Government General Hospital and other private hospitals to 40. While the first 27 cases were reported in past five days, it is for the first time that the district saw 13 cases in one day. Officials, concerned at the rise in cases, have flagged shortage of drugs required for the treatment. The district reported no deaths due to the fungal infection, though three persons, who had gone out of the State from Anantapur for treatment, had died. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu has instructed officials to identify an exclusive hospital for treating patients of mucormycosis. Meanwhile, COVID positivity rate in the district on Tuesday dropped to 20% after a month. Out of the 5,148 samples tested, 1,034 turned out positive till 10 a.m. on Tuesday. The last time the positivity rate fell to 20% was on April 28 when it was 20.03%. Acute shortage of oxygen Despite the decline in new infections, an acute shortage of medical oxygen was reported in the district, which led to all private hospitals halting admission of new patients needing oxygen support. The district officials hope that the situation would improve today as the Oxygen Express, carrying 80 MT of Liquid Medical Oxygen(LMO), reached Tadipatri on Tuesday. Out of this, Anantapur district has been allocated 17.6 MT. The remaining will be sent to hospitals in adjoining districts - Kadapa, Kurnool, and Chittoor - Anantapur Oxygen Monitoring Committee member R. Jagannath Singh told The Hindu . In addition to this, work on setting up of oxygen generators at Hindupur and Kadiri Government Hospitals with the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation is in progress, while the site for setting up similar units at Government General Hospital and Super Speciality Hospital in Anantapur and Guntakal Government Hospital has been identified. Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah said that the Hindupur plant might be operational within the next one week to 10 days, but others might take some time. Alarming figures While urban areas see a decline, the number of deaths in rural areas is on the rise and the cumulative positivity rate has gone up from 3.3% on April 24 to 6.3% on May 24, indicating a high rate of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-black-fungus-cases-in-anantapur-in-one-day/article34646265.ece
26 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 of a family found dead in Penukonda||Three members of a family were found dead in their house on Tuesday at Penukonda in Anantapur district. The domestic help who found foul smell emanating from the house, complained ato the neighbours, who in turn, alerted the police. The police broke open the doors and found bodies of the three siblings, in their 80s, in a highly decomposed state. According to the preliminary information, one of them has been identified as Ashwathaiah, a retired bank manager, who was separated from his wife and was living with two of his sisters. The three reportedly did not come out of their house since the March 2020 lockdown. A post-mortem areportedly revealed that they had died more than 48 hours ago. Police have ruled out foul play and suspect that health issues could have led to their death. According to neighbours, the residents did not mingle with people around and did not have much information about them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-of-a-family-found-dead-in-penukonda/article34645655.ece
26 May 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Black fungus: kin of patients allege shortage of injections||More than the dreaded black fungus disease, the acute shortage and black marketing of injections, required for its treatment, is leaving patients and their attendants feel very dejected. The attendants are running from pillar to post to buy injections to save their near and dear ones. Rajendra Prasad (68), a diabetic, underwent treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital in the city. He was admitted on April 19, put on ventilator support and given steroids, and was discharged after his condition improved on April 27. Black phlegm “A few weeks later, he sneezed and black-coloured phlegm came out. We had no knowledge of black fungus. Again after two days ago phlegm came out but we ignored it, thinking it was not serious. The next day, my dad complained of pain in his cheek bones and we took him to a private hospital. Black fungus was confirmed and the affected part was removed. We were, however, told that even after removal, small particles of the fungus could remain in the blood and it should be treated with injections for two weeks continuously,” says his daughter Sunita. “There are 35 black fungus patients at the King George Hospital. We received injection stocks and at present there is no shortage. A 10-member team of specialists are monitoring the cases,” P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu on Tuesday. S. Soubhagya Raju, a Deputy Executive Engineer in APTIDCO, is a diabetic and was under home isolation for COVID-19 from May 3. “A physician who treated my dad, gave steroids but failed to ensure that the blood sugar was kept under control,” says his son Abhishek. “The doctors at a private hospital told us that his right eye has to be removed and injections given to prevent the fungus from reaching his brain. The hospital has no stocks of the injection and we don’t know what to do. The doctors have told us even after surgery there are only 5% chances for his survival,” says Mr. Abhishek in a voice choked with emotion. “COVID-19 Associated Mucormycosis (CAM) can be treated with Liposomal Amphotericin B or Posaconazole injections. Both the injections are costly and in short supply. In the first phase, injections should be used followed by oral formulations,” says Dr. Veluri Gayathri, Professor of Microbiology, NRI Institute of Medical Sciences. “Private hospitals, which already have agreements with manufacturers can directly procure the injections from them. They were asked to inform the authorities concerned, to keep a tab on the supply and distribution to prevent black marketing,” says an official of the Drugs Control Administration. The sharp rise in demand due to COVID-19, is the reason for the present shortage as the existing manufacturers are unable to meet it, says the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/black-fungus-kin-of-patients-allege-shortage-of-injections/article34646291.ece
26 May 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP MLA leads ‘Agnihotra’ procession to fight COVID-19||In another addition to the already long list of unverified claims, MLA and BJP leader Abhay Patil led an Agnihotra procession in the Old City in Belagavi on Tuesday saying that smoke emitted from the ritual fire would “clear the air and rid it of COVID-19 virus droplets”. He joined some volunteers who were pushing a cart with slow-burning fire set to cow dung cakes, camphor, neem leaves, guggula (gum resin), and other herbs, which form the Agnihotra. Around 30 people walked alongside him. To a question, Mr. Patil said that the procession did not violate any lockdown norms. He claimed that ancient Indian medicinal systems such as Ayurveda stress the importance of such rituals. “This is our effort to remind ourselves about Agnihotra and other native medicinal practices,” he said. Mr. Patil said that around 50 persons in his constituency of Belagavi South had performed Agnihotra in front of their houses, acting on his cue. He said such practices by individuals and public rituals would continue till June 15. However, many in Belagavi remained sceptical of this act. Gangadhar Nesargi, science teacher and donor-member of Karnataka Rajya Vijnyana Parishat, a State-level association aimed at promoting scientific temper, warned against promoting anything untested by modern tools. He said that even the practitioners do not have enough evidence-based data to back up their claims. “We need to recalibrate all such claims based on modern-day research-based evidence,” he said. ‘Wrong message’ To a query on the MLA’s action, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that while his motive may have been good, the action had sent out a wrong message to the people of the State. “When we have imposed a lockdown and asked people not to come out on to the streets, the MLA should not have taken a crowd of people with him. It is common to pray during tough times. But it should have been done privately,” he said, without commenting on the MLA’s claim that the ritual was aimed at fighting COVID-19. Meanwhile, Anil Benake, MLA and BJP leader, announced that his office would join in the efforts of some non-governmental organisations to distribute Ayurvedic medicines developed by Kaneri Mutt in Kolhapur that could serve as “immunity boosters” against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-mla-leads-agnihotra-procession-to-fight-covid-19/article34645666.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test positivity rate exceeds 20% in two States||There were 22,758 new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 6,243 were in Bengaluru Urban. The day’s COVID-19 deaths stood at 588. The Department of Health said the test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 21.13% and 1.07 lakh tests were conducted. The case fatality rate for the day stood at 2.58%. Karnataka had 4.24 lakh active cases. Vaccinations covered 64,156 more people, and total vaccinations rose to 1.23 crore. Kerala reported 29,803 new cases on Tuesday from 1,43,028 samples. The TPR, averaging 22.6% over the past three days, was 20.84%. Active cases dropped with 33,397 recoveries on Tuesday, and stood at 2,55,406 patients. The State added 177 more deaths to the official list of COVID deaths, taking the cumulative fatalities to 7,731. In Thiruvananthapuram district, active cases were declining and on Tuesday stood at 17,990. But the district had the highest number of hospitalisations at 6,209. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 5,315. Andhra Pradesh’s tally rose with 15,284 new infections and 106 more deaths on Tuesday. Testing covered 72,979 samples and 20.94% of them returned positive. Active cases were at 1,98,023. Chittoor reported 15 new deaths, Prakasam and West Godavari 11 and 10 new deaths respectively, Anantapur, East Godavari, Nellore and Visakhapatnam nine each, Kurnool and Vizianagaram eight each, Srikakulam seven, Guntur and Krishna five each. Kadapa reported one death. East Godavari, with 2,663 new infections, was the only district with 2,000-plus cases. Telangana’s positivity rate dropped to 4.7% on Tuesday, while tests rose by about 21,000. The State added 3,821 cases and 23 deaths. New samples tested went up to 81,203 from 59,709 on Monday. The Public Health Department website indicated that 31,657 out of 55,120 beds were vacant, including 4,665 ICU/ventilator beds, 9,818 oxygen beds and 17,174 general beds as of Tuesday evening.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-positivity-rate-exceeds-20-in-three-states/article34645669.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Respond to plea on lockdown violation by CM’s son, says HC||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to respond to a petition that said B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and some of his family members were allowed entry into the Sri Nanjundeshwara temple at Nanjangud in Mysuru district in violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction on a petition, filed on behalf of H.M. Venkatesh of the Nyja Horatagarara Vedike, pointing out the discrimination in enforcing lockdown norms as VIPs were allowed to enter temples when entry was prohibited to the public. Pointing out that the Chief Minister’s son was even allowed to perform certain rituals in the temple, the vedike in its representation to the district administration, a copy of which was submitted to the court, had asked how Mr. Vijayendra and his family members were allowed to cross districts when the lockdown prevented citizens from travelling from one district to another, except in cases of specified emergencies. Meanwhile, the Bench rejected a petition seeking recovery of the amount spent on treating COVID-19 patients from political and religious leaders who organised events during which COVID-19 norms, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, were violated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respond-to-plea-on-lockdown-violation-by-cms-son-says-hc/article34645657.ece
26 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic hits livelihood of cobblers beyond repair||Murugesh (45) who runs a make-shift cobbler shop on the High Road in Chittoor anxiously waits for his customers. He used to run his family somehow with the paltry income of Rs. 200 a day before the outbreak of virus. During the lockdown imposed last year during the first wave, he had a harrowing time to make his both ends meet. “After the curbs were relaxed, my per day income reduced to half of what I used to earn before. And now, I make Rs. 40 a day at best. People are staymg indoors and the restricted business hours owing to the curfew has almost sunk my business. I have no clue how to run my family,” says Murugesh. The second wave of pandemic has delivered a blow not only on life but also livelihood and the cobblers in the district who usually run their make-shift vends from the footpaths are no exception. With roads getting deserted from noon, the cobblers lose their business hours as their daily choir gets busy only after 10 a.m. Their regular patrons are schoolchildren who get their bags and shoes repaired, and middle class families, mostly villagers who visit the towns on some works. An estimated 500 families depend on this profession in Chittoor district and most of them live in Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Chittoor, Madanapalle and mandal headquarters. Prior to the pandemic, the cobblers at pilgrimage centres such as Tirupati and Srikalahasti used to earn a minimum of Rs. 600 a day. With the slump in business, their numbers have reduced from 80,000 a day to a mere 2,000 in Tirupati. To augment their paltry income, the cobblers also mend umbrellas and school bags, apart from footwear. “All educational institutions are closed and business hours have been curtailed. We have no business, but we have to run our families, ,” says Palani (65), a cobbler at the bus station area in Puttur.  Dependent on ration Some cobblers say they are totally dependent on the ration being supplied by the government. “Women in our houses somehow borrow food grains or small amount of cash from the neighborhood. That is how we are surviving. Except for mending footwear, I do not know any other trade,” laments Govindaiah (60) another cobbler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-hits-livelihood-of-cobblers-beyond-repair/article34646263.ece
26 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow weather bulletins and act accordingly, CM tells Collectors||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday reviewed the Cyclone Yaas preparedness with Chief Secretary Adityanath Das camping at Srikakulam and the Collectors of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. “I urge the Collectors to plan for action depending on the weather bulletins and predictions of the Indian Meteorological Department and observe closely the movements of the cyclonic storm,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a video-conference. Briefing about the situation, Mr. Adityanath Das said that except for sporadic showers in Srikakulam, there were no major influences of the cyclone and added that all senior officials were camping in Srikakulam. ‘Coordinating with Odisha’ He also explained the steps taken to evacuate all COVID-19 patients from temporary shelters and that hospitals had been equipped with diesel and generators to face any eventuality. Later, the Collectors briefed about the emerging situation. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas said that the district officials were working in coordination with their Odisha counterparts and the situation was under control. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said all measures were taken including arranging generators in 28 hospitals along with diesel. Sufficient stocks of food were kept in COVID Care Centres besides providing electricity backup. V. Vinay Chand, Visakhapatnam Collector, said the process of setting up oxygen manufacturing plants and a cylinder refilling plant was going on uninterrupted. All steps were taken to ensure power backup in 80 hospitals. Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu, Vice-Chairman of Agricultural Mission M.V.S. Nagireddy, Special Chief Secretary, Agriculture, Poonam Malakondaiah and Commissioner, Agriculture, H. Arun Kumar were also present on the occacsion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-weather-bulletins-and-act-accordingly-cm-tells-collectors/article34646275.ece
26 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID warns people against creating posts against judges||Additional Director-General, Andhra Pradesh-Crime Investigation Department (A.P.-CID), P.V. Sunil Kumar has said the CID is investigating complaints related to the posting of objectionable content against Judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Mr. Sunil Kumar said it had come to CID’s notice that certain persons were posting objectionable content against the High Court Judges and that the High Court had already issued orders to take stringent action against such persons. “We appeal to people not to create such posts, or forward them or like such incendiary posts. The CID has pressed its factcheck and social media teams and we will find out the culprits ,” he said, adding that it had come to his notice that some people had been creating such posts and were allegedly involved in a criminal conspiracy to defame the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-warns-people-against-creating-posts-against-judges/article34646273.ece
26 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan thanks corporates for oxygen supply||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has thanked leading corporate giants who have come forward to supply liquid medical oxygen to the State battling a vicious second wave of COVID-19. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy thanked Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, Member of Parliament Naveen Jindal and Sajjan Jindal for sending oxygen to Andhra Pradesh. “I thank Mukesh Ambani and @ril_foundation (RIL Foundation) for their support by sending in oxygen trains to Andhra Pradesh and helping the State in its fight against COVID-19. Looking forward to your continuous support,” Mr. Jagan tweeted, tagging Rajya Sabha MP Parimala Nathwani. He also thanked Tata Steel for sending 1,000 MT of liquid oxygen, Jindal Steel Works, Bellary for second oxygen from Bellari to Rayalaseema and MP Naveen Jindal for sending 500 MT of liquid oxygen to A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-thanks-corporates-for-oxygen-supply/article34645710.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||OP, non-COVID care in Telangana likely to be hit||Some 3,100 junior doctors and senior resident doctors would boycott COVID and non-COVID elective duties at Telangana government teaching and allied hospitals from 9 a.m. of Wednesday as their demands were not addressed, including State government’s ex-gratia for health care workers (HCWs) who lost life in line of duty. Representatives of Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA), and Telangana Senior Resident Doctors Association (TSRDA) announced the decision to media on Tuesday. The medical services which do not need emergency attention are called as elective duties such as Out-Patient services, treatment for closed fractures. They would continue to attend COVID ICU and critical care duties, and non-COVID emergencies. However, the association members have threatened to boycott COVID ICU duties and non-COVID emergencies from May 28 if their demands are not considered.  Beds for kin Other demands of the associations include implementation of hike in stipends from January-2020 instead of January 2021, 10% incentive for HCWs, allotment of bed and free treatment for HCWs and their families at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). The senior resident doctors have asked for 15% hike in honorarium. From more than a week, representatives of both the associations have announced their intention to boycott duties if the demands are not met. Family members of some of the HCWs who died in the first wave of the pandemic were issued Rs. 50 lakh ex-gratia issued by Central government. It was learnt that applications for this were filed for families of HCWs from State who died in the second wave. The associations members have demanded ex-gratia as announced by the State government. According to TJUDA president V. Naveen, there are around 2000 House Surgeons (MBBS interns) and Post Graduates. They who come under the umbrella term ‘Junior Doctors’. There are around 1100 Senior Resident doctors (one year work after PG) working in government COVID hospitals, TSRDA president M Naresh added. Put together, over 3100 junior doctors and senior resident doctors would boycott the elective duties.  Core for duties The junior doctors and senior resident doctors are part of core teams who attend COVID patients at government hospitals. And the latter are crucial at a few of the COVID hospitals such as District Hospital in King Koti, and Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli. State’s Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy has directed superintendents, directors, principals of teaching and allied hospitals to make necessary arrangements in the view of boycott of duties by the junior doctors at teaching hospitals. The in-charges of the hospitals have prepared new duty charts including faculty members, Civil Assistant Surgeons, doctors on deputation. The DME has further instructed that leaves will not be sanctioned to faculty, and asked officials to monitor attendance of the junior doctors closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/op-non-covid-care-likely-to-be-hit-from-today/article34646183.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested for black marketing of Remdesivir||The South Zone Task Force apprehended two persons for indulging in black marketing of Remdesivir and seized 18 vials of the anti-viral drug. The accused are Salman Raj (27) of KPHB and Aravind (29) of Madhapur. A third accused Shiva Shankar, a resident of Attapur, is absconding. Police said Aravind, a native of Guntur, has been working in the medical field for the past two years. Meanwhile, Salman has been working as nursing staff at a private hospital in Kukatpally. Aravind bought Remdesivir injections from Shiva and supplied the drug to Salman, who sold them for Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 per vial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir/article34646190.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. nod to private centres for inoculating 18+ citizens||The State Health department has finally accorded permission to Private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (PCVCs) to administer jabs to people aged 18 years and above, and to also conduct workplace vaccination. Citing the Centre’s communication which permits vaccination for people in the 18+ category as well as workplace vaccination by mapping with designated PCVCs, Telangana Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said, “All designated private hospitals as PCVCs in the States are hereby permitted to carry out COVID Vaccination in the hospitals, as well as workplaces (on requests made by institutions or companies or gated communities etc.) by registering on CoWin portal and by following COVID Vaccination guidelines”. The senior official also tweeted (@drgsrao) about it on Tuesday afternoon. The Health department has resumed second dose vaccination for people above 45 years at Government CVCs from Tuesday, after a gap of 10 days. There was no communication about vaccinating 18-44 years age group at Government CVCs. On May 18, senior officials from the Health department said that the State government has procured 4.90 lakh COVID vaccine doses for the 18-44 age group. But the target population in the age group is 1.90 crore people which raised questions on who among them would get priority. Dr Srinivasa Rao had earlier said that a decision on it will be taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and senior officials. He has also added that attempts to procure more doses are under way. Around a week ago, the State government floated a global e-tender for procurement of 10 million doses of vaccine for COVID-19 within a period of six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-nod-to-private-centres-for-inoculating-18-citizens/article34645654.ece
26 May 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteer held for bid to assault engineer||The Kadapa police on Tuesday arrested a person for allegedly trying to assault an assistant engineer in the Irrigation Department. When a team led by the engineer, Raghunatha Reddy, was trying to remove encroachments abutting Buggavanka stream flowing in the city on Monday, a person identified as Feroz , who was reportedly serving as a ward volunteer, allegedly tried to assault the engineer, taking objection to the official razing his home. The residents, dwelling in the locality for over two decades, accused the government officials of resorting to the extreme step in the midst of the pandemic, that too without serving them a notice or providing them an alternative accommodation. TDP politburo member R. Sreenivasa Reddy demanded “justice” to the poor residents of Buggavanka who had been ‘mercilessly rendered homeless’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteer-held-for-bid-to-assault-engineer/article34646269.ece
26 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will procure Bondalu paddy, govt. tells ryots||East Godavari Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha said the government would procure the entire production of Bondalu paddy variety (MTU 3626) at the guaranteed Minimum Support Price through the paddy purchasing centres. The district authorities have assured farmers that the Bondalu variety would be procured as the middlemen have reportedly intensified efforts to procure this paddy variety at prices lower than the MSP. “The total production of Bondalu variety is nearly four lakh metric tonnes in the 2020-21 Rabi season. The total yield of all the varieties is above 13 lakh MTs in the East Godavari district. We are prepared to procure the entire yield of the Bondalu variety,” said Mr. Lakshmisha. A control room has been set up to address the grievances pertaining to the paddy procurement. Farmers can get their doubts clarified by dialing 88866-13611, Mr. Lakshmisha said, appealing to the farmers not to be lured by middlemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-procure-bondalu-paddy-govt-tells-ryots/article34645708.ece
26 May 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sukumar donates Rs. 40 lakh for oxygen plant||An oxygen production plant worth Rs. 40 lakh, funded by Telugu film director Sukumar, was inaugurated by Backward Classes Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy at the Community Health Centre at Razole in East Godavari district on Tuesday. The facility will guarantee availability of medical oxygen in the Konaseema region, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sukumar-donates-rs-40-lakh-for-oxygen-plant/article34646289.ece
26 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays Lakshadweep official’s order||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed an order of the Additional District Magistrate (ADM), Lakshadweep, directing the Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) at the Amini Island to attend the legal cell at the Secretariat for completing urgent pending works until further orders. The Bench comprising Justices K. Vinod Chandran and M.R. Anitha directed the Administrator, Union Territory of Lakshadweep, to ensure that the prosecutor was posted in the island where the courts were functioning. The court issued the order on a petition filed by Muhammed Saleem K.P., Andrott Island, Lakshadweep. The petitioner contended that the present order was rampant abuse of power. The duty of the Assistant Public Prosecutor was to conduct prosecution cases before the magistrate court. Judicial system hit The engagement of such officers for other legal works of the government in a different place in addition to their responsibilities would adversely affect the functioning of the judicial system. The sub-judge in the island had also informed the Bench that prosecutors were deputed to the island in Kavaratti for vetting of charges. Therefore, no cases had been posted for trial after the reopening of the courts. In its order, the court observed: “We are of the prima facie opinion that the prosecutors appointed for the functioning of the courts are to be posted in the islands where courts are functioning and if any vetting charges have to be made by them, it is for the administration to see that the documents are transmitted to them at the island where they are supposed to function as prosecutors.” When the case came up for hearing, the court told the counsel for the Lakshadweep administration, “You know what is happening in Lakshadweep, not about the newspaper reports and all; on the judicial side I have warned you once as I am the judge in charge of the administration there.” The petitioner pointed out that the Assistant Public Prosecutors working at Andrott and Amini were also asked to do the legal works of several departments, including the preparation of chargesheets. The administration should treat Assistant Public Prosecutors as independent officials and appoint them primarily to assist the courts, the petitioner contended. The petitioner also alleged that the administration preferred contract-based appointments though it had a recruitment rule for the appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-lakshadweep-officials-order/article34645661.ece
26 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 ‘crorepati’ Ministers in Kerala Cabinet||The new Left Democratic Front (LDF) Cabinet in Kerala has 13 ‘crorepati’ Ministers, according to an assessment by the poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and the Kerala Election Watch. The average assets of the Ministers analysed was Rs. 2.55 crore. Minister of Sports V. Abdurahiman topped the list with assets worth Rs. 17.17 crore, while Minister of Agriculture P. Prasad of the Communist Party of India, representing the Cherthala constituency, had the lowest assets (Rs. 14.18 lakh). The data were based on the analysis of the self-sworn affidavits of 20 out of the 21 members of the Cabinet. The details related to Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty were not analysed owing to the lack of properly scanned affidavits on the website of the Election Commission, according to the ADR and the Kerala Election Watch. Mr. Abdurahiman had declared the highest liabilities (Rs. 7.26 crore). Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had total assets worth Rs. 1.18 crore. The other ‘crorepati’ Ministers in the CPI(M) include P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries (Rs. 5.3 crore); Veena George, Minister for Health (Rs. 2.17 crore); P.A. Mohamed Riyas, Minister for Public Works (Rs. 1.86 crore); R. Bindu, Minister for Higher Education (Rs. 1.22 crore); and M.V. Govindan, Minister for Local Self Governments and Excise (Rs. 1.19 crore). The total assets of other ‘crorepati’ Cabinet members include Ahammad Devarkovil, Minister of Ports (Rs. 4.3 crore); Antony Raju, Minister for Transport (Rs. 3.25 crore); K. Krishnankutty, Minister for Electricity (Rs. 3.10 crore); Roshy Augustine, Minister for Irrigation (Rs. 2.47 crore); A.K. Saseendran, Minister for Forests and Wildlife (Rs. 2.06 crore); and G.R. Anil, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies (Rs. 1.28 crore). Criminal cases The assessment found that 12 Ministers had declared criminal cases against themselves. The Cabinet had 12 graduates. Thirteen Ministers were aged between 41-60 years, while seven were in the age bracket between 61 and 80. Of the 21-member Cabinet, three were women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-crorepati-ministers-in-kerala-cabinet/article34645673.ece
26 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lathika Subash joins NCP||Former president of the Kerala Mahila Congress Lathika Subash has joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Announcing her decision here on Tuesday, Ms. Subash said several leaders and workers from the Congress were expected to follow her. Explaining her decision to join a party in the Left Democratic Front, Ms. Subash said the LDF indeed gave more space to women as was evident from the presence of three ministers in the Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lathika-subash-joins-ncp/article34645662.ece
26 May 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Left, Cong. spreading false news’||BJP vice president A.P. Abdullakutty, who is in charge of Lakshadweep, has accused the Congress and the CPI(M) of spreading ‘misinformation’ about the new proposals being initiated by Administrator Praful Patel in the Union Territory. Defending Mr. Patel, Mr. Abdullakutty rubbished the allegations that the Administrator was trying to open the Muslim-dominated isles for selling liquor. “As of now consumption of liquor is permitted on Bangaram island that allows foreigners. This decision was taken during the Congress regime at the Centre when the late P.M. Sayeed represented the Lakshadweep. Now the proposal is to serve liquor to domestic tourists at resorts in Minicoy and Kavaratti Islands,” he said. Ban on meat Mr. Abdullakutty said that the decision to ban meat, including beef and chicken in mid-day meals in schools, had been endorsed after consulting experts. “But this also had been unnecessarily raked up to malign the Administrator and brand him with a negative Gujarati tag. All these years the IUML, the Left parties, the Social Democratic Party of India and Jamaat-e-Islami have been struggling to get a foothold in Lakshadweep. But their attempts have not yielded any results,” Mr. Abdullakutty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-cong-spreading-false-news/article34645653.ece
26 May 2021||KUCHIPUDI (KRISHNA),ANDHRA PRADESH||Vempati Venkat dies of cardiac arrest in Chennai||Vempati Venkat, son of the late Kuchipudi doyen and Padma Bhushan awardee Vempati Chinna Satyam, died of a cardiac arrest at his Chennai residence on Tuesday morning. He was 55 years old. Venkat is survived by his wife Srimoy and children Lakshmi Kameswari and Aneesh Venkat. Venkat was the secretary of the Chennai-based Kuchipudi Art Academy which was established by his father in 1963 to promote the dance form. He was one among five children of Chinna Satyam. In 1997, Venkat quit his corporate job to help his father run the academy. He was instrumental in conducting performances in several countries, and helped many young dancers gain recognition by offering them an opportunity to perform abroad. He was responsible for running both the Kuchipudi Art Academy in Chennai as well as offering Kuchipudi classes at their house in their ancestral village of Kuchipudi, in collaboration with Krishna University (KRU-Machilipatnam). Sangeet Natak Academy Awardee Bala Kondala Rao (Visakhapatnam), a disciple of Guru Vempati, mourned his death. “Venkat was running the academy in Chennai, carrying his father’s legacy forward till his last breath. His death is a great loss for the Kuchipudi dance fraternity,” Mr. Kondala Rao said. Kuchipudi-based Sangeet Natak Academy awardee Vedantam Radheshyam condoled Venkat’s death. “Mr. Venkat was known for organising Kuchipudi dance performances across the world, a responsibility handed to him by his father. It is a shock for us,” Mr. Radheshyam told The Hindu . Members of the ‘Save Kuchipudi’ campaign, which was launched by Venkat in 2020 to extend support to dance teachers, mourned his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vempati-venkat-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-chennai/article34645712.ece
26 May 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indians in Kuwait send liquid medical oxygen||The Indian Community Support Group (ICSG), Kuwait, has sent 231.8 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (with a net weight of 190 tonnes) to the Indian Red Cross Society as a goodwill gesture to meet the urgent and immediate needs of oxygen shortage due to the surge in coronavirus cases in the country. According to Karnataka State Management Committee member of the society Yatish Baikampady, a ship, INS Shardul, which carried the consignment, arrived at New Mangalore Port at about 7 a.m. on Tuesday. There were seven containers, two semi-trailers and 1,200 cylinders with a gross weight of 231.8 tonnes in the consignment, he said. Meanwhile, New Mangalore Port said in a release on Tuesday that the net weight of the liquid medical oxygen received stood at 190 tonnes. INS Shardul is the fifth Navy vessel handled by the port with liquid medical oxygen and equipment under the Samudra Setu II operation launched by Indian Navy. The vessel was berthed on highest priority and NMPT extended all its resources for berthing of the vessel. One of the Stevedores Sri Ganesh Shipping Agency extended support at zero cost, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indians-in-kuwait-send-liquid-medical-oxygen/article34645664.ece
26 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CCRAS teams find it difficult to collect data||Even as teams constituted by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi conducted field level studies to ascertain the efficacy of the herbal preparation made by B. Anandaiah on Tuesday, people continued to throng Krishnapatnam hoping that the distribution of the concoction would be resumed. The team members collected data from some persons who had taken the herbal preparation for a cure to coronavirus. The CCRAS teams encountered difficulties in collecting the data as Mr. Anandaiah had not maintained a record of the persons to whom he had given the herbal preparation and the details of the medical tests such as RT-PCR or TrueNat tests they had undergone. According to sources, 60,000 persons had been given the herbal preparation in the last two months and the CCRAS teams had contacted more than 70 persons who have taken the concoction as an ‘immunity booster’. The teams had sought the details of more persons from the district administration for recording their observations before starting animal and clinical studies, which are mandatory before giving approval. The team have to study at least 500 persons who have taken the herbal preparation as part of the study. Undeterred by the suspension of the distribution of the herbal preparation, thousands of people thronged Krishnapatnam village on Tuesday, hoping against hope for the resumption of distribution of the herbal preparation. Police removed the tent put up by the volunteers earlier for distribution of the herbal concoction. They had a tough time in preventing people from thronging the village.  Meanwhile, a Telugu Desam Party (TDP) fact-finding team led by party’s Polit Bureau member Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy visited Krishnapatnam. He urged the State government to allow distribution of the herbal preparation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ccras-teams-find-it-difficult-to-collect-data/article34646278.ece
26 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unabated deaths cause of concern||New COVID infections showed a slight increase in the South Coastal Andhra region while unabated fatalities continued to be a cause of concern. Eleven patients in Prakasam district and nine in SPSR Nellore district succumbed to the disease in the past 24 hours ending 9.00 am on Tuesday. With this, the toll increased to 1,539 in the region. SPSR Nellore district accounted for 777 deaths so far and Prakasam district for 762 deaths. Fresh cases, which fell to 1,206 on Monday, climbed to 1,626-- 648 in SPSR Nellore district and 978 in Praksam district-- in the past 24 hours. However, the daily tally has come down significantly over the last three days after reporting over 3,000 cases last week. Recoveries continued to improve further as 3,200 patients were discharged during the period. As recoveries outnumbered new cases by over 1,500, the active caseload dropped further to a little over 39,000 in the region. In Ongole, YSR Congress Party MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy inaugurated the vaccination drive for scribes in the presence of District Collector P. Bhaskar and Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists State president I.V. Subba Rao. Meanwhile, with the backlog of those awaiting their second dose going up, crowding at vaccination centres continued across the region. Many of those(all aged above 45) who thronged a session site at the Zilla Parishad school in Martur in Prakasam had to return without taking the jab fearing infection as social distancing went for a toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unabated-deaths-cause-of-concern/article34646267.ece
26 May 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus, ‘Gemini virus’ leave chilli growers red-faced in Prakasam||Chilli growers in Prakasam district are at their wits’ end as twin viruses — Coronavirus and Gemini virus — have dashed their hopes of a decent return for their produce, the quality of which has also been affected because of excess rainfall. Farmers in the drought-prone district had taken up the cultivation of the commercial crop in over 70,000 acres, as they got remunerative returns when the price of the spice crop went northwards last year, as traders despite the Coronavirus-induced lockdown made repeated visits to their farms and lapped up the available produce following increase global demand. Now, they are clueless on how to break even, leave alone getting decent returns. “Now the farmers are in an unenvious position on various counts, including unfavourable market condition, fall in productivity and discoloured crop due to virus attack following unseasonal rains,” lamented farmer leader Ch. Ranga Rao. “There are no takers for our produce even at reduced price,” said a tenant farmer Srinivasa Rao from Inkollu village, who had grown the crop in 10 acres of leased land. Intially, the crop fetched an attractive price of Rs. 16,000 per quintal. “There are no takers even at Rs. 10,000 per quintal now,” he laments while overseeing the grading of the pungent crop by farm workers fully adhering to COVID safety norms. “I have no option but to put the produce in a cold storage unit hoping for the market condition to improve in the next three or four months,” said another farmer, Venkateswara Rao, who has spent Rs. 1.50 lakh per acre for raising the crop in 20 acres at Pamidipadu village. Productivity had fallen from the normal 25 quintals per acre on an average to about 10 quintals this time, as incessant rains spelt doom for him, he explained. Those growers who lacked the capacity to store in cold storage units were forced to sell at whatever price offered by the traders to settle dues to migrant workers, who come all the way from Ballari in Karnataka for harvesting. The labour shortage at the Asia’s biggest Guntur market yard, where many Hamalis were down with COVID, was adding to their woes, said yet another farmer Srinivasa Rao from Mallavaram village. He feared going to market in view of the market glut and raging pandemic, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-gemini-virus-leave-chilli-growers-red-faced-in-prakasam/article34645714.ece
26 May 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uddanam region braces for Yaas impact||The Uddanam region of Srikakulam district that bore the brunt of several cyclones, including Titli which left a trail of destruction in October 2018, is once again expected to be at the receiving end when Cyclone Yaas may likely cross the coast between West Bengal and Odisha on Wednesday evening. The region, comprising Itchapuram, Sompeta, Mandasa, Palasa and Vajrapukotturu mandals, is known for the best coconut and cashew grooves that provide livelihood to more than 6.2 lakh people directly and indirectly. Farms and other properties worth about Rs. 80 crore were damaged by Titli cyclone which proved to be more destructive than Laila, Phailin and Hud-Hud cyclones. Palasa cashew industry took a severe blow and many processing units in the town shut down. Another blow Anticipating severe impact on the region this time too, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das arrived at Srikakulam to review the situation. Along with Collector J. Nivas and SP Amit Bardar, he participated in a video-conference and took suggestions from Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. “Gales are expected to move with a speed of 60-70 km per hour and may disrupt electricity supply with the possible damage to transmission lines. We are planning to restore electricity quickly in case of an emergency,” he said. Teams deployed National Disaster Response teams have already reached the district to ensure quick evacuation of people to safe locations in case of an emergency. District Fire Officer Ch. Kripavaram and other officials reviewed the situation and decided to deploy special teams at Itchapuram, Vajrapukotturu, Palasa and other sensitive places. In order to ensure smooth transport of oxygen cylinders from Odisha for COVID-19 patients, officials have kept earthmovers and other machinery ready to clear fallen trees that may block highways and other places. Revenue, electricity, agriculture and other departments formed teams in all sensitive mandals to handle any emergency situations. Essentials like groceries, milk, petrol and kerosene have been kept in cyclone shelters. Domestic animals, including cows and buffaloes, are being shifted to safe locations. A control room has been set up at the Collector’s office (08942-24055) to monitor the cyclone situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uddanam-region-braces-for-yaas-impact/article34646280.ece
26 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||M.B. Rajesh is Speaker of 15th Kerala Assembly||M.B. Rajesh, Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] legislator and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate, was elected Speaker of the15th Kerala Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Mr. Rajesh defeated United Democratic Front (UDF)’s P.C. Vishnunath. Pro-tem Speaker P.T.A. Rahim, who was in the Chair and conducted the proceedings, informed the House that Mr. Rajesh bagged 96 votes and Mr. Vishnunath 40 votes. Later, the new Speaker was escorted to the Chair by Leader of the House and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan to assume charge. Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Satheesan and leaders of political parties offered felicitation to the new Speaker. Felicitating the Speaker, Mr. Vijayan said “let the new Speaker be able to protect the rights of the members of the House and to fulfil the responsibility of the government.” Mr. Satheesan extended the Speaker all support from the Opposition. In his reply, the Speaker said he would accord complete freedom to all members to raise pertinent issues affecting the people without discrimination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mb-rajesh-is-speaker-of-15th-kerala-assembly/article34645671.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP reaches out to homeless persons||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) frontal organisations reached out to homeless persons, and workers rendered jobless due to the pandemic by providing them food at SVR Ruia hospital on Tuesday. The youth and student wing members, led by Telugu Yuvatha (Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge) A. Ravi Naidu, distributed food packets to around 300 persons. “Taking a call from our General Secretary Nara Lokesh, we have personally cooked the food, packed them and distributed to the needy,” he said. It may be recalled that the party had given a call to provide food and other essential items to those reeling under the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-reaches-out-to-homeless-persons/article34646268.ece
26 May 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retrospective study begins||With the herbal preparation made by B. Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam in Nellore district for coronavirus patients triggering a controversy, Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic College (SVAC) authorities has undertaken a retrospective study on its efficacy in tune with the formalities. The study is being conducted under the supervision of SVAC Principal P. Muralikrishna and Regional Ayurvedic Research Institute (RARI), Vijayawada Assistant Director C. Muralikrishna, who will submit the findings to the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), an autonomous body functioning under the Union Ministry of AYUSH. Sample size As the herbal preparation has already been administered to many people, the retrospective study is being done, taking 500 such persons as the ‘sample size’. The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 mandates that any medicinal product or formula prepared by an individual or group should have been prescribed in the 56 books incorporated in the Act. In the case of the herbal preparation, the ingredients used are reportedly found to be harmless. However, only a study can unravel its effect, if any, on the vital organs. The ‘toxic study’ is expected to be conducted by the CCRAS. According to the Health Department, Mr. Anandaiah is not even a registered medical practitioner (RMP). The officials caution that Mr. Anandaiah could attract punishment under the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954, if he claims it to be a drug for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retrospective-study-begins/article34646282.ece
26 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accused in the guise of alms seeker arrested||A most wanted economic offender, reportedly moving in the guise of an alms seeker on the Alipiri footpath leading to Tirumala hills, was arrested by the Karimnagar police here on Tuesday. The man, identified as Srinivas, was reportedly wanted by the Telangana police in 40 cases of financial fraud for the last 15 years. He had taken loans from various banks and allegedly turned defaulter. Since then, he had been roaming in the guise of a beggar, seeking alms from the pilgrims. The accused is also learnt to be an engineer, having graduated from the then Regional Engineering College (REC), Warangal, but turned a defaulter after getting addicted to vices. Acting on a tip-off, the Karimnagar police landed in Tirupati and nabbed the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accused-in-the-guise-of-alms-seeker-arrested/article34646204.ece
26 May 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, two children found dead in quarry||The bodies of a woman and her two children were retrieved from Annaswamy Cheruvu, a water body abutting a quarry in C. Ramapuram dumping yard of Ramachandrapuram mandal, near Tirupati, on Tuesday. Workers engaged under MGNREGA observed the bodies floating in the water body. The victims were identified as Neeraja, her daughter Chaitra (2) and son Chandu (7) of Gudiyanampalle in Penumuru mandal of Chittoor district. Neeraja worked as a nurse at SVIMS Hospital and had resigned recently. Her husband is currently running a poultry farm. After the woman went missing from her house on Sunday along with the children, her husband filed a complaint with the Penumuru police station, who registered a ‘missing’ case. Helpline The police suspect it to be a case of suicide. Neeraja’s two-wheeler was found parked nearby. Relatives attributed the extreme step to reported family disputes. Persons having suicidal tendency can dial 100 for guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-two-children-found-dead-in-quarry/article34646270.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good Samaritans helping people fight COVID gloom||Several people are stepping up in these times of crisis, leading the way with their selfless service and ushering in hope amidst an atmosphere of gloom. A. Lakshmi Annapurna is one such Good Samaritan, who, along with a small team of volunteers, sets out every day to oversee the cooking, packing and delivery of healthy food to the doorsteps of families who have contracted the COVID-19 virus and are in home isolation — free of cost. “I experienced the difficulties of the quarantine in October last year when I tested positive. I felt very weak and cooking food during isolation was a tedious task,” she recalls, informing that she decided that she would help others by initiating a free food delivery service through Margam Foundation, a service organisation she had founded eight years back. Despite the challenging situation in the second wave, Ms. Annapurna, with her eight volunteers in tow, comes out of the safe confines of her home following all safety measures such as wearing double masks, gloves and liberal use of hand sanitisers, and delivers food packets. “Initially, we started operations only in eight areas but with the gradual increase in demand, as people started making use of our publicised helpline number to request for food delivery, we expanded our area of service. We now serve people in 18 different localities,” Ms. Annapurna said. The food is prepared in a centralised kitchen in One Town area and shifted to Mogulrajpuram from where the volunteers take them to different addresses. The initial investment of Rs. 2 lakh from her pocket inspired other like-minded people to contribute money. Based on financial viability, Ms. Prasanna plans to include breakfast and dinner and reach out to a larger number of people in the days to come. To avail the services of Margam Foundation, COVID-hit families in home quarantine may call 909477333. Helping people breathe easy Disturbed by the scramble for oxygen cylinders, members of the Guru Gobind Singh Foundation are giving a new lease of life to persons gasping for breath, by supplying oxygen cylinders free of cost. People can reach out to the organisation by registering on 9393431313. The foundation’s volunteers first ascertain the medical needs of the caller. “We make sure that the whole exercise is carried out under medical supervision and deliver the oxygen cylinder only after acquiring a letter from the doctor concerned,” says Karam Kaur of the foundation. A refundable security deposit of Rs. 30,000 is charged for each cylinder. “This is because in the initial stage, we were giving the cylinders free of cost and some of the cylinders were not returned,” she explains. The foundation is flooded with panic calls. “We are also trying to counsel people affected by the virus and it is working wonders,” says Ms. Kaur. The foundation members have also started getting support from other communities for the cause and are hopeful of expanding their services in the days to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-samaritans-helping-people-fight-covid-gloom/article34645716.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industries Dept. embarks on mission to become ‘world’s best’||The Industries Department has embarked on a major internal restructuring exercise in order to achieve the best outcomes in trade promotion through the proposed ‘YSR AP One’, which will be a single-stop business enablement centre for investors. As a first step in this direction, the department has benchmarked its services with that of India’s top industrialised States such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, and Singapore (a global leader in Ease-of-Doing Business), Vietnam (one of the world’s fastest growing economies), and Israel (considered the start-up nation). This overhauling is undertaken with the guidance of a team of Boston Consulting Group (BCG), which has been roped in to draw up the required strategies. During the recent deliberations with the BCG team, Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy said the government intended to change the scope and way of working of its organisations involved in industrial development, to realise the aforementioned objective. Twenty internal stakeholders of the department, which mainly include the Directorate of Industries (DoI), APIIC, A.P. Industrial Development Corporation, APMSME Development Corporation, A.P. Trade Promotion Corporation, A.P. Industrial Corridor Development Authority, and A.P. Economic Development Board, have been sounded out about the reforms being initiated for effective implementation of the Industrial Policy 2020-23. Best global practices The Minister stressed the need for following the best international practices that catapulted the Industries Departments of Singapore, Vietnam and Israel to top positions, and suggested that the procedures adopted by Maharashtra Industry, Trade and Investment Facilitation Cell, Tamil Nadu’s Industrial Guidance Bureau, and Gujarat’s Industrial Extension Bureau (iNDEXTb) be replicated to the extent possible. The aim is to extend end-to-end support to investors and entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industries-dept-embarks-on-mission-to-become-worlds-best/article34645707.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayurvedic drugs sale soars, courtesy ‘Anandaiah effect’||Queues have just got longer at the Ayurvedic shops near the Government Ayurvedic Hospital on Bandar road here, thanks to ‘Anandaiah effect’, as they prefer to call it. Buyers are said to be keen on ‘Kabasura Kudineer’, a traditional formulation used by Siddha practitioners. The preparation has the ingredients used by Mr. Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam in Nellore district in his herbal preparation for COVID-19 that has become the talk of the State. The demand for Kabasura Kudineer has soared after some videos went viral on social media and the pharmacists have nearly run out of stocks. Sources say a few companies in Tamil Nadu are supplying the medicine. According to P. Srinivas of Sri Sai Dhanvantari Agencies, 200 to 300 people per day have been visiting his shop in the last few days. Normally, they get around 100 buyers a day. “Most of the customers are asking for Kabasura Kudineer and the demand is solely due to Mr. Anandiah,” he says. The preparation supplied by T.N. companies has about 14 ingredients, he adds. Concurring, K. Hari of Sri Lakshmi Prasanna Anjaneya ayurvedic shop says people are looking for a remedy for COVID-19 whether it is Kabasura Kudineer or some other . “Before Anandaiah’s preparation became popular, there were hardly any takers for Kabasura Kudineer nor doctors prescribed it,” he remarks. Passing phase? “This is just a wave and people don’t seem to be keen on switching over to the Ayurvedic system altogether. They are now more inclined to prophylactic treatment. All they want right now is a way to overcome the pandemic. They come to shops looking for drugs suggested on YouTube or WhatsApp. Enquiries are also being made for another medicine, Ayush 64, which is not available here,” says Mr. Hari. The first wave of COVID-19 pushed the sale of Ayurvedic drugs as people were keen on ‘stronger’ immunity. Since then, shops began displaying Chyawanprash prominently. Giloy Ghanvati, juices like amla and giloy-neem-tulsi were a few other things in demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayurvedic-drugs-sale-soars-courtesy-anandaiah-effect/article34646285.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. trying to solve teachers’ problems’||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday assured the representatives of various teachers’ unions that the government would take a considerate view of their problems and solve them at the earliest. Addressing a video-conference with the representatives of various teachers’ unions, he said the government had good intentions of developing the education sector .The union leaders put forth their demands insisting that teachers be identified as frontline warriors, since they had been working at the risk of their health, and immediate steps to rid them of the problems caused by the many apps introduced by the authorities concerned. They said the government should announce ex gratia for the teachers who died of COVID-19 and look into the issues of promotions and transfers. They appreciated the development of infrastructure facilities in schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme and other reforms and said they were in favour of the conduct of 10th class board examinations. The Minister said he had appealed to the Centre to allocate a special vaccine quota for the teaching community. Nadu-Nedu works In another meeting, Mr. Suresh gave them June 20 deadline to complete the works taken up under Nadu-Nedu programme. On Vidya Kanuka, he said the plan was to take up distribution of the kits from June 1 to July 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-trying-to-solve-teachers-problems/article34646283.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second dose of Covaxin available||Health Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said the second dose of Covaxin vaccine will be administered in the State on Wednesday and Thursday for all the beneficiaries. Mr. Singhal said the State received 1.17 lakh doses from the Centre and it was due to receive another 78,000 doses. On Covishield, Mr. Singhal said that stock available with the State would be used to give first dose to new beneficiaries till June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-dose-of-covaxin-available/article34645709.ece
26 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM takes part in Indu Jain’s prayer meet||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy attended a virtual prayer meeting held in memory of Indu Jain, former chairperson of the Times Group, on Tuesday. The Chief Minister expressed his condolences over her death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-takes-part-in-indu-jains-prayer-meet/article34646276.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to hold public hearing by APPCB draws flak||Former Union Secretary E.A.S. Sarma has taken strong objection to the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) for planning to organise a public hearing for Pearl Distilleries at Singarayakonda in Prakasam district on Wednesday. In a letter to Special Chief Secretary Jawahar Reddy, he pointed out that the Prakasam district on Monday has recorded about 750 new COVID cases and three deaths, and holding the public hearing during this period when the pandemic is raging across the State and the country, would deliberately create scope for spreading of the disease. He pointed out that holding the public hearing at this time may also attract penal provisions of Sections 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). If some people lose their lives as a result of this, the senior officers of the APPCB should be held directly liable for the same, he said. V.S. Krishna of Human Rights Forum pointed out that holding a public hearing during a period when partial curfew is in force, is not only undemocratic but also against the very spirit of public hearing. It is learnt that when the APPCB officials were asked about it they had quoted a provision of September 2020, which stated that public hearings with not more than 100 persons could be conducted, as per a directive from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Both Mr. Sarma and Krishna said that senior officials in the government should intervene and stop this undemocratic activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-hold-public-hearing-by-appcb-draws-flak/article34646299.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag district sees 50,780 cases, 244 deaths this month so far||A total of 50,780 COVID-19 cases and 244 deaths were reported this month so far in the Visakhapatnam district. For the first time, the district saw over 50,000 cases in less than a month, since the pandemic broke out in March last year. As many as 2,031 persons, who were undergoing treatment, recovered in the last 24 hours, while 1,840 persons were infected with the virus during the same period, as on Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally stands at 1,30,696. The death toll has also increased to 855 as nine more affected persons succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases stands at 19,150. The number of recoveries increased to 1,10,691 by Tuesday morning. As many as 41,636 persons have recovered from the virus this month so far. Over 14,000 persons have recovered since May 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-sees-50780-cases-244-deaths-this-month-so-far/article34646296.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire breaks out in HPCL Visakh Refinery, no casualty reported||A fire broke out at the crude distillery unit number 3 of the HPCL Visakh Refinery here in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. As per the Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, no casualty or injury to any person was reported as all in the vicinity were evacuated in time. The fire was doused within an hour, he said. As per the initial assessment by the disaster management wing of the HPCL, the fire broke out around 3.10 p.m. when an overhead electrical line caught fire, probably due to overheating, and this might have led to the fire in the distillery unit below, which contained naphtha. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the flames was doused within an hour. A release from HPCL stated that safety measures and fire fighting was activated immediately. Cooling operations are in progress and the exact cause of fire and assessment of material damage will be taken up. The release also stated that there was no casualties and that there was no risk to the public. The other refinery operations are continuing as normal. Seeing the fire, people in the vicinity panicked. Whenever there was an accident in HPCL, a resident of Malkapuram said, people panic after what they saw in 1997 and 2013. Sixty people died owing to a vapour cloud explosion at a storage tankin 1997 and thousands from the neighbouring areas had to be evacuated. In 2013, a cooling tower under construction inside the plant had collapsed after a blast, killing 28 persons. Safety audit sought CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that safety audit must be conducted immediately as a series of major and minor accidents had been reported from the plant since 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-breaks-out-at-crude-distillery-unit-in-vizag/article34645675.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prevent recurrence of accidents: MLA||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao visited the site of the mishap at the HPCL and gathered details from the officials. Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu also visited the site on Tuesday and spoke to the management on the need to initiate measures to prevent the recurrence of such accidents. He also also advised people to remain alert. He said that the fire was brought under control within one hour by personnel of the Fire Services Department. There were no casualties. He said there was no cause for worry. The CPI(M) Greater Viaskha City committee has expressed concern at the fire in the Crude Distillation Unit (CDU-3) of the HPCL on Tuesday. In a statement, city committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded that the Central and the State governments order a full-fledged probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prevent-recurrence-of-accidents-mla/article34646293.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||133 cases booked for violation of COVID norms||The city police have booked as many as 133 cases against persons who were allegedly moving out by violating COVID-19 norms. The police teams also generated as many as 7,201 challans against motorists, allegedly found moving at various public places, commercial establishments, hotels and a few other places. Meanwhile, the police also generated challans against 86 persons for moving out without masks. All these cases were booked in between May 23 (5 p.m.) and May 25 (5 p.m.). Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha requested people not to come out except for emergency and medical purposes during curfew hours and support police to contain spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/133-cases-booked-for-violation-of-covid-norms/article34646294.ece
26 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC supplies oxygen plant to Palasa COVID centre||Based on a request from the Srikakulam District Collector J. Niwas, the Indian Navy provided an ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ plant to Palasa COVID Care Centre on Tuesday. The plant, designed by Naval Dockyard, was formally inaugurated at the Palasa COVID Care Centre by Seediri Appalaraju, Minister of Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development and Fisheries, in the presence of Sub Collector Suraj Ganore and the team from the Eastern Naval Command. 12 patients The plant has been connected with the oxygen pipeline in the centre by a team of specialists from the Naval Dockyard and it provides oxygen round the clock for up to 12 patients. The team has also trained hospital staff in the operation of the plant. ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ is a unique initiative launched by the Naval Dockyard, wherein a PSA Oxygen Plant was integrated on a mobile platform to serve remote hospitals and was formally launched in Visakhapatnam by Vice Admiral AB Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, on May 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-supplies-oxygen-plant-to-palasa-covid-centre/article34646300.ece
26 May 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||990 AU staff vaccinated in a day||As many as 990 staff and employees of Andhra University were administered COVID-19 vaccine in a drive organised at the varsity, here on Tuesday. According to the officials, in the last two days, 1,660 staff and foreign students were vaccinated. Registrar V. Krishna Mohan thanked the State government for the support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/990-au-staff-vaccinated-in-a-day/article34646297.ece
26 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps taken to mitigate cyclone effect: Collector||Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Tuesday said the district administration had taken necessary measures to mitigate the impact of Cyclone Yaas on the coastal areas of the district as it would cross the coast between Bengal and Odisha. He visited Konada village of Pusapatirega mandal and verified the cyclone shelter there. He told the media that more impact was likely to be on Bhogapuram and Pusapatirega mandals. “We anticipate heavy rains in the next couple of days in all the places. People should take necessary precautions to stay safe. We have taken steps to overcome disruption to electricity and oxygen supply in all COVID-19 hospitals due to adverse climatic conditions,” Mr. Hari Jawaharlal said. The district administration has also set up control rooms in Vizianagaram (08922-236947) and Parvatipuram (08963-222236) to monitor the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-taken-to-mitigate-cyclone-effect-collector/article34646281.ece
26 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Metrology teams raid errant traders||The Legal Metrology department cracked down on errant traders in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts after receiving a series of complaints from customers and farmers. Deputy Controller N. Janardana Rao, Assistant Controller S.M. Radhakrishna and senior officials conducted inspections . Underweighing, short measurement, sale of commodities at prices more than MRP, and other frauds came to light during the inspections conducted for the last one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/metrology-teams-raid-errant-traders/article34646290.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cracking the whip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cracking-the-whip/article34646302.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tireless fighters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tireless-fighters/article34645718.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-wait/article34646272.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/throwing-caution-to-the-wind/article34646288.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A team driven by a commitment to address emergency||Forty-eight-year-old R.N. Rao is an old railway war horse, starting as an assistant loco-pilot, becoming loco-pilot, moving onto Express Trains and now Loco-Inspector supervising operations. But, even he did not imagine marshalling trains running with empty trucks and later containers, and returning them filled with Oxygen, practically non-stop, to meet up with the heavy demand in view of the second COVID pandemic wave. “We are aware of the dire necessity of Oxygen during these tough times. With advance planning, coordinated team work with other departments like operations, signalling and others, plus monitoring at the highest levels, we are able to provide succour to the needy patients,” he says. Mr. Rao is among the hundreds of unknown railway soldiers carefully chosen by the South Central Railway (SCR) to run Oxygen Expresses sourced by the Telangana government to replenish the life giving gas in hospitals. While the first five tanker express began journey on April 28 from Secunderabad Cantonment military sliding station and returned loaded from Angul (Odisha) on May 1. So far, 15 such trains have delivered Oxygen to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “Nine trains brought 775 Metric Tonnes to Telangana and six 336 MTs to A.P. from Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat and Jharkhand so far. We run them with highest sense of urgency putting them even in front of other express trains to ensure Oxygen reaches in fastest possible time,” says General Manager Gajanan Mallya. Chips in Chief Public Relations Officer Ch. Rakesh: “These are run like special military operations trains. Air is removed from tyres for trucks, wheels and brakes locked. They are fastened with cables to the wagon, cushioned with wooden planks. Container trains can be run faster and green channel means choosing routes without steep gradients even if it is longer.” The crew is motivated enough for the job. “Usually, we take up to 30 minutes for crew change and for minor repairs but nothing is being left to chance with less than five minutes for the new personnel to take over and locomotive on the standby at different locations,” explains 45-year-old U. Satyanarayana, among the chosen loco-pilots. At times, both electric and diesel locos are being used to run the trains, just in case there is an power issue. Inspectors like Mr. Rao are also travelling in cabins to keep the communication links open with different sections allowing the loco-pilot to focus on running the train and look out for signals. “We picked up experienced loco-pilots who can handle pressure, high speeds (65-100 kmph) and take care of minor glitches in the engine,” he explains. Ravi Singh, an ex-serviceman turned guard has a different experience. “Usually, I am alone in my cabin but since Oxygen Express is crucial and needs careful handling during transit, I have an escort crew travelling with me,” adds the 42-year-old. “We are not doctors, but we are proud of having played a role in providing the critical oxygen supply,” affirm the COVID rail warriors.  Widespread service Oxygen Express relief reaches out to 13 states — Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Oxygen is picked from Hapa and Mundra in the west and Rourkela, Durgapur, Tatanagar, Angul in the east.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-team-driven-by-a-commitment-to-address-emergency/article34646192.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tough financial outlook in June||The State is heading towards tough times in June in terms of finances as it has several key promises to fulfil. For uninterrupted implementation of ‘Rythu Bandhu’, farmers’ investment subsidy scheme, the government has to meet the next instalment ahead of the kharif season commencing around the second week when it is expected to credit Rs. 5,000 an acre into the accounts of around 60 lakh farmers amounting to Rs. 7,400 crore. Expenditure on account of another major head, implementation of revised pay scales to all government staff effective April, is also due entailing an additional expenditure of close to Rs. 1,000 crore a month. Employees are anxiously awaiting the formal orders over the implementation of the new pay scales which are yet to be issued so far. The two heads are in addition to the regular expenditure for a spree of welfare and developmental programmes operational in the State. Amid the continuing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the night curfew followed by lockdown with partial relaxation since May 12 have taken their toll on VAT collections on petrol and diesel, property registrations and other key segments. The Finance department is anticipating a decline in revenues to be between 20 % and 25 % for the first two months of the fiscal year even as uncertainty prevails on whether the lockdown would be relaxed from May 30 or extended. The Finance department is learnt to have working very hard to cope up with the situation for meeting the requirements. The Government’s decision to opt for open market borrowings to the tune of Rs. 8,000 crore for the first quarter is expected to give some respite from the situation, but it would not be entirely sufficient to meet the requirement of funds. The government had so far mobilized Rs. 5,500 crore as open market borrowings from the RBI, including Rs. 2,000 crore during the auction conducted last Tuesday, and it had option left for another Rs. 2,500 crore. Officials of the Finance department remained tight lipped when they were asked about the tight fiscal condition and options that the government proposed to leverage to overcome the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tough-financial-outlook-in-june/article34646214.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Positioning of seed, other inputs stepped up: Minister||With the kharif (vanakalam) agriculture season approaching fast, the State government has stepped up positioning of seed, fertilizer and other inputs in districts for estimated cultivation in about 1.4 crore acres. The estimated requirement of seed for cultivation in 1.4 crore acres was 13.06 lakh quintals but the availability was about 18.29 lakh quintals since the State was home for many seed companies. The preparations for the season were discussed at a meeting by Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy with departmental officials including Secretary M. Raghunandan Rao, Managing Director of Telangana State Seed Development Corporation K. Keshavulu and others on Tuesday. The Minister reiterated appeal to the farming community to take up crops having good demand in the market such as cotton, red gram and others. He stated that cotton was likely to be raised in 70.05 lakh acres followed by paddy in 41 lakh acres and red gram in 20 lakh acres. Of the 1.4 lakh cotton seed packets (450 grams each) required for this season, 59.32 lakh packets were already positioned in districts. The Minister also stated that the government was not supplying soyabean seed due to non-availability of quality seed on account of excessive and untimely rains in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh during the last kharif season. The seed was mostly sourced from these two States. He suggested that the farmers either grow alternative crops to soyabean or be extra careful while purchasing seed from private dealers. Asking the field level officials to educate farmers from now on against taking up paddy cultivation on a large scale during the next rabi (yasangi) and instead going for crops such as groundnut, sesamum, mustard and others having good demand in the edible oil market. To encourage cultivation of pulses, particularly redgram, the government had also decided to supply two kg of redgram seed per acre for growing it as an inter-crop with cotton and others. He also suggested that farmers not purchase seed, fertilizer and pesticide from unlicensed dealers and also insist on proper receipt for every purchase so that it could be helpful in getting compensation in case the seed proves to be spurious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/positioning-of-seed-other-inputs-stepped-up-minister/article34646206.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Take over private hospitals to treat COVID patients: MP||Congress leader and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition in Telangana High Court seeking a direction to State government to take over all private hospitals for treating poor people for COVID-19. The MP had filed the plea by moving a House Motion. He also wanted the government to bear cost of the medical treatment of all poor persons who got admitted in private hospital affected by Coronavirus due to non-availability of oxygen and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in government hospitals. Mr. Reddy stated in his petition that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao on May 16 announced that 6,926 beds were available in government hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients.The CM’s announcement got widely publicised through print and electronic media. Trusting the Chief Minister’s s words, several poor people affected by Coronavirus went to government hospitals only to be rejected admission by the staff claiming that no beds were available. The MP claimed that even he tried to secure admission for some poor persons in government hospitals. The heads of the hospitals expressed their helplessness to admit patients citing lack of beds. This was resulting in death of many persons inflicted by the virus, the MP maintained. Mr. Reddy stated that he tried to meet the Chief Minister after the latter’s announcement made on May 16 to bring to his notice the ground reality. The Chief Minister was not available in his office and no appointment was given, Mr. Reddy stated. Even the Principal Secretary of Health was not available, the petitioner added. In the backdrop of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra States passing ordinances to take over private hospitals during the pandemic, the Telangana State should follow the suit, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-over-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-patients-mp/article34646209.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Will Eatala get into ‘protective’ cover of BJP?||With the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government going after former minister for Health Eatala Rajendra in land cases, the Bharatiya Janata Party has begun moves to lure him into its fold on Tuesday. While party president and Karimnagar Member of Parliament Bandi Sanjay Kumar is believed to have met the former minister and invited him to join the party, the political heat increased with reports of Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy too air dashing to Hyderabad along with a senior party functionary from New Delhi in a special plane to to meet Mr. Rajender. In an informal chat with the media persons later in the day, the Minister denied meeting the senior TRS leader but admitted that efforts were on to get them together for a meeting. He and Mr. Rajender have known each other for at least 15 years and there is nothing wrong in their meeting but it does not mean the latter was joining the BJP, Mr. Reddy asserted! “We have not decided when to meet but he informed me that he was meeting several political leaders and we would be meeting him too in the same manner,” maintained the senior BJP leader. Top BJP sources, however, say the invitation to join the party has been extended to Mr. Rajender in the light of relentless pressure from the Telangana government in the form of inquiries into alleged land grabbing. “We are hopeful of repeating the Dubbak byelection win if he decides to resign and contest a byelection as our candidate but we gather he is weighing all options,” they claimed. The saffron party is of the opinion that Mr. Eatala Rajender has a sizeable following in and around his constituency and his influence as a backward class leader could bring in s lot of momentum before the next elections are conducted. If that happens, it will be big swing from the extreme left of politics to the extreme right for the former minister who was a PDSU activist in his student days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-eatala-get-into-protective-cover-of-bjp/article34646212.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily COVID positivity rate down to 4.7% in Telangana||The daily COVID-19 positivity rate has come down further to 4.7% on Tuesday in spite of the tests going up by about 21,000. A total of 3,821 new cases and 23 deaths were reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday, taking their cumulative total to 5,60,141 and 3,169, respectively. More tests Following directions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to scale up daily tests for screening COVID cases and to continue fever survey, the samples tested on Tuesday went up to 81,203 on Tuesday from 59,709 on Monday. Of the tests done on Tuesday, 66,203, mostly rapid antigen tests, were done in government facilities and 15,000 in private facilities, mostly RT-PCR tests. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department on the status of COVID cases in the State, 4,298 infected persons were declared recovered on Tuesday taking their cumulative total to 5,18,266 so far. The active cases were 38,706 as of Tuesday evening, with a majority of them in home or institutional isolation. The public health department website on the availability of hospital beds for COVID treatment indicated that a total of 31,657 out of 55,120 beds were vacant, including 4,665 ICU/ventilator beds, 9,818 oxygen beds and 17,174 general beds as of Tuesday evening. Based on the active cases in a locality, there were 68 active micro containment zones as of Tuesday, including a highest of 19 in Warangal Rural district followed by 10 in Siddipet and seven each in Hyderabad, Warangal Urban and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-positivity-rate-down-to-47-in-telangana/article34646179.ece
26 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Reaching out to patients in backward areas||As the coronavirus pandemic engulfs rural areas and the poor medical infrastructure unable to support the affected, a few social workers and NRIs are doing their bit to mitigate the problems. The old Mahabubnagar district, one of the most backward with poor medical infrastructure is seeing facilities created by individuals. Makthal, one of the most backward areas within old Mahabubanagar and now in Narayanpet district, has benefited with a 20-bed COVID facility created by Varkatam Jagannath Reddy through his VJR Prajasena Foundation along with government support. Mr. Reddy, who is active in Telangana Rashtra Samiti, said the COVID facility at the Government Hospital, Makhtal, was created through his trust. While the government has arranged the beds, he has already donated two oxygen concentrators and medical monitors apart from medicines worth a couple of lakhs of rupees. He handed over the medical equipment to District Medical Officer Jaya Chandramohan in presence of the doctors. “Poor people from rural areas have little access to medical facilities and the expensive treatment in private hospitals has closed options for them. COVID-affected patients now don’t need to run to cities as they can have oxygen facility in Makthal itself,” he said, adding, “Additional support will be created as the demand increases”. Well-known entrepreneur in the USA, Tippireddy Ramchandra Reddy, who hails Nandi Vaddenam village (now in Nagarkurnool district) has also chipped in with Rs. 15 lakh to strengthen medical support in the district. Kakkireddy Ramchandra Reddy, who is active with the Palamuru NRI Forum here and employed in TSRTC, said several NRIs are contributing in these distressed times. He said a US-returned entrepreneur and businessman, Bharat Edma has given medical equipment worth Rs. 10 lakh, and this would be distributed in all the government hospitals in the district. “All that was needed was one phone call to Mahabubnagar MP M.S.N. Reddy. He donated Rs. 25 lakh to reach out to COVID patients in the district,” Mr. Ramchandra Reddy explained.  COVID-affected patients now don’t need to run to cities as they can have oxygen facility in Makthal itself. V. Jagannath Reddy, Social activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reaching-out-to-patients-in-backward-areas/article34646186.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special drive to vaccinate super spreaders of virus||The State government has identified LPG delivery staff, fair price shop dealers, petrol pump workers, auto and cab drivers and some other categories of workers as super spreaders for the purpose of vaccinating them for COVID in a special drive. Vendors in Rythu Bazars, fruit, vegetable and flower markets, kirana stores, persons working in liquor shops, non-vegetarian markets will also be covered under the special drive. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting convened by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao with senior officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Tuesday. The meeting deliberated about the issues relating to identification of super spreaders and logistics required to vaccinate them. Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi, Director of Public Health G. Srinivas Rao, GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar, and Transport Commissioner M.R.M. Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-drive-to-vaccinate-super-spreaders-of-virus/article34646213.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI to help detect bollworm threat in six districts||In a bid to empower farmers with advance information about the possible pink bollworm infestation in cotton fields so that they could take preventive and control measures, Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) has signed a memorandum of understanding with Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Learning, Mumbai, for providing AI-based interventions. As part of the agreement, the AI-based pest/insect management system developed by the Wadhwani Institute would identify the possibility of pink bollworm and other insect/pest infestation on cotton in advance and share the information to farmers in the areas identified for the programme so that farmers could take control measures early. According to the university officials, the AI-based pest management system would be implemented for the benefit of cotton farmers in Khammam, Adilabad, Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Mahabubnagar and Nagarkurnool districts. Cotton was grown on nearly 20.88 lakh acres in these districts during the last kharif season out of 60.54 lakh acres cultivated in the State. This year, it is expected to go up further. The Agriculture Department, Krishi Vignan Kedras of the agriculture university, Information Technology department and Wadhwani Institute would participate in the project. The agreement was signed virtually in the presence of Principal Secretary (IT) Jayesh Ranjan, Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao and university Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao and representatives of Wadhwani Institute. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Praveen Rao said although mechanisation had reduced dependency on manual labour, in paddy cultivation it was still high for cotton as it has to be picked from the plants at least three times. Mr. Ranjan said convergence of IT and agriculture had been giving good results over the past two years. The university also signed agreements with Barrisons Agro India P. Ltd and Evergree Energy Enterprises P. Ltd for working together in areas such as soil testing, agriculture inputs, market linkage, use of drones and others. Emerging Technologies wing director Rama Devi, Raghu (Wadhwani Group), P. Prasad and University Registrar S. Sudheer Kumar participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ai-to-help-detect-bollworm-threat-in-six-districts/article34646178.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC enables free ambulances for the dead||Municipal Administration and Urban Development Secretary Arvind Kumar on Monday announced that GHMC will be providing free ambulance services for the deceased either from home or from hospital to the crematoria or graveyards. Following are the contact numbers of the officials responsible for providing the ambulances. L.B. Nagar zone - Sri Kumar, Superintendent, phone: 910001941/N. Venkatesh DCTO phone: 9701365515; Charminar zone - Joint Commissioner D.D. Naik, phone: 9440585704/Admn Officer S. Bal Reddy, phone: 9849907742; Khairatabad zone - Asst. Engineer Rakesh, phone: 7995009080; Kukatpally zone: Asst. Medical Officer of Health, phone Dr. S. Chandrasekhar Reddy, phone: 7993360308. Serlingampally zone - Joint Commissioner Malla Reddy, phone: 6309529286; M. Ramesh Kumar, phone: 9989930253; Secunderabad zone - Asst. Medical Officer of Health, Dr. Ravinder Goud, phone: 7993360302; DTCO Shanker phone: 9100091948. Control Room, phone - 9154795942. Earlier in the day, Mr. Kumar had visited a few graveyards to check for himself the various facilities and the current conditions. He was satisfied with the arrangements made, a press release said. The municipal corporation has also put up notice boards at these places indicating the rate cards for the cremations — Rs. 6,000 for normal body and Rs. 7,000 for COVID body in some parts; it is Rs. 8,000 for cremation using firewood and Rs. 4,000 for using an electric crematorium. For more details, GHMC control room - 2111111 can be called..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-enables-free-ambulances-for-the-dead/article34646195.ece
26 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New course in Disaster Resilience||The School of Architecture at World University of Design has designed a specialised one-year Post Graduate Diploma in ‘Disaster Resilient Planning & Design’ aimed at specifically developing skills and knowledge to critically analyse and apply key concepts in disaster management theory, research, policy, and practice, such as vulnerability, resilience, governance, disaster risk reduction and sustainable development. The course designed keeping in view of the challenges posed by COVID-19 will give the students an opportunity to attain knowledge from an interdisciplinary team of professionals, drawing on ideas and methods in design, construction, geography, history, politics, development studies and arts. Details onhttps://worlduniversityofdesign.ac.in, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-course-in-disaster-resilience/article34646193.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Community isolation centre for COVID-19 patients opened||Natco Trust, in collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and GHMC, has set up a 40-bed Community Isolation Centre at Natco Government School in Site-3, Borabanda, for COVID-19 patients. Equipped with 24/7 medical care support, it has separate wards for male and female patients. Nutritious meals are arranged at the facility. For details, call helpline 72073-22967, a CII release said. Inaugurating the facility, Jubillee Hills MLA Maganti Gopinath and Borabanda Corporator Baba Fasiuddin appreciated Natco Trust and CII efforts for the needy people. A surge in COVID-19 cases has necessitated need for such community isolation centres. GHMC is coming up with many such facilities across the city, they said. CII has been proactively engaging to catalyse the private sector and industry initiative to complement and supplement the government in combating the second wave of COVID-19. CII Telangana Director Subhajit Saha and Head-CSR of Natco Trust Rambabu participated in the programme, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/community-isolation-centre-for-covid-19-patients-opened/article34646194.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Issue notification for recruitment: Krishnaiah||President of National Backward Classes Welfare Association R. Krishnaiah has requested the government to take up filling of vacancies in all departments since appointment of members and Chairman of the Public Service Commission and appointment of vice-chancellors to all universities has been completed. In separate letters addressed to the Telangana State Public Service Commission C and vice-chancellors on Tuesday, Mr. Krishnaiah said the educated youth in the State were highly dejected and disappointed due to lack of recruitment notifications for long and further delay in taking up the recruitment process would push them into further depression. Group-I posts He mentioned that several youth had ended their life so far due to lack of employment opportunities. Explaining that notification for Group-I posts was not issued for the last 10 years and for Group-II posts for the last 5 years, Mr. Krishnaiah said filling of clerical-level posts was long forgotten in the State although 23 new districts, 131 new mandals, 74 new municipalities, 7 new municipal corporations, a large number of gram panchayats, several police stations were formed for ease of administration but no person was recruited. “Every office in the State sports some empty chairs due to vacancies, while 24 lakh educated youth are waiting for jobs,” Mr. Krishnaiah said. Besides, over 45,000 teacher posts were also vacant in government including local bodies’, residential schools and colleges, aided, model and Kasturba schools. Similarly, about 70% teaching posts, about 20,000 were vacant in universities and needed recruitment for imparting quality education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/issue-notification-for-recruitment-krishnaiah/article34646207.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS nod for vaccination of bank staff at workplace||Telangana government has permitted all banks and financial institutions, including the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and NABARD, to vaccinate the employees as well as their family members by engaging private hospitals. The approval follows a request from the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) and the RBI for vaccination of their staff and family members, aged above 18 years. The Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, while conveying the go-ahead, said in doing so, the hospitals and the banking institutions should ensure that all vaccinations happen by registering in COWIN portal. The banks and financial institutions have also been allowed to facilitate the inoculation at the workplace “by following workplace vaccination procedure.” Separately, the State government has issued orders permitting vaccination of those above 18 years, through the designated private hospitals as well as private vaccination centres, at workplaces on request from the employer-institutions. The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions representing bank employees and officers, have been highlighting the need for vaccination of the bank workforce. It has been demanding this amid hundreds of bank employees contracting the infection and some also succumbing to the virus, in recent months. The Centre’s Department of Financial Services had already advised the State governments to accord priority in vaccination to the workforce of banks. As preventive measures, against the spread of the virus, banks in Telangana had already switched over to a four hour work public timings for banks, from 8 a.m. to 12 noon. The banks are also allowed to operate with 50% employees on a rotational basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-nod-for-vaccination-of-bank-staff-at-workplace/article34646210.ece
26 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown no bar for wedding revelries||An event related to wedding revelries of high-profile families created a flutter on social media after videos surfaced, which purportedly showed police engaged in security arrangements. A politician — Amjed Ullah Khan from Majlis Bachao Tahreek — was one of the first to tweet video clips of the event, and claimed it took place on Monday night on a premises in the Chandulal Baradari neighbourhood, which comes under the Kamatipura Police Station limits. He said several persons of note attended the wedding and also wondered whether action will be take in this case. Within a few hours, similar video clips were shared widely on WhatsApp, even as social media users began to express concern and outrage over the issue. When contacted, Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar told The Hindu that no complaint in this connection was received. “There are several posts on social media. Who has come forward with a complaint? Where has this incident taken place? Some of these social media users act in an irresponsible way,” he said, adding that thus far no suo motu action has been taken by the police.  Who has come forward with a complaint? Where has this incident taken place? Some social media users act in an irresponsible wayAnjani Kumar,Hyderabad Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-no-bar-for-wedding-revelries/article34646201.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman arrested for cyber stalking||A woman was arrested for allegedly cyber stalking, claiming to be in an extramarital relationship with a man and trying to extort money to stop the alleged harassment. Police identified the accused as Alluri Neha (33), a private employee and resident of Bandlaguda. According to the police, the accused befriended the man, who at that time claimed to be unmarried, at a gym in Nagole. She allegedly began to level allegations against him after coming to know that he was married, and even registered a false case against him at the L B Nagar police station. Police said that the accused gathered information pertaining to his family, including their phone numbers, and social media accounts. She later began to allegedly harass them by sending abusive messages. The accused was apprehended based on technical evidence. Case booked The cyber crime police booked a case against two persons for allegedly casting aspersions on the Telangana police. The accused have been identified as Jeevan and Bharat Raj. The accused allegedly posted content originating from another State and tried to pass it off as that of Telangana police. Police are now tracking down the accused. Man arrested The Rajendranagar police on Tuesday apprehended a man Amer Baig for allegedly obstructing police personnel from discharging their duties, and also for violating lockdown rules. The other is a juvenile in conflict with law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-arrested-for-cyber-stalking/article34646202.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Entrepreneurs invited to join fight against pandemic||Atal Incubation Centre (AIC)-CCMB has invited entrepreneurs and innovators with promising technologies to join its ‘Covid-19 Technology Deployment (CoviTeD) 16-week ‘Acceleration Program’. A CSR initiative of Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited, the course is aimed at providing high impact mentoring, financial, regulatory and marketing support to take these products and technologies to market. The applicant must be a startup/company registered in India, with at least 51% Indian shareholding, and with a competent team in place, preferably with a domain expertise. Association with the incubator (resident or virtual mode) would be preferred. Individual innovators with promising technologies can be supported. Big awards Winner will get seed fund/ award of Rs. 15 lakh while the runner-up will get seed fund/ award of Rs. 10 lakh. The last date for application (https://profile.t hecapitalnet.com/public/ application/inc/60991a3542716850 350dd8b5@AIC_CCMB/) is May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entrepreneurs-invited-to-join-fight-against-pandemic/article34646176.ece
26 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State’s oxygen capacity to go up||Oxygen production capacity of the State will go up by 40 metric tonnes in a couple of days thanks to the revival of a defunct plant at Pashamylaram industrial estate in Sangareddy district. Following the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for taking steps to make the State self-sufficient in medical oxygen production, the government took steps to identify defunct oxygen units and revive them. As part of the augmentation process, the abandoned unit had been handed over to Greenco which made it functional in a record one month with coordination and technical support given by the TSIIC. The unit would add 40 MT to the State’s existing capacity. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar inspected the revival works on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-oxygen-capacity-to-go-up/article34646215.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Award for AIG Hospitals chairman||The American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) has conferred the Rudolf V Schindler Award on D. Nageshwar Reddy, chairman of AIG Hospitals, Hyderabad, for his contributions to the field of endoscopy. The award was presented during Crystal awards ceremony held virtually on Sunday night. Expressing gratitude to his family members, colleagues and staff at the AIG Hospitals for their support, Dr Reddy said, “With this honour, I rededicate myself to the education and promotion of quality endoscopy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/award-for-aig-hospitals-chairman/article34646175.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MSN initiating Phase-3 trial of Molnupiravir||Drugmaker MSN Laboratories on Tuesday said it is initiating Phase-3 clinical trial of Molnupiravir capsules for the treatment of COVID-19. Over 2,400 subjects, with mild to moderate COVID-19 infection, will be part of the trials that are to be conducted at 40 sites across the country. The first dosing is expected to begin soon, a release from the company said. The announcement follows the Drugs Controller General of India on May 19 according approval to the company for conducting the trial. An experimental drug with anti-viral properties, Molnupiravir is currently under clinical stage study for COVID treatment, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/msn-initiating-phase-3-trial-of-molnupiravir/article34646184.ece
26 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||from philanthropists||The Karimnagar-based philanthropists have donated 10 oxygen concentrators to Collector K Shashanka for the use of the same in the government hospitals. Philanthropists and industrialists Bhagwandas Karwa, Krishna Karwa and Karthik Karwa handed over 10 oxygen concentrators’ worth over Rs. 7 lakh sourced from China to the Collector at his camp office in Karimnagar town on Tuesday. They donated in memory of industrialist and social worker Kesarimal Karwa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/from-philanthropists/article34646216.ece
26 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eight ambulances for Sangareddy: Jayaprakash Reddy||After donating three ambulances to Gandhi Bhavan, Sangareddy MLA, T. Jayaprakash Reddy has decided to donate eight ambulances for his constituency. Speaking to reporters along with his daughter Jaya Reddy here, He said these ambulances would be placed at four mandal headquarters and two municipalities for freely ferrying COVID patients. A toll number would be provided and people can call up from any village to avail the services the free of cost. Ms Jaya Reddy said the ambulances were part of the initiatives taken on a call given by the AICC president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-ambulances-for-sangareddy-jayaprakash-reddy/article34646218.ece
26 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Chilli yard reopened||The Telangana’s second biggest chilli market yard at the Agriculture Market in the town has attained a red hue with the arrival of a whopping 60,000 bags of red chilli from far and wide on the first day of the reopening of the market yard after a gap of nearly 25 days on Monday. About 24,000 quintals of red chilli of the famed “Teja” variety was procured from farmers in the price range of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 13,000 per quintal, much below the last year’s average price that hovered between Rs. 16,500- Rs. 17,000 per quintal, sources said. Agriculture market officials rescheduled the operation of chilli market yard by allowing trading every alternate day to avoid congestion at the yard in view of the COVID-19 lockdown in force. Khammam district is the largest producer of chilli in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chilli-yard-reopened/article34646220.ece
26 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Food distribution for the needy||Corona pandemic is turning life upside down for many. Many people can be seen waiting outside the hospitals awaiting the discharge of their relatives undergoing treatment at the hospitals. Their problems have got doubled with the imposition of lockdown by the government as they are not in a position to go anywhere to get food or water. In a move to offer relief to the patients and their relatives District Principal and Sessions Judge and Chairman of District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) B. Papi Reddy has started free food distribution for the needy at the Government Hospital located at the district headquarters. This was formally inaugurated by Mr. Papi Reddy and DSP A. Balaji. This will continue till the lockdown is ended by the government. The plan is to be able to supply food for about 100 people per day with food packets and one water bottle. Brahama Kumaris, having a branch at the district headquarters town, have been preparing food and distributing it the needy families. The volunteers of Brahma Kumaris are cooking food on their premises and preparing food packets and handing over them to about 550 families every day with the help of municipal staff. At Jogipet government hospital a local leader M Bhiskhapati has taken up this job for the past few days. He proposes to continue the programme for about two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/food-distribution-for-the-needy/article34646188.ece
26 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||MLA takes part in fever survey||Creating an awareness among the public over the survey on fever, Andol MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran visited every house and conducted fever survey in Pothulaboguda village in Watpally on Tuesday. Along with local officials the MLA visited each house tested, fever of every one with digital thermometer and got it noted in the register along with phone numbers of those who got symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-takes-part-in-fever-survey/article34646219.ece
26 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Villages under Mallannasagar feel the pressure||The oustees in the villages coming under Mallannasagar project were already on tenterhooks since the past several months, with several villages getting vacated and their houses getting demolished. The remaining oustees are spending anxious moments, witnessing their villages turning desolate over the months. In some villages like Vemulaghat and Etigaddakishtapur, there are still people living there, but the officials have made their lives miserable despite court directions. The approach roads are almost closed with their level rising in tune with the bund level. No public transport “There are about 300 families in Etigaddakishtapur village who are still fighting their cases in the court and hoping to get justice. As per court directions the government has to maintain status quo and should not disturb any infrastructure facilities in the villages. Transport facility to our villages was already stopped and it is becoming difficult even to move on two-wheelers. Only one person can travel on a bike with utmost difficulty and if it is a four-wheeler, it needs to be hauled by a tractor or a heavy puller,” said S. Ashok of Etigaddakishtapur. “The High Court in its recent order quoted that N.S. Arjun Kumar, advocate states that despite the order dated 30.04.2021, passed by the full bench of this court in suo motu Writ Petition Urgent No. 3 of 2021 directing the State government or any of its departments or any municipal corporation/ council/ board or any gram panchayat or other local body or any other agency and instrumentality of the State government shall not take any action for eviction and/or demolition in respect of any property except in respect of property required for offering medical medical services/facilities over which any citizen or person or party or anybody corporate has physical or symbolic possession as on today, till June 30th, 2021. The State government has recently dislodged persons from their homes in the course of executing Mallannasagar. Demolishing roads is nothing but bringing more pressure on oustees. This is highly objectionable,” Hayatuddin, one of the oustees from Vemulaghat told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/villages-under-mallannasagar-feel-the-pressure/article34646199.ece
26 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Doctors’ prescription: take rest, eat well and watch out for fatigue||Even weeks after complete recovery, COVID-19 patients can experience new or recurring mild symptoms ranging from general fatigue, body ache, headache, joint pains, cough, depression, anxiety and difficulty in thinking or concentrating to severe breathlessness, chest pain and painful swelling of the limbs. However, doctors warn that there can also be serious complications that can lead to re-admission even after full recovery. It includes lung fibrosis, delayed thromboembolic events (formation of clots in blood vessels) and bacterial and fungal infections. Mohit Mathur, Principal Consultant of Critical Care in Max Hospital, Gurugram, said that most commonly they were seeing cases of lung fibrosis, which was likely to occur in those who had spent long time in Intensive Care Units on mechanical ventilator support. “We are also witnessing cases of delayed thromboembolic events between three to six weeks of illness as COVID-19. This is being clinically manifested as sudden strokes. Apart from these two serious post-COVID symptoms, we also need to look out for secondary infections — bacterial and fungal,” said Dr. Mathur. Heart attack risk Amit Bhushan Sharma, Unit Head and Associate Director, Cardiology, Paras Hospitals, said that even those who didn’t have any pro-cardiac issues could develop heart complications after recovering from COVID-19. “So it may not be related to pre-existence of any cardiac problem. This can be a new phenomenon. Since the rhythm of the heart is destroyed, there is a high risk of a heart attack. This can happen while being infected and also after COVID-19 recovery,” said Dr. Sharma. Amitabh Malik, Chief, ENT Department, Paras Hospitals, said that black fungus, also known as mucormycosis, was affecting the lives in a far more serious way than the pandemic and the hospital was getting around 20-30 such cases in a week in COVID-recovered patients. “Any patient, who had COVID in last 10-20 days, should keep a watch on any left or right side facial pain, excruciating headache, swelling in and around the eyes and brownish or blackish nasal discharge. Such patients should approach an ENT specialist,” said Dr. Malik. Bela Sharma, Additional Director of Internal Medicine in Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram said black fungus mainly occurred in patients, who were diabetic with poor sugar control, on steroids for COVID and oxygen support. Haryana government has also declared black fungus as a notified disease. “The patients who are well and at home after COVID and particularly those who required hospital admission for the disease must continue to take rest with good diet and hydration for some more time. They must not rush back to the same level of physical activity as earlier but take it up in a gradual manner,” suggested Reshma Tewari, Director of Critical Care in Artemis Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-prescription-take-rest-eat-well-and-watch-out-for-fatigue/article34646156.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sushil taken to stadium to recreate crime scene||The police on Tuesday took Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar to the Chhatrasal Stadium to recreate the crime scene in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of a wrestler, said officials. Kumar and his accomplice, Ajay, were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi’s Mundka in connection with the case. “A team of Crime Branch officials went to the Chhatrasal Stadium in connection with the probe. Kumar was also taken to the spot to recreate the scene of crime and ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded on the day of the incident,” a senior officer said. He was also taken to a flat in Model Town and Shalimar Bagh, an official said. A crime team collected fingerprints from cars recovered from the stadium. The police said one of the cars used during the crime was stolen from Rohini while the other three were found registered in the name of Gurugram-based company, which was not found at the mentioned address. Kumar was interrogated for almost four hours on Monday during which he was asked to ascertain the sequence of events that led to the crime. “He was also questioned about his accomplices and friends who helped him to hide,” the officer had said. A 23-year-old wrestler died and two of his friends injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the Chhatrasal Stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and May 5 over a dispute related to a property located in the Model Town.  One of the cars used during the crime was stolen from Rohini while the other three were found registered in the name of Gurugram-based company, which was not found Delhi Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sushil-taken-to-stadium-to-recreate-crime-scene/article34646161.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Take a relook at COVID-19 ringtone: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said the Centre needs to relook at the COVID-19 ringtone saying it should “cut out the preface and come to the main point” which contains information about the helpline numbers. “It is like starting a writ petition with ‘most respectfully” and nobody is reading it and even not interested. You need to be a little proactive in your approach. People are aware of COVID-19 protocol,” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said. “It is high time that you updated them with COVID-19 helpline number, which is the most important part of the message. You have to be agile on your feet on this,” the Bench told the Central government’s counsel. The court also noted that a corner or column on a page could be dedicated for these helplines in the newspapers. “In newspapers, one does not find these inserts on a daily basis. These things should be there in the papers every day. Fix a corner or column, may be on page 1 or page 3. Some column on a page should be dedicated to it daily so that people know where to go when they need it,” the court said. On lines of campaign The High Court’s observation came while hearing a bunch of petitions related to COVID-19 situation in the Capital. During the hearing, the court stressed on the need to spread awareness among public about the pandemic through advertisements more frequently on the lines of “hum do hamare do” campaign for family planning. The court told the government to keep publicising all relevant helpline numbers and information through audio, video and print medium continuously to educate people. “We direct the Centre and Delhi government to undertake publication of all relevant helpline numbers and information through all audio, video and print medium on a continuous basis as frequently as possible so as to educate people on facilities created by the State for testing and treatment of COVID-19 as well as other issues like mental health and issues arising in the society on account of the pandemic,” the court ordered. It also said that Doordarshan and All India Radio which are the mediums of Central government should give advertisements daily on the issue.  In newspapers, one does not find these inserts on a daily basis. These things should be there in the papers every day. Fix a corner or column, may be on page 1 or page 3 HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/take-a-relook-at-covid-19-ringtone-hc/article34646152.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks ex gratia for COVID-19 patient’s death due to negligence||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Delhi government on a petition seeking compensation for the parents and wife of a COVID-19 patient who died allegedly due to want of medical attention. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh asked Rao Tula Ram Hospital to respond to the plea, which claimed that the victim’s condition was critical and his oxygen level was very low. Still, the doctor of the hospital did not recommend admission and the man died while waiting for an ambulance. The family sought an appropriate compensation for the loss of life due to mismanagement and criminal negligence of the authorities. The court noted an order of the Supreme Court which said that the authority has fixed a minimum ex-gratia compensation payable to the kin of deceased on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior Advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said the State government is proposing to give ex gratia relief of Rs. 50,000 each to families of COVID-19 deceased and this will be placed before the Cabinet next week. The High Court’s direction came on the plea of the parents and wife of Naveen, who died of COVID-19 on the intervening night of April 26-27 allegedly due to want of medical attention and doctor’s negligence. The deceased’s kin said the oxygen level of patient was recorded in the Rao Tula Ram Hospital to be at 60%, yet medical treatment was denied to him. The family was asked to take him to a different the hospital. The patient died while waiting for ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-seeks-ex-gratia-for-covid-19-patients-death-due-to-negligence/article34646150.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deceased constable’s wife asks Kejriwal to pay promised money||Wife of constable Amit Kumar, who died last May and was Delhi Police’s first COVID fatality, has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to facilitate the money that was promised to her. In a letter written in Hindi, Ms. Pooja said Amit was posted in Bharat Nagar police station and on May 5, “while serving the people of the city”, he contracted the virus and died shortly after. “In that time of grief, remembering my husband’s services, you had announced a sum of Rs. 1 crore help,” she wrote to the Chief Minister. However, a year has passed but she still hasn’t received the promised amount, she wrote. “I have a four-year-old son and four-month-old daughter to take care of. I am worried about their future. If a CM does not fulfill a promise he made, then I may never be able to trust anyone ever again,” she added. Amit died hours after he contracted the virus. One of his colleagues roamed around in a car for hours taking him to different hospitals and COVID Care Centres but the official couldn’t survive. The family said their file for compensation have been rejected by the government, citing that Amit was not on COVID duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/deceased-constables-wife-asks-kejriwal-to-pay-promised-money/article34646159.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Revisit advisory on RT-PCR test, ICMR told||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday suggested the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to relook at its recent advisory which said RT-PCR must not be repeated on an individual who tested positive by either Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) or RT-PCR. The suggestion by the court came while hearing a plea by a lawyer who has challenged the advisory claiming that due to it, neither he nor his family could get tested again after spending more than 17 days in quarantine from April 28 when they first tested positive. The lawyer said without a COVID negative report, the civil defence guards outside his residence were not permitting him to go out for even basic essential items and when he tried to get tested at a lab, they declined to test him due to the May 4 advisory of ICMR. The Delhi government lawyer said that the petitioner’s area at Sultanpuri here was a containment zone and that was also a reason why people were not being allowed to move out. The petition has contended that the May 4 advisory was “arbitrary, discriminatory and creates a paradoxical situation since a negative RT-PCR report is compulsorily required by several other notifications issued by the respondents”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/revisit-advisory-on-rt-pcr-test-icmr-told/article34646153.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||PIL for change in treatment norms dismissed with cost||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking change of the existing protocol for treating COVID-19 patients with cost of Rs. 25,000. The court said the plea was not a public interest litigation (PIL) but rather it was a publicity interest litigation. The course of treatment was not fixed on some “ipse dixit” and was arrived at after discussions, tests and experiments by experts, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said while rejecting the petition filed by two doctors and two research analysts. The petitioners had claimed that use of antipyretics, like paracetamol, antibiotics and steroids should be restricted to severe cases of COVID-19 and not at the initial stage of the infection. “It ought to be kept in mind that COVID-19 treatment protocol for the country is not fixed on ipse dixit [unproven statement]. It is fixed on the basis of variety of experiments, tests and discussions by experts,” the high court said.  The court said it was not going to direct the Niti Aayog and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to consider the petitioners’ representations as officials of both were busy dealing with COVID-19 and black fungus. “On every whimsical idea of petitioners, we cannot direct the respondents to decide representations, unless the facts of the case warrant the same,” the court remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pil-for-change-in-treatment-norms-dismissed-with-cost/article34646154.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kalra’s bail plea hearing adjourned||A Delhi court on Tuesday adjourned to May 28 hearing on the bail application filed by businessman Navneet Kalra in connection with the oxygen concentrator black marketing case. During a recent raid, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall, and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Mr. Kalra. He is in judicial custody till June 3. Metropolitan Magistrate Swati Sharma deferred the hearing in the matter to May 28 after advocate Vishal Gohri, representing the accused, sought adjournment. The court had adjourned hearing in the bail plea twice before on May 20 and 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kalras-bail-plea-hearing-adjourned/article34646157.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||MCOCA invoked against man||Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked against criminal Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi, who has several heinous cases registered against him. He had fled police custody in 2020. Jathedi and his gang members are involved in over 25 cases of murder in different States, the police said, adding that he is suspected to have fled the country.  Sushil case connection Jathedi is said to be a close accomplice of Sonu Mahal — who was allegedly thrashed along with Sagar Dhankar in north-west Delhi’s Chhtrasal Stadium — leading to Sagar’s murder. This is the incident in which two-time Olympian Sushil Kumar has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mcoca-invoked-against-man/article34646158.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Friction in MVA: Congress backs oil refinery at Nanar||In yet another instance of disagreement in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, the Congress has extended its support to construct an oil refinery at Nanar village in Ratnagiri district. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already announced that the State government will not proceed with the Nanar oil refinery project owing to strong opposition from locals. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole, who was on a tour to inspect the damage caused by Cyclone Tauktae in Ratnagiri district, said that the project would be beneficial for the district and the entire Konkan. “There are some problems faced by fisherfolk which can be solved. Certain industrialists have taken lands of locals at lesser prices. This needs to be addressed as well. Once this issue is resolved, the Nanar oil refinery project will be made functional,” Mr Patole said. Earlier, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray had written to the CM requesting that the project not be shifted out of Nanar. For MVA, this is the second instance in a month’s time when the Congress has openly taken a stand contrary to its allies. It has strongly opposed the State government’s decision to cancel reservation in promotions. Mr. Patole’s support to the project has irked locals as well as organisations which are uniting citizens against the project. “We assume that the statement by Mr. Patole is the official position of the Congress. We do not know what triggered the Congress to suddenly come out in support of the project. But we are confident that the word the Chief Minister has given us will not be violated,” said Satyajit Chavan, convener, Konkan Vinashkari Prakalp Virodhi Samiti, an umbrella organisation of the protesting citizens and various groups. The CM had in March said that an alternative site had been identified for the oil refinery and the project would not come up at Nanar. “I appeal to all of you to no longer call this the Nanar oil refinery project. This is only an oil refinery project now,” Mr. Thackeray had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/friction-in-mva-congress-backs-oil-refinery-at-nanar/article34645862.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||State reports 24,136 fresh COVID-19 cases, 601 deaths||Maharashtra recorded 24,136 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the State’s infection tally to 56,26,155, while 601 fatalities pushed the death toll to 90,349, the Health Department said. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases as 36,176 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 52,18,768. The State’s COVID-19 recovery rate stood at 92.76%, while the case fatality rate was 1.61%. There are 3,14,368 active cases. As many as 2,64,275 people were tested for the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. Of the 601 deaths, 389 occurred in the last 48 hours and 212 were from the last week. The State also added another 536 deaths to the cumulative figure due to updating of COVID-19 death counts. Hence, the overall death toll went up by 1,137 compared to Monday. Mumbai saw 1,029 new cases and 37 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-reports-24136-fresh-covid-19-cases-601-deaths/article34645863.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||17 ventilators given under PM Cares have serious flaws, HC told||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday was informed that out of the 150 ventilators provided by the Union government under the PM Cares fund, 17 ventilators had extremely serious flaws that could be life threatening for patients. The Dean of the MGM Medical College and Hospital at Aurangabad submitted a note to a Division Bench that of the 150 ventilators provided under the PM Cares fund, 17 ventilators had developed six flaws each of which would impact the treatment process of patients which appeared to be extremely serious. The court recorded, “The flaws pertain to low pressure and the patient becoming hypoxic (inadequate oxygen supply) when on ventilator. It could be life threatening.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/17-ventilators-given-under-pm-cares-have-serious-flaws-hc-told/article34645866.ece
26 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Eye in the sky to watch Maharashtra mangroves||The Maharashtra Mangrove Cell has planned to acquire a drone and set up a CCTV camera network across the MMR to keep an eye on mangrove destruction by debris and land mafia. In an online discussion hosted by NGO NatConnect Foundation, Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, Mangrove Cell, said the consultancy firm, Ernst & Young, would carry out a survey. The NGO has launched a social media campaign #MumbiodiversityBachao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/eye-in-the-sky-to-watch-maharashtra-mangroves/article34645865.ece
26 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Two killed after SUV rams into truck on expressway||Two people including a deputy commissioner in the Goods and Services Tax Department died and two others suffered injuries after an SUV rammed into a truck on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway near Lonavala on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Abhijeet Ghavale (45), the deputy commissioner, and his brother-in-law Shankar Itnal (45), residents of Vashi. The injured are Ghavale’s wife Shilpa and the SUV driver, Pandit Pawar, who have been admitted to a hospital in Pavana. According to an officer from Kamshet police station in Pune (Rural), Ghavale, his wife, and Itnal were travelling in the SUV from Navi Mumbai to their home town in Latur for a family function. The accident occurred around 7.30 a.m.. “We are checking CCTV footage and verifying the claim of the driver that the front tyre of the SUV burst which caused the accident,” the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-killed-after-suv-rams-into-truck-on-expressway/article34645864.ece
26 May 2021||COLOMBO,||Crew evacuated from burning ship||Following an explosion on a ship anchored near Colombo on Tuesday, the Sri Lankan Navy said the crew members were evacuated, while fire fighters tried dousing the flames. Following an emergency request from Sri Lanka, India deployed a Dornier aircraft and vessels to augment rescue operations. Container ship MV X-Press Pearl, sailing with a Singaporean flag was anchored 9.5 nautical miles northwest of the Colombo Port, when a container caught fire on Friday, the Navy said in a statement. The vessel, according to media reports, left the Hazira port in Gujarat on May 15, and was headed to Singapore via Colombo. The fire led to an onboard explosion on Tuesday. Intensified by strong winds, the flames spread to other parts of the vessel, officials said. “India promptly responded to an emergency request by Sri Lanka Navy and deployed assets to douse the fire on MV X Press Pearl off Colombo on 25 May 2021. This includes Vessels Vaibhav, Vajra and Samudra Prehari by Indian Coast Guard and Tug Water Lilly by Director General, Shipping in addition to Dornier aircraft for aerial reconnaissance,” the Indian High Commission in Colombo said. In addition, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) formations at Kochi, Chennai and Tuticorin are on standby for immediate assistance towards pollution response. “Further, ICG aircraft are being brought to Tuticorin from Chennai and Kochi for aerial surveillance and pollution response,” ICG Spokesperson stated. According to a Reuters report, experts from the Netherlands and Belgium were also surveying the ship. Sri Lanka’s Shipping Minister Rohitha Abeygunawardena was quoted as saying: “A special Dutch flight with vital equipment to contain the fire is now expected to reach Sri Lanka.” The ICG said the vessel is carrying 1486 containers of which about 8-10 containers are reported to have fallen overboard post explosion and fire. “The vessel is holding about 325 tonnes of fuel in its tanks, which is likely to pose a threat of oil spill,” it said. The ship was manned by 25 crew, including five Indians, all of whom have been evacuated, it said. (With inputs from Dinakar Peri in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/crew-evacuated-from-burning-ship/article34645597.ece
26 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Blinken promises support for Gaza||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken vowed on Tuesday to “rally international support” to aid Gaza following a devastating war there while keeping any assistance out of the hands of its militant Hamas rulers, as he began a regional tour to shore up last week’s cease-fire. The 11-day fighting between Israel and Hamas killed more than 250 people, mostly Palestinians, and caused widespread destruction in the impoverished coastal territory. The truce that came into effect on Friday has so far held, but it did not address any of the underlying issues in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, something Blinken acknowledged after meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. “We know that to prevent a return to violence, we have to use the space created to address a larger set of underlying issues and challenges. And that begins with tackling the grave humanitarian situation in Gaza and starting to rebuild,” he said. International support “The United States will work to rally international support around that effort while also making our own significant contributions.” He added that the U.S. would work with its partners “to ensure that Hamas does not benefit from the reconstruction assistance.” Mr. Blinken will not be meeting with Hamas, which does not recognise Israel’s right to exist and which Israel and the U.S. consider a terrorist organisation. Larger conflict Mr. Blinken addressed the larger conflict, saying "we believe that Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely, to enjoy equal measures of freedom, opportunity and democracy, to be treated with dignity.” But he faces the same obstacles that have stifled a wider peace process for more than a decade, including a hawkish Israeli leadership, Palestinian divisions and deeply rooted tensions surrounding Jerusalem and its holy sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-promises-support-for-gaza/article34645596.ece
26 May 2021||BRUSSELS,||EU leaders agree to donate 100 mn doses of vaccines||EU leaders agreed on Tuesday to donate at least 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to poorer nations by the end of the year as supplies steadily rise across Europe. Gathered in Brussels for a two-day summit, the 27 leaders backed a text in which they pledge to continue efforts “to increase global vaccine production capacities in order to meet global needs.” Leaders also called “for work to be stepped up to ensure global equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines” and reiterated their support for the UN-backed COVAX programme. COVAX aims to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 shots for low-and middle-income countries. The programme suffered a major setback last week when its biggest supplier, the Serum Institute of India, announced it would likely not export any more vaccines until the end of the year due to the COVID-19 crisis in the subcontinent. Leaders acknowledged that vaccination has finally picked up across their continent following a painfully slow start. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen presented data to the leaders suggesting that 300 million doses will have been delivered in the region by the end of May, with about 46% of the adult population in the bloc of 450 million getting at least a first dose of vaccine.But as vaccination campaigns continue to progress in the Western world, poorer countries are struggling to acquire supplies. The leaders also pledged to help countries in need to develop vaccine production locally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-leaders-agree-to-donate-100-mn-doses-of-vaccines/article34645600.ece
26 May 2021||Washington,||Moderna says its vaccine is highly effective in adolescents||The possibility of children returning to normal life in the U.S. became stronger on Tuesday with vaccine manufacturer Moderna announcing that its COVID-19 vaccine mRNA-1273 is 100% effective in preventing symptomatic infections in 12-17 year olds after two doses. The company said that it would approach the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to extend the use of its vaccine to this age group, in early June. Two thirds of 3,732 individuals aged 12-17 received two doses of the vaccine in Moderna’s latest clinical study. None of them developed serious COVID-19 (equivalent to 100% efficacy) while four developed COVID-19 in the placebo group, the company said. A single dose of the vaccine resulted in 93% efficacy based on the case definition of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which is modified, given the lower overall rate of infections in adolescents. The teenagers in the study will be monitored for a year after their second dose, the New York Times reported. “We are encouraged that mRNA-1273 was highly effective at preventing Covid-19 in adolescents,” Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said. Some have criticised the U.S. for vaccinating children — who are less susceptible to serious COVID-19 infections — while more vulnerable adult populations in countries across the world, including India, are yet to be vaccinated. The Pfizer- BioNTech vaccine was recently approved for emergency use in 12-15 years. Pfizer and Moderna are in the process of conducting vaccine trials on children in the 6 months to 11 years group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moderna-says-its-vaccine-is-highly-effective-in-adolescents/article34645603.ece
26 May 2021||Bamako,||Mali in turmoil as Army detains President, PM||Political turmoil in Mali deepened on Tuesday as the country’s interim Vice-President, Assimi Goita, pushed out transitional leaders who had been tasked with steering the return to civilian rule after a coup last August. Assimi Goita, who headed a junta which seized power less than 10 months ago, said that President Bah Ndaw and Prime Minister Moctar Ouane had been stripped of their powers, and he promised elections in 2022. Mr. Ndaw and Mr. Ouane have been heading an interim government that was installed in September under the threat of regional sanctions, with the declared aim of restoring full civilian rule within 18 months. In a move that sparked widespread anger, the pair were detained on Monday by Army officers who were disgruntled by a government reshuffle, senior officials said. Mr. Goita said Mr. Ndaw and Mr. Ouane had been stripped of their duties for seeking to “sabotage” the transition, which would “proceed as normally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mali-in-turmoil-as-army-detains-president-pm/article34645602.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||First man to get COVID-19 jab dies of unrelated illness||The first man in the world to get a COVID-19 vaccine died of unrelated illness, British media reported. Bill Shakespeare, 81, received his first jab on December 8 at University Hospital Coventry, England. He was the second person to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine after 91-year-old Margaret Keenan. A former Rolls Royce employee and a parish councillor, Shakespeare passed away last Thursday after a period of illness at the same hospital, Daily Mail reported. He leaves behind his wife and two sons and grandchildren. When he received the jab, he had said it was “wonderful”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/first-man-to-get-covid-19-jab-dies-of-unrelated-illness/article34645604.ece
26 May 2021||Dubai,||Iran approves 7 presidential candidates||Iran named the hard-line cleric running its judiciary and six others on Tuesday as approved candidates in its June 18 presidential election, barring prominent candidates allied with its current President amid tensions with the West over its tattered nuclear deal. The announcement puts judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi, who is linked to mass executions in 1988, in the dominant position for the upcoming vote. He is believed to be a favourite of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Former Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani, had been positioning himself as a pragmatic candidate who would back President Hassan Rouhani’s signature 2015 nuclear deal with world powers. Ali Motahari, Larijani’s brother-in-law, wrote on Twitter that the Guardian Council rejected him because his daughter lives in the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-approves-7-presidential-candidates/article34645601.ece
26 May 2021||BEIJING,||AS--China-UK-Xinjiang||China on Tuesday denounced plans for a people’s tribunal in Britain on allegations of genocide against Uighurs and other minorities in Xinjiang region. The spokesman for the region’s government, Xu Guixiang, said China “condemned and despised” the hearings, which are expected to draw witnesses when they begin in June. The tribunal, which does not have government backing, is to be chaired by lawyer Geoffrey Nice, who had worked with the International Criminal Court.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-china-uk-xinjiang/article34645599.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||One-state solution, the way forward in Palestine||For more than 50 years, well-intentioned and more cynical, local and external actors involved in the attempts to bring peace and reconciliation to historical Palestine have religiously adhered to the two-state solution as the only way forward. The idea of partitioning Palestine between the settler movement of Zionism, and later the state of Israel and the indigenous population of Palestine is not new. It was first offered by the British in 1937 and rejected by the Palestinians already then. The Zionist movement was hardly 50 years old and was already offered by the new British occupiers of Palestine, a chunk of the Palestinian homeland as a future state. This in the 1930s and 1940s would have been akin to an offer to decolonise India by partitioning it between a British India and local India or to propose the decolonisation of Algeria by dividing it between a French Algeria and a local Algeria. Neither the Indian anti-colonial movement nor the Algerian one would have ever consented to such a post-colonial arrangement; nor did the British and French dare to offer it when they reconciled with the fact that they will have to leave their colonial empires and go back to Europe. Catastrophic event But even when decolonisation was achieved in India in 1947, not only the British but also the so-called civilised world through the United Nations insisted that the Palestinians should give half of their homeland to the settler movement of Zionism. The Palestinians attempted to convince the international community that the problem was not only about  dispensing with half of their homeland but that the settler movement of Zionism would not be content with just half of the country and intended to take as much of it as possible and leave in it as few Palestinians as possible. This ominous prediction turned out to be chillingly accurate and true in less than a year after the UN insisted that partition was the only solution for Palestine. Under the guise of UN support, the new Jewish state took over nearly 80% of historical Palestine and ethnically cleansed almost a million Palestinians (more than half of Palestine’s population), and in the way demolished half of Palestine’s villages and most of its towns in nine months in 1948; an event known by the Palestinians as the Nakba, the catastrophe. Incremental cleansing In 1967, Israel occupied the rest of historical Palestine, and in the process expelled another 300,000 Palestinians. Like all settler colonial projects, it had to navigate between a wish to take over indigenous territory while downsizing the number of native people living on it. It was impossible after 1948 to repeat a massive ethnic cleansing, so it was substituted by incremental ethnic cleansing (the last stage in this process was one of the root causes that ignited the cycle of violence last week — the proposed eviction of Palestinians from Shaykh [Sheikh] Jarrah, an East Jerusalem neighbourhood, as part of an overall attempt to Judaise East Jerusalem). Incremental ethnic cleansing is not the only way of achieving the old Zionist goal to turning historical Palestine into a Jewish state. Imposing military rule in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip after they were occupied was another means which enclaved the people there without basic human and civil rights. Imposing a version of an Apartheid regime on the Palestinian minority in Israel is another method and the constant refusal to allow the 1948 refugees to return completes the matrix of power that allows Israel to retain the land and disregard a demographic reality by which the Jews are not the majority in historical Palestine. It is Israel that decides The two-state solution, offered for the first time by liberal Zionists and the United States in the 1980s, is seen by some Palestinians as the best way of ending of the occupation of the West Bank and at least the partial fulfilment of the Palestinian right for self-determination and independence. This is why the Palestine Liberation Organization was willing to give it a go in 1993, by signing the Oslo Accords. But the Palestinian position has no impact in the current balance of power. What mattered is how Israel interprets the idea and the fact that there is no one in the world that could challenge its interpretation. The Israeli interpretation, until the rise of Benjamin Netanyahu to power in 2009, was that the two-state solution is another means of having the territories, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, without incorporating most of the people living there. In order to ensure it, Israel partitioned the West Bank (which is 20% of historical Palestine) into a Jewish and an Arab part. This was in the second phase of the Oslo Accords, known as the Oslo II agreement of 1995. The Palestinians were forced to accept it under American and Egyptian pressure. One area, called area C, which consists of 60% of the West Bank) was directly ruled from 1995 until today by Israel. Under Mr. Netanyahu, Israel is in the process of officially annexing this area while at the same time ethnically cleansing the Palestinians living in it. The remaining 40% of the West Bank, areas A and B under Oslo II, were put under the Palestinian Authority, which optimistically calls itself the state of Palestine, but in essence has no power whatsoever, unless the one given to it, and withdrawn from it, by Israel. A Bantustanisation The Gaza Strip was divided too. But the Jewish part was small and could not be defended from the local national movement’s wrath. So, the settlers were taken out in 2005 and Israel hoped that another Bantustan, like the one in areas A and B, would be established there under the Palestinian Authority’s rule and under the same conditions. But the people of Gaza opted to support a new player, Hamas, and its ally, the Islamic Jihad, which resisted this offer. They supported them not only because there was a return to religion in the face of the ongoing predicaments but also because there was big disappointment from the compliance of the PLO with the Oslo arrangements. Israel responded by imposing a callous siege and blockade on the Gaza Strip that, according to the UN, made it unliveable. To complete its strategy that included the partition of the West Bank, its Bantustanisation, and the siege of Gaza, Israel passed in 2018 a citizenship law, known as the nationality law, which made sure that the Palestinian citizens who live in Israel proper (which is Israel prior to the 1967 occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip) and who are supposedly equal citizens of the Jewish state, will in essence become the “Africans” of a new Israeli Jewish apartheid state: living in a permanent regime that discriminates against them in all aspects of life on the basis of their nationality. The endless negotiation on the two-state solution was based on the formula that once the two states become a reality, Israel will stop these severe violations of the Palestinian civil and human rights, wherever they are. But while the wait continued, more Palestinians were expelled and the Jewish settler community in the West Bank doubled and tripled and took over the fertile land, leaving no space for Palestinian expansion. The presence of more than 600,000 Jewish settlers, with a very high rate of natural growth, means that Israel will never consider moving them out; and without that, even a soft version of a two-state solution is impossible. Decolonise, build a new state The whole premise of the two-state solution is wrong and that is why it did not materialise. It is based on the assumption of parity and of framing the conflict as one fought between two national movements. But this is not a “conflict” as such. This is a settler colonial reality which began in the late 19th century and continues until today. The late scholar, Patrick Wolfe, described settler colonial movements as motivated by a logic he called “the elimination of the native”. Sometimes it led to genocide, as it happened in North America, sometimes it translated to an ongoing ethnic cleansing operation, which is what has unfolded in Palestine. The two-state solution is not going to stop the ethnic cleansing; instead, talking about it provides Israel international immunity to continue it. The only alternative is to decolonise historical Palestine. Which means that we should aspire to a state for all its citizens all over the country, based on the dismantlement of colonialist institutions, fair redistribution of the country’s natural resources, compensation of the victims of the ethnic cleansing and allowing their repatriation. All this will be so that settlers and natives should together build a new state that is democratic, part of the Arab world and not against it, and an inspiration for the rest of the region which desperately needs such models to push it forward towards a better future. Professor Ilan Pappé is the Director of the European Centre for Palestine Studies and Senior Fellow of the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies, University of Exeter, U.K. He is the author of 20 books||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/one-state-solution-the-way-forward-in-palestine/article34645581.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccination is our only weapon||On May 14, 2021, the Indian government announced that over two billion doses of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 will be produced in India from August to December. The government can be applauded on its intent: vaccinating a billion Indians with two doses each should in theory give India herd immunity. But while the number 2.1 billion doses makes sense, little else does. Vaccines don’t save lives; rapid, mass, repeated vaccinations do. Vaccinate on a war footing In the 2019 general election, in just five weeks, about 610 million Indians voted at one million polling stations that were supervised by 10 million election officials. If the nation can be mobilised every five years for the general election, there is no reason why India cannot vaccinate one billion Indians in five weeks. On a war footing, India needs to vaccinate 75% of the population in five weeks, not five months. Up to May 23, only 10.9% of the population had received one dose and only 4% had been fully vaccinated with two doses. On average 1.5 million Indians have been vaccinated every day since the vaccination programme started on January 16. If in the 150 days between August and December this year, about 2.1 billion doses are produced, India requires not just the production but the administration of at least 14.4 million vaccines per day. But it lacks the infrastructure to administer the produced vaccines at 10 times the current rate. It will fail in this critical task unless it mobilises the armed forces for logistics. Every health worker not working in a hospital and every medical, paramedical, and nursing student will have to be on vaccine administration duty. Unless every Indian is protected either by vaccination or herd immunity, India will remain unprotected. Spreading viruses mutate. The only way a host can break the cycle of replication and mutation is if the host’s immune system neutralises the virus. Immunity is acquired in only two ways – either by natural infection or vaccine-derived immunity. The problem with the current rate of vaccination is that in the large population groups which remain unvaccinated or under-vaccinated, the virus is spreading, replicating, and mutating. Unless it resorts to mass, rapid vaccinations, India will be condemned to new variant pandemic cycles that will keep surging and receding with cyclical and devastating consequences on lives and livelihoods. Like influenza, SARS-CoV-2 is here to stay. There is a high possibility of another wave of infections, with another strain if not this. Many more will get infected. The aim is to downregulate the virus with rapid, mass and repeated vaccinations from an epidemic to an endemic infection that has seasonal outbreaks with lower number of cases, morbidity and mortality, allowing us to safely open up and keep the economy open. Sadly, many decision-makers forget that vaccinating the nation is not a one-off; we will have to repeat this herculean exercise every season with updated and re-engineered booster vaccines to prevent the next pandemic cycle which will be driven by new and emerging variants. All vaccines are not equally effective – high efficacy equals high economic benefit. The primary driver of the choice of a vaccine manufacturer is not just the ability to produce large quantities in the time frame required; it is the efficacy of the vaccine following peer reviews, publications and rollout. Equally important is the ability of the manufacturer to quickly re-engineer and produce updated vaccines against the prevalent strains and future ‘variants of concern’. Both the Russian Sputnik V and the Chinese Sinopharm vaccines were rolled out widely and ahead of sufficient phase 3 trial data. Mostly low- and middle-income countries have given emergency use licence to both these vaccines and millions have been vaccinated with them. Both vaccines remain under review by the European Medicines Agency. On May 7, the World Health Organization listed Sinopharm for emergency use and is expected to do the same for Sputnik V shortly. However, absence of transparency in clinical trial protocols and of the data and its analysis have cast doubts on approval of these vaccines in developed countries with access to other vaccines. Surge in the Seychelles Policymakers and vaccine manufacturers would be wise to pay close attention to what is happening in the Seychelles with respect to the efficacy of vaccines. Despite being the most vaccinated nation in the world, with more than 60% of its population fully vaccinated, the Seychelles is battling a surge of the virus and has had to reimpose a lockdown. In the fully vaccinated population in the Seychelles, 57% were given Sinopharm (donated by the United Arab Emirates), while 43% were given AstraZeneca (produced by the Serum Institute of India). On a per capita basis of reported cases, the Seychelles outbreak is worse than India’s. All vaccines do not necessarily demonstrate the efficacy that the manufacturers tout. Manufacturers must be held to account not just on their production targets but on efficacy data. Transparency in clinical trials including post-vaccine rollout analysis is mandatory. Until all Indians are protected, none of us is protected. The government’s announcement that 2.1 billion doses will be provided in five months, without any mention of a central vaccine agency managed by experts to govern the purchase, procurement and production centrally for all States, will create and promote vaccination asymmetry. It will exacerbate the pre-existing healthcare iniquity and inequity in India. To the rich-poor, rural-urban, digital divides we now appear to be adding a new vaccination divide. India has to learn from its colossal mistakes. It must set aside its hubris and exceptionalism. It must on a war footing coalesce behind the only weapon that works — vaccination. The pandemic cycles have left in their wake incalculable but preventable loss of life, human suffering, financial ruin and economic decrepitude. If we fail, generations of Indians to come will ask why we did not come together and do the right thing. Joseph Britto is former consultant and honorary senior lecturer in Paediatric Intensive Care at Imperial College at St. Mary’s Hospital, London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccination-is-our-only-weapon/article34645593.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Slowing the pace of India’s mucormycosis threat||The alarming rise in India recently in the incidence of mucormycosis — a rare fungal infection — in patients who have been diagnosed and treated for COVID-19 has come as no surprise to those of us in the medical oncology community. This outcome was our greatest fear as the administration of dexamethasone and other steroids began to become common. As oncologists who rely on steroids in many of our protocols, and having managed several cases of mucormycosis, we are acutely aware that treatment protocols need to differ from patient to patient due to the complexities in clinical presentation and an individual’s tolerance to treatment. However, we find ourselves in a different position today because of the magnitude of cases being reported, and the inability of treating physicians to create individualised treatment protocols under this burden. Some States, including Tamil Nadu, have declared mucormycosis as a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Guidelines and protocols need to be adapted and modified rapidly to arrest this growing epidemic. Why did the risk of mucormycosis overwhelming us come as no surprise? The estimated burden of mucormycosis in India is 14 per 100,000 in a study published in Current Fungal Infection Reports (https://bit.ly/3oOe4xv). This is almost 70 times higher than what is reported in other countries. In a multi-centre study across several tertiary-care hospitals in India, published in Clinical Microbiology and Infection (https://bit.ly/3fkLzV8), the rough estimate of proven mucormycosis was around 40 cases on an average over a 21-month period observed at each centre. Focus on diabetes It must be made absolutely clear that mucormycosis is not transmitted from one individual to the other, the way COVID-19 is. The most common cause is uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (raised blood sugars). Other causes include the treatment of some cancers; steroids, chemotherapy or immunotherapy, and solid organ or stem-cell transplantations. The common sites of presentation include rhino-cerebral involvement (i.e., the fungus can damage the nose, paranasal sinuses, the eyes and the brain), and pulmonary involvement (i.e., the fungus can cause pneumonia). Raised blood sugars being a cause is of particular concern for multiple reasons. According to a study in The Lancet (https://bit.ly/3bV2fAC), the number of people with diabetes increased to 65 million in 2016 in India. The highest prevalence of diabetes was observed in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Delhi. The crude prevalence of diabetes above 20 years of age has increased to 7.7% in 2016, from 5.5% in 1990. Further, there is an underlying higher genetic susceptibility to diabetes in Indians; some of these cases could get unearthed only after exposure to steroids. The treatment of COVID-19 is, unfortunately, only worsening this situation. In a lab study published in Nature Metabolism (https://go.nature.com/34dEn6L), SARS-CoV-2 can potentially multiply in pancreatic cells and contribute to increased blood sugar levels in COVID-19 patients. Steroids form a very important aspect of treatment for COVID-19 because they lower death rates by reducing the cytokine storm phase which can develop in some patients. However, steroids when used excessively or prematurely, and without medical supervision can be harmful. Besides causing reduced immunity levels, steroids can also increase blood sugar levels which can cause additional harm if left unchecked. Dexamethasone, methylprednisolone or prednisone are among the steroids used in the treatment of COVID-19. Treatment approach Mucormycosis is associated with very high morbidity and mortality. Its treatment requires a multi-disciplinary team approach that includes microbiology, pathology, radiology, infectious diseases, surgery, pediatrics, hematology, intensive care, dermatology, and pharmacology. A multi-disciplinary approach is simply not feasible on a large scale, especially in areas with limited medical access. Surgery for mucormycosis can be debilitating requiring major resections. Additionally, there are limited antifungal drugs available for mucormycosis. The gold standard drug is liposomal amphotericin B, which is priced out of reach for many. Amphotericin B deoxycholate (conventional) is cheaper, but is associated with an unfavourable toxicity profile including kidney problems, abnormalities in electrolyte levels; reduced sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium levels can lead to other toxicities. Some other expensive treatment options include posaconazole and isavuconazole. All these medicines often have to be administered for prolonged durations, making treatment protocols difficult to sustain on a large scale, given the cost implications and difficulty in drug administration due to its side-effects. When a patient is recovering from COVID-19 infection, it is certainly going to be a challenge to perform debilitating surgeries and administer these antifungal drugs for a prolonged duration. In the case of rhino-cerebral mucormycosis especially, surgery is usually required in addition to antifungal drugs. If these surgeries cannot be performed, the outcome is dismal. It is also important to keep in mind that treatment for mucormycosis will require prolonged hospital admissions. Given the health-care constraints we are faced with, this infection should be avoided at all costs. Monitoring is essential What can be done to reduce the number of cases and the intensity of mucormycosis? Steroid use at home for COVID-19 should be only under the supervision of a health-care worker. The control of blood sugars during steroid intake is crucial to avoiding mucormycosis. When patients are medicating themselves at home, monitoring of capillary blood glucose is essential. If high blood sugars are encountered, a tele-consult with a doctor is advisable. Going a step further, health authorities may consider arranging for blood glucose monitoring for patients at home on steroids, and also promoting awareness campaigns on the importance of controlled blood sugar levels. Patients on steroids for COVID-19 should report symptoms of mucormycosis at the earliest. Among other symptoms, they should look out for facial swelling on one side, protrusion of the eyeball, new-onset visual disturbances, headache and vomiting, new onset swelling or ulcers with blackish discolouration, and prolonged fever. COVID-19 treatment experts and policy-makers may consider widespread training of health-care personnel including Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and nursing professionals to raise awareness on mucormycosis while educating people locally. The prolonged requirement for hospital admission linked to COVID-19 will also lead to a rise in other hospital-acquired infections necessitating the use of multiple antibiotics. We are staring at the grim reality of managing large numbers of patients with other long-standing side-effects of steroids. Additionally, the concern is the alarming increase in multi-drug resistant bacterial infections for which we are grossly unprepared. Dr. Nikita Mehra is Associate Professor of Medical Oncology, Adyar Cancer Institute (WIA), Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slowing-the-pace-of-indias-mucormycosis-threat/article34645584.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Interpreting deaths in Chennai||Chennai saw over 12,000 more deaths in 2020 than the average of the five preceding years — a 20% increase over those years and a 10.66% increase over 2019 alone, the highest single year change in a decade. Officially, the city recorded just 4,000 deaths from COVID-19 in 2020. It is unclear how many of these ‘excess’ deaths were uncounted COVID-19 deaths or were due to other causes including lack of access to health services. This pattern is likely to repeat itself in 2021. More deaths have been reported in the first four months of the year than during any similar period in the last decade. The ‘excess mortality’ in 2021, which could include other deaths, is also nearly four times the reported COVID-19 death count of 730 deaths for the same period. Excess mortality Chennai’s municipal corporation maintains information on every death certificate issued for over a century. The data presented here are based on deaths counted by the date on which the actual death took place, as reported in the death certificate. The city corporation says that it registers virtually every death that takes place within the city corporation limits. With the rising population, the number of registered deaths has gradually gone up every year. While data since 2010 have been analysed, the five most recent pre-pandemic years (2015-2019) provide the best comparison as their mortality statistics are closest to what a ‘normal’ year should have looked like. Between 2015 and 2019, Chennai saw 62,457 deaths every year on average (the average was substantially driven up by high mortality in 2019, which registered an increase of 7% from 2018). In 2020, Chennai saw over 74,000 deaths — an increase of 19% over the five-year average and 10.7% over the 2019 figure. From the end of March 2020 through April and part of May, the city was under lockdown. As would be expected for a city that sees over 100 deaths in road accidents alone every month, monthly deaths in Chennai declined in March and April. However, from May to September, there was a large spike in deaths, particularly in June, when more than 50% more deaths were reported than the previous five-year average. With the decline of the first wave by September 2020, excess mortality in Chennai began to fall too, but remained more than 10% above the five-year average. From February 2021, this ‘excess mortality’ began to rise too, and in April 2021, deaths were over one-third higher than the five-year average. The data for April 2021 in particular are likely to be an underestimate as people have up to a year to register deaths. All over the world, cities and countries have accepted that the official toll from COVID-19 does not represent the accurate or full toll. The U.K. and some jurisdictions in the U.S. like New York City report both confirmed and suspected or probable COVID-19 deaths. The latter category includes people who did not test positive prior to death. Despite this being part of India’s official protocol on the counting of COVID-19 deaths, it is not being followed in practice. Officials in States including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi have told this author that they only count deaths among people with a positive test prior to death as COVID-19 deaths. Reporting from States including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar has indicated similar trends. To get past this lack of data, some reporters have attempted to collate data from crematoria and burial grounds. However, this method too is fraught with error — crematoria do not maintain complete records; in some cities, a few crematoria are carrying out all COVID-19 cremations giving the impression of a greater increase in cremations than the data warrant; and many cremations and burials are being carried out following COVID-19 protocols even when the death in question is not necessarily from COVID-19. Mortality statistics Given the inadequacy of official data and the loopholes in novel sources, many researchers are turning instead to estimates of ‘excess mortality’ — the difference between deaths from all-causes in pandemic years and those in ‘normal’ years. Countries around the world including several Latin American, European and North American countries publish updated data on their usual and current mortality. India, however, has not published mortality statistics since 2018. Some better-run States and cities have published this data themselves. Mumbai’s ‘excess mortality’ for 2020 closely mirrors these findings about Chennai; in 2020, Mumbai reported 1,12,000 deaths as against its 2015-19 average of 90,100 deaths, an increase of nearly 20%. These findings on Chennai raise important questions. One, even relatively well-administered cities like Chennai and Mumbai reported a 20% increase in mortality in 2020, and Chennai is seeing a further rise in 2021. This should put an end to speculation over whether or not the pandemic drove death rates up. Two, these differences cannot be explained away by the official death toll from COVID-19. London, a city of comparable population to Chennai, has reported over 15,000 excess deaths from March 23, 2020 to now, an increase of nearly 30%. However, the city has seen over 19,000 deaths with COVID-19 mentioned on the death certificate. That is a clear indication that although mortality has risen, the city is certifying many of the deaths as COVID-19-related, unlike Indian cities. Finally, Chennai’s data suggest that other cities and States would do well to release their all-cause mortality statistics and provide estimates of excess mortality. Cities like Chennai and Mumbai with strong administrative systems are also likely to have stronger health systems — they might be missing some COVID-19 deaths, but we have greater reason to fear that States with under-developed capacity might be missing many more. Rukmini S. is an independent journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/interpreting-deaths-in-chennai/article34645589.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Still grappling with online classes||A year since the outbreak of COVID-19, online education remains a chimera in India. Notwithstanding their preparedness, higher education institutions were directed by the government to shift from classroom education to online education. This was mandated even though the government spent merely 3.2% of its GDP on education in 2020-21. University administrations too released orders overnight in haste. They instructed teachers and students to move to online classes without taking cognisance of changes needed in infrastructure, training, etc.  Differences within institutions The financial health of state universities in the country is an open secret. While centrally funded elite institutes such as the IITs, IIMs, NITs and Central universities launched video channels and uploaded e-content on institutional websites and digital platforms, a majority of the state universities still struggle without proper Internet connectivity and bandwidth in their campuses. State universities are only able to provide salaries on time. The move to online learning especially came as a surprise for overburdened teachers given that there are several vacant faculty positions in universities across India. This move also came as a shock for the students, many of whom are distressed by the COVID-19 situation. Many of them also lack the facilities to attend online classes. Teachers and students had a sense of déjà vu as they had a similar experience when the annual scheme of teaching and regular courses was replaced by the semester scheme of teaching and the choice-based credit system earlier. A transition from conventional classroom teaching and learning to online education needs to be done in a phased manner. State universities should first equip their infrastructure (both hard and soft) with wholehearted government support. A sledgehammer approach to adapt to a new setting won’t serve anybody’s interests. On the contrary, it may prove to be a counterproductive exercise. There are 993 universities, 39,931 colleges, 3.73 crore students and 14.16 lakh teachers in India, according to All India Survey on Higher Education (2018-19). If such a drastic decision was to be taken, there should have been wider consultation between the government and all the academic stakeholders to find a way forward. With Internet penetration still low in India, it is incumbent on the government to allow suitable financial aids to state universities to obtain appropriate IT tools, platforms, devices, provide training, etc. before initiating such an exercise. Else, given the difference in students’ access to digital education, their performances are also bound to differ. This creates an asymmetrical society and leads to anxiety among the students. Most importantly, education is denied to the less privileged student community. Study material Another predicament in online education is the preparation of appropriate study material. Policymakers need to acknowledge that merely uploading scanned lecture notes or power point presentations does not serve any meaningful purpose. There is no imaginative thinking and exploring, no application-based learning for students. For practical field and laboratory-based learning, the whole idea of online education could prove to be a disaster. Given that there is talk of more COVID-19 waves, it is imperative for the government to embrace a pragmatic approach by engaging all academic stakeholders and investing generously in online education as suggested by the Fifteenth Finance Commission in its report. Development of massive open online courses (MOOCs), direct-to-home (DTH) content development, digital classrooms and provision of devices (laptop/tablets) for 25 lakh students belonging to the socially and economically weaker sections of society, especially in state universities, would help. Milind Kumar Sharma teaches in the Department of Production and Industrial Engineering, M.B.M. Engineering College, Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur, erstwhile University of Jodhpur. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/still-grappling-with-online-classes/article34645590.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Calibrated closures||Several States have extended the coronavirus lockdowns beyond May 31, while fresh cases appear to show a downward trend, but India’s COVID-19 battle lacks strategic focus. Although a cessation of activity has been imposed, there is not much clarity on the future threat from virus variants, notably B.1.617 that now has three sub-types and the dominant one, B.1.617.2, is estimated to be 50% more transmissible than another variant of concern, B.1.1.7. Neither is there a road map for vaccine availability ahead, with direct imports by States hitting a roadblock and vague assurances of a domestic ramp-up from July substituting for firm commitments. Some States are unwisely taking the foot off the testing pedal, making it that much harder to map the course of transmission. A miasma of confusion has come to pervade COVID-19 policy, where the Centre no longer has an appetite for leadership, even if it means shunning responsibility for universal vaccination, and the only tool available with States is a lockdown. But as Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has pointed out, a lockdown does not provide a solution, and comes with its own economic side-effects that hit the working class poor the hardest. The time has come for a pandemic policy reset that reflects scientific insight, encourages safe public behaviour through persuasive communication, monitoring, and, importantly, incorporates medical interventions of scale. The medium-term outlook does not point to a steep rise in vaccination by the end of the year to cover most of the population, making it imperative for States to prepare for potential future surges. Although claims have been made of a large volume of three vaccines becoming available between August-December, the road to universal immunisation is going to be long. The process is complicated by the finding in Britain that it takes two doses of Covishield for 60% protection against the dominant virus variant that is also found in India; the second dose, therefore, should be administered after eight weeks, not 12 or 16. What States can do immediately is to arrive at a good lockdown protocol, sparing people frequent shocks. Tamil Nadu’s recent move to intensify the lockdown, and, inexplicably, allow even jewellery and clothing shops to open for a day before that, led to massive crowding triggered by induced demand. Clearly, measures to shut down everyday activity lead to fear and panic, and leave less affluent sections, the disabled, migrant workers and many single individuals unable to cope. The golden mean would be to shut all non-essential shops, encourage remote transactions, open street sales and home deliveries, actively monitor compliance with COVID-19 protocols in public places and vaccinate workers in services, including domestic workers, on priority. Free food distribution must be a central feature of lockdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/calibrated-closures/article34645575.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Rules and rulers||It does seem that most if not all global social media giants will miss complying with the new IT rules of intermediaries, which come into effect today. It would be unfortunate if this non-compliance were to trigger a further worsening of the already poor relationship between some social media players and the Government. The new rules were introduced in February. Among other things, they require the bigger social media platforms, which the rules referred to as significant social media intermediaries, to adhere to a vastly tighter set of rules within three months, which ended on May 25. They require these platforms to appoint chief compliance officers, in order to make sure the rules are followed, nodal officers, to coordinate with law enforcement agencies, and grievance officers. Another rule requires messaging platforms such as WhatsApp to trace problematic messages to its originators, raising uneasy questions about how services that are end-to-end encrypted can adhere to this. There are indeed many problems with the new rules, not the least of which is the manner in which they were introduced without much public consultation. There has also been criticism about bringing in a plethora of new rules that ought to be normally triggered only via legislative action. But non-compliance can only make things worse, especially in a situation in which the relationship between some platforms such as Twitter and the Government seems to have broken down. The latest stand-off between them, over Twitter tagging certain posts by BJP spokespeople as ‘manipulated media’, has even resulted in the Delhi Police visiting the company’s offices. Separately, the Government has been fighting WhatsApp over its new privacy rules. Whatever the back-story, it is important that social media companies fight the new rules in a court of law if they find them to be problematic. The other option, that of engaging with the Government, may not work in these strained times. But stonewalling on the question of compliance can never be justified, even if it is to be assumed that the U.S. Government has their back. Facebook, on its part, has made all the right noises. It has said that it aims to comply with the new rules but also needs to engage with the Government on a few issues. What is important is that the genuine concerns of social media companies are taken on board. Apart from issues about the rules, there have been problems about creating conditions for compliance during the pandemic. As reported by The Hindu , five industry bodies, including the CII, FICCI and the U.S.-India Business Council have sought an extension of 6-12 months for compliance. This is an opportunity for the Government to hear out the industry, and also shed its high-handed way of rule-making.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rules-and-rulers/article34645576.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Nankana case||In addition to the oral examination by the Magistrate, Mahant Naraindas of Nankana who has just been committed to the Sessions, put in a lengthy written statement which was read out in the court to-day. The Mahant said that he had been apprehending attack from Akalis and renovated the gates, walls and entrances of the Nankana temple not with a view to attack but for his own shelter and protection. Holes in the doors were made in order that he might watch what was happening outside and not for shooting. He was asleep on the 20th February morning when he was roused by the noise of shots. He stirred out only once to inform the police but Akalis chased him. So he concealed himself in his house for fear of Akalis. It was only when the Deputy Commissioner arrived that he came out and saw Akalis lying dead. More than two cans of kerosene were daily used in the temple. He therefore bought oil in large quantities which cost him cheaper. He denied having shot anybody or ordering firing. He also stated that he had approached the Local Government, members of the Executive Council, Commissioner, Mahatma Gandhi and others for advice and assistance, but without avail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-nankana-case/article34645585.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Recognition of Bangla Desh||External Affairs Minister, Swaran Singh declared in the Rajya Sabha to-day [New Delhi, May 25] that the Government had not taken any “fixed position” on the question of recognition of Bangla Desh. “If at any stage we feel recognition is necessary we will not hesitate to do so.” Replying to a five-hour discussion on Bangla Desh, Mr. Swaran Singh said the Government would not hesitate to accord formal recognition if it was in the “interest of peace, our national interest and in the interest of the people of Bangla Desh.” In the Lok Sabha a strong demand for recognition of Bangla Desh followed by material aid to the freedom fighters was made by several members. Mr. Swaran Singh, however, pointed out that the question had to be viewed from a larger angle. “There were certain norms which have to be carefully weighed such as the extent of the territory controlled, the quantum of support, the extent of writ and the repercussions of recognising a country which till now was part of Pakistan.” Mr. Swaran Singh also pointed out that the situation continued to be fluid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/recognition-of-bangla-desh/article34645586.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Second COVID wave may hit retail asset quality: HDFC Bank||HDFC Bank expects the otherwise resilient retail segment to report a higher incidence of asset quality stress because of the second wave of COVID-19 infections. Borrowers who had to avail cover under regulatory exemptions such as moratorium and restructuring after the first wave will be the highest impacted, its CEO and MD Sashidhar Jagdishan said on an investor call. Terming the near-term expectations as ‘tepid’ and making it clear that the bank would be ‘cautious’ in these extraordinary times, Mr. Jagdishan said, “[For the] first time in so many years, we may not have any grip on what is going to happen”. “We are reasonably sanguine on the asset quality on the corporate and the SME (small and medium enterprises) side, but from the retail or the segment of people who have or were stressed out in COVID 1.0, who had taken moratorium and restructuring, I think they will continue to feel the kind of pain and stress. So, probably, these are the ones which will show a little bit of stress this time around,” he said on the call organised by Australian brokerage Macquarie. Mr. Jagdishan said the bank had told its field staff to prioritise health and safety over business needs, and hence, there will be a slowdown in collections, which will translate to some amount of higher delinquencies in the near term. “But I don’t want to say it will be dramatically high. It will be high, I don’t think it will be a loss. They should cover up in coming quarters,” he said, adding that he expected things to get back to normal in two quarters. Admitting that strictures passed by RBI such as banning new credit card issuances were a “blot” on the bank’s reputation, he said it had taken the right lessons from the interventions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-covid-wave-may-hit-retail-asset-quality-hdfc-bank/article34645564.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||IBM betting big on hybrid cloud||With almost 75% of enterprise workloads yet to shift to the cloud, IBM is betting on hybrid cloud, which represents a $1-trillion market opportunity globally, to drive digital transformation for clients. “Cloud has been there for a long time, but globally, only about 25% of enterprise workloads have actually moved to it and 75% are still to move,” said Sandip Patel, MD, IBM India. “Interestingly, those 75% are more critical workloads. We are reshaping our future as a hybrid cloud platform and an AI company. We are going to be leaders in that space, and I think we have all the ingredients,” he said. Mr. Patel said that the company estimated hybrid cloud to be a $1-trillion market globally. The journey to hybrid cloud was intensifying for enterprises in India, he added. He pointed out that according to a recent IBM CEO study, almost 6 out of 10 CEOs in India expected cloud computing to deliver results in the next 2-3 years. “We are seeing a direct impact of this as we continue to grow our hybrid cloud business. I always say that IBM India is a microcosm of the IBM Corporation and we sort of continue to see some of those [global] trends reflect here as well,” he said. Talking about the Indian market, he said India was one of the largest concentrations of employee population for IBM. “In India, we have our software labs, hybrid labs, which actually serve as global missions. Also a lot of our design centres are based in India, research labs are based in India... a lot of the product announcements that you find, those actually come out of India,” Mr. Patel said. “This gives you an indication of what India is relative to the importance within the IBM ecosystem,” he added. IBM is currently working with close to 1,000 clients in India on their ‘digital transformation journey’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ibm-betting-big-on-hybrid-cloud/article34645556.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCLAT stays NCLT diktat to banks to mull Wadhawan offer||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Tuesday stayed the direction of NCLT Mumbai telling DHFL’s lenders to consider the offer by the debt-ridden mortgage firm’s erstwhile promoter Kapil Wadhawan. A vacation bench of NCLAT comprising Acting Chairman Justice A.I.S. Cheema and Member-Technical V.P. Singh stayed the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). On May 19, NCLT had directed the settlement plan offered by Mr. Wadhawan to be considered by the lenders of DHFL, one of the lawyers engaged in the matter said. Meanwhile, the appellate tribunal also clarified that its order should not come in the way of the NCLT to decide on the approval of the plan selected by the Committee of Creditors (CoC), the lawyer added. Piramal Group In January, the CoC voted in favour of selling DHFL to the Piramal Group under the bankruptcy process. NCLAT’s direction came on an urgent petition moved by the Union Bank of India on behalf of the CoC of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd.(DHFL). DHFL had gone bankrupt with more than Rs. 90,000 crore in debt owed to various lenders, including banks, mutual funds and individual investors who had invested in fixed deposits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-stays-nclt-diktat-to-banks-to-mull-wadhawan-offer/article34645566.ece
26 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Mercedes-Benz India unveils SUV variants||Mercedes-Benz India said its all-new GLA and the AMG GLA 35 4M sport utility vehicles (SUVs) will be available across India where business is operational. Both the SUVs are also available at the company’s online store. The introductory price for GLA 200 is Rs. 42.10 lakh, GLA 220d Rs. 43.7 lakh, GLA 220d 4M Rs. 46.7 lakh and AMG GLA 35 4M Rs. 57.3 lakh (prices ex-showroom India). The introduction of GLA had been delayed since April following the disruption caused by the pandemic. However, based on increasing customer demand, to sustain business continuity and support economic sustenance of the retail network, the company had decided to offer the products to the customers, it said. “We are standing firm with our 2021 strategy without any significant alterations at this point,” said Martin Schwenk, MD & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, “However, there can be some delays expected in product introductions due to market challenges and sentiments. “The new GLA, which has grown to be more aggressive, bold-looking and tech-laden than ever before, has been a much-awaited product for customers,” he said. The AMG GLA 35 4M is locally made, he added.  Some delays can be expected in product introductions due to market challenges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-benz-india-unveils-suv-variants/article34645560.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||GDP likely grew by 1.3% in Q4 FY21: SBI research||India’s GDP is likely to have grown at 1.3% in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 and may have contracted by about 7.3% for the full financial year, according to an SBI research report ‘Ecowrap’. The National Statistical Office (NSO) will release the GDP estimates for the March 2021 quarter and provisional annual estimates for the year 2020-21 on May 31. “Based on our ‘nowcasting model’, the forecasted GDP growth for Q4 would be around 1.3% (with downward bias),” the lender’s economics research team said in the report. “We now expect GDP decline for the full year (FY 2020-21) to be around 7.3% (compared to our earlier prediction of minus 7.4%),” the research team said. State Bank of India (SBI) has developed a ‘nowcasting model’ with 41 high-frequency indicators associated with industry activity, service activity, and global economy in collaboration with State Bank Institute of Leadership (SBIL), Kolkata. The economics research team said that going by the estimate of 1.3% GDP growth, India would still be the fifth-fastest-growing country among 25 nations that have released their GDP numbers so far. ‘Concomitant decline’ It said one likely consequence of any upward revision in FY21 estimates is a concomitant decline in FY22 GDP estimates. “Our estimates now indicate that there might be nominal GDP loss of up to Rs. 6 lakh crore during Q1 FY22 as compared to loss of Rs. 11 lakh crore in Q1 FY21,” it said. Real GDP loss would be in the range of Rs. 4-4.5 lakh crore and, hence, real GDP growth would be in the range of 10-15% (as against RBI forecast of 26.2%), the researchers said. The researchers further said both deposits and credit of all the banks declined in April and May. However, the trend in deposits had changed from FY21. Deposits had increased by a staggering Rs. 2.8 lakh crore in 2020-21; and in the current financial year, it has already increased by Rs. 1 lakh crore till May 7. Household stress “The interesting point to note is that deposits have shown alternate periods of expansion and contraction in FY22 in the first three fortnights,” it said. According to the SBI research team, it is possible that such expansion, followed by contraction, could indicate household stress as people getting salary credits in the first fortnight are withdrawing it in the second fortnight for health expenses. They are also stocking up currency on a precautionary motive and given an uncertain scenario, and the trend continues.  Deposits have shown alternate periods of expansion and contraction in first three fortnights||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-likely-grew-by-13-in-q4-fy21-sbi-research/article34645569.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||SEBI to appoint forensic auditors for listed firms||Markets regulator SEBI is looking to appoint auditors for conducting forensic audits of financial statements of listed companies as part of efforts to curb frauds. In recent months, SEBI has ordered forensic audits of certain companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has invited applications from eligible chartered accountant firms “for empanelment to take up assignments relating to forensic audit of financial statements of listed companies.”  “Application shall not be considered where disciplinary action or proceedings have been initiated against the applicant, its partners or directors, by any regulatory body or court of law,” SEBI noted.  In October 2020, SEBI asked listed firms to disclose about the initiation of forensic audit to stock exchanges to address gaps in the availability of information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-to-appoint-forensic-auditors-for-listed-firms/article34645571.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Use of cloud tech can help boost profits’||Effective adoption of cloud technologies can help add to enterprise profits, a survey by The Infosys Knowledge Institute has shown. The study, which included 2,500 participants from the U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand, showed that enterprises in these regions could add up to $414 billion in net new profits annually with cloud adoption. A strong profit link was identified when using cloud to rapidly bring new solutions to market. These investments provide a foundation to leverage artificial intelligence and automation, and build cloud-based new sources of revenue, the research arm of Infosys said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/use-of-cloud-tech-can-help-boost-profits/article34645559.ece
26 May 2021||Hyderabad,||‘WHO nod for Covaxin likely in July-Sept.’||Bharat Biotech expects to receive regulatory approvals from the World Health Organization (WHO) for Covaxin in the July-September quarter. It had already submitted an application to the WHO seeking Emergency Use Listing for the vaccine, the company said on Tuesday. Regulatory approvals for the vaccine are in process in more than 60 countries, the firm said. Emergency use authorisations were obtained in 13 countries with more set to follow. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech’s partner in the U.S. Ocugen Inc. said it had submitted Master File as part of the process to get emergency use authorisation for the COVID-19 vaccine from the U.S. FDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/who-nod-for-covaxin-likely-in-july-sept/article34645561.ece
26 May 2021||new delhi,||Fuel prices raised for 13th time in May||The price of petrol inched towards the Rs. 100-mark in Mumbai on Tuesday after fuel rates were increased yet again. Petrol price was raised by 23 paise a litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a notification. The increase — the 13th this month — pushed petrol and diesel prices to record-high levels across the country. Petrol price in Delhi rose to Rs. 93.44 a litre and diesel to Rs. 84.32 a litre. In Mumbai, petrol climbed to Rs. 99.71 a litre and diesel to Rs. 91.57. Rates had already crossed the Rs. 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and with the latest increase, the price in Mumbai, too, inched towards that level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fuel-prices-raised-for-13th-time-in-may/article34645567.ece
26 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Flipkart hired 23,000 for supply chain||Flipkart said it hired 23,000 people between March and May to strengthen its supply- chain infrastructure. The new recruits were offered a mix of classroom and digital training. They would be covered under the firm’s healthcare and wellness initiatives to ensure safety, said Hemant Badri, senior VP, supply chain, Flipkart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-hired-23000-for-supply-chain/article34645558.ece
26 May 2021||Mumbai,||Asirvad Microfinance raises USD 15 mn in ECB from WorldBusiness Capital Inc||Asirvad Microfinance, an arm of Manappuram Finance, said it has raised $15 million in a 7-year external commercial borrowing (ECB) loan from the U.S.-based WorldBusiness Capital Inc. The loan is supported by the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation, Asirvad said. The proceeds will aid Asirvad to expand its business of providing small loans to low-income women business owners in rural areas.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/asirvad-microfinance-raises-usd-15-mn-in-ecb-from-worldbusiness-capital-inc/article34645562.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Verstappen shakes up F1’s reigning hierarchy||For the last two years, Formula One fans have been hoping for a challenger to Lewis Hamilton, who has dominated the sport since 2014 and cruised to titles in 2019 and 2020 with little competition. The Briton has had an easy time on track, with his Mercedes being the best car on the grid while Ferrari and Red Bull have struggled to close the gap. Towards the end of last year, Red Bull appeared to catch up with Mercedes’ pace. It has continued that form this year with a car capable of being competitive from the first race. First time So when Max Verstappen claimed victory at the recently concluded Monaco Grand Prix, he took the lead in the drivers’ championship for the first time in his career. Ever since he burst onto the scene, the Dutchman has been hoping to be in a title fight and has had to wait seven seasons to have a car to compete with Mercedes and Hamilton. The minor rule change for the 2021 season, focusing on the floor towards the car’s rear, has hurt teams like Mercedes and Aston Martin, which, unlike Red Bull, run their cars on a low-rake concept where the rear of the car is close to the ground. Red Bull has for years run a high-rake concept to maximise rear downforce, with the car having a slightly higher ground clearance at the back while the nose dips closer to the ground at the front. Despite losing some of their advantage, Hamilton and Mercedes managed to win three of the first four races thanks to their inherent pace and smart strategy in Bahrain, Portugal and Spain, where Verstappen was initially in the lead. The duo had wheel-to-wheel battles in the first four races but avoided contact and messy incidents. Ahead of the Monaco GP, Hamilton, who is going for a record eighth title, attempted to put pressure on his championship rival, saying Verstappen had a lot more to prove. Red Bull was favoured around the streets of Monte Carlo, and on a day when Hamilton and Mercedes were off the pace, Verstappen showed he is more than ready to prove his worth. The 23-year-old has in the past had crashes at the tight, twisty circuit but was in sublime form on Sunday and ended with a four-point lead over Hamilton. Good lesson After the win, Verstappen did not hold back in his response to the defending champion’s attempt at mind games. “Well, first of all, actions always speak louder than words,” he said. “I think that’s a good lesson after this weekend. You have to talk on the track, that’s what I like.” If Red Bull and Verstappen can sustain this form for the rest of the year, the Monaco GP could not only be a pivotal moment for the 2021 season but also herald a new era in the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-shakes-up-f1s-reigning-hierarchy/article34645686.ece
26 May 2021||TOKYO,||‘US’ travel warning not related to Games’||The Japanese government on Tuesday was quick to deny that the United States’ warning for Americans to avoid travelling to Japan would influence the athletes willing to compete in the Tokyo Games. U.S. officials cited a surge in coronavirus cases in Japan caused by virus variants that may put even vaccinated people at risk. They didn’t ban Americans from visiting Japan, but the warnings could affect insurance rates and whether Olympic athletes and other participants decide to join the Games that begin on July 23. The U.S. warning from the Atlanta-based Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said: “Because of the current situation in Japan, even fully vaccinated travellers may be at risk for getting and spreading COVID-19 variants and should avoid all travel to Japan.” The State Department’s warning was more blunt. “Do not travel to Japan due to COVID-19,” it said. Rising cases Most metro areas in Japan are under a state of emergency and are expected to remain so till the middle of June because of the rising COVID-19 cases that is also putting pressure on the country’s medical systems. This raises concern about how the country could cope with the arrival of tens of thousands of Olympic participants if its hospitals remain stressed and only a few of its population is vaccinated. Japan's chief cabinet secretary Katsunobu Kato told a regular news conference that the U.S. warning does not prohibit essential travel, and Japan believes that United States’ support for Tokyo’s effort to hold the Olympics is unchanged. “We believe there is no change in the U.S. position supporting the Japanese government’s determination to host the Games,” said Kato, adding that Washington has told Tokyo that the travel warning is not related to the participation of the U.S. Olympic team. The United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee said it still anticipates American athletes to safely compete at the Tokyo Olympics. Fans from abroad were banned from the Tokyo Olympics months ago, but athletes, families and sporting officials from around the world and other stakeholders still amount to a mass influx of international travellers. The Japanese public, in surveys, has expressed opposition in hosting the Games due to safety concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/us-travel-warning-not-related-to-games/article34645728.ece
26 May 2021||MUMBAI,||Kohli, Rohit and Shastri enter bio-bubble||India captain Virat Kohli, his white-ball deputy Rohit Sharma and head coach Ravi Shastri joined the England-bound squad’s bio-bubble on Tuesday as it began its eight-day hard quarantine along with the women’s team here. The Indian women's team members also entered their eight-day hard quarantine at the Grand Hyatt. The teams are expected to fly out on June 2 after all the playing and non-playing members return three negative RT-PCR results. The men’s team will first take on New Zealand in the World Test Championship final from June 18 before a full series against England. The women are scheduled to take on the hosts in one Test, three ODIs and as many T20Is starting June 16. “Wriddhiman Saha and Prasidh Krishna joined the bubble two days back after recovering fully from COVID-19. Kohli, Rohit and coach Shastri have all joined the bubble now,” a BCCI source confirmed. It is learnt that approval for allowing the players’ families is still awaited but the BCCI is hopeful it would be done soon. Negotiations on the quarantine duration once the side reaches England are still on and the hard quarantine (confined to hotel rooms) could be shortened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-rohit-and-shastri-enter-bio-bubble/article34645681.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Where incompetence is celebrated: a devilishly complex theology||When the Scot Donald Cameron sees the following headlines in newspapers in England, he is almost “numb with the cold of sheer panic.” England Overwhelmed With Disaster , says one. Is England Doomed ? asks another. A late edition mentions the Collapse of England . Cameron soon discovers the truth. This is not about a war or an attack by aliens. It is the “sad story of England’s shame in the second Test match against Australia at Melbourne.”  England, Their England , where this is taken from was published in the 1930s. It feels dated now, but has the best-known report of a cricket match in fiction. Written by A.G. Macdonell, this classic on the quirks and foibles of the English as seen through Scottish eyes, was much anthologised, and even included in some school textbooks. The final catch that tied the match takes four pages to describe, suggesting perhaps that the skier takes as long to descend into safe hands as a reader might take to read about it. Wodehouse on the game Cricket is a funny game, and you would imagine that it is a rich field for comic writers. P.G. Wodehouse, a fan who named his immortal butler after the Warwickshire all rounder Percy Jeeves, only occasionally touched upon cricket in his later books.  Psmith in the City , where Mike Jackson gets out on 98 because someone walks in front of the sightscreen shows how much fans missed this especially after Wodehouse settled in America and golf supplied the sporting raw material for his comic pen. Cricket is like sex in the ridiculous postures one gets into. And this is only one aspect of it. But while cricket has been used to comic effect occasionally by the likes of Charles Dickens and Thomas Hughes, it has seldom been given the full-length treatment. Funniest genre The most popular and funniest genre is the pitiless description of all-round incompetence — of individual or team — and about the characters whose passion far outstrips their ability. As Marcus Berkmann says in his Rain Men: The Madness of Cricket , “To be treated with the respect you don’t deserve is the dream of every talentless sportsman.” What makes such a person carry on season after season? “At some cathartic moment in our stunted childhoods,” Berkmann explains, “this ridiculous sport inveigled itself into our consciousnesses like a virus and never left.”  Rain Men mirrors the experiences of players everywhere, especially amateurs who take their game seriously. Berkmann’s team is Captain Scott XI (named after the explorer who is symbol of the second best, arriving at the South Pole a few days after Roald Amundsen became the first man to get there). In much the same vein is Gideon Haigh’s Many a Slip , which the author describes as “a short book about a small cricket club with an unremarkable history and an uncertain future”. Berkmann has also written Zimmer Men: the Trials and Tribulations of the Ageing Cricketer . Written a decade later, it is about the talentless of the first book who have aged and slipped further. Only the truly obsessed can summon up the detachment needed to write humourously about the game. Here is why cricket is a religion, explains Rain Men : “We already have the trappings. We have the devilishly complex theology whose baroque byways confuse even the most dedicated adherents. We have the curious vestments, for white is a holy colour in many religions. We have our holy book ( Wisden ), published each April in both hardback and paperback editions. “For matters of doctrinal policy, we can consult God’s own representative on earth, the chairman of selectors…. We have no room in cricket for doubt or equivocation. Anglicans may believe that Christ was resurrected after death, but we know that David Gower should have gone to India in 1992-93…” It is, as one reviewer put it, “a very funny book about some very sad men.”  A personal favourite in this genre is A La Recherche Du Cricket Perdu by the marvellous Simon Barnes (“favourite cricket writer: James Joyce”), an anthology of 25 pieces written by him in the style of various writers such as Melville, Lawrence, Dante, Ian Fleming, Boswell, Eliot, Tolkien, Homer, Nabokov, Twain, Beckett, Conan Doyle, Chaucer and Shakespeare himself (‘ The Tragedy of Prince Botham’ ).  The Love Song of J Derek Pringle by ‘T.S. Eliot’ begins thus: Let us go then, you and me/When the members are spread out after tea/Like patients etherised upon their various tables.  In book three of Douglas Adams’s The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy , (where at one point the Ashes get stolen from Lord’s), Ford Prefect tells Arthur Dent, “We can’t win against obsession. They care, we don’t. They win.” It is useful advice for both players and writers .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/where-incompetence-is-celebrated-a-devilishly-complex-theology/article34645688.ece
26 May 2021||DUBAI,||Classy Shiva Thapa assured of a medal||Shiva Thapa ensured India’s first medal in the Asian boxing championships as he defeated Nader Odah of Kuwait in a 64kg quarterfinals bout to enter the last four stage here on Tuesday. Thapa recorded a comprehensive 5-0 win over Odah to earn his fifth successive medal at the event, and the first in the 64kg class. The seasoned Indian mixed his jabs with lusty right blows to inflict a standing count on Odah in the first round. Thapa continued his dominance to walk away with a fine victory. Meets Usmonov Thapa, who beat Kyrgyz boxer Dimitrii Puchin 5-0 in a first round bout on Monday night, will take on top seed and defending champion Bakhodur Usmonov of Tajikistan in the semifinals. In 56kg, Mohammad Hussamuddin’s journey ended in the quarterfinals as the Indian lost to top seed and reigning World champion Mirazizbek Mirzahalilov 4-1. Combination punches Hussamuddin moved around the ring to evade the attacks of the Uzbek, who delivered a combination of straight punches and hooks to get the better of the Indian. Sangwan exits In an 81kg opening round bout on Monday, Sumit Sangwan suffered a 5-0 defeat against Iranian boxer Meysam Gheshlaghi. Olympic-bound boxers Amit Panghal (52kg), Vikas Krishan (69kg) and Ashish Kumar (75kg) will begin their campaign on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/classy-shiva-thapa-assured-of-a-medal/article34645678.ece
26 May 2021||BELGRADE,||Djokovic overcomes Moraing’s challenge||Novak Djokovic registered a 6-2, 7-6(4) win over German lucky loser Mats Moraing on Tuesday in his opener in Belgrade where the World No. 1 is warming up for the French Open. The clay-court Grand Slam starts in Paris on Sunday, and Djokovic opted for extra match practice on home soil this week. The 34-year-old was made to fight by the World No. 253 before winning in an hour and 40 minutes. It was Djokovic's first match since losing the Italian Open final to Rafael Nadal nine days ago. He will next face Argentinian Federico Coria, the younger brother of former Roland Garros runner-up Guillermo Coria, in the quarterfinals.  The results (second round): Novak Djokovic bt Mats Moraing 6-2, 7-6(4); Federico Coria bt Pablo Cuevas 6-3, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-overcomes-moraings-challenge/article34645690.ece
26 May 2021||Kiawah Island (USA),||PGA apologises to Mickelson and Koepka||PGA of America CEO Seth Waugh has apologised to winner Phil Mickelson and Brooks Koepka for fans rushing onto the 18th hole at the PGA Championship. After Mickelson’s approach landed on the 18th green, spectators rushed past the ropes, marshals and security at the Ocean Course, quickly swarming the competitors as they played the 72nd hole on Sunday. Feel vulnerable  Waugh said on Monday that the organisation regretted that the scene “made two players and their caddies feel vulnerable”. Waugh’s statement, released on social media, said the charge came from “a moment of high elation and pent-up emotion by spectators” and overwhelmed security. Mickelson said the scene “was a little bit unnerving, but it was exceptionally awesome, too”. Koepka said his surgically repaired right knee got hit by people as he tried to break through the crowd. He wondered if someone purposely tried to hurt him. “I don’t know, it felt somebody tried to...” he said, cutting off his thought. “I don’t know what the deal was, but it’s what it is.” Waugh said player safety is a chief goal and he was glad order was restored. Fans circled the final green and celebrated when Mickelson triumphed.  I don’t know what the deal was, but it’s what it is — Koepka   It was a little bit unnerving, but it was awesome, too — Mickelson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pga-apologises-to-mickelson-and-koepka/article34645730.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adhiban starts favourite||The Grandmaster-quartet of favourite B. Adhiban, S.P. Sethuraman, veteran Surya Shekhar Ganguly and S.L. Narayanan forms the creamy layer of the AICF World Cup qualifier that opens on Wednesday. The winner of the five-day round-robin rapid online event gets a spot in next month’s $1.89 million World Cup, where even the first-round loser collects $3,750 (approx. Rs. 2.75 lakh). The withdrawal of top seed Vidit Gujrathi on Monday improved the prospects of the remaining title-aspirants in the 17-player field. Adhiban’s consistency gives him a slight edge over Sethuraman. Recently, he was one of the two Indian qualifiers for the ongoing Meltwaters Champions Chess Tour. Ganguly, the oldest of the eight GMs in the fray, could face unexpected challenges since many younger players appear more at ease in moving the pieces with the help of a ‘mouse’. Narayanan a contender Narayanan is another serious title-contender. He has increasingly looked better when playing online. Considering the limited opportunities he gets, Nayarayan remains silently determined to make them count. Teenage GMs D. Gukesh and P. Iniyan are the ‘dark horses’ with bright chances of causing surprises. Two other GMs Deep Sengupta and Vishnu Prasanna could find it tough to make their presence felt. Watch out for Aditya   Among the seven International Masters, 14-year-old Aditya Mittal is the one to watch out for. Unlike some names from his peer group, Aditya does not enjoy much exposure. He sure holds immense potential to make a lasting impression. Soumya Swaminathan, the 2009 World junior girls’ champion, is the lone woman in the fray. She returns to competitive chess after a break to test her preparedness for the upcoming events. On Wednesday, three rounds are scheduled and the action will commence at 11 a.m. on the online platform, tornelo.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-starts-favourite/article34645724.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Conduct vaccination programme for athletes in twin cities: Goud to SATS||Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud suggested to the Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS) officials to conduct vaccination programme for all the athletes in the twin cities at the Lal Bahadur Stadium, at the earliest. He also directed officials to conduct similar camps at all district headquarters for the benefit of athletes from rural areas also. “It is important to have a comprehensive list of all the athletes who need vaccination as top priority and then slowly ensure that every athlete across all disciplines get the jab,” he said. The Minister, who was on a visit to the Gopi Chand Badminton Academy on Tuesday to encourage the Tokyo-bound shuttlers, said athletes were finding it extremely difficult to train outside because of the lockdown. “We do understand their issues. But every step taken by the Government is in the interest of the public. “At the same time, we are committed to ensure that they get the best of facilities at their training centres. “We request the athletes to have their fitness training sessions at home and nearby places to avoid contracting the virus,” he said. New Sports Policy “The Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao has given a direction to draft a new Sports Policy which ensures that every aspect of an athlete, be it in training, exposure and long-term benefits, is incorporated duly. “We are glad that Hyderabad is the badminton hub of the country. “We sincerely wish that the shuttlers will bring glory in the Tokyo Olympics,” Mr. Goud said.  We sincerely wish that the shuttlers will bring glory in the Tokyo Olympics — Srinivas Goud||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conduct-vaccination-programme-for-athletes-in-twin-cities-goud-to-sats/article34646163.ece
26 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Disappointment for Arjun Lal and Arvind Singh||For rowers Arjun Lal and Arvind Singh who qualified for the Tokyo Olympics, there was huge disappointment with the scheduled trip to Portugal for intensive training ahead of the Games getting cancelled. With the visa not approved and also the fact that a 14-day quarantine is mandatory for anyone going from India to Portugal, the trip has been cancelled and they will be back to their regular training centre — Army Rowing Node in Pune. Arjun and Arvind were scheduled to train for five weeks from June 1 at the Pocinho High Performance Centre in Portugal as part of the preparations for the Olympics. The double-scullers were also sanctioned Rs. 21 lakh by the Mission Olympic Cell on Monday. “The compulsory quarantine is not acceptable as it means a long gap in training with just two months away from the Olympics,” confirmed Rajalaxmi Singh Deo, president, Rowing Federation of India. “Luckily, the rowers got a feel of the conditions in Tokyo since the qualifiers were held there. It has been a terrific feat for both Arjun and Arvind to make the cut,” she said. “It is unfortunate that the Portugal camp has to be cancelled. The rowers will be back in the Army Rowing Node for normal training. We hope to get a good result,” Rajalaxmi told The Hindu .  She added that the preparations for the World Championship in Shanghai in October will begin with a camp for men in Pune. “Since the women’s camps in Odisha and Kerala were shut because of the pandemic, we are focussing only on the men’s team for the Worlds. “Essentially, the focus will be on the Asian Games next year. We are looking at the Worlds as an exposure event though they will prepare to win a medal there too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/disappointment-for-arjun-lal-and-arvind-singh/article34645739.ece
26 May 2021||DHAKA,||Mushfiqur’s ton helps Bangladesh clinch series||Mushfiqur Rahim hit a gritty 125 to lift Bangladesh to 246 after it had lost early wickets in the rain-hit second ODI against Sri Lanka on Tuesday. In reply, the visitors were restricted to 141 for nine in 40 overs after another downpour reduced the number of overs. Sri Lanka was never in the hunt as off-spinner Mehidy Hasan, opening the bowling again, took three for 28 in 10 overs. Left-arm seamer Mustafizur Rahman bagged three for 16 in six overs while left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan finished with two for 38 in a nine-over spell. Earlier, Bangladesh was in trouble at 74 for four when Mushfiqur put on 87 for the fifth wicket with Mahmdullah (41). Mushfiqur, who had scored 84 in Sunday’s win, brought up his hundred off 115 balls,.  The scores: Bangladesh 246 in 48.1 overs (Mushfiqur Rahim 125, Mahmudullah 41, Dushmantha Chameera 3/44, Lakshan Sandakan 3/54) bt Sri Lanka 141/9 in 40 overs (Mehidy Hasan 3/28, Mustafizur Rahman 3/16). Target revised to 245 in 40 overs after a rain interruption.   Bangladesh won by 103 runs on DLS method to take an unassailable 2-0 lead in three-match series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mushfiqurs-ton-helps-bangladesh-clinch-series/article34645677.ece
26 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Ready for ‘acceptable resolution’: EB to SCL||Kolkata giant East Bengal intimated its investor Shree Cement Limited about its readiness for an “acceptable resolution” to settle the impasse over the final agreement which has cast doubts over its participation in next year's Indian Super League. In a letter to SCEB's CEO Col Shivaji Samaddar, the club management stated that it has already communicated the “points of difference” on October 17, while one of club's longest serving presidents, Dr. Pronab Dasgupta, in his personal capacity, wrote to Shree Cement MD Hari Mohan Bangur to bring about an "acceptable resolution". “Although the points of difference between the term sheet and the definite documents were communicated as early as October 17, for the sake of completeness, we invite your attention to the following correspondence exchange in the matter," East Bengal wrote in the mail. According to a club official, SCL wants "perpetual" rights so that they have the sporting rights over the property, logo, colour, name, everything on a permanent basis. “The executive committee is hopeful that it will be settled amicably. Bangur is a true gentleman and the matter will be resolved amicably,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ready-for-acceptable-resolution-east-bengal-writes-to-shree-cement/article34645725.ece
26 May 2021||Osijek (Croatia),||Mixed day for Indians||It was a mixed fare in air pistol for the Indian Olympic team, at the European Championship in Osijek, Croatia. Asian Games gold medallist Saurabh Chaudhary shot 589 out of 600. It was the highest score in men’s air pistol. He had consistent 98 in every series and one 99. Oleh Omelchuk of Ukraine had shot 586 in topping the qualification in the regular event. World No.1 Abhishek Verma was not at his best and scored 579 with his scores ranging from 94 to 98. Interestingly the MQS field also had shooters from Iran and Japan, who like the Indian team were capitalising on the available competition at this point of time, to prepare their best for Tokyo Games. Manu Bhaker (573) and Yashaswini Singh Deswal (572) warmed up for the tougher challenges ahead with the third and fourth best scores in the MQS section of women’s air pistol. Goinoush Sebghatollahi of Iran topped the MQS field with 586, five points better than the topper in the regular field, Vitalina Batsarashkina of Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-day-for-indians/article34645741.ece
26 May 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI exploring a Sept.-Oct. window||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is contemplating the month-long window, between the end of India’s series in England in September and the T20 World Cup commencement in October, to stage the remaining portion of the suspended Indian Premier League (IPL). The BCCI is set to discuss the rescheduled IPL, moving the T20 World Cup to United Arab Emirates and the forthcoming international series in a Special General Body meeting on May 29. Ahead of the meeting, IPL executives are working overtime to present viable options to the board. The most practicable option being considered at the moment is to play the remaining IPL matches from September 20 and end it at least 10 days ahead of the tentative beginning of the T20 World Cup from October 22. Quarantine issue If both the tournaments are organised in UAE, the BCCI can save on quarantine requirements. An IPL franchise official confirmed that the BCCI is in “informal discussion” with the franchises about the re-jigged IPL. The plan that’s being discussed now is to stage the remaining 31 matches in 21 days, including 10 double-headers, starting around September 20. “If the authorities in UAE relax quarantine norms for cricketers flying in from biosecure bubbles, only then can the tournament actually be played with a majority of top players being available,” said a franchise official. With the BCCI having been unable to convince its England counterpart in rescheduling the five-Test series, the series in England is scheduled to be over on September 14. The Caribbean Premier League is scheduled to get over on September 19. The BCCI will also have to consider whether top international cricketers will be made available for the tournament due to extreme toll that the UAE heat will take on the cricketers’ bodies ahead of the World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-exploring-a-sept-oct-window/article34645684.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||TTFI seeks MEA’s role in getting visas for para players||With the Embassy of Slovenia closed due to the prevailing lockdown in the Capital, an Indian table tennis team scheduled to leave for Paralympic Games trials in Slovenia is staring at the possibility of missing the event due to non-issuance of visas. The tournament is due to be held from June 3 to 5 but the organiser from Slovenia, in a letter to the Table Tennis Federation of India, has stated; “Unfortunately our Ministry of Foreign is not able to help you in getting a visa. “They tried, but because of the pandemic, the issuance of visas in India is suspended.” A worried TTFI has written to the Ministry of External Affairs, the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), the Sports Ministry and others for their intervention in the matter. The Sports Authority of India has cleared the Indian team for participation. The team comprises three players, Vaishnavi Sutar, Trivendra Singh and Sonal Patel, coach Jayesh Acharya and two escorts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfi-seeks-meas-role-in-getting-visas-for-para-players/article34645744.ece
26 May 2021||DENVER,||Jokic sizzles, Nuggets draw level with Trail Blazers||Denver Nuggets ace Nikola Jokic served up a 38-point display as the third seed overpowered Portland Trail Blazers 128-109 to level its NBA first round playoff series 1-1, while Milwaukee Bucks produced an exhibition of three-point shooting to crush Miami Heat 132-98 and take a 2-0 lead. Jokic made 15 of 20 from the field with eight rebounds and five assists as Denver battled back to after being jolted by the Blazers in Saturday’s opener. Portland talisman Damian Lillard led the scoring with 42 points but it was not enough against a rugged Denver defence. Six Denver players cracked double figures. Antetokounmpo shines In Milwaukee, Bryn Forbes erupted for five threes in the first half and Giannis Antetokounmpo finished with 31 points to give the Bucks a resounding win over last year’s Finals runner-up. Overall, the Bucks made 22 of 53 three-point attempts, with Antetokounmpo kicking off the rout with a 28-foot pull-up from outside the arc for the first points of the game.  The results: Bucks 132 bt Heat 98. Bucks lead 2-0.   Nuggets 128 bt Trail Blazers 109. Series tied 1-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jokic-sizzles-nuggets-draw-level-with-trail-blazers/article34645737.ece
26 May 2021||AUCKLAND,||Emotional Seifert recounts COVID experience||New Zealand cricketer Tim Seifert’s world stopped for a moment and his heart sank when he tested positive for COVID-19 during the now-suspended IPL. The wicketkeeper, however, said he never felt vulnerable inside the bio-bubble. “I got pulled aside and told I had tested positive. My heart sank straight away when everyone left. I was the only overseas player basically left in India in the whole tournament. That’s when things got a little bit real,” an emotional Seifert told the New Zealand Herald . “The world stopped a little bit, I just couldn’t really think what was next and that's the scary part of it — you hear about things, and I thought that was going to happen to me,” said Seifert. He thanked former Kiwi stars Brendon McCullum and Stephen Fleming as well as KKR and Chennai Super Kings for making life easier for him during his recovery period in Chennai. “It definitely was hard and I couldn’t thank Brendon (McCullum) and (Stephen) Fleming enough, they made everything a lot easier,” said Seifert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/emotional-seifert-recounts-covid-experience/article34645683.ece
26 May 2021||Paris,||Ramkumar progresses, Prajnesh bows out||India's Ramkumar Ramanathan advanced to the men's singles second round of the French Open Qualifiers. Prajnesh Gunneswaran, however, crashed out following his first-round defeat, here on Tuesday. Fighting back Ramkumar erased a one-set deficit to beat American Michael Mmoh 2-6, 7-6(4), 6-3 in his opening round that lasted one hour and 54 minutes. He will next take on Uzbekistan's veteran Denis Istomin, who also recorded a three-set win against Bosnia's Damir Dzumhur. Left-handed Prajnesh, seeded 32nd, suffered a rather tame 2-6, 2-6 loss to Germany's Oscar Otte.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-progresses-prajnesh-bows-out/article34645679.ece
26 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Milkha is clinically stable’||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh is “clinically stable with decreasing oxygen requirement” as he fights COVID pneumonia, the hospital where he is being treated said on Tuesday. Milkha was on Monday admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Fortis hospital in Mohali. The 91-year-old tested positive for the virus last Wednesday. “Milkha Singh is clinically stable with decreasing oxygen requirement,” the hospital update read. He was diagnosed with COVID pneumonia on Monday after his admission. Earlier Milkha's golfer son Jeev had said that the decision to hospitalise him was a precautionary measure. “Though his parameters seemed all right, we thought it was safer to have him admitted where he would be under supervision of senior doctors,” Jeev had said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-is-clinically-stable/article34645727.ece
26 May 2021||TASHKENT,||Jeremy finishes fourth||Jeremy Lalrinnunga lifted a total of 300kg to finish fourth in the men’s 67kg category at the World junior weightlifting championships, a gold-level Olympic qualifying event, here on Tuesday. Jeremy, a 2018 Youth Olympics champion in 62kg, did 135kg in snatch and 165kg in clean and jerk to manage six kg less than his best effort. It was 2kg less than his performance in the Asian championships at the same venue last month. Jeremy, nursing a knee injury, failed in his first snatch attempt to lift 135kg but managed to do it in his second. He did not succeed in improving it to 139kg in his third attempt and finished as the second best lifter in snatch behind Turkish lifter Muhammed Ozbek (141kg). The Indian began clean and jerk with 160kg and improved it to 165kg in his second attempt before faltering in his final for 170kg. Ozbek emerged champion with an aggregate of 317kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeremy-finishes-fourth/article34645743.ece
26 May 2021||BERLIN,||Flick to succeed Loew after Euro 2020||Outgoing Bayern Munich coach Hansi Flick will succeed his former boss Joachim Loew in the Germany dugout after Euro 2020, the German Football Association (DFB) announced on Tuesday. “It’s all gone surprisingly quickly, but I am very happy to be Germany coach from the autumn,” said Flick, 56, after signing a three-year contract to succeed Loew.  “I am hugely excited, because I see the class of players, and especially young players, which we have in Germany.” Flick has long been the favourite to take over from Loew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/flick-to-succeed-loew-after-euro-2020/article34645726.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stimac could get extension till September||The All India Football Federation (AIFF)’s technical committee could recommend an extension of national team coach Igor Stimac’s contract till the playoffs of the 2023 AFC Asian Cup Qualifiers in September. The Croatian World Cupper’s contract is up for renewal, having served his two-year tenure after being appointed to the job in May 2019. The AIFF has summoned its technical committee for a meeting on Friday, when they will discuss a raft of issues, besides Stimac’s future. “The technical committee has been called on Friday and among other issues, it is likely to discuss Stimac’s extension till September,” a top AIFF source said on Tuesday. One of the most high-profile coaches to manage the Indian men’s team, Stimac was appointed to the top post in May 2019 for a two-year term, and has had mixed results since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stimac-could-get-extension-till-september/article34645722.ece
26 May 2021||Belgrade,||Bopanna and Skugor bow out||Rohan Bopanna and Franko Skugor of Croatia lost 6-3, 4-6, [10-8] to Federico Delbonis and Artem Sitak in the doubles first round of the €511,000 ATP tennis tournament here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-and-skugor-bow-out/article34645731.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 11:42 IST,||Sudoku — May 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-25-2021/article34647145.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Review Where’s the real Halston?||To review the new Netflix miniseries on the iconic American fashion designer Halston, let’s begin with a few facts that are missing in this presentation. The viewers of these five episodes are two to three generations removed from the culture that Halston represented. And unless you’re a fashion student or an avid enthusiast, it’s safe to assume you’re not familiar with his work, even though you may have heard the name. Roy Halston Frowick’s working years stretched from the 1950s to the early 1980s. In this time, he came to define American fashion, especially for the ’70s. He was the first designer of note to design for a department store (JCPenney), a move that was at the time considered beneath them (but now we just love ‘collaborations’ between, for example, H&M and designer X). He was possibly the only American fashion designer who was admired in Europe even though he didn’t come from the pedigree of having assisted French couturiers in his younger years (like Oscar de la Renta did). Beyond that, he continued designing and approving designs for all license deals that he signed, unlike others who simply signed over their licenses to chase expansion.So what happens when an unfamiliar generation — one that has no direct link with Halston or his legacy of design — views a series that selectively centres Halston’s arrogance, drug abuse, and sexual life?  In the timeline of biographical chronicling on film, the genre of fashion documentaries and OTT series is fairly new. It was only in 1995 that Unzipped , a behind-the-scenes film about American designer Isaac Mizrahi’s Fall 1994 collection, was released. Light-hearted as it was in its take, it set the tone for many such films to follow. You still see its echoes in the more recent Martin Margiela: In His Own Words (2019), The Gospel According to Andre (2017), and Dries (2017). Unzipped is widely regarded as the starting point for this kind of moviemaking because it opened the fashion world to an audience that did not have access to its inner workings or to its big names. At least not easily. A quarter century later, a divide has emerged when it comes to telling the stories of fashion’s great names whether it’s a movie or a series. And this divide plagues Netflix’s Halston all through its five episodes, as binge-worthy as they may seem. See it if you really have nothing else to watch, but Pose Season 3 is up on Hotstar. Halston is currently   streaming on Netflix.   Varun Rana is a fashion commentator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/review-wheres-the-real-halston/article34645843.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Huma goes to Hollywood||There was a time not so long ago when Bollywood actors thought it was beneath them to audition for a role. But that’s changing and actors like Huma Qureshi belong to the new crop of artistes who are open to the idea. “I auditioned for every film until Dedh Ishiqya . I am used to the idea of entering a room where no one knows me or my work. Going into Hollywood, my mindset has been that I am walking into a different country or industry so I have to prove myself all over again,” Qureshi says over a Zoom call. One film at a time The actor, who made her Bollywood début nine years ago with Anurag Kashyap’s Gangs of Wasseypur , is now a part of Zack Snyder’s zombie heist action-thriller, Army of the Dead . In the Netflix release that also stars Dave Bautista and Tig Notaro, Qureshi plays Geeta, a single mother who lives in a quarantine camp outside a war-ravaged Las Vegas. She auditioned for the part while in Los Angeles pitching a television series that she’d written. “My agents [at CAA] asked if I’d want to meet a casting director who was working on a big film. I thought ‘might as well’.” She auditioned for the part on a Thursday and the following Monday signed up to be Geeta. “I was amazed at the speed at which Hollywood functions,” says Qureshi with a laugh. This is her first brush with Hollywood and the experience, according to the 34-year-old, was everything she had hoped for. One thing though, initially threw her off. “In India, we are used to working on multiple projects at the same time. For this film, they blocked two-and-a-half months of my time,” she says. Know one’s rights Long after the filming of Army of the Dead had ended, one of its stars, Chris D’Elia, was accused of exposing himself to multiple women and soliciting child pornography. When the allegations came to light, Snyder and his producing partner (and wife), Deborah, decided to replace the comedian with Notaro. While closer home there haven’t been many instances of abusers getting their comeuppance, Qureshi believes “there is a lot being done to set the proper systems in place”. “Things are happening at the contractual level. A lot of young girls, who work behind the camera and might have thought that they don’t have as much of a voice, are coming forward and telling people what’s acceptable behaviour and what’s not. I am doing a few films with Netflix and for each there is a call with a lawyer explaining your rights.” Making her work count Among Qureshi’s cinematic lineup is Dibakar Banerjee’s futuristic film, Freedom , and Vasan Bala’s Monica, Oh My Darling with Rajkummar Rao. Later this month, she’ll be seen in the political drama series, Maharani, on Sony LIV. Among her big screen releases are Tamil films Valimai alongside Ajith Kumar, and Bellbottom , also starring Akshay Kumar. Qureshi’s eclectic filmography across formats and languages is a reflection of her refusing to be pigeonholed. “My only yardstick for judging the work coming my way is the content. Is it making sense to me? I don’t think of the genre, format or the industry. As an actor it’s so exciting that I can go to LA and shoot a film there and then shoot another one in Chennai and a series in Mumbai,” she concludes. Watch Huma Qureshi in conversation with Karishma Upadhyay on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/huma-goes-to-hollywood/article34645845.ece
26 May 2021||May 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Pink: parent, performer, pacesetter||Michael Gracey is obsessed with Bollywood. Speaking over a video call from New Zealand, the Australian director says he grew up watching Akshay Kumar films. “Bollywood is the greatest example of musical storytelling.” Gracey should know, having directed the multiple-award winning The Greatest Showman and his latest documentary, P!nk: All I Know So Far . “I am passionate about musical storytelling as a narrative form,” he says. “The way I put sequences together is music driven, but that doesn’t necessarily mean it is a musical. Films such as Cinema Paradiso or The Mission , or Tarantino’s films, are music driven but are not musicals; people are not breaking into song.” Gracey met American singer-songwriter Pink when she recorded ‘ A Million Dreams ’ for The Greatest Showman: Reimagined album. “She asked if I would do the music video for her single, ‘ Walk Me H ome ’. When it came time to capture her Wembley concert [in London, in 2019], we thought of finding a unique approach to make sure it was not another documentary of a concert. The one thing that I had seen, spending time with her, was her amazing juggling act between family life and being a rock star. She didn’t seem to separate those two things, they just seem to exist for her at the same time. I thought that was an incredibly unique way to enter this film.”  Slice of life  Pink, 41, came up with the title, Gracey says with a laugh. “Over the course of the film... and the different variations of wisdom of being a rock star, a mother, her relationship with her children and her husband, [former motorcycle racer and BMX star] Carey Hart. It is not to say that there is not more to come, but just that this is a good snapshot of where she is in her life right now.” (Pink also released a song by the same name on May 7, directed by her longtime collaborator, Dave Meyers.) The documentary mixes behind-the-scenes interviews, on-the-road footage, and personal material (the singer keeps a journal and writes letters to her children, to read when they are older), as it follows the family of four and the crew across Europe on the ‘Beautiful Trauma’ world tour. Considering himself fortunate in the people that he has worked with, Gracey says Pink is an amazing performer and a very funny person to be around. “Collaborating with her was an absolute joy.” During the film, there is a scene where Pink’s two-year-old son, Jameson, sneezes so hard, he hits his head on the wall. “The fact that we captured it was amazing,” says Gracey. “There were also moving moments like when she reads a letter from a [lifelong] fan. They are the moments where you understand the impact that she has had on so many people. Every artist hopes that they make something that connects with people and impacts their lives for the better. There is no question that Pink is one of those people.”  The quiet and the spectacular  Having worked in advertising, feature films, music videos and documentaries, Gracey doesn’t play favourites. “They are all so different. The reason I was able to make the film I did was because of the years of shooting commercials [which are all about how you engage an audience, and keep them watching, even if it is just for 60 seconds]. Documentary filmmaking is another discipline, but to me all of these things are just about storytelling. It is more about the subject matter, about the story, and the best or most engaging way to tell that story.” The documentary, Gracey says, was going to be about Pink juggling being a rock star and a mum. “That was definitely the intention going in. I think what was discovered in the shooting was that she has that same bond and a sense of family with her crew. Also, I thought Jameson was going to be great fodder for the camera because he is such a personality. And yet it was her [eight-year-old] daughter, Willow, who fascinated me. She is quiet, introspective, thoughtful and deep. You don’t expect the quiet person to be great entertainment. The contrast between the circus going on around the tour, the production and the spectacle, and this quiet little girl in the corner just looking at her mum was fascinating.” P!nk: All I Know So Far    is streaming on   Amazon Prime Video .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pink-parent-performer-pacesetter/article34645846.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors say black fungus cases likely to decline in 7 to 10 days||Cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) in the city seem to have reached the peak and are expected to fall in the next 7-10 days similar to COVID-19, which had triggered a spike in the fungal infection, said doctors on Tuesday. They also said due to shortage of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat black fungus, some of them are using another drug, which is the second line of treatment. They said the shortage is hampering the treatment. Low admissions Deputy Medical Superintendent of Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital Ritu Saxena said there is a reduction in new admissions of patients with black fungus. “There is a fall in the number of new [black fungus] cases. Today [Tuesday] only one or two patients were admitted at the hospital. COVID cases spiked in April and when these patients were in the recovery phase, then the black fungus cases had spiked. We are now expecting a fall in the number of these cases too,” Dr. Saxena said. Lok Nayak Hospital is one of three dedicated hospitals the government declared for treatment of the fungal infection. There were 48 people admitted at the hospital with black fungus as of Tuesday evening. A majority of patients with black fungus are those who recovered from COVID-19 or are infected with the virus, said doctors. Atul Mittal, director, Otorhinolaryngology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, also said there is a “slight” reduction in new cases at the hospital and cases are likely to fall. “But we will have to wait for a week to come to a conclusion,” Dr. Mittal added. ‘Secondary disease’ Ajay Swaroop, chairman of ENT, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said: “If the primary disease [COVID-19] cases go down, then the secondary disease [black fungus] will also go down in 10-15 days as that is the time period after which the patient develops the secondary disease. The black fungus cases are expected to fall in the next 7-10 days.” There were 78 people admitted at the hospital with the fungal infection as of Tuesday evening. Both Dr. Swaroop and Dr. Mittal said they were giving Posaconazole, a second line of the drug, along with Amphotericin B to reduce the usage of the latter. “If Amphotericin B is available, then we would not even think about another drug. But since there is a shortage of the drug, we are giving Posaconazole to patients so that we can give them a reduced dose of Amphotericin than required,” Dr. Swaroop said. Another doctor at Ganga Ram said they were forced to choose whom to give Amphotericin B due to the shortage and it was “unfortunate”. “Shortage is there. We are not getting sufficient quantities of the drug and have to wait for it. We have to slightly delay the treatment of new patients with the drug in some cases, as the ongoing treatments cannot be stopped,” Dr. Saxena said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctors-say-black-fungus-cases-likely-to-decline-in-7-to-10-days/article34645810.ece
26 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||People in some villages resisting vaccination, say U.P. officials||Getting people to take the COVID-19 vaccine shots in some parts of rural Uttar Pradesh is proving to be a tough ask for officials allegedly due to a range of misconceptions circulating about their side effects. In Barabanki district, when a team of health department officials had gone to a village for vaccination and awareness drive, a group of men and boys fled from the spot after wading through the shallow waters of the Ghagra river or jumping into the stream. Though it is not confirmed if they were even eligible for the dose, a senior official said they fled in fear that they would be forcefully administered the vaccine. The officials then set up an awareness camp in village Sisaunda but only 14-15 persons got inoculated on the day, said SDM Ramnagar Rajeev Shukla. This was the story in several other villages, he said. “There is a lot of resistance among the villagers,” Mr. Shukla told The Hindu . He said there is a standing misconception among people that the vaccine will cause them to fall ill and get fever. To motivate people, the administration has deployed teams in areas with resistance. In Baudhiya Kalan village in Lakhimpur Kheri, headman Syed Maksud Ali Guddu said people believe “if they get the vaccine, they will contract fever and die, or become sterile”. Mr. Guddu said the awareness campaign of the government has been insufficient. To encourage people, Mr. Guddu said he was going door-to-door and showing them photographs of his own vaccination. He is also resorting to making false promises. “It is a struggle,” he said. “People come up and flatly say, we won’t get the vaccine.” The gram sabha has 12,000 residents, but only 100 have got vaccinated while another 500 are registered, said Mr. Guddu. Lalji Pasi, superintendent of Nighasan community health centre, said they were having to deal with a number of misconceptions and rumours in the villages, such as fever, COVID-like symptoms and death. In village Ganga Behar, when officials reached to vaccinate people, some persons aggressively objected, following which the police had to be called. One person was let off after he promised he would get the dose, said Mr. Pasi. When his team reached the village later, the man was nowhere to be found, the official said. DM Barabanki said the vaccination percentage in the district had gone up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/people-in-some-villages-resisting-vaccination-say-up-officials/article34645859.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi hospitals record lowest COVID admissions in 50 days||In what appears to further indicate the departure of the debilitating second wave of the virus from the Capital, the lowest number of COVID admissions in the last 50 days was reported from city hospitals on Monday. But in another telltale marker of the severity of the strain this period of virulence wreaked on the city’s health infrastructure, statistics related to calls received by the Delhi government’s helpline number — 1031 — posit that over 73 emergency calls were made every hour between May 1 and May 23. At least 11 of these were queries about the availability of hospital beds. According to the Delhi government, 382 patients were admitted against the discharge of 625 on Monday. This is not only the lowest number of daily hospital admissions of COVID patients since April 5 but even lower than one-fifth of the peak of 1,993 single-day hospital admissions recorded on April 29. On April 5, 406 admissions were recorded against 141 patients being discharged. Seemingly at its most virulent before beginning to abate albeit slightly from the following day, 1268 patients were discharged on April 29 before the number of admissions began reducing on a daily basis starting April 30. Over the 54-day period between April 1 and May 24, the Delhi government recorded the hospitalisation of 63,830 COVID patients and the discharge of 46,848 patients. However, while daily admissions are declining over the last four days, so is the number of patients being discharged after recovering. On May 21, 638 patients were admitted against 1,043 discharges, 482 against 891 on May 22, 412 against 905 on May 23 and 382 against 625 on May 24. According to data related to calls received on 1031, a total number of 40,375 calls were received between May 1 and May 23 — a daily average of 1755; of the total number of calls received during the period 6086, or 264 per day, were inquiries about the availability of hospital beds. While the highest numbers of calls made to the emergency helpline, 2,404, were recorded on May 11, the most enquiries about the availability of hospital beds were made on May 7. Both the number of emergency calls as well as queries about the availability of hospital beds have been decreasing since May 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hospitals-in-city-record-lowest-covid-admissions-in-50-days/article34645804.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Either vaccinate students or cancel Class 12 exam: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday wrote to Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank putting forward the view of the Delhi government that all students need to be vaccinated before appearing for the CBSE Class 12 board examination. Mr. Sisodia reiterated the suggestions he had made after a meeting that was attended by education ministers of all States regarding the conduct of the Class 12 board examination and called for the cancellation of the examination. Previous 3 years The Central government had sought detailed suggestions from all State and Union Territories by May 25 on conducting the exams which were deferred in view of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sisodia recommended that the Central government declare results of the students on the basis of the marks scored by the students in the previous three years and give students the change to appear for the examination at a later date if they are not happy with their score received based on the tabulation of past performances. He also called for a meeting to discuss the examination format for the 2022 CBSE board examination. The Deputy Chief Minister suggested that the government consult experts on whether Covishield or Covaxin can be given to Class 12 students who are almost 18 years of age. He also suggested that the government procure the Pfizer vaccine which has been approved for children above the age of 12 years. Mr. Sisodia said that if the government makes vaccines available, the government will be able to vaccinate all Class 12 students in three to four weeks. Mr. Sisodia said that the two options proposed by the Centre to either conduct examinations in only the major subjects or conduct shorter duration exams at respective schools were not an answer to the challenges posed by the new strain of COVID-19.  If the Centre makes Pfizer vaccine available, the Delhi govt. will be able to vaccinate all Class 12 students in three to four weeks   Manish Sisodia Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/either-vaccinate-students-or-cancel-class-12-exam-sisodia/article34645801.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||No free vaccination for 18-44 age group for the second day||There was no free vaccination for the 18-44 age group in Delhi government schools for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, said AAP leader Atishi.  She said the only way for youth to get vaccinated is by paying “heavy prices” in private hospitals. “Today is the second day for vaccination of youth to have temporarily stopped in Delhi. From today, Covaxin for 45+ is also absolutely finished. This is extremely saddening and worrisome for the people of Delhi, especially the youth. The only vaccination happening for the youth is in private hospitals at unreasonably high rates. One dose of Covishield costs around Rs. 900-950 in private hospitals while Covaxin costs Rs. 1,200-Rs. 1,300,” Ms. Atishi said. Also, according to the Delhi government bulletin, there is no stock of Covaxin left for vaccinating people of 45 years and above, healthcare, and frontline workers. On this, Ms. Atishi said: “If the gap between the first and second one increases, the first dose too becomes ineffective. Shortage of vaccines is a matter of grave concern.”: The AAP leader said the Centre must approve vaccines in the international market at the earliest, the import does on a large scale and also allow an increase in the manufacturing capacity of Indian vaccines as well. “Humble appeal to the Centre to approve vaccines like Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, and vaccinate the people of India, including Delhi, as soon as possible,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-free-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-for-the-second-day/article34645808.ece
26 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Six drown as boats carrying workers overturn in Odisha||Six persons drowned and two were reportedly missing after two fishing boats capsized in the Sileru river in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Monday evening. The incident took place when over 30 members of migrant families were trying to sneak into Odisha in the night fearing lockdown. Three persons managed to swim ashore while the body of a child was fished out later. Five bodies were retrieved on Tuesday. “Many people including several children had arrived at the border on Monday evening... they wanted to return to their village Kandhaguda taking advantage of the darkness,” said K. Padmanava Dora, Tahasildar of Chitrakonda. They first reached the bank of Sileru Reservoir (Sileru river) and boarded two fishing boats, he said. Some people managed to cross the reservoir in the first trip. During the next trip, a boat hit a pole and overturned. Those in the boat jumped into the second one, toppling it too. The ODRF and Fire Service personnel started the rescue operation immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-drown-as-boats-carrying-workers-overturn-in-odisha/article34645856.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Auto, taxi drivers to receive govt. aid of Rs. 5,000||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced the Delhi government had begun disbursing financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to autorickshaw and para-transit vehicle drivers. On May 14, the Delhi Cabinet had approved financial assistance to all individuals holding Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge drivers of para-transit vehicles and permit holders of para-transit public service vehicles in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19 and a series of lockdown implemented by the government to contain it. “In Delhi, auto-taxi driver brothers have started receiving assistance of Rs. 5,000 in their accounts from today. By evening this amount will reach the accounts of 1,51,000 driver brothers” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. Need not reapply According to the Delhi government, in 2020, Rs. 78 crore was given as financial assistance to more than 1.56 lakh auto and taxi drivers. Beneficiaries of the 2020 scheme, the government had stated, need not reapply, but will get the Rs. 5,000 directly transferred to their Aadhaar-linked bank accounts subject to verification of deaths from local bodies. On May 4, Mr. Kejriwal had announced that a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 will be provided to the PSV badge and permit holders of para-transit vehicles such as autorickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, phatphat sewa, eco-friendly sewa, gramin sewa and maxi cabs among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/auto-taxi-drivers-to-receive-govt-aid-of-rs-5000/article34645802.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal should learn from Rajasthan: Maken||Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should learn from Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on how to vaccinate people in the age group of 18 to 44 years. Maximum vaccination Mr. Maken, who is general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, claimed that the State has been able to achieve maximum vaccination in this age group and slammed the Delhi government for shutting down vaccination centres because of vaccine shortage. No funds shortage “If Rajasthan can achieve the highest rate of vaccination for the age group of 18 to 45 years, why can’t Delhi do it? You [Delhi government] say that there is no shortage of funds. Then why did you not order vaccines? What are your mohalla clinics doing now? Why are they shut?” said Mr. Maken at a virtual press conference. The Congress leader from Delhi alleged that when the Kejriwal government wants to increase taxes on petroleum products from 20% to 30% by putting extra burden on Delhiites, then it becomes an ally of the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G). He said Delhi government and the L-G’s office start blaming each other when things begin to fail. “I came across his statement that Delhi has been able to fight black fungus and centres have been set up. The question is how do you fight without medicines?” said Mr Maken. The Congress leader also accused the Chief Minister of putting pressure on the media to either ignore or black out his comments by threatening to withhold advertisements of the local government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-should-learn-from-rajasthan-maken/article34645811.ece
26 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Leaders demand immediate arrest of accused in Nuh murder case||Leaders of various political and social organisations on Tuesday demanded that the accused in the murder case of Asif, a resident of Nuh’s Khera Khalilpur, be arrested at the earliest. The leaders made the demand in a memorandum to Chief Minister Manohar Lal after a visit to the victim’s home town. Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislative Party and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed also wrote to the Chief Minister demanding financial compensation to the family of the deceased and the trial in the case through fast-track court. Besides seeking the arrest of the remaining accused in the case, Mr. Ahmed demanded that the next of the kin of the deceased be given a government job. Led by Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Haryana,  vice-president Satvir Singh, the delegation visited the deceased’s family at his home village to ascertain the circumstances under which the murder was committed. “We have given a memorandum for the Chief Minister through the Deputy Commissioner demanding that all accused in the case be arrested. Asif was brutally murdered and his cousin Rashid was also injured in the attack. Some people are trying to give a communal angle to the incident to protect the accused. We made a request to the Chief Minister to not allow this to happen. Besides, the family of the victim be given police protection and justice be delivered at the earliest,” said Mr. Singh. The delegation comprised All-India Democratic Women, Haryana, president Usha Saroha; advocate Arshad Khan of Nuh Nagrik Manch and CPI(M) State Secretariat member Savita, among others. Asif was returning home from a medical store on May 16 evening with Rashid and his friend, Wasif, in a car when the accused allegedly waylaid them at Atta village and kidnapped him. He was later found dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leaders-demand-immediate-arrest-of-accused-in-nuh-murder-case/article34645796.ece
26 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam extends curfew as infection rate spikes||The Assam government on Tuesday extended the COVID-19 curfew from May 31 to June 5 in view of the jump in the infection rate over the last 48 hours. Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua said the no-movement duration in the urban and semi-urban areas will continue to be of 17 hours from 12 noon to 5 a.m. with traders required to shut shop by 11 a.m. The curfew timing in the rural areas has been stretched from 11 to 15 hours with immediate effect. Accordingly, shops and commercial establishments there will have to shut down by 1 p.m. for people to be prepared to stay indoors from 2 p.m. to 5 a.m. The earlier restriction was from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. The order cites the usual exemptions for certain categories of people such as front-line and health workers and vehicles carrying essential commodities. Active cases Data provided by the Health and Family Welfare Department showed daily active cases had dipped from 5,980 on May 22 to 3,563 the following day. But 6,221 cases were detected on Monday, taking the active caseload to 52,649 with the positivity rate being 5.16%. Assam on Monday recorded 84 COVID-related deaths, up from 72 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-extends-curfew-as-infection-rate-spikes/article34645854.ece
26 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Vaccine wastage only 2-3% in Haryana’||The Haryana Health Department on Tuesday clarified that the recent vaccine wastage data released by the Union government for the State was higher than the actual due to data mismatch and was now corrected to just 2-3%. The Union government in a recently released data had pegged the vaccine wastage in Haryana at 6%. Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said that in a data recently released by the Union government, Haryana was shown with 6% wastage of Covishield vaccine and 10.2% of Covaxin, and attributed it to data mismatch. He said the data mismatch was corrected and subsequently the wastage percentage for Covishield and Covaxin dropped to 3.1 and 2.4 respectively from 6 and 10.2. Thus, the average vaccine wastage percentage is between 2-3, said Mr. Arora. Orientation programmes Mission Director, National Health Mission, Haryana, Prabhjot Singh, along with the State immunisation team had held two orientation programmes with the Health officials and the districts with high wastage were identified as Hisar, Palwal, Nuh, Kaithal, Rohtak and Bhiwani. The health officials in these districts were given separate consultation to minimise the wastage of the vaccine. Among the best performing districts with regard to vaccine administration, Gurugram has administered the highest number of 6,34,610 vaccine doses, followed by Faridabad at 5,00,600 and Ambala at 3,94,162. As many as 53,72,311 vaccine doses have been presently administered in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-wastage-only-2-3-in-haryana/article34645857.ece
26 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab needs to quicken pace of vaccination: Badal||Punjab’s former Deputy Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday hit out at the Congress government, accusing it of failing to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Badal stressed the need for speedy vaccination to win the fight against COVID-19, alleging that Punjab was sluggish in its efforts. He requested Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to make a special allocation of Rs. 1,000 crore to purchase vaccines for the entire State in the next six months. He also demanded that families who had lost their main earning members be given a monthly pension of Rs. 6,000. Free education should be given to the children orphaned due to COVID-19, and power and water bills for all should be waived for a six-month period, Mr. Badal said. Mr. Badal told reporters that the Punjab government should not look to the Centre alone for vaccines but should use State funds to source them quickly on the pattern of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, which had procured Covaxin doses within one week of placing the order. “If need be, the Chief Minister should call an emergency meeting of the Cabinet to clear the proposal for speedy procurement of vaccine doses,” he suggested. Mr. Badal said the government should make the necessary preparations to cope with a potential third wave of infections. “The State needs to order at least 2,000 ventilators and install them within three months along with hiring the required staff,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-needs-to-quicken-pace-of-vaccination-badal/article34645852.ece
26 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘More research on black fungus’||Of the 413 mucormycosis , or  black fungus, patients in Haryana so far, 64 never had COVID-19 infection, said State Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday. He stressed the need for more research for the cause of the disease. It was revealed during the analysis of patients admitted in various State hospitals. Mr. Vij, in a tweet, said that 79 of these patients were not diabetic. “...110 have not taken steroids and 213 were not on Oxygen Therapy. Cause of mucormycosis desease needs more research (sic).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-research-on-black-fungus/article34645855.ece
26 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. forcing people to take jabs in private hospitals’||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday said that it was ironic that the Arvind Kejriwal government was making “preparations” to combat the next wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, without addressing the present vaccination crisis. “Due to severe vaccine shortage, a majority of Delhiites are either waiting for their second jab or for the first, as the Arvind Kejriwal government continues to indulge in shadow boxing with the Modi government on vaccine purchases,” Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said. He alleged that the Delhi government was deliberately creating a situation to force people to get COVID vaccination in private hospitals for a higher price, in collusion with the private hospital cartels. Mr. Kumar repeated his demand that all Delhiites should be given free vaccination as people have been severely impacted by pandemic, with financial stress and strain. He added that the government should also explain why the poor people are being driven to private hospitals for vaccination and asked the government to bear the expenses of vaccination for the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-forcing-people-to-take-jabs-in-private-hospitals/article34645799.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Positivity rate at 2-month low in Capital||The Capital reported 1,568 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,19,986, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 156 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 23,565. A total of 73,406 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. The test positivity rate was 2.14% which means that about two to three people out of 100 people taking COVID-19 tests are now positive for the virus. The last time the TPR was less than this was on March 27, when it was 1.7%. Of the total cases, 13,74,682 people have recovered and there are 21,739 active cases. Of the total 25,035 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in hospitals, 68.5% beds were vacant on Tuesday. At the peak of infection in April, only 5-6% of beds were vacant on many days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positivity-rate-at-2-month-low-in-capital/article34645806.ece
26 May 2021||Guwahati,||Sarma flayed for remarks on Akhil Gogoi’s health||Raijor Dal, an eight-month-old regional political party, has slammed Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for “disrespectful remarks” on its president Akhil Gogoi’s mental health. The Chief Minister during his address in the State Assembly on Monday cited doctors as saying that Mr. Gogoi had psychological issues. He also said that if the Raijor Dal president was healthy enough to have come to the Assembly, he should ideally be in jail and not in the hospital. Mr. Gogoi, one of the most vocal anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activists in Assam was imprisoned in December 2019 on charges of sedition and inciting violence leading to deaths. But he has been in a paid cabin of the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital for the past four months. A special court of the National Investigation Agency had granted him permission for the oath-taking ceremony. “His remark suggesting Akhil Gogoi is mentally unstable is unbecoming of a Chief Minister, who also resorted to lies to prevent our president from attending the inaugural session of the Assembly,” Raijor Dal working president Bhasco de Saikia said. Apart from referring to Mr. Gogoi’s mental health, the Chief Minister said the jailed leader did not adhere to COVID-19 protocol and mingled with the other MLAs. “I wondered if he had come to the Assembly just to spread the virus.” On Monday night, the police in Sivasagar district picked up four leaders of the Raijor Dal and organisations associated with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sarma-flayed-for-remarks-on-akhil-gogois-health/article34645851.ece
26 May 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||The Delhi BJP on Tuesday said it had been assisting the needy with medicines, food and other requirements under its ‘Sewa hi Sangthan’ over the last 39 days. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, under the programme, distributed food, dry ration, sanitisers and masks at Dev Nagar and Karol Bagh in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-brief/article34645805.ece
