30 May 2021||Kolkata,||Withdraw transfer order of Chief Secy., Mamata tells Centre||Describing the Union government’s order to transfer West Bengal Chief Sectary Alapan Bandyopadhyay “as unconstitutional, unilateral” and a result of political vendetta, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged the Centre to withdraw the order. “I appeal to you to withdraw this letter and allow him to work for the people of the State. I will appeal to you Prime Minister, Home Minister do not indulge in political vendetta when it comes to IAS and IPS officers,” Ms. Banerjee said. Sought permission Ms. Banerjee pointed out that she did meet the Prime Minister and before leaving for Digha sought his permission three times. “I feel insulted and humiliated, but they should not insult my officers. What was his (Mr. Bandyopadhyay’s) fault? He went with me to meet the PM,” the Chief Minister said. She also claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were trying to create problems for her government at every step as they were yet to come to terms with the BJP’s defeat in the Assembly election. Hours after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did not participate in the review meeting on Cyclone Yaas chaired by the Prime Minister, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet attached the State’s top bureaucrat to the Centre. Referring to photographs of empty chairs at the Prime Minister’s meeting, Ms. Banerjee said she spoke to him for several minutes, which was not photographed and circulated. “Since last night, so many political leaders made unjust comments to tarnish my image, the image of my government,” she said. The Chief Minister also raised the issue that the Leader of Opposition was not present when the Prime Minister visited Gujarat or Odisha. “It was supposed to be a PM-CM meeting. Then later, it was revised with the presence of Central Ministers, Leader of Opposition and the Governor,” Ms. Banerjee pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/withdraw-transfer-order-of-chief-secy-mamata-tells-centre/article34680084.ece
30 May 2021||Kolkata,||Ripples from Yaas and surging tides devastate the Sunderbans||For people in the ecologically fragile Sunderbans, life revolves around battling high tides daily and cyclones regularly. But every cyclone throws up new challenges to the Sunderbans and its inhabitants — something the people had not imagined, and policy makers are not prepared for. Over just the past three years, the Sunderbans, which is home to close to five million people, has been battered by four tropical cyclones — Fani (May 2019), Bulbul (November 2019), Amphan (May 2020) and Yaas (May 2021). On each occasion, the region has suffered damage because of gale winds and breached embankments, leading to ingress of sea water. The intensity of the gale winds has ranged from 100 kmph to 150 kmph during each of the cyclones. Experts say the solution to the perennial problem lies in long-term planning, adopting strategies that will minimise the impact of climate change, and disaster management suited to the region. Unprecedented surge When the State administration launched a massive evacuation drive earlier this week on May 24 and May 25, little did the residents know that though Cyclone Yaas made landfall about 200 km south of the Sunderbans in Odisha, it would inundate large areas of the estuary. The cumulative effect of the full moon tide on May 26 and the cyclone led to the overflowing and breach of embankments in large areas of the Sunderbans. While the India Meteorological Department had predicted a storm surge of 2 m above the astronomical tide level, water in the river and bay swelled due to full moon tide. As a result, on May 26 morning as Cyclone Yaas made landfall, large areas were inundated.  Under water Three days after the cyclone, several areas of Sunderbans remain inundated, forcing people to huddle in cyclone shelters or spend days on embankments. “The entire island with a population of 3,500 people is flooded. I have spent the past three days in the rescue centre near the panchayat office. Today, we got 1 kg of rice per person from the panchayat. I cannot return to my house,” said Sajera Bibi, a panchayat member of Ghoramara Island in the remote western part of the Sunderbans. Ghoramara is one of the islands that has been sinking due to rising sea levels, where a few dozen houses and acres of land go under water every year. Even so, the residents were not prepared to see the entire island under water. Ms. Sajera Bibi said the devastation caused by Yaas has been the most severe, something she has not seen in the past 40 years. “Our relatives in Sagar are telling us to leave this place and move there. But how can we go when water is all around,” she asked. Sagar Island, the biggest island of the Sundarbans chain and site of the famous Gangasagar Mela during Makar Sankranti, has also suffered damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ripples-from-yaas-and-surging-tides-devastate-the-sunderbans/article34680085.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,||New cases dip to 1.6 lakh over 24 hours||India recorded 1,60,857 new COVID-19 cases and 3,482 new deaths till 9.50 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,78,89,185 cases and 3,26,017 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 30,016 new infections, followed by Kerala (23,513) and Karnataka (20,628). Backlog fatalities Maharashtra recorded 832 new casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (492) and Tamil Nadu (486). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths that were missed out in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Manipur and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 20.8 lakh samples were tested in the country on Friday (the results for which were made available on Saturday), which is around 9,500 more tests than those conducted on Thursday. India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 8.4% on May 28, compared to 12.5% recorded a week earlier. Over 30.6 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 8 a.m. on Saturday, which is 1.4 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 1.6 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. Vaccine slump ends The 7-day average of COVID-19 vaccination doses administered has been consistently rising since last week, recovering from a slump recorded in the week earlier. Until May 29, about 17.6% of India’s adult population, 37.9% of the 45-plus population and 42.8% of those aged above 60 years had been vaccinated with at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-cases-dip-to-16-lakh-over-24-hours/article34680087.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Lockdown further extended to June 9||The government on Saturday extended the Statewide lockdown till June 9. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the COVID-19 spread had lessened. However, it had not reached the point where the administration could roll back the lockdown. The government has eased triple lockdown restrictions in Malappuram district following a marked reduction in the test positivity rate (TPR) rate. But State-wide lockdown regulations would prevail in the district. Fair price hotels Mr. Vijayan said 25 panchayats in Malappuram lacked fair price hotels or community kitchens. The district administration should address the need urgently. “The matter is serious,” he said. The government would progressively ease restrictions to allow some key sectors to survive. Banks could remain open till 5 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Textile shops, jewellery and footwear showrooms “catering to weddings” could do business till 5 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Academic bookshops could follow the exact timetable. The government allowed toddy shops to give parcels. Mr. Vijayan did not set a date for the resumption of the sale of legal liquor. He said those who received Public Service Commission advice for joining service could do so if their department was working. If not, the government would extend the last date for entering service.  The government would remove the proviso that health authorities would send vaccination certificates only to Aadhaar-linked mobile phones. Mr. Vijayan said the lockdown would be particularly intense in 212 local body jurisdictions where the TPR rate was higher than 30. Coir and cashew industries could function with minimal employees (less than 50% of the workforce at a time). Raw material suppliers could open for business till 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The State had kept the pandemic at bay and avoided the harrowing situation faced by people in several other States. However, it was too premature to enter the “un-lockdown” phase. Lifting the lockdown would hinge on a further lessening of the spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-further-extended-to-june-9/article34680292.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,||State reports black fungus in 2 children||The rapidly spreading mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, is now affecting children as well. In Karnataka, a 14-year-old girl from Ballari and 11-year-old boy from Challakere in Chitradurga district have been found to be infected with mucormycosis. Both, children of farm labourers, are set to lose one eye to the infection. “These are the first instances of paediatric mucormycosis in Karnataka. Both the children have Type 1 diabetes that was diagnosed only a fortnight ago. The infection has spread to the brain and eyes in both the children. We have referred them to NIMHANS,” said Chikkanarasa Reddy, professor of Paediatrics at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, the designated hospital where the children are being treated. “The boy, who was first taken to a private hospital in Tumakuru for fever and exertion, was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes and past infection of COVID-19 (through an antibody test) there. He was then referred to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Bengaluru from where he was sent to Bowring Hospital on May 27,” Dr. Reddy told The Hindu on Saturday. The girl, who was admitted for COVID-19 at Ballari district hospital, developed pain in the eyes at the time of discharge. Doctors, who suspected fungal infection, referred her to Bowring Hospital on Saturday, he said. Sent to NIMHANS “While the boy, who was sent to NIMHANS on Friday for draining out the pus from the abscess, has been referred back to Bowring Hospital on Saturday, we sent the girl to NIMHANS late on Saturday night after her MRI reports suggested pus formation in the brain,” he said. “It is unfortunate that both the children have severe infection in the eyes and will lose vision in one eye. We will have to surgically remove one eye in both the children,” he said. “As the parents are farm labourers and not familiar with Bengaluru, we have taken personal care to shift them to NIMHANS and bring them back,” the doctor added. Although there is a shortage of Liposomal amphotericin B, the antifungal drug used in treatment of mucormycosis, the hospital has adequate stocks to manage the treatment of the children so far, the doctor said. “As there is brain involvement in both the children, they may need to be closely monitored for at least two weeks. The next one week is crucial,” Dr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-black-fungus-in-2-children/article34680138.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||GoM to study relief for COVID essentials||The Finance Ministry on Saturday constituted a Group of Ministers (GoM) to examine possible waivers of GST levies on essential COVID-relief material, including vaccines, even as industry expressed concerns on the delay over such a critical decision amid the second wave of the pandemic. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma has been designated as the Convener of the eight-member GoM, which includes the Deputy Chief Ministers of Gujarat and Maharasthra — Nitin Patel and Ajit Pawar — and has been tasked with turning in its recommendations to the GST Council by June 8. However, it may take longer for any possible relief to fructify as implementation of the group’s recommendations would need approval from the Council. Uday Shankar, president, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), said “a quick decision” on reductions in GST rates on COVID related essentials will help India attain self-sufficiency in this hour of need. “At this juncture, we cannot afford to lose further time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gom-to-study-relief-for-covid-essentials/article34680090.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Over 100 COVID-19 deaths in State for third day in a row||The State has again reported over 100 new deaths for the third day in a row, while the number of infections reported is coming down. In the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, 104 new deaths and 13,756 new infections were reported. The death toll reached 10,738 and the cumulative tally increased to 16,71,742.   The positivity rate of the 79,564 samples tested in the past day was 17.29%. During the past three days, the daily positivity rate was below 20%. The overall positivity rate of the 1.908 crore samples was 8.76%. Meanwhile, the number of active cases further came down to 1,73,622. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 14,87,382 and 88.97% respectively. West Godavari reported 20 new deaths, the highest single-day death toll by any district so far. It was followed by Chittoor and Visakhapatnam which reported 13 and 10 new deaths respectively. Anantapur and East Godavari reported nine new deaths each while Guntur and Krishna reported eight new deaths each. Kurnool reported seven and Nellore and Vizianagaram reported six new deaths each. Srikakulam reported five deaths, Kadapa reported two deaths and Prakasam reported one death. East Godavari reported 2,301 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (2,155), West Godavari (1,397), Anantapur (1,224), Visakhapatnam (1,004), Nellore (865), Prakasam (811), Krishna (782), Guntur (780), Kurnool (742), Srikakulam (666), Kadapa (632) and Vizianagaram (397).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-100-covid-19-deaths-in-state-for-third-day-in-a-row/article34680096.ece
30 May 2021||Thane,||7 dead in building slab collapse||The death toll in the slab collapse incident at a building in Ulhasnagar town of Thane district rose to seven with the recovery of one more body, an official said on Saturday. Thane’s Guardian Minister Ekanth Shinde said the State would provide financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of each deceased, who include three women and one teenage boy. The slabs of five flats in Sai Shakti building, a ground-plus-five-storey structure at Nehru Chowk, collapsed late on Friday night. As per prior information given by the authorities, six people had died and four to five others were feared trapped. “With the recovery of one more body from the debris, the fatality count has now gone up to seven. Three women, as many number of men and one boy died in the mishap,” Santosh Kadam, chief of the Regional Disaster Management Cell of Thane Municipal Corporation said. The deceased belonged to two families residing in the building, he said. There were 29 flats in this 26-year-old building, Mr. Kadam said. Mr. Shinde rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation and directed the authorities to shift occupants of precarious buildings to safer places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-dead-in-building-slab-collapse/article34680589.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 956 fresh COVID-19 cases, lowest in over two months||Delhi reported 956 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the total to 14,24,646, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the lowest number of single-day cases since March 22, when the city reported 888 new COVID-19 infections. A total of 122 deaths were reported over 24 hours, pushing the toll to 24,073. 1.19% positivity rate As many as 80,473 tests were conducted in a day, the health bulletin said. The test positivity rate (TPR) in Delhi fell to 1.19%, meaning only one out of 100 persons was testing positive for the virus. The TPR was as high as 36% on April 22 and has been coming down since then. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi government had floated a global tender to procure COVID-19 vaccines to tide over the shortage of doses in the Capital. He said this is not the time for “petty politics” over vaccine procurement. “We have filed a global tender for vaccines. We are making all efforts from our side but till now the outcomes have not been very fruitful. From what I have understood, all the big vaccine manufacturing companies of the world want to deal directly with the Central government and are communicating directly with it,” he said. The Chief Minister made the comment after visiting the government’s drive-through vaccination centre at Chhatrasal Stadium where citizens above 45 years of age will be vaccinated for free. “The Delhi government has started a drive-in vaccination facility here at the Chhatrasal Stadium. People can come here in their cars, motorcycles, even on foot and get vaccinated. Vaccination is free at this centre. Right now this has been initiated for those above 45 years because there is no vaccine for those below that age,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Chief Minister added that the vaccination drive for those in the 18-45 age group will be started as soon as adequate doses arrive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-956-fresh-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-two-months/article34680497.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Campaign to vaccinate 11 lakh in Bengaluru||The Bangalore Apartments’ Federation (BAF), an association of over 950 apartment complexes in the city, launched #Vax4All campaign to facilitate COVID-19 vaccination support to residents’ welfare associations across the city. This is expected to cover 10.98 lakh citizens, including residents and staff working there. Launching the campaign virtually, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said while the number of COVID-19 positive cases being reported in the city had come down, it was now important to focus on vaccinations and prevent outbreak of another wave. For the first time, on Friday, more than one lakh citizens were vaccinated. The earlier supply issues of vaccines are now slowly being resolved, he said. “The important indicators that show we have turned a corner are the availability of beds, reduction in number of cases and number of vaccinations administered. Of the 13,200 beds in public domain, 7,100 are vacant; the demand for beds has come down. The number of cases reported daily is less than last year’s peak level of 5,500,” he said. The RWAs desirous of participating in this campaign can write to BAF atinfo@baf.org.in. BAF is partnering with Manipal Hospitals, Fortis Healthcare, Narayana Health and Apollo Hospitals to facilitate community-level vaccination camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaign-to-vaccinate-11-lakh-in-bengaluru/article34680137.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Wholesale vegetable markets allowed to open||The Tamil Nadu government has allowed the wholesale vegetable, fruit and flower markets in Chennai’s Koyambedu and in all districts to function from May 31 to June 7. It also permitted the operation of animal husbandry farms and livestock farming and the activities relating to animal health. But retail shops in the wholesale vegetable markets will not be allowed to operate. The government said the sale of vegetables and fruits on vehicles shall continue in all districts. Grocery stores will be permitted to sell provisions on vehicles or carts in residential areas after getting permission from the local bodies and can deliver to homes for orders received over phone or online. A senior official ordered that vendors be identified for supply of provisions and permission be given to them without delay. While the government has extended the intense lockdown till June 7, an order issued on Saturday allowed export companies with commitments and units providing inputs to them to operate with 50% workers. This relaxation will be applicable in all districts, except Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem, Karur, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruchi and Madurai. The workers can travel in four-wheelers arranged by these units with e-registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wholesale-vegetable-markets-allowed-to-open/article34680183.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Children orphaned by COVID-19 to get Rs. 5 lakh||Children who have lost their parents to COVID-19 will be given Rs. 5 lakh in assistance in the form of a fixed deposit, and the sum will be given to them with interest when they turn 18, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Saturday. He said the government would bear the expenses on account of the education and accommodation of these children until they graduate from college. It would also ensure that they get priority in accommodation at government homes for children. For those who have lost one parent, Rs. 3 lakh in relief will be given to the living parent. Those who lost a parent earlier and then the other to COVID-19 will be given Rs. 5 lakh in fixed deposit, he said in a statement. Children who have lost their parents to COVID-19 and are not at government homes but staying with relatives or guardians will be given a monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000 till they turn 18. Mr. Stalin said a committee would be formed in each district to oversee the dispensation of relief. The benefits of all government schemes will be given to these children and their living parent on a priority basis. The government will also form a committee, comprising an Additional Chief Secretary, Finance Department officials, the Secretary of the Social Welfare Department and voluntary organisations, to frame the rules to provide the relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/children-orphaned-by-covid-19-to-get-rs-5-lakh/article34680184.ece
30 May 2021||Hassan,||Shivamogga to see stricter lockdown from tomorrow||The Shivamogga district administration has decided to enforce a stricter lockdown from May 31 to June 7 in the district to counter the spread of COVID-19. It will come into effect at 10 a.m. on Monday. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, in a press conference in Shivamogga on Saturday, said the number of COVID-19 cases had come down, but not at the desired pace. A stricter lockdown for a week was necessary to bring down the cases. “During the lockdown, medical shops, shops that sell milk, vegetables, and groceries in the neighbourhood will be allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. The wholesale shops will be allowed to supply essential items directly to the retailers. There would not be open sale in the APMC yards,” he said. The sale of vegetable on pushcarts would be allowed between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. Except for departments offering emegency services, government offices will be closed and bank services will be minimal, he said. “There would be no restriction on the supply of essential items. The police will seize vehicles of those who come out for non-emergency reasons,” he said. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar said 26 cases of black fungus had been reported in the district. The people should take precautionary measures to avoid the infection, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shivamogga-to-see-stricter-lockdown-from-tomorrow/article34680227.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Rythu Bandhu from June 15||The State government will deposit investment support of Rs. 5,000 per acre for farmers in their bank accounts from June 15 to 25. This was announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at an official meeting on preparations for the next crop season, on Saturday. He asked officials to follow the same procedure as was adopted in the rabi for payments in the new season. The government had met the payments progressively in stages starting from small to large holdings. The payments were cleared in stage one for farmers with less than one acre. Then, the farmers with two, three and more acres of holding were addressed. The same categories will be maintained now, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rythu-bandhu-from-june-15/article34680525.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Chidambaram for CAG audit on vaccine production||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Saturday demanded a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG)-driven audit of vaccine production and supply in the country to unravel the “mystery of missing vaccines” before public anger hits the streets. In a separate Facebook post, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the oxygen shortage that the country had seen last month and earlier this month was a result of the Narendra Modi government’s “lack of planning, incompetence and a 700% increase in the export of oxygen in 2020”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chidambaram-for-cag-audit-on-vaccine-production/article34680498.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Shifting of Bandopadhyay draws flak||The Opposition on Saturday criticised the Centre’s move to shift West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The Congress described it as “an attack on federalism” that would result in “anarchy”. Its general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the “abrupt, malicious and unilateral” recall of Bengal’s top bureaucrat was an “unpardonable attack on the Constitution that has shocked the nation’s conscience’. In a statement, he said, “This is a lethal blow to the Constitution of India, as also federalism. If the Union government is permitted to recall the All India Service Officers from the States for partisan political considerations and at its whims and fancies, the entire architecture of the rule of law and the Constitution will crumble”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shifting-of-bandopadhyay-draws-flak/article34680082.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Paediatric COVID-19 task force panel constituted||In the wake of reports that more children are contracting COVID-19, the Andhra Pradesh Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare has constituted a Paediatric COVID-19 Task Force Committee. The committee will be headed by B. Chandrasekhar Reddy, Chairman of APMSIDC. State Director of Medical Education M. Raghavendra, Ekam Foundation founder Sai Lakshmi, AIIMS - Mangalagiri associate professor Arun Babu, GMC - Anantapur associate professor Sardara Sultana, doctors T. Chandra Sekhara Reddy (Guntur) and Raghu Vamsi (Vijayawada) are its members. The committee will advise the government on all technical and medical matters related to COVID-19 treatment protocols. It will also conduct extensive training programmes for medical personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paediatric-covid-19-panel-set-up/article34680060.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Daily struggle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-struggle/article34680098.ece
30 May 2021||Mumbai,||20,295 new cases in State||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 20,295 new novel coronavirus cases and 443 fatalities, taking the tally to 57,13,215 and the toll to 94,030, the State health department said. As many as 31,964 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 53,39,838. The active case tally in the State is now 2,76,573. Of the 443 fatalities, 288 occurred in the last 48 hours and 155 during the week. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 93.46%, while the case positivity rate stands at 16.51%. Mumbai city reported 1,038 new COVID-19 cases and 25 deaths, taking its infection tally to 7,03,560 and the death toll to 14,775, according to the State Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/20295-new-cases-in-state/article34680590.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘City far behind Chennai in containing mortality’||Bengaluru and Chennai may be separated by barely 350 km from each other, but the difference in COVID-19 mortality between the two cities has been quite stark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-far-behind-chennai-in-containing-mortality/article34680140.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Two city labs to help with genome sequencing||The Centre has added 17 more national labs, including two from Bengaluru, to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) network, to ramp up genome sequencing of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-city-labs-to-help-with-genome-sequencing/article34680141.ece
30 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam, Nagaland to discuss border shooting||Senior police officials and administrative heads of districts along the Assam-Nagaland border have decided to meet soon to iron out issues including disputed areas in the Desoi Valley Reserve Forest along the border in Jorhat district. The decision follows Thursday’s alleged firing upon a team led by Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi allegedly by unidentified ‘encroachers’ from Nagaland. The MLA, who represents the border Assembly constituency Mariani, had gone to a hilly patch of the reserve forest to assess complaints of encroachment from people across the border. “The IGPs of the border will meet in the next two days to discuss threadbare the issues and work out a solution,” Assam’s Special DGP G.P. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-nagaland-to-discuss-border-shooting/article34680267.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kalra gets bail in oxygen concentrators case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to businessman Navneet Kalra in the oxygen concentrator black marketing case, saying he has clean antecedents. CMM Arun Kumar Garg directed him not to contact the customers to whom he sold the machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalra-gets-bail-in-oxygen-concentrators-case/article34680500.ece
30 May 2021||MANGALURU,||10 deaths, 1607 new cases in DK and Udupi||Ten COVID-19 patients died and 1,607 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Saturday. Seven COVID-19 patients died and 923 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-deaths-1607-new-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article34680225.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Dept. rules out letting Cong. procure vaccines||The Congress party’s requisition to the government seeking legislators’ fund to purchase COVID-19 vaccine is unlikely to get approval, with the Planning Department ruling out the possibility of releasing money directly for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dept-rules-out-letting-cong-procure-vaccines/article34680226.ece
30 May 2021||Tiruppur,||T.N. to buy more vaccines for Rs. 85 crore: Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is trying to procure 23.5 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines for Rs. 85 crore, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-to-buy-more-vaccines-for-rs-85-crore-minister/article34680185.ece
30 May 2021||Chennai,||Coimbatore’s count exceeds Chennai’s again||For the fourth day in a row on Saturday, Coimbatore logged more COVID-19 cases than Chennai — the district saw 3,692 infections, while Chennai recorded 2,705.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coimbatores-count-exceeds-chennais-again/article34680186.ece
30 May 2021||Mumbai,||MVA not serious about quota for OBCs: Fadnavis||Even as the row over the Maratha reservation continues to flare, the State is set to witness an uproar over the Supreme Court striking down reservation for the Other Backward Classes in the local body elections. Devendra Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party leader, on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that the Maha Vikas Aghadi govt. had never been serious about reservation for OBCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-not-serious-about-quota-for-obcs-fadnavis/article34680591.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Between the sea and a hard place||In December 1961, Jawaharlal Nehru despatched a fighter pilot-turned-civil servant to a tiny group of islands located southwest of mainland India in the Arabian Sea with the ‘challenging’ mission of steering it into the modern era. Moorkkoth Ramunni, who took over as the fourth administrator of the Union Territory of Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi islands formed in 1956, quickly won the hearts of minds of the islanders. He walked with the people, accustomed himself to their ethos, marvelled at the atolls surrounding the tiny landmasses and spent several nights on their sprawling sandy beaches. The island chain witnessed a new dawn as Ramunni brought in some path-breaking reforms. Land was apportioned between tenants and landlords, with the tenants receiving three quarters of a parcel. At village meetings held in the glow of kerosene lamps, historic decisions were taken, including the one to float cooperative societies for marketing island merchandise such as coir, copra and fish. The relocation of the Dweep administration office to Kavaratti from Kozhikode, then Calicut, gave momentum to the administrator’s initiatives to eradicate leprosy and to set up schools. “To improve their means of livelihood, he introduced them to tuna fishing using live bait which was until then not known to the islanders except those of Minicoy,” recalls Ali Manikfan, 83, marine researcher and ecologist from Minicoy. When Ramunni left the archipelago in the summer of 1965, he took a slice of it with him. So much so, that his home in Thalassery near Kannur was named after the smallest of the islands in the chain, Bitra. Sixty years later, the same islands that embraced Ramunni and his reforms are up in arms against a host of proposed policies by another administrator, a political appointee. A ‘Save Lakshadweep’ campaign is gaining strength and the Chief Ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, among others, have pledged their support to it. Myths, ballads, facts The archipelago’s early history is anchored in a sea of myths, legends, ballads and facts that are inseparably entwined. It’s believed that the earliest known reference to the island chain was in Mushika-Vamsa , an 11th century work in which a king is said to have ruled some islands in the western ocean. Among the several legends about its discovery is one about a search party for a king who went missing while on a voyage to Mecca accidentally spotting these isles. “A Kolathiri king is believed to have sent people, mostly farmers, from north Kerala to settle down here. They came under the rule of the Arakkal family in Kannur whose origins are mired in local legends. There’s this tale about a Musalman rescuing a drowning princess who subsequently marries him, taking away with her suzerainty over these isles and Kannur,” says M. Mullakkoya, former secretary of the Lakshadweep Sahitya Kala Academy and a resident of Kiltan island. The islanders fell on bad times as the Arakkal family’s interest was predominantly in filling their coffers using their karyakars (revenue collection agents) on these islands. When an Arakkal king tried to monopolise coir trade by asking the islanders to only sell it in Kannur, the Amini group of islands revolted and sought the help of Tipu Sultan, who entered into a pact with Arakkal and secured rights over the Amindivi group of islands. However, when Tipu fell in the battle of Seringapatam in 1799, this group came under the British rule. Meanwhile, the Arakkal family, which remotely governed the Laccadive and Minicoy islands, fell into a debt trap laid by the British and the inability to pay off debts and the tribute forced it to forfeit control over these islands to the British in early 20th century. In an island chain with over 96% of Muslim population, the advent of Islam is traced to the legend of a saint named Ubaidulla, who landed following a shipwreck on the shores of Amini in AD 7. On the Androth island, the largest in the group with just 4.9 sq. km. area, is a tomb in his name. News of India’s Independence came to the islands about three months later. The southwest monsoon was raging and the ships remained at berth. When the islanders who left for the mainland after mid-September returned, they broke the news of India’s freedom triggering celebrations, recalls Dr. Mullakkoya. The British system of having two separate collectorates — Malabar for the Laccadive group and Mangalore for the Amindivi group — continued till 1956 when it was all united to form the Union Territory. It was renamed Lakshadweep in 1973. If Ramunni had laid the foundations of a modern Lakshadweep, Omesh Saigal, who was administrator in the early 1980s, cut through bureaucracy to bring helicopter service mainly for evacuation of seriously ill patients to Kochi for medical treatment. The tourism potential of these emerald islands, 36 in total with an estimated population of about 70,000 people on the 10 inhabited islands and with vast lagoons covering 4,200 sq km area, dawned on the administration in the 1980s when Bengaram island was leased out to a hotel chain. The arrangement, though an international hit, ran into rough weather some 20 years later with the government taking over the reins following litigation that went up to the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, tourism societies formed in all islands ensured that the UT, a notified Scheduled Tribes (ST) district with outsiders’ entry limited by permits, conducted tourism in keeping with the ethos of the people and a ban on alcohol was fitting. Coinciding with the 50th anniversary of Independence, then administrator Rajeev Talwar brought a ‘Kochi-Agatti-Goa-Agatti-Kochi’ daily flight to further boost tourism. The Lakshadweep Development Corporation Ltd (LDCL), formed in the late 1980s, also began operating passenger ships and cargo barges. Local elections Though a Panchayat Regulation was notified in 1994 and the maiden local elections were held three years later, powers have largely remained with the administrator. The role of the district planning committee chaired by the collector and the sole MP as one of its members is to draft a development plan. In 2015, following a Supreme Court order, the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notified an integrated island management plan (IIMP), which sought to enhance the productivity of the UT without compromising on its coral reef ecosystem or the people’s customs. Life in the UT was peaceful and at a languid pace, free of COVID-19 for nearly a year, thanks to a quarantine stipulation for inbound travellers in Kochi when in December 2020, a new administrator, a former BJP leader named Praful Khoda Patel, set foot on Kavaratti following the demise of the incumbent. In one stroke, he reversed its success against COVID-19 — the UT has seen over 7,000 cases since — and proposed a slew of draft pieces of legislation ranging from a beef ban, a law to cut back the powers of elected representatives of panchayats, an arbitrary Goonda Act regardless of the low rate of crimes in the UT and a law for the creation of a land development authority with sweeping powers for eviction. The UT is in the throes of an unprecedented agitation now with appeals for the repeal of these proposals and recall of the administrator resonating across the country. “It’s a life and death situation for us,” says an islander.  In Focus  The British system of having two separate collectorates — Malabar for the Laccadive group and Mangalore for the Amindivi group — continued till 1956 when it was all united to form the Union Territory  It was renamed Lakshadweep in 1973 and the first local elections were held in 1997 after Panchayat Regulations were notified. But powers largely remain with the administrator  There is an estimated population of about 70,000 people on the islands — 36 in total with 10 being habitable and the others having vast lagoons spread over 4,200 sq km   In an island chain with 96% of Muslim population, the advent of Islam is traced to the legend of saint Ubaidulla, who landed after a shipwreck on Amini in AD 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/between-the-sea-and-a-hard-place/article34680034.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 10 lakh corpus fund for every child orphaned by COVID-19||The Union government on Saturday announced a special “PM-CARES for Children” scheme for all those orphaned due to COVID-19. It will include a corpus of Rs. 10 lakh for each child till he or she reaches the age of 18. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Children who have lost both parents or the lone surviving parent or their legal guardian or adoptive parent due to COVID-19 will be supported under the scheme. The Women and Child Development Ministry has said that there are a total 577 COVID-19 orphans identified across the country. When a child turns 18, he or she will draw a monthly stipend from the corpus of Rs. 10 lakh in order to meet expenses for personal needs and higher education. On reaching the age of 23, the child will get the entire Rs. 10 lakh, according to an official statement. The government will also assist such children with school education. They will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. If the child is admitted in a private school, the fees will be paid from the PM CARES Fund as per norms under the Right To Education Act, 2009. PM CARES will also meet the expenses on uniform, text-books and notebooks. Residential schools Children in the age group of 11-18 will have the option to study in a residential school under the Central government such as Sainik School and Navodaya Vidyalaya. These children will also be supported in their higher education through either scholarship equivalent to the tuition fees or educational loans where the interest will be paid by the PM CARES Fund. All children will be enrolled as a beneficiary under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme with a health insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh, where the premium amount will be paid by PM CARES till a child turns 18. The government has also announced measures to help the families who have lost the sole earning member due to COVID-19. Help for kin The pension scheme of the Employees State Insurance Corporation is being extended. The scheme is applicable from March 24, 2020 to March 24, 2022. Similarly, insurance benefits under the Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme (EDLI) under the Employees Provident Fund Organisation will be available, according to a press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-10-lakh-corpus-fund-for-every-child-orphaned-by-covid-19/article34680010.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||13 more Collectors can grant citizenship||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has empowered 13 more District Collectors in Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab to grant citizenship certificates to applicants belonging to six minority communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The latest notification is a reiteration of similar orders issued in 2016 and 2018 and is not related to the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) that is yet to come into effect. The CAA, passed in 2019, seeks to grant Indian citizenship to six undocumented communities that came to India till December 31, 2014. The May 28 notification intends to benefit legal migrants (who entered on passport/visa) from the Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan who have already applied for citizenship under Section 5 (by registration) and Section 6 (naturalisation) of the Citizenship Act, 1955. The only way the CAA could have helped the legal minority migrants is in fast-tracking their applications as it reduced the mandatory requirement of 11 years aggregate stay in India to five for citizenship. Since the rules for the CAA are yet to be framed, a minority applicant from the three countries, even if he or she came in 2014, becomes eligible for citizenship in year 2025. But many have been residing in India for more than 20 years on long-term visas (LTV). An LTV is a precursor to citizenship. The applicants will have to apply online and the citizenship certificate will be provided after security check by the Central agencies and the State police. Under the existing system, minority communities from the three countries who entered India before December 31, 2009, may or may not choose to provide a copy of their passports but they have to provide the date of the visa and may upload the visa document in place of the passport while applying for citizenship. The Home Secretaries of Punjab (except Jalandhar) and Haryana (except Faridabad) have also been given such powers. Central subject Citizenship is a Central subject and the Home Ministry periodically delegates powers to the States through gazette notification under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, 1955. Indian citizenship can be acquired on eight grounds – based on registration made by a person of Indian origin, by a person married to an Indian, minor child, whose parents are registered as citizens of India, by a person whose either parent was a citizen of Independent India, overseas citizens of India, by naturalisation and registration of a child at an Indian consulate. The fresh notification grants the power to Collectors of Morbi, Rajkot, Patan and Vadodara in Gujarat; Durg and Balodabazar in Chhattisgarh; Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer and Sirohi in Rajasthan ; Faridabad in Haryana and Jalandhar in Punjab. These are the areas where the population of such migrants are concentrated. In 2011, the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government decided to give LTVs to hundreds of Hindus and Sikhs who came to India claiming religious persecution in Pakistan. Many came on pilgrim visa and continued to stay here after the expiry of the papers. According to data, the LTVs granted to Pakistani Hindus from 2011-2014 stood at 14,726. Though there has been no exact numbers of such migrants who came to India on LTV or any other type of visa, officials estimate the number to be around two lakh. There are around 400 Pakistani Hindu refugee settlements in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Jaipur. The MHA informed a Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Citizenship Amendment Bill in 2018 that 31,313 persons belonging to minority communities (Hindus - 25,447, Sikhs - 5,807, Christians - 55, Buddhists - 2 and Parsis - 2) were given LTVs on the basis of their claim of religious persecution. LTV is a precursor to citizenship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-more-collectors-can-grant-citizenship/article34680031.ece
30 May 2021||Washington D.C.,||U.S. will soon decide on vaccine issue: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken discussed a range of issues on Friday including COVID-19 vaccine procurement, India-China border issues (according to the U.S.), climate change, the Quad and the bilateral relationship. Discussions around vaccine procurement for India and issues — such as indemnity for vaccine manufacturers — are still being resolved. “I’m not going to get into the very specific angles of what was discussed, but certainly, vaccine manufacturing, procurement, delivery — the larger question of how we can cooperate together both bilaterally and on the larger Quad context were covered today,” Acting Assistant Secretary Dean Thompson — who was present at the meeting — said in response to a question from The Hindu . Both he and Mr. Jaishankar addressed the Indian press separately after the bilateral meeting. Asked whether there was a discussion on the allocation of vaccines from the U.S. stockpile, Mr. Jaishankar said the topic came up but did not get into details. “The issue came up at a conceptual level. But, you know, my understanding is that in the coming days, or weeks, the U.S. will obviously make its decisions,” he said. The Biden administration has committed to sharing 60 million AstraZeneca doses and 20 million additional vaccine doses with the rest of the world by the end of June. American officials have said they will work with COVAX — an international effort to equitably distribute vaccines — in arriving at the allocation. Expanding vaccine manufacturing in India, Mr. Jaishankar said, was one of the goals of his visit to Washington. In a tweet on Friday, he said his meeting with Mr. Blinken and team “also focused on Indo-U.S. vaccine partnership aimed at expanding access and ensuring supply”. Resolving issues around U.S. demands for indemnity and early Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) were central to Mr. Jaishankar’s agenda in Washington, The Hindu had reported. However, regulatory, legal, commercial and supply-side aspects were still under discussion, the Minister told members of the Indian press on Friday. “These [ discussions] are going on between the companies concerned and … the authorised people in India.” Summarising his trip, Mr. Jaishankar said the “primary focus” was “on the relationship, new administration” and to engage them. He also said the most important subject discussed was the “vaccine partnership” and the Quad-based vaccine discussions (a plan for India, the U.S., Australia and Japan to collaborate to produce at least 1 billion vaccines in India for use in the Asia region by the end of 2022). Just prior to their bilateral meeting, the two Foreign Ministers delivered brief remarks to the press, with Mr. Jaishankar thanking the U.S. and the Biden administration for its solidarity and support to India “at a moment of great difficulty” for the country. Conveying India’s appreciation to the U.S. for its assistance was also an objective of the trip, he said later. Mr. Blinken noted — as U.S. officials have repeatedly done — that India helped the U.S. last year, when it was in the throes of the pandemic. On whether the issue of indemnity for foreign vaccine manufacturers had come up during his meetings with industry representatives on Thursday, Mr. Jaishankar said they did not and were being discussed at other levels. “These won’t be conversations at my meeting, which is a larger gathering with people... because these are very focused conversations and those conversations are taking place with the facilitation of the embassy, between the regulators and the authorities on the Indian side, and these companies,” he said, adding that his business meetings were about what kind of lockdown was happening in India and its impact. Asked during a briefing with the Indian press at the Indian Embassy about Rahul Gandhi’s view that vaccine diplomacy had not worked for India, Mr. Jaishankar said he did not want to get into it. “I’m not here to exchange political polemics. I don’t do that when I leave the country. And I expect other people to understand that,” he said. India-China border At their bilateral, the two sides had also discussed “the India-China border, the coup in Burma, and continuing support for Afghanistan,” according to Mr. Thompson. “…We continue to watch the situation very closely and hope that everything can be resolved peaceably as things go forward,” he said. Mr. Blinken also confirmed that the India-China border was discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-will-soon-decide-on-vaccine-issue-jaishankar/article34679993.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Plucked from the sky||On May 23, Roman Protasevich, a 26-year-old Belarussian journalist, boarded a Ryanair flight from Athens, Greece, to Vilnius, Lithuania, with his girlfriend Sofia Sapega (23), a Russian law student. The flight, with 123 passengers on board, was scheduled to land in Vilnius in two hours and 50 minutes. But it would only reach its destination more than seven hours later, with six passengers missing. When the plane was over Belarussian air space, flight controllers informed the pilot that there was a bomb threat. They ordered him to make an emergency landing in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. When the pilot hesitated, a MiG fighter jet was despatched to “escort” the aircraft to Minsk. When the plane landed, KGB agents — the Belarussian secret service still goes by the old Soviet name — whisked away Mr. Protasevich and Ms. Sapega. After an interminable wait, the flight finally took off for Vilnius without Mr. Protasevich, Ms. Sapega, and four suspected KGB agents who had boarded the plane in Athens. It has since emerged that the ‘bomb threat’ — the ostensible reason for the emergency landing — was a ruse to divert the aircraft so that the Belarussian regime could arrest Mr. Protasevich, a prominent dissident. Reacting sharply to what has been described as a “state-sponsored hijacking”, the European Union has banned Belarussian airlines from EU air space while ordering EU-based airlines to boycott Belarussian air space. Economic sanctions are likely to follow. The whole operation was carried out on the orders of President Alexander Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus for 27 years. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Mr. Lukashenko became the first President of independent Belarus in 1994. He has been “re-elected” six times. His victory in the most recent elections, held last year, provoked mass protests. Mr. Lukashenko unleashed a brutal crackdown that saw more than 35,000 people arrested, media muzzled, and Opposition activists either jailed or driven to exile. Mr. Protasevich has been active in anti-Lukashenko politics since his teens, going to jail at the age of 17. After studying at the Institute of Journalism at the Belarussian State University, he worked as a news photographer. In 2019, fearing for his life, he took political asylum in Poland. He started working for Warsaw-based Nexta, a Belarussian news channel on the Telegram platform. He has been instrumental in documenting and sharing with the world the protest movement against Mr. Lukashenko. Peaceful protests Mr. Protasevich’s channel also helped in organising peaceful demonstrations against the Lukashenko regime by sharing details such as the date and time of protest meetings. His visit to Athens was for an economic conference where he also met Belarus’s Opposition leader and Lukashenko’s erstwhile opponent in the Presidential elections, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya. It was for all these activities that Belarus last November branded Mr. Protasevich a ‘terrorist’ and issued a warrant for his arrest. Following his mid-sky capture, and in what has become standard procedure followed by the Lukashenko regime to discredit its critics, Belarussian authorities put out a video that shows Mr. Protasevich ‘confessing’ to his role in organising “mass riots” in Minsk. His family members say he has been coerced into it, and point to the bruises on his face. In another video, Ms. Sapega, who is not known to have been politically active, is seen ‘confessing’ to running a Telegram channel that “publishes personal information about officers in the Interior Ministry”. Mr. Protasevich’s detention has provoked international outrage. Western governments, including the U.S., have called for his immediate release and an international probe into the “hijacking”. Belarus, however, seems unlikely to yield, given the backing it enjoys from Russia. For the Kremlin, Belarus is a critical counterweight against what it views as Western overreach in Ukraine and Crimea. This instance of Belarus violating international law and civil aviation norms to silence a dissident is expected to further alienate Belarus from the West and tighten Russia’s grip over a country ruled by a man often described as ‘Europe’s last dictator’. As for Protasevich, under Belarussian law, he faces 10-15 years in jail, if not the death penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plucked-from-the-sky/article34680037.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The chief investigator||After taking charge as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director on May 26, Subodh Kumar Jaiswal has been busy holding back-to-back meetings with senior officials of various departments to get a feel of the challenges lying ahead of him over the next two years. This is his first stint with the agency. Mr. Jaiswal is the second officer from the Maharashtra cadre to head the CBI after Mohan Ganesh Katre, who held the post from February 1985 to October 1989. Born on September 22, 1962, Mr. Jaiswal completed his schooling in Dhanbad, which is now in Jharkhand. He completed graduation in English from DAV College in Chandigarh and Master's in Business Administration from Panjab University, before clearing the UPSC examination at the age of 23 in 1985. Mr. Jaiswal had served as Superintendent of Police in Gadchiroli, Aurangabad and Osmanabad, and supervised several anti-naxal operations. He subsequently held the posts of Deputy Inspector-General in-charge of a Special Investigation Team, Additional Commissioner of Police (Anti-Terrorism Squad, Mumbai) and Inspector-General of Police (Amravati Range). Mr. Jaiswal spent 16 years in Central deputation. He served the Close Protection Teams of the Prime Minister during his six-year tenure with the elite Special Protection Group (SPG). He also worked with the Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) in various capacities from June 2008 to 2018. He rejoined the Maharashtra Police and was appointed as Mumbai Police Commissioner in July 2018 and then the State Police chief in February 2019. During the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Mr. Jaiswal differed with the political dispensation on the issue of transfer and postings. He sought a no-objection from the State government for another Central deputation and then took over as the Director-General of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on January 8, 2021. Limiting factor While Mr. Jaiswal comes with a unique blend of experience in the fields of spycraft, administration and investigation, many see his long deputation with agencies like the SPG and the RAW as a limiting factor when it comes to the CBI’s functioning. “Yes, he headed the special investigation team which was constituted in 2003 to probe the Telgi fake stamp paper scam; that case was later transferred to the CBI. He has also supervised probe in terror-related cases. But he doesn’t have enough experience in cases of corruption and bank fraud, which are the primary offences investigated by the CBI,” said a retired CBI official. In 2020, the CBI’s various divisions had registered about 200 bank fraud cases involving more than Rs. 67,000 crore. It is pursuing high-profile cases against fugitives like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Winsome Diamonds group’s Jatin Mehta. In more than 70 FIRs, the misappropriated amount exceeded Rs. 100 crore. Then there are cases related to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and corruption charges against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. In a large number of cases, domain knowledge is required for efficient supervision. Therefore, the CBI chief has to be open to seeking expert opinion. “A majority of the important cases land up at the Director's table for a range of decisions, like who all to prosecute, while the others get decided at the level of DIG or IG. The Director should be able to scrutinise the investigation reports within a short span of time and also ensure through his immediate deputies that the investigation is conducted objectively, professionally and concluded in a time-bound manner,” said retired IPS officer Navneet R. Wasan, who had served the CBI as a joint director. As the CBI chief, Mr. Jaiswal would be required to coordinate with the legal wing to ensure that prosecutions are done properly. In order to address the quality manpower issue, he would have to persuade capable officers to join the agency on deputation and, at the same time, also get the process of their appointments expedited. Another key responsibility of Mr. Jaiswal would be to strengthen international cooperation for cases involving cross-border crimes and pending extradition/deportation requests. However, right now, the most important task at hand would be to quickly build a team he can reply upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-chief-investigator/article34680039.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||When Nehru wanted globe-trotter diplomats in print||In 1958, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) under Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru decided to publish a ‘Statement of Services of Officers of Branches A and B of the Indian Foreign Service’. The responsibility of editing the volume, which contained the biodata of all the diplomats who joined the Ministry in the 1940s and the 1950s, fell on KPS Menon Jr. Finally, what emerged was a slim volume of 95 pages containing the details of careers and interesting developments involving many young officials who would shape India’s diplomacy in the subsequent decades. It also shows how Mr. Nehru planned diplomats to be a mix of diverse backgrounds and skills. The volume is rare to come across and is found only in limited number of libraries and in personal collections. Writing the Preface, Menon acknowledged that he might have left out some colleagues by mistake and requested them to submit relevant details with the Under Secretary (FSP) for inclusion in the next issue. Thus began an annual publication, which gives details of globe-trotting diplomats of India. The document is “Restricted for Official Use Only”. The first volume, however, is unique as it consisted of officials who were hand-picked by Nehru personally for the IFS. The volume is a mine of information about the policies of the government of that time. At the time of publication, the MEA had Haribans Rai Bachchan as an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) for promotion of Hindi in the works of the Ministry. Bachchan, who is known for his literary works as well as for being the father of actor Amitabh Bachchan, was recruited in December 1955. It mentions that Haribans Rai Bachchan could read, write and speak in Hindi and Urdu. He left a comfortable job at the Allahabad University and was persuaded by Nehru to join the MEA. The directory also is a proof of the extent of male dominance in Indian diplomacy in the Nehruvian period. The entire volume contains only two women — Mira Ishardas Malik, who joined on May 1, 1954, and Chonira Belliappa Muthamma of 1949 batch of the IFS. Both Muthamma and Malik came through competitive examination. According to former External Affairs Minister K. Natwar Singh, they were the only women diplomats of India during that time apart from Vijaylakshmi Pandit, who served in ambassadorial positions in Washington DC and Moscow by that time. Among the personal details, it is the section about Ramchandra Dattatraya Sathe that draws attention at a bygone era of Indian diplomacy. Till 1950, India, continuing with imperial practice of the past, maintained a consulate at Kashgar. Sathe, who joined the MEA after serving in the Army, was posted at Kashgar as Consul General in November 1948. Next year, the People’s Republic of China was born, and in 1950, the Communist rulers of Beijing arrived in Tibet. Under the circumstances, Sathe was asked to return and India shut down the consulate. The volume contains the details of several veterans like Brajesh Mishra, who became the National Security Advisor of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee; Mr. Natwar Singh, who went on to serve as the External Affairs Minister during Manmohan Singh’s premiership; Chinmaya Gharekhan, who shaped India’s diplomacy at the United Nations; and Romesh Bhandari, who served as Foreign Secretary of Indira Gandhi and was involved in courageous anti-hijacking operations. Mr. Singh, Gharekhan, Eric Gonsalves and Maharaja Krishna Rasgotra are a handful of the diplomats who remain active till date. The volume also contains the famous diplomatic families like the Haksars and Menons among a few others. S.N. Haksar, P.N. Haksar and Haksar were from the same family and out of the three, PN Haksar went on to serve as a close advisor to Indira Gandhi during the 1971 war. However, the Haksars were overpowered by the Menons and Nairs, who appear to be the most numerous in IFS top order at that time. The directory begins with Kumar Pedma Sivasankara Menon or KPS Menon Sr and contains at least 11 diplomats from the Menons of Kerala. Subimal Dutt, the Foreign Secretary from 1955 who served during the Suez crisis, is on the first page. It also shows the level of language skills possessed by Indian diplomats during the 1940s and the 1950s. While most people chose Spanish, French and Russian as foreign language, there were a few who spoke Burmese, Arabic, Bahasa Indonesian as well. Jayantanuja Bandyopadhyaya of the 1956 IFS batch, who later became the author of a popular book on Indian foreign policy, specialised in Kishwahili. The volume was published on September 1, 1958.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-nehru-wanted-globe-trotter-diplomats-in-print/article34679988.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dazzling the skies: Suryakiran aerobatic display team completes 25 years||The Suryakiran aerobatic display team of the Indian Air Force (IAF), which has enthralled crowds across the country with their hair-raising manoeuvres with their aircraft in red and white, has just completed 25 years. One of the few nine aircraft display teams in the world and the only one in Asia, the team has carried out over 600 displays across the country and south east Asia. “In March, the team flew a very special “75” formation with 17 aircraft to commence the 75th Independence Day celebrations. The event was 75 weeks to go for the 75th Independence Day,” one of the team members said. The team is also performing across the country to commemorate the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh, he stated. The team currently has 13 pilots and is led by Group Captain Anoop Singh. Disbanded once “Suryakiran”, which means ‘rays of the sun’ in Sanskrit, was raised in May 27, 1996, at the IAF air base in Bidar, Karnataka, with six Kiran MkII trainer aircraft. It carried out its first display on September 15, 1996 for the golden jubilee celebrations of the Air Force Administrative College in Coimbatore. However, the team was disbanded in 2011 after the Aero India show due to shortage of training aircraft in the IAF and was resurrected in 2015 on advanced jet trainer Hawk Mk-132 aircraft. The team was built up to a nine-aircraft team in quick time in 2017, the officer observed and added, “We got smoke pods in 2020 and commenced display with smoke.” At Aero India 2021, the Suryakiran teamed up with the Sarang helicopter display team in the world’s first-ever integrated display of nine aircraft and four helicopter teams. Their first foreign display was for the Sri Lankan Air Force Day in Colombo in 2001 and the most recent was to commemorate the 20th Sri Lankan Air Force Day. Rigorous selection All the pilots of the Suryakiran team are qualified flying instructors and belong to the fighter stream of the IAF selected through a rigorous selection process at a ratio usually around 1:10. “They all have a high level of experience and proficiency on various frontline fighter aircraft,” the officer stated. The Suryakiran team firmly believes in ‘excite the ordinary, impress the knowledgeable, and frighten no one’, said Wing Commander Venu Nambisan (retd.), a former AN-32 navigator and Suryakiran team administrator. “The team conducts its display to motivate young students to take up a career in the armed forces and to reassure the citizens of the superior flying skills and discipline of the nation’s air warriors,” he told The Hindu . Wg. Cdr. Nambisan, who had been a fan of the Suryakirans since his cadet days, said, “Having been allotted the transport stream as navigator, my hopes of joining the team were dashed. So when the team sent out a call for team administrator, I jumped at the opportunity.” “Not once, but twice,” said Wg. Cdr. Nambisan, who was part of the legacy team and part of the core team which resurrected the team on Hawks later. “A rare privilege indeed,” he said. This team, which has been the brand ambassador of the IAF, is also the 52 squadron of the IAF and is the youngest fighter squadron with the motto “Always the Best”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dazzling-the-skies-suryakiran-aerobatic-display-team-completes-25-years/article34680018.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. seeks action against BJP MP||The Congress on Saturday asked for a police case to be registered against Lok Sabha member and BJP leader, Tejasvi Surya, and his uncle, BJP MLA Ravi Subramanya, and their disqualification as lawmakers for allegedly demanding cash for vaccines at a private hospital in Karnataka. “Scandalous & Shocking! This is BJP’s Profiteer from Adversity. People are dying of shortage of #vaccine & BJP leaders are making money of their misery. Can their be a bigger crime, Mr. Modi?” Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala posted on Twitter. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress press spokesperson Pawan Khera referred to an audio clip that was circulated in the local media where the BJP MLA’s name cropped up. “In those audio recordings, supervisor of a private hospital clearly tells member of the public that per vaccination he will have to pay Rs. 900 and not a penny less. The supervisor also tells this gentleman on telephone that Rs. 700 of this Rs. 900 have to be given to Mr. Ravi Subramanya, BJP MLA from Basavanagudi, Karnataka, and uncle of Tejasvi Surya,” alleged Mr. Khera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-action-against-bjp-mp/article34680002.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||CoWIN data show rise in vaccination||For the first time in over a month, India has administered close to 3 million doses everyday on consecutive days — something not seen since mid-April, suggests figures from CoWIN, the vaccine management portal. A rise in the number of daily vaccinations has been apparent since May 24 and is led by an increase in those turning up for the first dose of vaccine, who now make up over 93% of the daily doses administered. There is however no guarantee this trend will continue as there is considerable lag between vaccine production and its actually supply. On May 28, India administered 3 million doses — the first time it has crossed that mark since April 17. As of Saturday evening, 2.92 million doses were administered and as far as previous trends go these numbers are usually revised upwards when the day’s doses are accounted for. On April 1, India opened vaccinations for those above 45 and within a few days vaccines administered showed a sharp rise with a record 4.5 million doses being administered on April 5. Beginning May 24, there has been an increase with doses again reaching over 2 million. For most of May, it averaged about 1.5 million. The government increased the interval between two shots of Covishield to 12-16 weeks on May 13. From May 17, there has been a widening gap in those who have got one dose and those getting their second dose. On average 1.5-2 lakh second doses have been given since May 17, whereas numbers of those who have got the first dose jumped from 1.5 million to 2.8 million as on Friday. The ratio of registrations to doses administered now stands at 6.5:1, which was an ‘alarming’ 11:1 a week before, said R.S. Sharma, Chairman, Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cowin-data-show-rise-in-vaccination/article34680005.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Chidambaram for CAG audit on vaccine production, supply||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Saturday demanded a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG)-driven audit of vaccine production and supply in the country to unravel the “mystery of missing vaccines” before public anger hits the streets. In a separate Facebook post, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the oxygen shortage that the country had seen last month and earlier this month was the result of Narendra Modi government’s “lack of planning, incompetence and a 700% increase in the export of oxygen in 2020”. In tweets, Mr. Chidambaram said, “The mystery of the “missing vaccines” is deepening every day. The statement of Bharat Biotech about the ‘lead time’ required to produce a batch of vaccines has added to the confusion. We understand that ‘capacity’ is one thing and ‘production’ is a different thing. What we would like to know is the actual quantity produced so far by the two domestic manufacturers. Once we know the actual production so far, we should be told what has been supplied date-wise and to whom?” Welcoming announcements made by corporate companies to vaccinate their employees, their families and business partners, he said, “State governments are not able to get supplies from any manufacturer — domestic or foreign. So, from where do the corporates expect to get their supplies?” “The proper thing to do is direct a CAG driven full-scope audit of capacity, production, despatch, supply and customers’ lists of the two domestic manufacturers. Better unravel the mystery of the missing vaccines now before public anger over shortage of vaccines pours into the streets,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-for-cag-audit-on-vaccine-production-supply/article34680013.ece
30 May 2021||Jaipur,||Doctor couple shot dead in broad daylight in Bharatpur||In a sensational broad daylight murder, two motorcycle-borne assailants shot dead a doctor couple travelling in their car on a busy road in Bharatpur town of Rajasthan on Friday. The police suspect it to be a case of revenge killing, as the doctors were earlier arrested in connection with a murder case and were at present out on bail. The couple, Sudeep Gupta, 46, and Seema Gupta, 44, faced charges of burning alive a woman and her six-year-old son in 2019. Sudeep was allegedly in an illicit relationship with the woman. The accused who murdered the couple were stated to be the woman’s brother and cousin. The assailants were identified based on CCTV footage of the incident. The footage showed the duo stopping the couple’s car and shooting them at point-blank range. Sudeep died on the spot, while Seema succumbed to her injuries at the hospital, the police said. The police said efforts were on to arrest the accused, who were identified as Anuj Kumar and Mahesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-couple-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-in-bharatpur/article34680019.ece
30 May 2021||Chennai,||SRMIST and The Hindu host webinar on experiential learning||As part of its Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu , hosted a webinar on the “Importance of experiential and hands-on learning in science”. “Experiential learning will be a philosophical experience for 21st century youth,” said D. John Tiruvadigal, professor and chairperson, School of Applied Sciences, College of Engineering and Technology, SRMIST. ‘Original thinking’ Adding that it would inspire original thinking and a thirst for learning new things, he explained what experiential learning is, the different theories and models that contribute to it, and what it can help one achieve. Maneesha V. Ramesh, director, Amrita Center for Wireless Networks and Applications (AmritaWNA), spoke about getting to know different communities, understanding their problems and finding solutions for them as a form of experiential learning. G. Jagadeesh Kanna, founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, used his own experiences to underscore the importance of experiential learning. He gave examples of the different arts and sports developed through practice and pointed out the similarities when it came to science as well. Industry category Sridhar Krishnaswami, deputy dean and professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Faculty of Science and Humanities, SRMIST, gave an insight into how experiential learning can fall into any industry category. Quoting philosopher John Dewey — “the quality of the experience is more important than the information that is being presented” — he highlighted the importance of taking what is learnt in a classroom and developing it into a hands-on experience. The session ended with the panellists answering questions from the audience. The webinar can be watched at https://youtu.be/CuL2Q9GgZOk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srmist-and-the-hindu-host-webinar-on-experiential-learning/article34680020.ece
30 May 2021||Jammu,||Lt. Nikita Kaul, wife of officer killed in Pulwama, joins Army||Twenty-seven months after she lost her husband in an anti-insurgency operation in south Kashmir’s Pulwama, 29-year-old Nitika Kaul on Saturday donned the Army uniform after completing one-year rigorous training in Tamil Nadu. Army’s Northern Commander Lt. Gen. Y.K. Joshi pipped the stars on her shoulders at a simple ceremony held at the Officers Training Academy, Chennai, and wished her best of luck for future endeavours. Lieutenant Kaul, originally a resident of Kashmir, was married to Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal for just nine months when the news of him making the supreme sacrifice for the nation during a gunfight with Jaish-e-Mohammad militants turned her world upside down. The Major was among five security forces personnel killed in the February 18, 2019, encounter in which three JeM terrorists, including two top commanders believed to be behind the deadly Pulwama suicide attack on a CRPF convoy, were gunned down. Major Dhoundiyal was awarded Shaurya Chakra (posthumously) for his sacrifice for the nation. Motivated by her husband, Lt. Kaul cleared the Short Service Commission (SSC) exam and interview last year and officially joined the Indian Army as an officer at the ceremony presided over by Lt. Gen. Joshi, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Udhampur-based Northern Command. “#MajVibhutiShankarDhoundiyal, made the Supreme Sacrifice at #Pulwama in 2019, was awarded SC (P). Today his wife @Nitikakaul dons #IndianArmy uniform; paying him a befitting tribute. A proud moment for her as Lt Gen Y K Joshi, #ArmyCdrNC himself pips the Stars on her shoulders!,” the PRO Udhampur tweeted. Lt. Kaul, who presented a brave face during the last rites of her husband at his home town Dehradun, had left her job with a multinational company in Delhi to join the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lt-nikita-kaul-wife-of-officer-killed-in-pulwama-joins-army/article34680025.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘Recall of Chief Secretary unprecedented’||On May 28, the department of personnel and training (DoPT) under Ministry of Personnel directed that West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay report to its office at North Block in Delhi by 10 a.m. on May 31. The order came hours after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee allegedly skipped a review meeting on Cyclone Yaas with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda. Ms. Banerjee has refuted the allegation saying she handed over a detailed report on cyclone to the Prime Minister and after seeking his permission thrice, she proceeded to another meeting at Digha with Mr. Bandyopadhay. The order read that the appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the “placement of services” of Mr. Bandyopadhyay as per provisions of the Indian Administrative Service (cadre) Rules, 1954 with the Government of India with “immediate effect.” The ACC is headed by the Prime Minister, and Home Minister Amit Shah is the other member. The 1987 batch IAS officer has never been on Central deputation and is to superannuate on May 31. Earlier, on the request of the State government, Centre had approved three-month extension in service to the officer, top bureaucrat in West Bengal. What is the rule cited by DoPT ? The DoPT order said that the ACC has approved Mr. Bandyopadhyay’s transfer to Delhi under Rule 6(I) of the IAS (cadre) Rules, 1954. The said rule pertains to “deputation of cadre officers.” It says that a cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the State governments concerned and the Central government, be deputed for service under the Central government or another State government. It however adds, “provided that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the Central government and the State government or State governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the Central government.” When were the rules framed? After the All India Services Act, 1951 came into existence, the IAS cadre rules were framed in 1954. The said rule on deputation giving more discretionary powers to the Centre was added in May 1969. What has been the practice so far? Before any officer of All India Services (AIS) is called for deputation to the Centre, his or her concurrence is required. The Establishment Officer in DoPT invites nominations from State governments. Once the nomination is received, their eligibility is scrutinised by a panel and then an offer list is prepared, traditionally done with the State government on board. Central Ministries and offices can then choose from the list of officers on offer. AIS officers are recruited by the Centre and they are lent to States. The publication of offer list on DoPT’s website was discontinued by the government in 2018 amid reports that not many State government officers were willing to come to Centre for deputation. Is the current order one of its kind? According to Vappala Balachandran, former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, the order is not only “unprecedented” but also vindictive. “Legally speaking it is the Centre that holds ultimate control. But there is also a custom that an officer will not be deputed against his/her own will. This order is unilateral and an awkward step, unbecoming of the Central government specially after they gave due extension. This officer superannuates on May 31, if he refuses to join, can the Centre exercise its right on a retired officer? Mr. Balachandran asked. Earlier in December 2020, the Home Ministry had attached three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers of West Bengal cadre — Rajeev Mishra, Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Bholanath Pandey — but the State government did not relieve them. The attachment order came after the cavalcade of Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) president J.P Nadda was attacked in Diamond Harbour area. Home Ministry is the cadre controlling authority of IPS officers. What if the officer refuses to comply with the order? The All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969 are not clear on the punishment in such cases. But Rule 7 says the authority to institute proceedings and to impose penalty will be the State government while he or she was “serving in connection with the affairs of a State.” The case is peculiar as Mr. Badyopadhyay retires on May 31 and is not on deputation to the Central government. The Chief Minister can write to the Centre to reconsider its decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recall-of-chief-secretary-unprecedented/article34679994.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Terror-conspiracy case: NIA files supplementary chargesheet||The NIA chargesheeted two Hizbul Mujahideen overground workers on Saturday in a case related to a criminal conspiracy to carry out terror attacks at different places in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country. The chargesheet against Nisar Ahmad Sheikh, 52, and Nishad Ahmad Butt, 42, residents of Kishtwar, Jammu and Kashmir, was filed before the National Investigation Agency special court in Lucknow under various Sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IPC, the probe agency said. A case was first registered in Lucknow on September 12, 2018, against Kamruj Zaman and others relating to a criminal conspiracy by Hizb-ul-Mujahideen cadres to carry out terror incidents, it said. The NIA had re-registered the case on September 24, 2018 and taken over the investigation, it said. He said the NIA had earlier filed a chargesheet against arrested Zaman and absconding accused Osama Bin Javed on March 11, 2019. Javed was later killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district on September 28 that year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terror-conspiracy-case-nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet/article34680023.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Coast Guard will get more responsibilities’||Observing that the Coast Guard plays an important role in supporting neighbouring countries in the Indian Ocean Region, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on Saturday said that the force will have greater responsibilities in the years to come as India’s maritime zones expand to include entitlements in the extended continental shelf. Mr. Doval made the comments after virtually commissioning the Offshore Patrol Vessel (OPV) ‘Sajag’ into the Indian Coast Guard. This is third of five OPVs indigenously designed and built by the Goa Shipyard Limited. Mr. Doval also said that this lean and visible service plays a critical role in anti-smuggling and anti-narcotics, both nationally and internationally, a Coast Guard statement said. In his address, Mr. Doval said that the concept of forming the Coast Guard was conceived after the 1971 war, when it was assessed that maritime borders are equally vital as land borders, the statement said. “The blueprint for a multi-dimension Coast Guard was conceived by the visionary Rustamji Committee even as the United Nations Convention of the Laws of the Sea (UNCLOS) was being negotiated and India’s assets off Mumbai high were growing,” the statement quoted Mr. Doval as having said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coast-guard-will-get-more-responsibilities/article34679983.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Ripples from Yaas devastate Sunderbans||The sea water from the site where the devotees take a holy dip surged several kilometres inland crossing the Kapil Muni temple. Namita Jana, who resides in the Dhablat Shibpur area in the southeastern part of the Sagar Island, says the entire area looks like a desert of mud. “We do not know whom and where to seek help and how to tell people of the situation in which we are living,” she said. Not only the western part of Sunderbans that faces Bay of Bengal but large parts in Gosaba and Sandeshkhali block, in the eastern part of the delta remain under water three days after the cyclone and the high tide. Sanjay Mondal who operates a tourist boat “Sundarban Safari” said there is a scarcity of drinking water because of inundation. Once the sea water enters the islands, not only are dwelling units destroyed but the crops are inundated and land cannot be cultivated because of the salinity, even the fish in the ponds die. Engineering shortfall During the administrative review meetings carried out to assess the impact of the cyclone, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee stressed on a permanent solution for the Sunderbans and low-lying coastal areas. “We repair the embankments every year and then a cyclone comes, and we have to repair it again. It is likely putting money in the water,” she said. “Sunderbans has embankments of 3,250 km, and we have to look beyond engineering solutions,” says Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University. Prof. Ghosh points out that estimates suggest that embankments have been breached at 70-to-75-gram panchayats. Sunderbans comprises 18 blocks, 13 located in South 24 Parganas and five in North 24 Parganas districts. Despite the announcement of creating a separate district for Sunderbans, the proposal is yet to be implemented, says Ajanta Dey of the Commission on Ecosystems Management (CEM)-International Union for Conservation of Nature ( IUCN). She points out that it is still not clear who is authorised to predict the astronomical tide. “At places the cumulative effect of the high tide has been above five metres,” she says. Weeks after cyclone Amphan in 2020, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had written to NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar calling for a systematic review of the multiple challenges faced by the Sunderbans and for the preparation of a master plan for the socio-economic development of the region. There has been no follow up on the matter, experts say, and lack of scientific information in dealing with a complex estuarine delta which has become a hot spot of climate change is emerging as a challenge for the policy makers. Life for those residing on the region has become a daily struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ripples-from-yaas-devastate-sunderbans/article34679991.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||GoM to study relief for COVID essentials||He added that FICCI has been pressing for zero rating of healthcare services for two years to cope with the pandemic’s impending waves and had hoped for a positive decision from the Council this time. Kerala’s new Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, who along with other Opposition-ruled States’ Ministers had demanded tax cuts on COVID-related supplies, has been included in the GoM, along with his Telangana counterpart T. Harish Rao. The group’s terms of reference include ascertaining the need for tax breaks on items ranging from COVID-19 treatment drugs, testing kits, oxygen-related equipment to PPE kits, N95 masks and sanitisers. Vaccines are taxed at 5%, while the GST levied on most other COVID-essential items is 12% or 18%. Delhi’s Deputy CM Manish Sisodia had said on Friday night that BJP Finance Ministers opposed the demand for making COVID essentials tax-free ‘tooth and nail’ at the GST Council’s marathon meet held on Friday. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the decision to form a GoM was taken after protracted deliberations with ‘varying viewpoints’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gom-to-study-relief-for-covid-essentials/article34679995.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||CBI arrests 4 Bhopal FCI staffers in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested four officials of the Food Corporation of India’s Bhopal division in a bribery case. The accused were identified as divisional manager Harish Hinonia, manager (accounts) Arun Shrivastava, manager (security) Mohan Parate and assistant Kishore Meena. “Searches at six places in Bhopal led to the seizure of about Rs. 3.01 crore in cash, gold jewellery weighing 387 gm, and 670 gm silver items. A part of the cash was allegedly kept in different envelopes, with bundles of notes bearing names, dates and other details. Some cash was kept in a heavy safety vault concealed in a wooden almirah,” said an official. The agency also seized a diary containing records of suspect financial transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-4-bhopal-fci-staffers-in-bribery-case/article34680026.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Withdraw transfer order of Chief Secretary: Mamata||Chief Minister also said that the BJP leadership is unable to digest its electoral defeat. “Why are you (Modi) behaving in this manner with Bengal? We have won a landslide victory — is that your only worry? You tried your best… but they (people) voted for us and they ousted you. Please accept the mandate of the people,” she said. The Chief Minister said that the West Bengal government had sent a letter on May 10 to the Centre requesting a three-month extension for Mr. Alapan Bandopadhyay who is to retire on May 31, so he could continue to work with State government to combat the prevailing COVID pandemic and the impending cyclone. On May 24 the State government received letter from the Centre, allowing Mr. Bandopadhyay to continue as Chief Secretary. “You tell me in 74 years have you ever seen this type of incident?” Ms. Banerjee said. Meanwhile, the Leader of the Opposition in West Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari, alleged that Ms. Banerjee and the Chief Secretary had insulted the Prime Minister by not attending a meeting chaired by him.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/withdraw-transfer-order-of-chief-secretary-mamata/article34679990.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Shifting of Chief Secretary Bandopadhyay draws flak||“If the head of bureaucracy in a State, the Chief Secretary, will be summarily removed by the Union government, why would any IAS or IPS officer, whether a District Magistrate or a Secretary or a Police Officer listen to and follow the orders of the State government or implement any policy or programme devised by the State? This would lead to complete and total anarchy in the country,” he stated. Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted that “this move in the middle of a pandemic and the aftermath of a devastating cyclone, shows how they are still licking their Bengal wounds post-elections”. The Aam Aadmi Party, however, avoided taking a position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shifting-of-chief-secretary-bandopadhyay-draws-flak/article34679997.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||IIT-H develops oral solution to fight black fungus||The researchers said that due to its amphiphilic nature, the AmB has poor aqueous solubility and forms aggregates in the system, which stresses renal filtration and thus causing nephrotoxicity (adverse impact of medicines on the kidney). Since the main concern with high drug loading was nephrotoxicity, the team has carried out a cell viability assay (MTT assay) against human kidney fibroblast cells which illustrated no evidence of cell toxicity caused by AmB, the institute said. Dr. Chandra Shekhar Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering Sharma said that since the idea behind the research was to find a solution to serve society, the oral solution developed is made free from intellectual property so that it can be mass produced and is made affordable and available to all. The 60 mg AmB tablet will be affordable at Rs. 200 and is patient-friendly ensuring its slow and steady release thus reducing nephrotoxicity. The research team has also explained the concept in a video on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-h-develops-oral-solution-to-fight-black-fungus/article34680529.ece
30 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||Provide rations to sex workers: Gauhati HC||The Gauhati High Court has directed the authorities of Cachar district in Assam’s Barak valley to provide rations to sex workers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. An order was issued to the district Deputy Commissioner and the secretary of the District Legal Services Authority on May 28. Hearing a petition filed by Debajit Gupta, the Bench of Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Manash Ranjan Pathak cited a September 2020 Supreme Court observation that sex workers have a right to live with dignity. The Deputy Commissioner informed the court that the sex workers and their families have already been identified since a project is being run by the National AIDS Control Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/provide-rations-to-sex-workers-gauhati-hc/article34680501.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Clear GST confusion: tax experts||The government needs to urgently resolve the confusion over the GST rate to be levied on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use, tax experts said on Saturday. “The notification bringing down the rate from 28% to 12% for personal imports has been quashed and the relief of exemption given by the High Court seems to be only in case of free imports for personal use as gifts,” said Abhishek Jain, partner (indirect taxes) at EY India. “The government must quickly resolve this anomaly created by the Delhi High Court judgment,” he said. “For individuals, this seems to be the interpretation as the High Court has quashed the notification itself,” said Pratik Jain, partner, Price Waterhouse & Co., LLP. “Hopefully, the Group of Ministers of the GST Council on COVID essentials’ tax rates will look into the issue and provide relief,” he said. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Friday that the judgment meant concentrators received as “gifts” from abroad would not be taxed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clear-gst-confusion-tax-experts/article34680006.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||At the helm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-the-helm/article34680008.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||No time for petty politics, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi government had floated a global tender for COVID vaccines to tide over the shortage of doses for citizens in the Capital. However, big manufacturers wanted to deal with the Centre directly, he said. He stated that this was not the time for “petty politics, and denied charges of seeking to politicise the vaccination drive. He said that there were about 450 cases of the Black Fungus in Delhi government hospitals even as there was a paucity of medicines. “We have demanded more medicines from the Centre,” he stated. Mr. Kejriwal made the comments after visiting the Delhi government’s drive-through vaccination centre at Chhatrasal stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-time-for-petty-politics-says-kejriwal/article34680011.ece
30 May 2021||Lucknow,||Overall positivity rate is 3.5%, says Uttar Pradesh [Or] Positive rate has gone down, says U.P.||The positivity rate for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours has come down to 0.8% while the recovery rate stood at 96.10%, the State government said on Saturday. The overall positivity rate stood at 3.5%, Amit Mohan Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said. In May, the positivity rate has been 5.5%, he said. The cases continued to drop as 2,287 new cases were recorded while 7,902 were discharged in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/overall-positivity-rate-is-35-says-uttar-pradesh-or-positive-rate-has-gone-down-says-up/article34679998.ece
30 May 2021||Guwahati,||Provide rations to sex workers, says Gauhati High Court||The Gauhati High Court has directed the authorities of Cachar district in southern Assam’s Barak valley to provide rations to sex workers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing a plea on the matter filed by a resident of Silchar. An order was issued to the Deputy Commissioner of Cachar district and the Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority on May 28. Hearing a petition filed by Debajit Gupta, a resident of Silchar, a Bench of Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Manash Ranjan Pathak cited a Supreme Court observation that sex workers have a right to live with dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/provide-rations-to-sex-workers-says-gauhati-high-court/article34680014.ece
30 May 2021||Guwahati,||Another newly elected Assam MLA dies of COVID-19||COVID-19 has claimed the second newly elected Assam MLA in less than a week. Leho Ram Boro, who represented the United People’s Party Liberal from the Tamulpur Assembly constituency, passed away at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. He was 63. Doctors said he suffered a stroke while undergoing treatment for infection by coronavirus. He tested positive a few days ago. Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi and Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma mourned the MLA’s death. On May 26, 68-year-old Majendra Narzary of the Bodoland People’s Front had died due to post-COVID-19 complications. He represented the Gossaigaon constituency. Both the deceased MLAs were from areas under the BTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-newly-elected-assam-mla-dies-of-covid-19/article34680016.ece
30 May 2021||Guwahati,||Youth arrested for social media post against Assam CM||The police have arrested a youth from Assam’s Dhemaji district for posting a comment against Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on social media. The youth, Nipom Chutia, is a member of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, founded by jailed MLA Akhil Gogoi. He had on May 20 uploaded the “objectionable” post, alleging that the CM has links with the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youth-arrested-for-social-media-post-against-assam-cm/article34680022.ece
30 May 2021||Srinagar,||2 civilians killed in Bijbehara attack||Two civilians were killed in a suspected militant attack in Anantnag district on Saturday. The incident took place around 8 p.m. at Parray Jablipora in Bijbehara. “After the attack, both civilians were rushed to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared one as brought dead,” a police spokesman said. The other person was referred to ano- ther hospital but he died on the way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-civilians-killed-in-bijbehara-attack/article34680027.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tondiarpet and Royapuram buck the trend in second wave||Tondiarpet and Royapuram are the only zones in the Greater Chennai Corporation that have reported fewer cases per lakh population in the second wave of COVID-19 so far compared to the first wave, an analysis of zone-wise data showed. These two zones in the northern region in Chennai were the worst-affected during the early phase of the first wave. A seroprevalence survey conducted by the National Institute of Epidemiology during the first wave in the second half of July last year showed that 44.2 % and 34.4 % of the surveyed population in Tondiarpet and Royapuram respectively had exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. According to the analysis, 2,424 people per lakh population tested positive for COVID-19 during the first wave in Royapuram. In contrast, 1,943 cases per lakh population have been reported so far during the second wave. These numbers were 2,341 during the first wave and 2,186 during the second wave for the Tondiarpet zone. (Refer to the accompanying infographic on the period and number of cases taken into consideration for the analysis). In all other zones, reported cases per lakh population have significantly gone up already in the ongoing second wave. Some of the zones where a sharp increase was observed were Perungudi, Alandur and Valasaravakkam in the southern region of the city and Ambattur in central region. For instance, the cases per lakh population went up from 1,888 to 3,633 in Perungudi. During the second wave, the southern region of the city, comprising zone 11 (Valasaravakkam) to zone 15 (Sholinganallur), accounted for more cases compared to the first wave. While 26 % of cases came from here during the first wave, it was 31% in the second wave. The central region, where nearly half of the city’s population resides, accounted for the maximum number of cases, both during the first wave (48 %) and the second wave (49 %). In contrast, the northern region accounted for 20% in the second wave compared to 26% in the first wave. The zone-wise number of tests have not been made available by GCC to know if there were any disparities in testing that partially accounted for the variance in the reporting of cases. P. Ganeshkumar, epidemiologist, National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, said that it may be misleading to read too much into the seroprevalence survey results and the possible correlation with the cases getting reported in different zones. “What is more important is the fact that the majority of the population is still susceptible to the virus. Therefore, the way forward must be to vaccinate as much of the population as soon as possible,” he said.  What is more important is that the majority of the population is susceptible to the virus. Therefore, the way forward must be to vaccinate as much of the population as soon as possible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tondiarpet-and-royapuram-buck-the-trend-in-second-wave/article34680201.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Most people are indecisive about vaccination: survey||A survey on hesitation to take COVID-19 vaccine has suggested that cognitive and behavioural therapy could improve compliance. It was conducted by professors and research scholars in the Department of Psychology in the University of Madras. As many as 559 persons from among the 707 who participated in the online survey in the 18-45 years age group were not vaccinated. They also exhibited hesitancy in getting vaccinated, said S. Sasikala, assistant professor and one of the authors of the survey. Among the participants, 140 were frontline workers who had been already vaccinated. This group was eliminated from the survey. Among the non-vaccinated group, 20% were ready but the rest exhibited moderate to high level of hesitancy. They cited several reasons for their hesitancy. While some said they were waiting for a more effective vaccine, others expressed concern over negative information about vaccines. Fear of side effects, lack of availability of the vaccines and the view that vaccine is not a complete cure or remedy were the other reasons. While 20% of the respondents were totally unwilling to get vaccinated, 60% were undecided and confused, the survey found. Another 20% were willing to be vaccinated if vaccines were made available to them. The survey concluded that if mental health professionals could intervene and work with the healthcare professionals behavioural changes could occur. “We have certain techniques to eliminate fear by giving the basic information . We are already doing such intervention by telling them that vaccine will protect them and their families. We bring in cognitive and behavioural changes in the people. We work on their negative thoughts and ensure a change in their behaviour. We are already doing this to ensure compliance with wearing masks,” Ms. Sasikala said. The study was led by S. Karunanidhi, emeritus professor in the department. “The survey was scientific. We were surprised to get five different reasons for refusing vaccines. In this case, emotion is involved. We are dealing with fear. Rational emotive therapy and cognitive restructuring can alleviate fear. We imagine too many adverse consequences. It is similar to the anxiety a student experiences before the exam. It dissipates when he receives the question paper. People imagine the worst about vaccination. While 20% are willing, 60% are undecided and another 20% are extremely anxious. The study shows that a majority can be persuaded by explaining directly to them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-people-are-indecisive-about-vaccination-survey/article34680583.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore’s count exceeds Chennai’s||For the fourth day in a row on Saturday, Coimbatore logged more COVID-19 cases than Chennai — the district saw 3,692 infections, while Chennai recorded 2,705. Across the State, the number of people testing positive in a day continued to dip, while fatalities stayed high. The State clocked in 30,016 new cases and 486 deaths, taking its tally to 20,39,716 and toll to 23,261. The number of people discharged after treatment exceeded fresh cases. As many as 31,759 people, including 5,327 in Chennai, were discharged across the State. Presently, 3,10,157 people are under treatment for COVID-19. Chennai’s active caseload dipped from 41,387 on Friday to 38,680 on Saturday, while that of Coimbatore marginally rose from 38,340 to 38,824. While the daily cases have been steadily declining, there seems to be no reduction in fatalities. Except for three districts — Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri and the Nilgiris — deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in every other district. Chennai continued to lead the table with 85 deaths. While 49 persons died in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram recorded 26 deaths. There were 24 deaths in Dindigul and 21 in Tiruvallur. Coimbatore and Tiruppur accounted for 20 deaths each. About 22% of the deceased were aged 20 to 49. A majority of those who died were in their 60s, followed by people in their 50s — 141 people in their 60s and 106 in their 50s died. As many as 138 of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. Among them was a 24-year-old man from Ranipet, who died on May 27 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 26-year-old woman from Salem died on May 28 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Of the 486 deaths, 305 took place in government hospitals. Apart from Coimbatore, some other districts in the western region accounted for a significant number of fresh cases — Erode recorded 1,743, while Tiruppur had 1,697 and Salem 1,492. A total of 1,314 people tested positive in Chengalpattu, while Tiruchi and Tiruvallur had 1,099 and 1,072 cases respectively. Daily cases dropped below 1,000 in both Madurai (828) and Kanniyakumari (927). A total of 1,74,349 samples were tested in the State, taking the total figure to 2,73,38,092. Vaccine update A total of 2,66,426 people, including 2,01,212 people aged 18 to 44, were vaccinated on Saturday. This took the State’s total coverage to 87,16,541. The vaccination was held in 2,775 sessions. Among others, 45,205 people aged 45 to 59 and 16,782 senior citizens took the jabs. Till date, 11,68,706 people aged 18 to 44; 31,54,368 aged 45 to 59; and 25,29,108 senior citizens have been vaccinated, besides healthcare workers and frontline workers. According to data available with the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, as on May 28, the State got a total of 13,10,270 doses of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatores-count-exceeds-chennais/article34680222.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temples seek funds for annadhanam scheme||Temple administrations in the State have begun asking devotees to donate funds or groceries for annadhanam scheme through which over one lakh packets of food are being distributed daily to the needy in hospitals. With temples remaining shut for a large part of last year, many have run out of funds, including the allocation for annadhanam. “We have separate accounts for annadhanam scheme, general expenses and thiruppani (temple work) and have diverted funds from the general account to the annadhanam account to keep it running,” said an official in a major temple. In other temples, reserve funds kept in fixed deposits have been withdrawn to fund the distribution of food. A total of 754 temples offer annadhanam daily from 20 to around 5,000 people each. Funds sought Recently, 349 temples under the scheme had informed the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department that they would need support to continue the scheme. Following this, the department released Rs. 2.51 crore from its central annadhanam pool. Around 50 temples, including Sri Dandayuthapani temple in Palani, Sri Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam, and Sri Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore have updated their payment links on the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department website. “Earlier, temples had individually posted payment links on their websites. But it was felt that a unified link would help. We have already started getting funds, thanks to this initiative,” said a source in a city temple. A former official of the department said that it was unfortunate that temples had to dip into their deposits. “The government should ensure that the deposits are again made and a robust financial situation prevails in temples as otherwise they may not have funds for thiruppani,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-seek-funds-for-annadhanam-scheme/article34680584.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to issue two-wheeler passes to grocers today||The Greater Chennai Corporation will issue passes to 7,500 retail traders to sell groceries at residents’ doorsteps. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has directed revenue officials to give passes for two-wheelers of retail traders on Sunday. Residents can call the grocers and seek door delivery of essential commodities from May 31. The phone numbers of retail traders will be uploaded on the websitewww.chennaicorporation .gov.in Retail traders will be permitted to take essential commodities to the residents’ doorsteps from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. from May 31. Starting May 30, the retail traders will be permitted to procure essential commodities from the wholesale market in Koyambedu and Kothwal Chavadi from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. every day. Retail outlets will be permitted to take essential commodities to residents’ homes on two-wheelers only after obtaining passes from the Corporation Revenue Department. Passes will be issued by officials at all the 200 divisional offices and the 15 zones from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Residents have been advised not to gather near retail outlets, which will keep shops open at the rear side of the building for door delivery of grocery on two-wheelers. Regulate crowding The Corporation will regulate such crowding in shops and penalise violators. App-based retailers and other e-commerce companies have also been permitted to sell groceries.  The Corporation will regulate crowding in shops and penalise violators. App-based retailers and e-commerce companies have been permitted to sell groceries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-issue-two-wheeler-passes-to-grocers-today/article34680195.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Obesity leads to risk of multiple diseases and COVID-19 severity||Obesity and high body mass index (BMI) not only lead to risk of multiple diseases but also increase the risk of COVID-19 severity among patients. This was one of the points highlighted at the webinar hosted by the Tamil Nadu Gastroenterologist Trust and World Gastroenterology Organisation on Saturday to mark the World Digestive Health Day. With this year’s theme being obesity, the webinar was hosted to raise awareness on obesity and its impact on developing co-morbidities and COVID-19. P. Piramanayagam, gastroenterologist at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, highlighted how the prevalence of obesity had increased in the past four decades. Noting that factors, including diet, lack of physical exercise, genetics and drugs causing weight gain, were some of the reasons for obesity, he elaborated on the risks of various diseases, including stroke, cancer, cardiovascular and gastrointestinal diseases. He also spoke on the role of endoscopy in treating obesity. High risk Citing studies carried out in the U.K. and the U.S., Gourdas Choudhuri, chairman, department of gastroenterology and hepatobiliary sciences, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon, said patients with higher BMI were at a risk of COVID-19 severity. Chances of hospitalisation were more among patients with high BMI. Obesity is also associated with higher mortality rates. Diet and exercise hold the key to weight management and reducing the risk of COVID-19 complications, he said. Various subjects, including obesity and liver diseases, pharmacotherapy, need for exercise and the role of surgery in treating obesity, were underlined during a panel discussion. V. Balasubramanian, gastroenterologist; P.K. Reddy, surgical gastroenterologist, Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, and N. Murugan, hepatologist, Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, were among the panellists at the webinar. The session was moderated by K.R. Palaniswamy, senior consultant gastroenterologist, Apollo Hospitals.  Obesity is also associated with higher mortality rates. Diet and exercise hold the key to weight management and reducing risk of COVID-19 complications Gourdas Choudhuri,Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/obesity-leads-to-risk-of-multiple-diseases-and-covid-19-severity/article34680203.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s homeless to be vaccinated in one week||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started vaccination of homeless persons in shelters run by it in various parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has ordered officers to prioritise vaccination for homeless persons in these shelters. According to data shared by the Corporation, 643 homeless people had received the first dose in Corporation shelters. Deputy Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese said all the persons in Corporation shelters will receive vaccination in one week. Identification drive The homeless will be identified in each of the 42,000 streets of the city by the civic officials for vaccination. “Many inmates in the Corporation shelters do not have identity cards. We have started a special drive for vaccination of such homeless persons. Of the 55 shelters, excluding the children’s shelter and special shelters, we have 34 shelters and 1,151 inmates,” said Dr. Varghese. After completing the vaccination drive for all inmates of shelters, the civic body will launch a vaccination drive for other homeless residents in various parts of the city. “The number of homeless persons is estimated at 8,000. We had some issues regarding vaccination of homeless people. As per the new guidelines, we have launched the vaccination drive,” said Dr. Varghese. A key facilitator will be identified for the vaccination of such homeless persons, who will have a mobile phone and any of the seven documents. The key facilitator will be officials of institutions, such as Corporation’s shelters or any rehabilitation home. Special vaccination sessions have been planned for such residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-homeless-to-be-vaccinated-in-one-week/article34680205.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||His courage to take on govt. won him plaudits from teachers||Educationist M. Anandakrishnan died here on Saturday after battling with COVID-19. He was 93. A Padma Shri recipient, he served as the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University and was the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. He is survived by his wife of 74 years, Jayalakshmi Anandakrishnan, and four sons. From humble beginnings in Vaniyambadi, Anandakrishnan, second of nine children, carved a distinguished career spanning several continents. He served as a chief science officer at the United Nations in New York. M.K. Surappa, former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, said his association with Anandakrishnan started even before he took charge at the university. He described him as a man of great vision, who was candid. Another former Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy said, “He was a member of the committee that reviewed [the functioning of] deemed universities. He was committed to improving the quality of technical education in the country.” He was “bold enough to speak about corruption in the appointment of Vice-Chancellors at universities...” K.E. Raghunathan, former national president of the All India Manufacturers Organisation and his student, said Anandakrishnan was “instrumental in shaping my life. I learnt perfection and detailing from him. An ever-willing workaholic for a good cause.” Despite being a great scholar, who had just returned to India as the Vice-Chancellor of a premier engineering institution, Anandakrishnan remained friendly with students, recalled Virudhunagar Collector and former student R. Kannan. Anandakrishnan earned the admiration of teachers for the reforms he introduced to the education system and his ability to speak up. He stood for transparency in admission to professional courses and appointments to the high office of Vice-Chancellor. In 2019, when the National Education Policy was introduced, he advocated mother tongue as the medium of instruction in schools. He advocated a common entrance test for professional courses in the early 1990s and in subsequent discussions, he continued to hold the view. In 2006, when the State considered abolition of the CET, he argued that access to coaching classes in urban areas and for wealthy students adversely affected poor, rural students. In an interview to The Hindu in 2018, when the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test became mandatory for admission to the medical courses, he said he was appalled at the way coaching centres had mushroomed. He was convinced that a system of evaluation was needed for admission to higher educational institutions. In 1993, Anandakrishnan’s insistence on an entrance test for professional courses in tune with the Supreme Court’s judgment on the 50% quota forced the State government to frame a law on the 69% quota for the Most Backward Classes, the Backward Classes and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. He held that in the absence of any legal support, he would not be able to adhere to the 69% communal reservation. Eventually, the Assembly adopted a law which was included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution as a measure of safeguard. But his stand angered the then Jayalalithaa government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/his-courage-to-take-on-govt-won-him-plaudits-from-teachers/article34680214.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco in a piquant situation over billing consumers||The decision of Tangedco to stop door-to-door meter reading in the city has not gone down well with consumer activists as well as its engineering staff. Having extended the last date for payment of electricity bills from May 10 to 24, Tangedco again revised the date to June 7, stopped door-to-door assessment and asked the domestic consumers to pay the electricity bill equivalent to the amount of the corresponding month in 2019 or take a reading of the meter on their own and accordingly pay the electricity bill for the May cycle. Somasundaram, a consumer activist, alleged that when hundreds of operation and maintenance staff were attending to complaints of power breakdown, at times even in containment zones, exempting meter readers alone from their work was not a good administrative decision. It was causing much hardship to domestic consumers and brought a bad name to the power utility. He said that the consumers would have difficulty in taking down the reading because of technical issues with various digital meters. Burden of complaints A divisional engineer of Tangedco said unlike the static meter where one could easily find the number of units consumed, the lack of uniform installation of digital meters would result in wrong calculation of meter readings. He said: “Already, electricity bill issues of hundreds of customers during the lockdown of last year are yet to be resolved by local officials, and this would burden local electricity staff.” The official said there are more than 90 lakh domestic consumers in the city and the three neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. A senior official of Tangedco, confirming the petitions presented by a few unions of engineers regarding the leniency shown towards the assessors, said the assessors’ unions had refused to take up door-to-door billing during the lockdown and so it was forced to give the options of self-assessment or pay the amount equivalent to the corresponding month bill of 2019. However, there would be more clarity in a few days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-in-a-piquant-situation-over-billing-consumers/article34680198.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools mull child protection measures||An outpouring of allegations of sexual harassment on social media over the last week from both students and alumni of Chennai schools has led to institutions taking cognisance of the gravity of the issue and putting measures in place to ensure student safety and sensitise faculty members. While assuring parents and students that they had a zero tolerance policy towards sexual harassment on campus, a city-based school on its website said students were welcome to write to their school principals or counsellors, and strict action would be taken as per law. The school also made available information regarding the constitution of a committee on campus governed by the Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH) Act. “In the last week, three schools reached out to have sessions to sensitise male teachers. We have to make it clear that name-calling, body shaming or any inappropriate behaviour either on campus or during online classes is completely unacceptable,” said a consultant, who facilitated sessions for schools. She said since classes had completely gone online, all teachers were strictly instructed to communicate with the students only as a group by sending broadcast messages, and not individually e-mail or message them. Schools in the State are also currently waiting for guidelines that the Tamil Nadu government promised to release to monitor online classes being conducted in educational institutions due to COVID-19. “Many institutions thought that online learning would be a short-term solution, but now that it has been over a year, and guidelines addressing issues regarding student safety are important,” said D.C. Elangovan, general secretary, Federation of Private Schools in Tamil Nadu. G.R. Sridhar, State president, Tamil Nadu Correspondents’ Association of Private Schools, said schools should ensure that parents are involved and aware of the schedule of online classes that their children are attending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-mull-child-protection-measures/article34680218.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karan Singha is DGP, Fire & Rescue Services||Senior IPS officer Karan Singha has been transferred from the post of Special Director-General Police (DGP), Enforcement, and has been posted as DGP/Director, Fire and Rescue Services. DGP, Railways, C. Sylendra Babu was holding the additional charge as Director, Fire and Rescue Services. The State government on Saturday effected a major change among the officers in the rank of Additional Director-General of Police. A.K. Viswanathan has been shifted from the post of ADGP, Operations, and posted as Chairman and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Police Housing Board, since the incumbent, M.N. Manjunatha, is retiring on superannuation. Abash Kumar, ADGP, Economic Offences Wing, has been transferred and posted as ADGP, Civil Supplies CID. Seema Agrawal has been shifted from the post of ADGP, Headquarters, and posted as ADGP/Member of the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB), and the incumbent, Sandeep Rai Rathore, posted as ADGP, Enforcement. K. Vannia Perumal, ADGP, Coastal Security Group, has been shifted to the special wing for Crime against Women and Children. Shailesh Kumar Yadav has been posted as ADGP, Welfare, and Sandeep Mittal as ADGP, Coastal Security Group. IGs moved Three Inspectors-General of Police have been promoted as ADGPs. K. Shankar, IG, north zone, has been promoted and posted as ADGP, Headquarters, Chennai. A. Amalraj, IG, west zone, has been promoted and posted as ADGP, Operations, while H.M. Jayaram, IG/Member-Secretary of the TNUSRB, has been posted as ADGP, Social Justice and Human Rights. R.V. Varun Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Automation, has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karan-singha-is-dgp-fire-rescue-services/article34680220.ece
30 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Eleven arrested for assaulting three police personnel||The Secretariat Colony police on Saturday arrested 11 people for assaulting three police personnel who tried to nab them while they were selling liquor in a house. The police said the injured personnel were J. Sajeeba, 39, sub-inspector; P. Manivannan, 59, sub-inspector, and S. Shankar, 37, grade II constable — all attached to the Otteri police station. Police said Saravanan, a customer, wanted to purchase alcohol from Sekar in the early hours of Saturday at S.S. Puram near the Bricklin Road. Sekar refused to give liquor even after receiving money and attacked Saravanan following an argument. Saravanan reported the matter to Sajeeba, who was on night patrol. While Sajeeba and Shankar nabbed Sekar and took him to the location where liquor was being sold, around 10 persons, mostly women, started attacking the duo. Manivannan, who reached the spot after getting an emergency call, was also assaulted. The uniforms of the personnel were torn. When more personnel from the Otteri police station arrived, some of the assailants escaped from the spot and hid themselves. The information was passed on to the Secretariat Colony police, who nabbed the suspects and arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eleven-arrested-for-assaulting-three-police-personnel/article34680193.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child Rights body looks into sexual misconduct allegations against teachers||Following allegations by alumni from two schools in the city about sexual misconduct by faculty members, members of the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) visited the institutions and carried out an inspection. The team was led by Saraswathi Rangasamy, chairperson of the commission. Based on the information collected from the schools, summons have been issued to the management and the teachers against whom the allegations have been made to appear before the commission in June for further inquiries. Summons have also been issued to another city school where allegations against a faculty member were raised by former students. "The commission has been receiving complaints via e-mail and we are looking into the same. We are taking action on such complaints brought to our notice and making appropriate recommendations to the respective department heads and the government.” said Ms. Saraswathi Rangasamy. She said that the commission was working on guidelines for schools, which would cover student safety across all aspects which they were planning to hand over to the Tamil Nadu government as well. The Chennai Chief Educational Officer (CEO), meanwhile, instructed a school in the city where the SCPCR had conducted an enquiry at, to submit all relevant information to the commission regarding the faculty member against whom allegations had been made as well as if complaints had been made by students in the past and if any action had been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-rights-commission-probes-allegations-against-school-teachers/article34680199.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure adequate stocks of drug: Panneerselvam||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to ensure adequate stocks of Amphotericin-B, used to treat mucormycosis, and have the disease covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and the scheme for government staff and pensioners. He also referred to reports of non-availability of the drug in Krishnagiri district. He also said the government should intensify steps to contain COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-adequate-stocks-of-drug-panneerselvam/article34680212.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM pay tribute||Tributes poured in for eminent educationist M. Anandakrishnan, who died on Saturday due to COVID-19. In his condolence message, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said: “The demise of M. Anandakrishnan, who served as Vice-Chancellor of Anna University twice (1990-1996) is a great loss for technical education in Tamil Nadu and the whole country. He served in the United Nations at several levels... He also served as chairman of IIT-Kanpur and headed the Tamil Nadu Curriculum Revision Committee, which revamped the State board syllabus.” In a statement, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said he was the hero behind the DMK government’s decision to scrap entrance examinations for higher education in the past. It was his report to the government that opened the doors of higher education to students from rural areas. “Underprivileged and middle class students from rural areas, who are now engineers and doctors, will understand this well. Besides, he was also responsible for bringing in a revolution in the information technology sector in the State as an adviser to the government.” Anandakrishnan was instrumental in introducing the single-window system of admissions to engineering colleges, he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, PMK founder S. Ramadoss and MMK’s M.H. Jawahirullah were among others who paid tributes to the eminent academician.  Anandakrishnan was the hero behind the DMK government’s decision to scrap entrance examinations for higher education in the past M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-pay-tribute/article34680217.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consider all journalists for relief, says Seeman||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief co-ordinator Seeman on Saturday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to provide relief to families of all journalists, including those working for online platforms, who succumbed to COVID-19, instead of only considering accredited mediapersons. Mr. Seeman said it was disappointing to note that the State government’s decision excluded non-accredited journalists, especially those working for online websites and channels. “Accreditation press cards are not available to all journalists. Only senior journalists associated with well-known media houses usually get government accreditation cards,” the NTK leader said. “Reporters and camera persons reporting on COVID-19 from hospitals will not have the accreditation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-all-journalists-for-relief-says-seeman/article34680219.ece
30 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Compensation for cyclone-hit families||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced compensation for those who had incurred damage to houses and crops in the heavy rain due to Cyclone Yaas. Highlighting that 238 thatched-roof houses were damaged, he said in a statement that Rs. 4,100 would be paid for every partially damaged house and Rs. 5,000 for every fully damaged house as compensation. He said that Rs. 20,000 a hectare would be given to farmers as compensation for affected paddy crop in rain-fed and irrigated land and all other crops in irrigated land. For all other affected crops in rain-fed land, Rs. 10,000 a hectare would be paid. Similarly, Rs. 25,000 a hectare would be given for affected perennial crops, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-for-cyclone-hit-families/article34680196.ece
30 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||New State Election Commissioner||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has appointed retired IAS officer V. Palanikumar as the State Election Commissioner. Mr. Palanikumar will hold office for a period of two years from the date on which he assumes charge, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-state-election-commissioner/article34680202.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A. Raja’s wife no more||Parameshwari, wife of Member of Parliament from the DMK and former Union Telecom Minister A. Raja, died at a private hospital in Chennai on Saturday evening. A statement issued by the hospital said she was fighting cancer that was in an advanced stage. She was in the ICU on ventilator support, after her condition deteriorated in last week. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited her family at the hospital earlier on Saturday to enquire about her health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-rajas-wife-no-more/article34680216.ece
30 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. taking all steps to contain virus spread: Minister||Coimbatore Corporation, which is in the process of increasing the number of people engaged in door-to-door survey to identify persons with fever symptoms, aims at having a surveyor for every 100 houses in the city, Minister for Food R. Sakkarapani said here on Saturday. Addressing reporters after reviewing the steps the Corporation had taken to combat COVID-19 spread, he said the civic body had planned to increase the surveyors from around 2,400 for 100 wards to around 5,000. This would take the number of surveyors to 50 for each of the wards. The 2,400 surveyors on rolls at present had covered 1,240 of the 7,500 streets in the city. And, on the 1,240 streets, they had reached 1.21 lakh of the five lakh houses in the city. After identifying people with fever symptoms, the Corporation asked them to attend a fever camp or sent its mobile sample collection vehicles to collect samples. Thereafter, it also followed up on the persons to inquire about their health. Mr. Sakkarapani also said that the civic body was taking 5,000 samples a day, had placed 524 areas or streets under containment and distributed close to 3,000 medical kits containing tables to persons who had tested positive and were in home quarantine. To ease the difficulties faced by people in buying vegetables and other essentials, the Corporation had permitted 2,537 vehicles to operate in the city. To a question on spraying disinfectants in municipalities, town panchayats and panchayats in the district, the Minister replied that Assistant Director Panchayat, Assistant Director Town Panchayat and Regional Director of Municipal Administration were looking into the issue. At every local body, the government had constituted a five-member committee to supervise the work and if there were complaints, it would redress those. In response to a query on overcrowding in the MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said it was wrong to say that there was overcrowding as the civic body officials at the market regulated the movement of vehicles, allowing only 10-15 vehicles at the market at any given point in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-taking-all-steps-to-contain-virus-spread-minister/article34680236.ece
30 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Siblings stare at an uncertain future||For Viviyan Jayaraj (15) and his brother Samuel Ebenezer (8) from Sivananda Colony in Coimbatore, the second wave of COVID-19 is of no mercy. The siblings lost their parents and maternal grandmother due to COVID-19. They are now under the care of paternal grandmother K. Saradha, who is 70 years old. “My son Dhanraj died of COVID-19 on May 15. The disease claimed the life of his wife Jeyanthi on May 18. A week later, Jeyanthi’s mother Padmadurai also died,” said Ms. Saradha over the phone. According to her, Dhanraj worked in a private bank before starting a pharmacy along with partners. The pharmacy business ran into loss and he was struggling to make ends meet before succumbing to the disease, she said. “Viviyan passed ninth standard and Samuel third standard. The online classes offered by the private school were cut off after we could not pay the fees. Now I have moved to my daughter’s house at Mettupalayam along with the children as living in the rented house at Sivananda Colony reminds us of Dhanraj and Jeyanthi,” she said. Ms. Saradha said that her only source of income was the pension of Rs. 8,000 of her late husband, who was an employee of Cheran Transport Corporation. “I do not know how to take care of the children and their education with this monthly pension. My daughters are also not well off to support us for a long time. I hope the government will take care of their education as assured,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-stare-at-uncertain-future-as-covid-19-claims-parents/article34680249.ece
30 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two control rooms set up to assist people||Stepping up its fight against the spread of COVID-19 and to provide relief to people during the lockdown, the Coimbatore Corporation has established two control rooms. The first was the control room set up at the Corporation main office in Town Hall to look into complaints related to the distribution of vegetables and other essential commodities and send vehicles to localities where people requested one, said Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani. Corporation sources said members of the public could reach the control room by dialling 73050-28710 or 0422-2391073. The second control room was at the Corporation Kalaiarangam in R.S. Puram, where 30 teachers from the Corporation schools called every person in home quarantine on a regular basis to check on their health. This was for not only inquiring into their well-being but also attending to their needs like medicines or food or essential commodities. Sources in the Corporation said that the civic body had trained the teachers on Friday and started the control room on Saturday. On Friday, the Corporation had permitted 2,537 autorickshaws to ply in the 100 wards in the city to distribute essential commodities and of those 1,645 were on road. The vegetables sold stood at 120 metric tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-control-rooms-set-up-to-assist-people/article34680239.ece
30 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officers appointed for districts||The State government has appointed monitoringand special officers to coordinate with the district administrations to ensure that effective preventive measures are taken against the spread of fresh active cases. According to the government order, monitoring officers appointed for each district were: Coimbatore - M.A. Siddique, Principal Secretary/Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Tiruppur – C. Samayamoorthy, Agriculture Production Commissioner/Secretary to Government, Agriculture Department and Erode – R. Selvaraj, Commissioner, Survey and Settlement. Likewise, special officers have also been appointed for a week to set up similar protocols in Erode, Salem and Tiruppur Corporations and other urban areas in the districts. Officers were, Erode – L. Nirmalraj, Director, Geology and Mining, Salem – B. Murugesh, Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Housing Board, Tiruppur – B. Ganesan, Director, Town and Country Planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officers-appointed-for-districts/article34680251.ece
30 May 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Skill training for COVID-19 management||Short-term skill training for COVID -19 management has been proposed under the Prime Minister Kaushal Vikash Yojana for educated unemployed youth. The skill training programme jointly under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and the Skill Development Corporation envisions training in Emergency medical technician – Basic, General Duty Assistant (GDA), GDA Advanced-Critical care, Phlebotomist, Medical Equipment Technology Assistant, and Home Health Aide. According to an administration release, the training entails one-month programme and upon completion, the trainees will be called upon to intern at the government hospitals and primary health centres. Contact numbers Applicants may be 10th, 12th or graduation qualified. Interested persons may apply along with their names, educational qualification and job role and email the resume todstodpi2020@gmail.com, or alternatively contact 9488709322/9865538426.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skill-training-for-covid-19-management/article34680490.ece
30 May 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||CM distributes essentials to frontline workers in Erode||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday distributed essential commodities to frontline workers in the district here. Mr. Stalin, who reached Erode late on Saturday, inaugurated the camp to distribute essentials to 10,000 workers in the corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and other frontline workers in the district. On Sunday, Mr. Stalin will visit the Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai, inaugurate the Covid Care Centre at Government Polytechnic College at Perundurai and proceed to Tiruppur and Coimbatore and would chair a meeting with Collectors of four districts in Coimbatore to discuss effective measures to control the pandemic in the region. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramaniam told reporters here on Saturday that corona zero delay extension ward would be created in all the hospitals to ensure that patients do not wait before hospitalisation. He said that the HLL Biotech Limited in Chengalpattu district did not function for 10 years and the State government is waiting for the Central government to grant permission. “Once permitted, we can produce the necessary vaccine required for our State”, he added.  Coimbatore Staff Reporter adds:  Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani said the Chief Minister would flag off 30 cars that the Corporation would use to transport people from their homes to hospitals. This was to help the people quickly reach the hospital as at present, during the complete lockdown, people were forced to look out for auto rickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-distributes-essentials-to-frontline-workers-in-erode/article34680243.ece
30 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen on wheels for patients at Erode GH||To ensure adequate oxygen supply to COVID-19 patients waiting for hospitalisation at the District Headquarters Hospital, a vehicle fitted with an oxygen concentrator of nine-litre capacity is stationed on the hospital premises here on Saturday. Sponsored by Young Indians (Yi) Erode Chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the concentrator can supply oxygen to eight patients at a time and can be operated continuously. Patients waiting for admissions at the hospital could use the facility at free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-on-wheels-for-patients-at-erode-gh/article34680244.ece
30 May 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas:  Manickampalayam: May 31, 10 a.m. to 12 noon: E.P.P. Nagar, M.G.R. Nagar, P.P. Garden, S.R.V. Colony, Seenankadu and Thendral Nagar.  Ayyanvalasu: May 31, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Gandhi Nagar, Karungadu, Kanjikovil, L.M.S Pallapalayam, Ariyankadu, Balasundarapuram, Chinniyampalayam, Ayyanvalasu, Karichi Goundan Palayam, Thangamedu and Sengalipalayam.  Naduvalasu: June 2, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. : Pethampalayam, Kolandanvalasu, Moolakadai, Elayampalayam, Ponnandanvalasu, Nallampatti, Osaipatti, Kovilpalayam and Gandhi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34680245.ece
30 May 2021||Hubballi,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka CM post not vacant, no leadership change: Union Minister Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said there is no question of leadership change in Karnataka as the Chief Minister's position is not vacant and Y.S. Yediyurappa is functioning efficiently. The MP from Dharwad, whose name is being speculated as one among the probables to replace Mr. Yediyurappa, said no discussions involving him had taken place. He said the focus now should be on managing the COVID-19 pandemic and not leadership change.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karnataka-cm-post-not-vacant-no-leadership-change-union-minister-pralhad-joshi/article34680072.ece
30 May 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen buses to ply in Karur||An ‘oxygen bus’ with three beds and eight seats with oxygen supply, sponsored by members of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Karur, was handed over to Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji for public use in Karur on Friday. A consortium of members of CII-Karur and other industrialists of the town have come forward to sponsor five projects at a total cost of Rs. 2.80 crore to support government efforts in the fight against COVID 19, Mr. Senthil Balaji said on the occasion. The bus with oxygen supply from cylinders and 10 litre oxygen concentrators to be used for emergency care for patients before hospitalisation. The facility will help medical teams to assess the patient for admission based on the severity of infection. Additionally, the facility will be of great help to patients for immediate oxygen requirements as a lifesaving support, K. Pushparajan, chairman, CII-Karur, said. The other projects include establishment of a 156-bedded COVID Care Centre at Velayuthampalayam and establishing three modular oxygen systems at government health care facilities. Work on establishing the COVID Care Centre, with oxygenated beds, at Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited’s marriage hall, Pugalur, is under way and it will be commissioned within the next few days by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin through video conference, Mr. Senthil Balaji said. Ashok Ramkumar, Managing Director, Asian Fabricx Private Limited, one of the major sponsors of projects, said industrialists of Karur will extend all necessary support to government efforts in the fight against COVID-19. Collector Prashant M.Wadnere, R. Muthuselvan, Dean, Karur Government Medical College and Hospital, Venkataraman, vice-chairman, CII-Karur, Sudhakar Palaniswamy, managing director, Synthesis Home Textiles, Arasu Sethupathi, past chairman, CII-Karur, and other officials and industrialists were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-buses-to-ply-in-karur/article34680570.ece
30 May 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements made for food supply to needy, says Minister||The district administration has made arrangements for supply of food to needy persons thrice a day during the lockdown. Speaking to reporters after handing over medical equipment, including oxygen concentrators donated by various companies and individuals to Collector Prashanth M. Wadnere on Saturday, V. Senthil Balaji, Minister for Electricity, said the lockdown had forced the people to stay indoors. There were people who might require food, and arrangements had been made for delivery. They could contact 94987-47644 and 94987-47699 for delivery of food at their foodstep. Mr. Senthil Balaji said people who needed breakfast, should inform before 8 p.m. the previous day. If they required food three times till the lockdown they should clearly spell out their need in advance. There was no need for them to contact the numbers daily. The system would come into effect immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-made-for-food-supply-to-needy-says-minister/article34680624.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1,029 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff recruited||A total of 1,029 doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff were recruited by the district administration, in the wake of rising COVID-19 positive cases. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy and Collector Aneesh Sekar had issued appointment orders for the newly recruited staff on Saturday. A total of 729 staff have been recruited for Government Rajaji Hospital and Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur. This includes 80 doctors and 250 nurses. GRH Dean A. Rathinavel said that the additional manpower would help reduce burden of health workers so that they could take better care of patients. Since additional beds for COVID-19 patients had been set up in both the hospitals, the additional manpower would be of much help, he said. Similarly, around 300 health workers, including 40 doctors and 75 nurses, had been recruited for the Public Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1029-doctors-nurses-and-paramedical-staff-recruited/article34680314.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Meet to discuss fee structure in private hospitals||A meeting will be convened on Monday to discuss the fee structure for COVID-19 patients at private hospitals, said Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy here on Saturday. Addressing media persons after inaugurating a COVID-19 vaccination camp at a private organisation, Mr. Moorthy said that mass vaccination camps were being conducted on the campuses of big industries. The target was to administer 65,000 doses of vaccine within the next three days, he said. Door-to-door screening was undertaken in rural areas to identify people with Influenza like illness symptoms. Positive patients, who were asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, could be treated at Mini COVID-19 Care Centres set up in villages, he said. Collector Aneesh Sekar and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present. Mr. Moorthy also inspected a vaccination camp at Chekkanoorani PHC, Mini COVID-19 Care Centres set up at Chekkanorani, Karumathur, Chellampatti, Vaalandur, Usilampatti, and Elumalai. Vaccination booths Meanwhile, Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Madurai has increased the number of vaccination booths for wider coverage. A hospital press release said that a new booth had been set up at Mahatma Montessori Higher Secondary School at K K Nagar. One must register on the CoWIN App or Aarogya Setu App and book the appointment slot before arriving at the vaccination centre. Payment of Rs. 850 for a dosage of Covishield and Rs. 1,200 for Covaxin should be made either online or on the spot. Vaccination helps in containing the spread of COVID-19, said Premalatha Paneerselvam, founder and correspondent of Mahatma Group of Schools, Madurai. Apollo Hospitals has ramped up its capacity to vaccinate people and is focusing on keeping vaccine wastage to minimum, said its Chief Operating Officer (Madurai division) Rohini Sridhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-to-discuss-fee-structure-in-private-hospitals/article34680318.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Forum flays MP’s post||The Nursing Home and Hospital Board - IMA (Tamil Nadu) has condemned CPI MP K. Subbarayan for his post on social media alleging that medical professionals were “robbing” the people during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Board’s State secretary, S. G. Balamurugan, in a statement said that when doctors and para-medical staff were saving COVID-19 patients, risking their own lives, such remarks by an elected representative were wounding. The entire medical fraternity could not be blamed for the malpractices of a few. The Board sought an apology from the MP and urged him to withdraw his remarks. Board chairman B Sridhar said that they had accepted the suggestion of the State government and admitted qualifying COVID-19 patients under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Medical Insurance Scheme for treatment. Since the beginning of the pandemic, 112 members from the medical fraternity, including doctors and frontline workers, had died. In the second wave, 34 of them had died. Under such circumstances, his comments were demoralising, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-flays-mps-post/article34680315.ece
30 May 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club’s gesture||Rotary Club of Madurai West has come forward to establish an oxygen generator plant at GRH. Its president L. Ramanathan and secretary T. Ravee said the plant would generate 200 LPM (litres per minute) and serve 30 to 35 beds. It would work on PSA (pressure swing absorption) as gaseous oxygen was cost effective when compared with liquid oxygen. The plant, costing Rs. 34 lakh, is sponsored by Paramount Textile Mills, Solartis Technology Services and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-clubs-gesture/article34680575.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||100 tractors exported to Bangladesh||A total of 100 tractors from Madurai were sent through goods train to Bangladesh on Saturday. This is the first consignment of tractors being sent this fiscal through 25 modified goods wagons from Vadipatti to Benapole. Madurai Division of Southern Railway would earn Rs. 23.15 lakh through this consignment. Already 300 tractors had been dispatched last year that fetched Rs. 69.47 lakh to the railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-tractors-exported-to-bangladesh/article34680628.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Proceed with tender process : HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to proceed with the tender process for the construction of an additional moffusil bus stand in Karur. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition that sought direction to the authorities to complete the tender process. A Division Bench of Justices V.M. Velumani and R. Tharani took note of the submissions and observed that Karur municipality had taken steps for the establishment of a new bus stand in Karur as the old bus stand was in a damaged condition and was unable to accommodate the more bus bays. The court observed that the efforts made by Karur municipality did not fructify due to various litigations filed one after another. Under such circumstances, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation came forward to establish a moffusil bus stand in the outskirts of the town. The lands were transferred and administrative sanction was also given. Subsequently, petitions were filed challenging the tender notification. A Division Bench of the court ordered  that status quo be maintained as on date. It was made clear that no temporary bus stand shall be established in the place. However, the court allowed the tender process to go on, the judges observed. Appeals were also filed against a single bench order that dismissed the petitions challenging the tender notification. The court had observed that pendency of the appeals would not be a bar for TNSTC to proceed with the tender. The court observed there was no order restraining TNSTC from proceeding with the tender process. The court directed the TNSTC to proceed with the tender process and disposed of the petition filed by P. Kumaresan of Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-state-to-proceed-with-tender-process/article34680572.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||briefly||A total of 100 tractors from Madurai were sent by goods train to Bangladesh on Saturday. This is the first consignment of tractors being sent this fiscal through 25 modified goods wagons from Vadipatti to Benapole. Madurai Division of Southern Railway would earn Rs. 23.15 lakh through this consignment. Already 300 tractors had been dispatched last year that fetched Rs. 69.47 lakh to the Railways.    Revenue officials on Saturday sealed Sri Venkatesh Fireworks at Anuppankulam near here after it was found that some workers were making crackers in the unit in violation of lockdown rules. Sub-Collector (Sivakasi) C. Dinesh Kumar instructed officials to raid the unit. On seeing the officials, three women fled from the scene. The team found unfinished goods and 191 boxes of finished goods and raw materials. A complaint has been lodged against the unit licensee, V. Vanniyaperumal in Sivakasi East police station.    A man was held for brewing illicit arrack in his house in the city police limits on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, Prohibition Enforcement Wing team, led by Inspector of Police, Lakshmi, raided the house of T. Ashok Kumar, 31, under Koodal Pudur police station limits. The team found that he was brewing arrack and 20 litres of arrack was seized.      C. Chinnasamy, 46, Central Reserve Police Force personnel, was assaulted by his father M. Chinnathambi of Periyapoolampatti at Mathakkarai under Peraiyur police station limits on Friday night. The police said that the CRPF man, working in Hyderabad, had come home on leave. His father had lodged a complaint against him with the CRPF officials that he was not taking care of him. When Chinnasamy, his wife and daughter were going to temple, the father and three others waylaid them and attacked him. They abused and threatened his wife too. Peraiyur police have arrested two youths in this connection.     A river otter, which was rescued from a tank in Neduvayal here, succumbed to injuries on Friday. A forest department official said that the villagers noticed a river otter at Thattaan tank. They rescued the animal and handed it over to the officials. However, as the villagers had pelted stone on the animal, it succumbed to injuries which came to light after the post mortem. River otters are usually not found in this area. “It is still not known as to how the animal was found in this tank,” said the official.    Personal interview for recruiting new medical officers will be held at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Monday (May 31). In a statement, Collector V. Vishnu said new medical officers on monthly consolidated pay of Rs. 60,000 are going to be appointed in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in the wake of COVID-19. Personal interview for recruiting the medical officers will be held at the Office of Dean, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Monday. Candidates possessing MBBS degree and have registered the degree in Tamil Nadu Medical Council may attend the interview with original certificates, Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article34680577.ece
30 May 2021||Madurai/Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Number of new cases in Madurai comes below 1,000||Madurai district recorded 828 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday. This marked the day when less than 1,000 new cases were recorded on a single day, after a gap of several days. A total of 853 patients were discharged and the number of active cases stands at 16,083. Eleven patients died, taking the death toll to 869. Nine more lives were lost to COVID on Saturday, taking the death toll to 388. Except for a patient who had died in Coimbatore, the rest died in different hospitals in the district between May 20 and 27. Meanwhile, the district had recorded 519 positive cases with 496 discharged patients that took the total number of active patients to 8,187. The total number of positive patients stands at 36,400 with a discharge of 27,825 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-new-cases-in-madurai-comes-below-1000/article34680319.ece
30 May 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 131.15 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,125 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.67 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 763 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. The level in Papanasam dam stood at 133.70 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,626.18 cusecs and 859.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 90.25 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 529.75 cusecs and 75 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34680321.ece
30 May 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Rahul Gandhi condoles Kaliannan Gounder’s demise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has condoled the demise of T.M. Kaliannan Gounder. In a letter addressed to P.V. Senthil, grandson of Kaliannan Gounder, Mr. Gandhi said, “We have lost a veteran leader who was fiercely devoted to nation-building.” Kaliannan Gounder, as a young member of Constituent Assembly, not only witnessed a young country take birth but also played a part in shaping its destiny. Mr. Gandhi said, “His foresight and vision, and his commitment to social justice shall continue to inspire us.” Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also condoled Kaliannan Gounder’s death. Mr.Birla recollected Gounder as an eminent educationist and grassroots leader who dedicated his entire life for people’s welfare. K. Lakshminarayanan, pro-tem speaker of Puducherry, in his message to the family, recollected memories of visiting Kaliannan Gounder, a couple of years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rahul-gandhi-condoles-kaliannan-gounders-demise/article34680495.ece
30 May 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen production unit in Perambalur GH soon||Work to set up a Pressure Swing Adsorption plant, a special oxygen production unit to augment the existing oxygen capacity at the District Headquarters Hospital here, is underway. The plant, being installed under the PM-Cares Fund, is expected to be ready by Monday, senior officials in the district said. A Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plant uses a technology where a specific gas can be separated from a mixture of gases under pressure. The plant, manufactured by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) using the PM-Cares Fund costs Rs. 25 lakhs and will be the first to be installed in the region. Speaking to The Hindu , P. Sri Venkada Priya, District Collector, said that following a site inspection by a team of authorities from the National Highway Authority of India, the project was approved. Once approval was given, the district authorities were asked to do civil works, including electricity and power back-up. “Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO) installed a transformer within 48 hours and other necessary works including laying of pipelines were done efficiently,” she said. DRDO is expected to despatch the plant from their unit in Bengaluru and have it delivered to the hospital campus by Sunday. “We are expecting that it will be installed and ready to use by Monday,” the Collector said. Perambalur Joint Director of Health Services, G.Thirumal said the PSA plant would be able to supply 960 litres of oxygen per minute. “This means that 150 to 170 patients can be supplied with oxygen at a time. “We only have about 140 patients who need oxygen supply on an average day, so we will have more oxygen supply than our need,” he said. At present, the hospital has a 1,250-litre liquid oxygen plant. “However, it is drained out very quickly and needs to be refilled. An additional 130 oxygen cylinders are available but when deployed, they get over quickly too,” he said. Dr. Thirumal said the district had been managing a reasonable amount of oxygen supply from private and government sources. “With this new PSA, we will not only be able to have sufficient oxygen, we will also be able to give our cylinders to other hospitals which need it and also give out some oxygen from the plant itself,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-production-unit-in-perambalur-gh-soon/article34680569.ece
30 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Mucormycosis a notifiable disease in U.T.||The Health Department has declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease and directed healthcare centres to inform the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the department about the detection of mucormycosis cases in hospitals. “People who have uncontrolled diabetes and have been on steroid treatment for COVID-19 are more vulnerable to the infection. It affects the sinuses, eyes and brain, and can become fatal if not treated on time,” Director of Health S. Mohan Kumar said. State surveillance officer, IDSP, L. Ravivarman said so far, five patients in the Union Territory had contracted the infection. While one had died at a private medical college, four patients were undergoing treatment at JIPMER and the Government Medical College, he said. Thirty-two more patients from Tamil Nadu had also been found to have the virus. Of the detected cases from Tamil Nadu, 15 are undergoing treatment at JIPMER and 14 had recovered. Three had died so far, he said. “A majority of them were diabeteic or immunocompromised. Mahe and Yanam regions have not reported any case till date,” Mr. Ravivarman told The Hindu . The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 21 COVID-19 deaths and 996 new infections. In the last 24 hours, 1,718 patients were discharged after treatment, putting the active cases at 13,153. The toll stood at 1,497 and case tally at 1,02,896. Lockdown extension The Lt. Governor has approved the government’s proposal to extend the lockdown restrictions to June 7. The restrictions will be extended for a week, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mucormycosis-made-a-notifiable-disease-in-ut/article34680215.ece
30 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry BJP leaders call on Nadda||Amid the stand-off with the All India N.R. Congress in the National Democratic Alliance over Cabinet formation, a delegation from the Puducherry BJP called on party leaders in New Delhi on Saturday. BJP leader A. Namassivayam and party general secretary and MLA Embalam Selvam met party president J.P. Nadda and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh in Delhi. Mr. Selvam told The Hindu that they briefed the national leadership about the issues related to Cabinet formation and COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-bjp-leaders-call-on-nadda/article34680206.ece
30 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Move to regularise scan centre charges’||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said that measures are under consideration to regularise charges in private scan centres across the State. Talking to mediapersons after inspecting COVID-19 facilities here on Saturday, Dr. Radhakrishnan said, “it is under our consideration to regularise rates in private scan centres. The rates are reasonable in government sector and it is also being covered under health insurance schemes.” Private hospitals have been advised not to overcharge patients and follow the revised tariff issued by the State government. He added that they have received complaints against hospitals in Salem as well.  External team He added that an external team would be deployed in Salem and stern action would be taken against private hospitals collecting higher charges and the hospital would be sealed, if required. Dr. Radhakrishnan said that two hospitals have been issued notices and added that private hospitals have also been advised to avoid elective surgeries at the moment. On availability of vaccine doses, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that the State has only stock for next two days. He said that for 18-44 age category, though State government procures the vaccine, supply is rationalised by the Centre and while the State had stock of 13.1 lakhs doses, 10 lakh doses have got over and stock is available only for next two days. The Chief Minister has written to the Centre and myself too, as Secretary has requested Centre for doses, he said. However, he added that the Centre, too, is facing stock issues as Covishield production is only six-crore doses and Coviaxin is one-crore. The State has requested for separate allocation, he said. On reports that children would be affected in the third wave, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that the CM has advised to hear opinions from medical experts and be prepared for future waves. Dr. Radhakrishnan said that medical experts have now advised to start treatment even when patient show symptoms and that is being implemented. He added that an additional 200 beds with oxygen concentrator would be set up at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. He added that admission would begin in full fledge at the COVID-19 treatment centre near Steel Plant from Sunday. On transfer of patients from private hospitals to Salem GH in critical stage, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that an institutional death committee would be expanded and clinical protocol of private hospitals which is regularly indulging in such practice would be examined. Dr. Radhakrishnan said that 1,492 cases was reported in Salem on Saturday due to backlogs during past few days since a few staff at the laboratory here tested positive. On charges regarding lack of increase in testing centres, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that up to 80% tests are being done through government labs and there is a capacity to do up to two lakh tests a day. He added that results for 90-95% of samples are declared in 24 hours. On increase in cases in Western districts, he said that industries had been functioning continuously. He said that cases have started decreasing in Coimbatore. Dr. Radhakrishnan added that 465 patients are undergoing treatment for black fungus disease and they have received 1,790 vials of medicine for its treatment from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-regularise-scan-centre-charges-says-radhakrishnan/article34680493.ece
30 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized||The Salem district police on Saturday seized 80 kg of ganja from a truck near Attayampatti here. According to the police, during vehicle check at Chinna Seeragapadi on Ariyanoor to Sankari main road, police stopped a truck and checked the vehicle. During check, police found 80 kg of ganja in the vehicle. A team led by Sub-Inspector Amirthalingam seized the contraband goods and arrested three persons. Those arrested are Chinnasami from Dharmapuri, and Karthikeyan and Gunasekaran hailing from Erode. The load was being taken to Erode from Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-seized/article34680494.ece
30 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||56 patients undergoing treatment for black fungus in Salem||As many as 56 patients are undergoing treatment for black fungus disease at private and government hospitals in the district, officials said. According to health officials, 42 persons are undergoing treatment at government hospitals and 14 patients at private hospitals here. Among the patients, 11 in government hospitals and six in private hospitals are from other districts. On Thursday alone, four patients were admitted in government hospitals and six in private hospitals. Authorities at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital said a separate ward with about 35 beds had been set up for treating mucormycosis and most patients here had recovered from COVID-19. Doctors said the disease was majorly found in patients with high level of diabetes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-patients-undergoing-treatment-for-black-fungus-in-salem/article34680247.ece
30 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||163 containment zones in Salem||As many as 163 containment zones have been set up in the district as part of COVID-19 containment measures. The number of zones went up to 175 on May 25 and reduced to 163 zones on Friday. According to health officials, as many as 5,509 swab samples were collected and 929 tested positive, taking the total tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 61,629. As on Friday, there are 6,766 houses in containment zones and 26,974 persons are in quarantine in these zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/163-containment-zones-in-salem/article34680246.ece
30 May 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||300 litres of fermented wash destroyed||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing in Namakkal seized and destroyed 300 litres of fermented wash on Saturday. According to the police, PEW personnel conducted checks in Kadamalai area near Rasipuram here and seized 300 litres of fermented wash and five litres of arrack. The police have registered a case and are investigating. In Salem, the district police on Saturday arrested two persons from Rasipuram during vehicle checks for carrying 10 litres of illicit arrack. Sabari and Baby from Rasipuram were arrested andtheir vehicle was seized. In two different cases, the Veeranam police seized 19 litres and 23 litres of illicit arrack respectively during vehicle checks. The police arrested Silambarasan and Senthil Kumar in the first case, and Ganapathy and Saravanan in the second case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-litres-of-fermented-wash-destroyed/article34680491.ece
30 May 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks unit sealed in Sivakasi||Sivakasi Revenue officials on Saturday sealed Sri Venkatesh Fireworks at Anuppankulam near here after it was found that some workers were making crackers in the unit in violation of lockdown rules. Sub-Collector (Sivakasi) C. Dinesh Kumar instructed officials to raid the unit. On seeing the officials, three women fled from the scene. The team found unfinished goods and 191 boxes of finished goods and raw materials. A complaint has been lodged against the unit licensee, V. Vanniyaperumal in Sivakasi East police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-unit-sealed-in-sivakasi/article34680627.ece
30 May 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Mobile shops sell 968 tonnes of fruits, vegetables in six days||Nearly 1,000 tonnes of fruits and vegetables have been sold in the district ever since the administration started operating vehicles to sell the farm produce to residents at their doorsteps in the wake of intensified lockdown. After Collector G. S. Sameeran inaugurated the sale of fruits and vegetables by vehicles on May 24, vendors have been able to sell 968.37 tonnes of fruits and vegetables worth Rs. 2 crore in the past six days. The Departments of Horticulture, Agriculture, Mahalir Thittam, Rural Development and Town Panchayats have roped in 482 four-wheelers and 321 two-wheelers to sell the produce at the consumers’ doorsteps. Besides selling fruits and vegetable bags worth Rs. 30, Rs. 60 and Rs. 100, need-based selling of farm produce is also being allowed in Tenkasi to enable consumers to purchase vegetables based on their requirements. Moreover, sale of fruits and vegetables through pushcarts and two-wheelers has also been allowed to residents living in narrow lanes. As farmers in Surandai, Keezhapaavoor, Alangulam, Veerakeralampudhur, Paavoorchathram, Kadayam, Shencottai, Puliyangudi and other areas in the district cultivate a range of fruits and vegetables, the consumers get farm fresh produce at the right price now. “Besides displaying the price on vehicles selling fruits and vegetables, the price was also being shared on social media to ensure transparency. Moreover, the Corporation’s monitoring teams are overseeing the sale of the farm produce at the price fixed by the Department of Agriculture as being sold in the ‘Uzhavar Sandhai’. Hence, this venture enjoys excellent patronage,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-shops-sell-968-tonnes-of-fruits-vegetables-in-six-days/article34680580.ece
30 May 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Temple staff receive relief||The Mantralaya Raghavendra Swami Seva Sangam, Kumbakonam, has embarked upon a project of distributing Rs. 1,000 worth of COVID-19 relief sponsored by Infosys to families of temple staff residing in and around Kumbakonam. Launching the distribution in Kumbakonam on Saturday, Raghavendra Mutt, Kumbakonam branch manager, Umerji Madhavan and coordinator Vishnu Balaji said the relief package consisting of rice, cooking oil and other edibles would be distributed to the Bhattacharyars, Sivacharyars and other staff serving in the temples in and around Kumbakonam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-staff-receive-relief/article34680631.ece
30 May 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Buses fitted with oxygen cylinders deployed||The district administration has deployed two buses fitted with oxygen cylinders to transport COVID-19 patients from their homes to screening centres and hospitals. While one bus has been stationed in Thoothukudi, another has been kept ready in Kovilpatti. “Each bus has been fitted with 10 oxygen cylinders to transport 10 patients. If there is unusual crowd at the screening centre, the patients can comfortably wait in the buses with oxygen support. And they can also be shifted either to their homes, COVID Care Centres or hospitals based on their medical conditions,” said Collector K. Senthil Raj. If the patients are found to be having low oxygen saturation levels when they were being taken to screening centres, the oxygen cylinders in the buses would come in handy. “The oxygen cylinders in the buses have been fitted with flow meters and individual hoods and, hence, the patients will be comfortable,” said Dr. Senthil Raj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buses-fitted-with-oxygen-cylinders-deployed/article34680579.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Declining trend in fresh cases in Tiruchi||Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts, which have been witnessing a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases over the past couple of weeks, saw a welcome decline on Saturday. The central region on Saturday reported 4,505 fresh cases against 5,057 reported on Friday. A total of 45 deaths were reported in the region with all eight districts reporting at least one death. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths with 11 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Nagapattinam came a close second with 10, while Karur reported eight. Five deaths were recorded in Ariyalur, four each in Pudukottai and Thanjavur, two in Tiruvarur and one in Perambalur. Tiruchi district reported a substantial dip in the number of cases on Saturday. As many as 1,099 patients tested positive in the district against Friday’s tally of 1,287 cases. On Wednesday, the district had reported over 1,700 cases. However, intensive care beds were at capacity in most hospitals, including private ones, in the district. According to the bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, there were only 14 vacant ICU beds. However, since the opening up of over 150 new beds at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, 102 oxygen-support beds were available in the district. “Quick measures were taken to increase the bed capacity in the district. With arrangements being done at a fast pace, oxygen supply, too, will soon be sufficient," a senior official at Tiruchi GH said. Meanwhile, 118 patients were discharged from Tiruchi MGMGH Hospital. In Thanjavur, 737 patients reported positive, a dip over the last few days. The district too had a shortage of ICU facilities. Only 21 ICU beds were vacant on Saturday, according to the bulletin. Nagapattinam also reported a slight dip with 613 fresh cases, while similar trends were also reported in Tiruvarur with 563 fresh cases. Nagapattinam had only 11 vacant ICU beds, while Tiruvarur had none. Karur district, however, reported an increase with 527 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. The increase in cases in the district was also reflected in the number of vacant beds with only two ICU beds and six oxygen-support beds vacant. Pudukottai reported 343 fresh cases, Perambalur 307 and Ariyalur 256. Bed vacancy in the districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had five vacant ICU beds, Perambalur 15 and Ariyalur one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declining-trend-in-fresh-cases-in-tiruchi/article34680634.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage flow into Uyyakondan canal will be stopped: Nehru||Steps will be taken to prevent discharge of sewage into Uyyakkondan canal in Tiruchi, K.N.Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, said here on Saturday. The canal has been subject to heavy urban pollution over the past few decades with sewage being let out directly into it at several places. Speaking after inaugurating a vaccination camp and distributing kabasura kudineer and immunity booster kits to the public at Srirangam Zonal office, Mr. Nehru said steps were also being taken to desilt all drainage canals in the city ahead of the monsoon. Assuring city residents that the government, even while focussing on the fight against COVID-19, would also initiate steps to improve civic amenities. Steps were being taken to ensure equitable drinking water supply. Steps were being taken to reduce the high iron content in the water pumped from one of the borewells of the Coleroon Drinking Water Supply Scheme. The ongoing work on the second phase of the underground drainage scheme would expedited and steps would be taken to extend the underground sewage system to the uncovered areas in the city. Roads would also be relaid. Stating that the COVID-19 cases were gradually coming down in Tiruchi district, Mr. Nehru said there was improvement in the situation and oxygenated beds were now available at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in the city, which faced a severe shortage of beds until a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewage-flow-into-uyyakondan-canal-will-be-stopped-nehru/article34680626.ece
30 May 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NEP: Is it curtains for colleges of education in central region?||Against the backdrop of drastic drop in admissions, and implications of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 that lays emphasis on a four-year integrated B.Ed. programme, a number of colleges of education are staring at the eventuality of fading away into oblivion over the next few years. Due to the perceptible inertia in recent years, many colleges in the central region, in fact, have not been able to furnish the names of the principals to the Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University (TNTEU), according to sources. In a letter to the colleges, the TNTEU had, during March, instructed them to provide a status report on the principals who continue to hold the post. The colleges that function with in-charge principals have not been able to comply with the TNTEU instruction since they were not able to get the qualification approval orders from the university in recent years, a functionary of a college management said. The managements of the colleges of education have their fingers crossed as the NEP 2020 envisages doing away with B.Ed. programme and replacing it with four-year B.Sc. B.Ed./ B.A. B.Ed. programmes. As per official records, there are 697 colleges of education across Tamil Nadu. In the Central region, Tiruchi district has as many as 35 colleges of education, followed by 25 in Thanjavur, 21 in Pudukottai, 17 in Nagapattinam district, 10 each in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts, nine in Karur district and six in Thiruvarur district. These colleges can stay afloat only for a few years since the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) intends to initiate the four-year Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) from the next academic year. Tamil Nadu Teacher Education University (TNTEU) is also an applicant for the NCTE nod to start the course. Since the ITEP course seeks to integrate B.Ed degree with basic BA or BSc degrees, the affiliated colleges see no possibility for remaining relevant after a few years since the idea of NCTE is to phase out the B.Ed. and M.Ed. programmes gradually. Also, admission to the integrated programme will not be a cakewalk since the NCTE has decided to conduct a national-level common entrance test for the ITEP course, which will be offered at multi-disciplinary colleges and universities. The NCTE norms that permit only full-fledged arts and science colleges to offer the ITEP have raised curiosity among academicians about the pattern of affiliation. Since the multi-disciplinary colleges are affiliated to the State universities, the ITEP cannot, technically, remain under affiliation of TNTEU, according to a Vice-Chancellor of a State University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-is-it-curtains-for-colleges-of-education-in-central-region/article34680621.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges not worried about exam postponement||Teachers of colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University are not unduly worried about the postponement of the even semester examination as they have, by and large, completed the portions. Unlike last semester when there was a necessity to cut down on the content, this time around, there was sufficient time for the teachers to complete the portions since the offline classes was conducted at a stretch for a few months since last December. "We have completed the portions through a blend of online and offline classes, and hence, both teachers and students are a relieved lot," a senior professor of a government arts and science college said. As for autonomous colleges, most of the institutions were on the verge of completing the online examinations when the State Government announced the total lockdown to contain the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. "Only one or two exams remain to be conducted. We have even completed valuation of answer scripts for the papers for which exams have been already conducted," a professor of an autonomous college said. UGC directive Earlier this month, the UGC had instructed higher educational institutions to keep offline exams in abeyance during May, 2021, to avoid spread of the infection. For conduct of online exams, however, higher educational institutions were given the leverage to go ahead after assessing local conditions and ensuring that they are prepared in all respects following advisories/guidelines/directions issued by the Central/State governments. The students have also been provided support for content completion by Bharathidasan University through its e-portal where teachers keep uploading content for the various UG and PG programmes. The user-friendly portal enables students to access the content with four options: by name of a faculty / author; subject title / name of the course; subject code;and college name. Meanwhile, Bharathdiasan University has announced that the Even Semester exams will begin on June 15, and has uploaded the revised schedule in its website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-not-worried-about-exam-postponement/article34680629.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body hires 14 more doctors||Tiruchi Corporation has hired 14 doctors on temporary basis to augment its manpower to treat COVID-19 patients. They were recruited recently by a committee in coordination with Deputy Director of Health Services. The selection was on a temporary basis. The doctors, most of them with undergraduate degrees, would be on duty until their services were required. They would be paid Rs. 60,000 a month, said S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that out of 14 new recruits, 10 reported for duty at the respective urban primary health centres (UPHCs). They would report to the Medical Officer of the designated UPHC. Besides discharging day-to-day duties and responsibilities, the new recruits had been asked to coordinate fever camps, swab sample collection and vaccination drives. The Corporation Commissioner said there were 18 UPHCs in different parts of the city. The new recruits had strengthened the health care infrastructure. It had helped the Corporation to organise more fever camps and collection of swab samples from direct and secondary contacts of COVID-19 infected patients. Mr. Sivasubramanian said swab sample collection had been ramped up to 2,500 a day. The city had reported a sharp increase in fresh cases of COVID-19 and the patients succumbed to the infection over the last few days. However, it had been observed that the fresh cases had begun to slide. Efforts had been taken to bring the situation under control, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-hires-14-more-doctors/article34680585.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Crematoriums, staff overwhelmed as bodies arrive continuously||As the number of patients succumbing to COVID-19 infection continues to rise, crematoriums run by Tiruchi Corporation are under severe strain. There are four crematoriums at Oyamari, Karumandapam, Konakarai and Ambedkar Nagar in Srirangam. Of them, the crematorium at Oyamari receives the maximum number of bodies. As ambulances carrying the remains of COVID-19 victims contiuously make their way to the crematoriums, the facilities, particularly the one at Oyamari, have been running out of capacity over the last three weeks. Long wait  According to a victim’s relative , the waiting period for staff at the crematorium to accept a dead body hovers between three to four hours. At least two to three ambulances carrying the victims are seen waiting for their turn to hand over the bodies to staff members. According to sources in Tiruchi Corporation, the crematorium at Oyamari receives on average six to seven bodies a day in normal circumstances. It has gone up to 17 to 18 over the last three weeks. Most of them are COVID-19 victims. The second week of May witnessed a peak as the second wave of COVID-19 hit the city. A total of 132 bodies were cremated in the second week. The number was 120 in the third week. Up to Saturday, in the last week of the month, about 105 bodies were cremated at Oyamari alone. The crematorium functions for eight hours a day and it takes about 80 to 90 minutes for a body to be cremated. It is not ideally suited for incinerating more than 10 bodies a day. But the unprecedented situation has forced the crematorium to incinerate to 20 a day. There are instances of ambulances carrying more than two bodies at a time, thereby forcing the other ambulances to wait for hours. On Saturday, an ambulance loaded with three bodies waited for two hours to complete the formalities. “We are really overburdened, and work overtime for the last three weeks. The furnaces run non-stop. We use our all resources to complete the formalities as quickly as possible,” a staff member of the crematorium at Oyamari said. When contacted, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the situation was being closely monitored. All four crematoriums in the city had been put into use to minimise the waiting period. It was observed that the number of deaths related to COVID-19 complications had begun to come down. The situation might witness drastic improvement within a week, he hoped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crematoriums-staff-overwhelmed-as-bodies-arrive-continuously/article34680632.ece
30 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CRA holds review meet with Collectors||Commissioner for Revenue Administration (CRA) Phanindra Reddy held discussions with the Collectors of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi on Saturday about ongoing exercises to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the districts including vaccination. Mr. Reddy, who visited the rain-affected areas in Kanniyakumari district on Friday, came to Tirunelveli on Saturday to hold the review meeting on the measures put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 with Collectors V. Vishnu of Tirunelveli and G. S. Sameeran of Tenkasi. Senior officials from the departments of Revenue, Public Health, Tirunelveli Corporation and the municipalities of both the districts also participated in the meeting and appraised him about the steps being taken to check the COVID-19 outbreak. Since the number of positive cases has come down significantly in the recent past, the officials were urged to maintain this momentum by ensuring complete and intensified lockdown across the two districts. He told the officials to organise intensive awareness programmes, especially in rural areas, to encourage the people to come forward for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cra-holds-review-meet-with-collectors/article34680571.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to buy vaccines for Rs. 85 crore, announces Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is trying to procure 23.5 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines for Rs. 85 crore, besides the procurement of 3.5 crore doses through global tenders, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said here on Saturday. The last date for the submission of bids for the supply of 3.5 crore doses is June 5; thereafter, the lowest bidder will be identified. The bidder who gets the contract will have to supply the doses in six months, Mr. Subramanian said after reviewing the measures taken to control the pandemic in the district. He said the State had received 82.49 lakh doses from the Union government to vaccinate those aged above 45. “To seek additional doses from the Centre, Member of Parliament T.R. Baalu has been camping in New Delhi on the advice of the Chief Minister,” he said. Mr. Subramanian said Tamil Nadu had so far administered 84.5 lakh doses, out of the 95.59 lakh it had received. Of the remaining stock, six lakh doses would be used to vaccinate those aged above 45 and two lakh doses to inoculate those aged above 18 in the next two-three days, he said. To a question on the sudden increase in COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode, he said some industries were said to have operated without the knowledge of the authorities. “Officials will engage in surveillance of industries to check whether any unit functions illegally,” he said. Mr. Subramanian said a reply was expected from the Centre in a week to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s appeal to hand over the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu to Tamil Nadu.  To seek additional doses from the Centre, MP T.R. Baalu has been camping in New Delhi on the advice of the CM Ma. Subramanian Medical and Family Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-to-buy-vaccines-for-rs-85-crore-announces-minister/article34680210.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Appointment orders issued to temporary medical staff in Tiruvarur||Minister for Environment - Climate Change and Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva. V. Meyyanathan on Saturday distributed appointment orders to 49 doctors who expressed their willingness to serve along with government doctors engaged in combat against the novel coronavirus in Tiruvarur district for a period of three months. The District Health Department during the first week of this month had indicated to the government that it required additional doctors (in the cadre of assistant surgeons), nurses, lab technicians and others numbering 315 in addition to the existing health department staff in the district to fight the pandemic with vigour and save the people. After considering the request positively, the State government accorded sanction for appointing the required number of doctors (75), nurses (95), lab technicians (41), X-ray technicians (4), data entry operators (20) and multi-purpose health workers (80) on consolidated salary for three months from the date of appointment with a rider that the service would not be regularised after completion of the contract period. Interested persons were directed to appear for a walk-in-interview at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital on May 28 and the 49 doctors who have attended the interview and submitted their “undertaking letter”, has been selected for the temporary assistant surgeon posts, according to sources. The doctors would get a consolidated salary of Rs. 60,000 per month, nurses Rs. 14,000, Rs. 10,000 for X-ray technicians and data entry operators and Rs. 8,000 for lab technicians and multi-purpose health workers. Meanwhile, Nannilam MLA and former Minister, R. Kamaraj on Saturday inspected COVID-19 vaccination exercises at government hospitals in Nannilam, Valangaiman and Peralam and primary health centres at Aalangudi and Sengalipuram falling under Nannilam Assembly constituency. ‘Expedite containtment’ Talking to reporters at Valangaiman, Mr. Kamaraj pointed out that the daily count of positive cases had started coming down from the recent peak of 34,000 cases compared to a maximum of 6,000 cases a day during the AIADMK regime. Urging the DMK government to expedite containment and treatment measures on a war footing, he said bringing as many people as possible under the vaccination drive would alone help save people from falling victim to the dreadful virus infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointment-orders-issued-to-temporary-medical-staff-in-tiruvarur/article34680630.ece
30 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Quack held in Aruppukottai||A quack who has been practising allopathic medicine for two years in Aruppukottai has been arrested. Following an alert, Joint Director of Health Services (Virudhunagar), R. Manoharan, instructed Chief Medical Officer S. Venkateswaran of Aruppukottai Government Hospital to inspect a clinic being run in Sempatti village on Friday. The medical officer, along with his staff and village administrative officer A. K. Veerasigamani inspected the clinic being run in a residential unit. The man who was practising medicine was identified as Shanmugasundaram. It is learnt that he had studied up to class 10 but was giving treatment to patients for the last two years with a name board of another doctor, and was claiming to be a neurosurgeon. The inspection team also seized various drugs, needles and syringes from the clinic. He was handed over to the Aruppukottai Taluk police for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quack-held-in-aruppukottai/article34680567.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t send COVID-19 patients to GHs in the eleventh hour’||Collector G. S. Sameeran has warned private medical practitioners against sending COVID-19 patients to Government hospitals in the eleventh hour after treating them without taking RT – PCR test to confirm the infection. Holding discussions with private medical practitioners of the district on Friday evening to explain to them about giving treatment to COVID-19 patients under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, he said the private practitioners should inform the officials concerned whenever patients with symptoms of the viral infection come to their hospitals. Moreover, they should prescribe the patients to go in for RT – PCR test so as to confirm the nature of infection. “Only after conducting the RT – PCR test, the doctors should proceed with the treatment. The doctors should not give treatment to COVID-19 suspects without conducting the RT – PCR test. Doctors giving treatment to suspects without conducting the test and sending the patients to the nearest government hospital in the eleventh hour will face legal action,” he warned. The Collector also said that COVID-19 patients should be charged only the fee fixed by the State Government under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. For more information and assistance, the doctors may approach the officials concerned to clarify their doubts. When medical practitioners complained that most patients were coming to their hospitals only after being under self-medication for a few days, the prime reason behind worsening of the condition of the patients, the Collector assured that pharmacies selling medicines for COVID-19 without proper prescription given by a qualified doctor would be sealed. He also warned the quacks against giving treatment to patients. Joint Director of Health Services Nedumaran, Deputy Director (Tuberculosis), Vellaisamy and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-send-covid-19-patients-to-ghs-in-the-eleventh-hour/article34680582.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale vegetable markets to open||“Industries that have been permitted to operate shall initiate immediate action to vaccinate all their employees within a month,” the order said. The government said the sale of vegetables and fruits on vehicles shall continue in all districts. Grocery shops would be permitted to sell provisions on vehicles or carts in residential areas after obtaining permission from the local bodies. Visa facilitation centres will also be allowed to function to facilitate emergency travel with a minimum number of workers. Observation home workers, caregivers and volunteers will be permitted to travel with e-registration. The local bodies should ensure the continuation of the sale of vegetables and fruits at the doorstep of residents in rural areas, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department Secretary K. Gopal told officials across the State. He asked them to identify vendors for supply of provisions on carts and vehicles and give them permission without delay. “All the officials at the district, block and village levels should be properly advised and the elected representatives at the three-tier rural local bodies should also be involved in facilitating these activities,” Mr. Gopal said. All regular activities, such as the provision of basic amenities, mass-cleaning, disinfection of public buildings, compliance with the standard operating procedures — wearing of masks at public places, physical distancing and frequent hand-washing — should be encouraged, he said.  Industries permitted to operate shall initiate immediate action to vaccinate all employees in a month Government order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-vegetable-markets-to-open/article34680208.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 3,692 new cases||With 3,692 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, Coimbatore district continued to top in the State for the fourth consecutive day. The district had 38,824 active cases on Saturday while 3,188 persons recovered. The toll increased to 1,188 after 20 more persons died of the disease. Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said the number of positive cases in the city had dropped by 492 on Friday to 1,377. On Thursday, the number was 1,869. This was because of the increased testing that the Corporation had been engaged in the last few days. And, on Friday, the civic body had distributed 2,938 kits containing medicines to persons in home quarantine and persons who showed fever symptoms. Tiruppur district reported 1,697 new cases on Saturday and 945 persons recovered from the disease. The Health Department said that 20 more persons died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 446. The district had 17,628 active cases on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 505 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 17,953. The toll stood at 82 on Saturday while 3,481 people are undergoing treatment. The daily load of positive cases crossed 1,000-mark in Salem with the reporting of 1,492 cases, the highest ever COVID-19 cases to be reported in the district. According to health officials, 1,412 cases were indigenous and 470 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. As per bulletin, 16 deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 897 cases and 13 deaths were reported. Erode reported 1,743 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 53,144. While 1,301 persons were discharged, 14,400 persons continue to be under treatment. Seven persons died, raising the toll to 318. Krishnagiri recorded 493 fresh cases and three deaths on Saturday. The total number of cases in the district stood at 5,476 cases as of Saturday. A total of 31,793 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 356 fresh cases and six deaths. The total number of cases in the district was 3,177. As of date, a total 17,977 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-3692-new-cases/article34680241.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles seized, 10 arrested||Ten persons were arrested and 534 liquor bottles and tetra packs from Karnataka were seized, while being smuggled in two-wheelers here near Karimangalam on Saturday. A police team was intercepting vehicles and carrying out vehicle checks, when five two-wheelers were intercepted. The vehicles were used for smuggling liquor bottles from Karnataka. Liquor worth Rs. 52,000 was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-bottles-seized-10-arrested/article34680489.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Health Dept. shifts DDHS||The Health Department on Saturday transferred G. Ramesh Kumar, the Deputy Director of Health Services (DDHS), Coimbatore, reportedly following the exponential growth of COVID-19 cases in the district in the last one week. The administration confirmed the transfer of Mr. Kumar, who will be replaced by S. Senthil Kumar, who has been serving as DDHS in Theni. Mr. Senthil Kumar has been asked to assume the new office at the earliest. Coimbatore district registered more than four-fold rise in the number of new cases in the last one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dept-shifts-ddhs/article34680250.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Defying lockdown norms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defying-lockdown-norms/article34680574.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mortuary kits donated||Rotary Club of Thanjavur South has donated 50 mortuary body kits to Thanjavur Medical College hospital through Thanjavur Corporation. The club sponsored an equal number of such kits to the hospital earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mortuary-kits-donated/article34680639.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two Bengaluru labs among 17 new ones to help with genome sequencing||Amid rising concerns over mutations and a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Centre has added 17 more national labs, including two from Bengaluru, to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) network. This is to ramp up genome sequencing of the virus and help understand the spread of new variants in the country. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) have been added along with 15 other labs from across the country. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said that with this, INSACOG now has a total of 27 labs. INSACOG is a consortium of laboratories that screens samples from States and international travellers to understand the spread and mutations of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Till now, it had only 10 national laboratories including NIMHANS and NCBS/in-STEM in Bengaluru as part of its network. So far, 933 samples have been sequenced in Karnataka, of which 774 are from Bengaluru Urban. “We found 52 lineages circulating in Karnataka in the samples collected from September 5, 2020, till May 9, 2021. Last year, we had detected 34 lineages and some of them are among this year’s 52 lineages,” Dr. Ravi said. Pointing out that the B.1.617.2 lineage has been found in 150 of the 933 samples, Dr. Ravi asserted that this lineage is spreading very fast in Karnataka. “This lineage will rule the roost for another four months here. Of the total 359 cases detected to have been infected with the new lineages in Karnataka, 11.5% are assigned to B.1.1.7 (UK lineage), 0.6% to B.1.351 (South African) and 10% to B.1.617, more popularly known as double mutant. The double mutant has two groups – B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 – and the latter group is spreading at a rapid pace contributing over 16% of the total new lineages in Bengaluru,” he said. This lineage is slowly taking over and replacing other circulating strains in many of the southern states including Karnataka in the past four weeks. It is one of the main reasons for the ongoing surge in Karnataka, he asserted. “When a virus is widely circulating in a population and causing many infections, the likelihood of the virus mutating increases. The more opportunities a virus has to spread, the more it replicates – and the more opportunities it has to undergo change. Immunological pressure mounted following vaccination (antibodies) also results in mutations in a virus,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-bengaluru-labs-among-17-new-ones-to-help-with-genome-sequencing/article34680149.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka HC declines to quash case against police for torture||The High Court of Karnataka has declined to quash the criminal proceedings initiated against seven police personnel on the charges of illegal detention and torture of a youngster at Chickballapur police station 11 years ago. The acts of the police to illegally detain a person, who did not have any criminal antecedent, in the police station for two days and subjecting him to physical torture cannot be termed as acts done in connection with discharge of public duty. It is nothing but a misuse of powers, the court said. Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order while dismissing the petitions filed by S. Shivakumar, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, Munireddy, police inspector, Balaji Singh, police head constable, Anand, constable, T. Venkatesh, constable, Muniyappa, a retired head constable, and Mohan, driver of the Armed Reserve Police. The petitioners were serving with the Chickballapur police in different capacities in 2010. Though the initial departmental inquiry found that the police personnel had indulged in excess, a subsequent inquiry exonerated them. The court stated that the acts of the petitioners were beyond the purview of official duties and hence no sanction was required for their prosecution. Janardhan M., a resident of of Heggadahalli, Doddaballapur taluk, had lodged a complaint before jurisdictional magistrate in 2013 after he failed to get relief from the authorities on the matter of police excess. It was alleged that the police asked the complainant to bring his son to the police station in connection with a chain-snatching case. Though the victim had not identified the youth in the matter, the police kept him in illegal custody and released him after two days. The youngster’s mother, who noticed physical injuries, took got treated at a hospital. However, two days later, the complaint’s son attempted to end his life over the insult caused to him by the police’s illegal action. He survived following prolonged treatment.  What happened The policemen in question kept a youngster in illegal custody in 2010. His mother noticed injuries on him and got him treated. Two days later, the youngster attempted to end his life. He survived following prolonged treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-hc-declines-to-quash-case-against-police-for-torture/article34680162.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SIT in a quandary over Jarkiholi case||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has almost completed its probe into the alleged rape case against former BJP Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. However, sources claim that saddled with “weak” and often contradictory evidence, the SIT has been yet to conclude its findings. The probe was launched after a CD was released in March with clips of Jarkiholi allegedly abusing a woman and seeking sexual favours from her in return for a government job. The SIT was formed based on the complaint by the woman in the video, even as Mr. Jarkiholi filed a case against unidentified individuals for trying to blackmail and extort money using the video. Senior officials told The Hindu that there was “insufficient evidence” to prosecute Mr. Jarkiholi for rape in the case. Mr. Jarkiholi has not been given a “clean chit” yet. The SIT may submit a report of all the objective findings of the probe to the government, sources said. The Opposition Congress has been mounting pressure on the SIT, accusing it of delaying the probe. However, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has repeatedly claimed the SIT has been given full independence and there has been no interference in the probe. Any possible “clean chit” to Mr. Jarkiholi is expected to create a political storm. “The alleged rape happened in February and it was two months later that the woman was subjected to a medical examination and a spot mahazar was conducted. There was no evidence recovered from either exercise,” a senior official said. Ideally, the woman’s statement is sufficient evidence. However, in this case, the evidence points to a “honey trap”, the official said. Recently, Mr. Jarkiholi also reportedly changed his earlier stance and agreed that he had consensual sex with the woman and the video was genuine, but was used to extort money from him. “The video in the public domain is only a small portion of the raw footage, which shows that the sexual act was consensual. It has some evidence indicating that it may have been a case of honey trap,” the official said. “Moreover, the woman had made several deliberate attempts to mask her identity while approaching Mr. Jarkiholi. She claimed to be working at a drone firm and approached him to seek permission to shoot dams in the State while she was working at a real estate firm and had no work shooting dams,” a source said. However, Mr. Jarkiholi has been booked under Section 376C of the IPC. Legal opinion is divided over whether he is culpable under that particular section even if the sexual act was consensual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sit-in-a-quandary-over-jarkiholi-case/article34680176.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘States floating tenders for vaccines will lead to higher expenditure’||M. Govinda Rao, former member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister and a member of the 14th Finance Commission, is now chief economic adviser at Brickwork Ratings. In an email interview, he told The Hindu that for the second year in succession, the Budgets presented by governments have become irrelevant even before the ink has dried. The Centre and the States are facing stress on the financial front because of the COVID-19 lockdown. What measures do you suggest to the Centre and State governments?  This is the second year in succession when the Budgets presented have become irrelevant even before the ink has dried. Although the Union Budget has allocated Rs. 35,000 crore for vaccination, and the 15th Finance Commission has allocated Rs. 70,051 crore health grants through local governments for five years, the massive spread of the pandemic in the second wave requires substantial additional allocations. Furthermore, as the policy of the Centre requires the States to procure vaccines for those in the 18-44 age group and with the severe production capacity limitations of the two domestically produced vaccines, many States have had to float global tenders for vaccines. The cost is likely to be substantially higher there. Meanwhile, restrictions on economic activities are likely to reduce revenue generation, both from own tax sources of the States and from the devolution of Central taxes. The Union government will have to fast-track the programmes of disinvestment and privatisation… The States will have to continue to monetise assets such as land and leased buildings. Lockdown in the States has impacted the people in unorganised sectors. What financial support/package will benefit them?    The release of free food items should be a priority. Financial packages may also be necessary through Jan Dhan Yojana and PM-KISSAN. There may also be a need to provide cash transfers to the severely affected. The problem here is of targeting. What is needed is a one-time cash payment, because once the second wave of the pandemic wanes the economic activity will pick up. The most important requirement is that the unorganised workers should have free and quick vaccination. It is argued that delay in taking up vaccination caused the surge in India. Did the Centre’s lack of vision and delay in funding R&D cause the delay in the arrival of vaccines?    In fact, overconfidence of the government as well as the careless and apathetic attitude of the general public led to the lowering of the guard by the end of January 2021 itself. The Economic Survey presented at the end January had declared, “India has been able to avoid the second wave while ably managing to flatten the epidemiological curve, with its caseload peaking in mid-September.” Furthermore, it talked about the V-shaped economic recovery and estimated the economy to register an 11% growth during FY 2022… It is not the delay in vaccination, but our overconfidence that caused the problem. Even as the pandemic was raging, we continued unprotected electioneering and Kumbh Melas. There was and still is no clear vaccine policy. Vaccine is a public good, it must be made freely available to all and shouldbe entirely financed through taxation. The limited production capacity of the two domestic vaccine producers cannot meet the requirements and action on imports and giving licence for domestic production of vaccines approved elsewhere should have received priority. What are your suggestions to the Karnataka government?    The first important thing is to have an expert panel taking decisions rather than having several politicians deciding on matters and often contradicting one another. There is a need to ramp up the historically neglected health infrastructure in the State. As the pandemic has been spreading in rural areas, this could adversely impact the agricultural sector as well. This year, the State government will have to increase the expenditure substantially.  (A longer form of this interview is available on www.thehindu.com)   Overconfidence of the government as well as the careless attitude of the general public led to the lowering of the guard by the end of January 2021 itself M. Govinda Rao, former member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-floating-tenders-for-vaccines-will-lead-to-higher-expenditure/article34680173.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MLA Ravi Subramanya denies allegations of ‘vaccine trade’||Two audio clips have gone viral in which a representative of a private hospital in south Bengaluru is heard telling persons questioning the steep price of vaccine (Rs. 900) that the hospital had to pay Rs. 700 to MLA Ravi Subramanya, who had “arranged the vaccine. This has drawn allegations of “vaccine trade”, which Mr. Subramanya denied as “baseless” and part of a “political conspiracy”. In one clip, in which social worker Venkatesh is heard calling up the hospital, the representative is heard asking him to register for vaccination at Mr. Subramanya’s office. The female voice is heard saying that it was Mr. Subramanya who had procured the vaccine and the money would go to him. The State Congress has alleged that the audio tape indicates that Mr. Subramanya was caught in a “vaccinationcommission scam”. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday demanded why there was no action against another hospital, where MP Tejasvi Surya (nephew of Mr. Subramanya) was “selling” vaccines at Rs. 900. Mr. Surya, the Bengaluru South MP, and his uncle Mr. Subramaanya, the Basavanagudi MLA, have been associated with paid vaccination drives (Rs. 900 a jab) at a private hospital. Questions have been raised as to how private hospitals championed by BJP legislators have been able to procure vaccines when government centres are not been able to do so. However, Mr. Subramanya, who visited the hospital on Saturday, denied all allegations and said he had not helped any hospital procure vaccines. “I have been working to vaccinate frontline workers in the constituency through the BBMP. I will file a criminal case against the person who falsely claimed I was supplying vaccines,” he said. Meanwhile, the Hanumanth Nagar Block Congress Committee has filed a complaint with the DCP, South division, seeking a detailed probe into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-ravi-subramanya-denies-allegations-of-vaccine-trade/article34680171.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIMB Alumni Association pledges to donate 1 lakh vaccines||Alumni of the Indian Institute of Management, Bengaluru (IIMB), have pledged their support to donate one lakh vaccines to the country’s urban and rural poor. This is part of their initiative, ‘Donate a Vaccine’, launched on Saturday at a virtual edition of IIMBueX, a leadership conclave organised by the IIM Bangalore Alumni Association (IIMBAA). Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who was one of the speakers at the event, lauded the efforts. “This initiative comes at the right time and such an effort from the alumni of IIMB can be emulated. It is something every institution in India can learn from,” she said. “We must all join hands to deliver a three-pronged approach of ‘rebooting, re-imagining, and reconnecting’ India, and that technology will play a bigger role, now more than ever.” IIMB Director Rishikesha Krishnan said the initiative would help one lakh underprivileged people in India get free and fast access to vaccines. Narayana Health founder Devi Shetty, who chairs the IIMB Board of Governors, also hailed the move, given that “more than 70% of India’s non-formal workforce is out of jobs”. IIMBueX concluded with a panel discussion with top clinical scientist Gangandeep Kang, who was recently appointed advisor by the Karnataka government to set up a vaccination protocol, professor Chimay Tumbe, and Ajay Nair, chief executive officer of Swasth Digital Health Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iimb-alumni-association-pledges-to-donate-1-lakh-vaccines/article34680166.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Global tenders not a solution: expert||With many vaccine manufacturers keen on dealing directly with the Centre, global tenders for vaccines by the States may not be an immediate solution for vaccine procurement, according to V. Ravi, virologist and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. Dr. Ravi told The Hindu that the manufacturers of Pfizer have clearly indicated that they will deal only with the Union government. “Besides, the manufacturers of Sputnik, who have already made the first lot available in India, are also in touch with the Centre. This vaccine will be supplied from Russia till July, by which time local production will begin in India,” said Dr. Ravi, who is also a member of the International Advisory Board of Sputnik vaccine. “As the demand for vaccines is high globally, the schedule of supplies becomes an important issue while negotiating with vendors. Moreover, among the bidders it is important to ensure that they are authorised dealers. Vaccine procurement through global tenders may not be as simple as it is made out to be,” he said. If the global tenders floated by the State are not successful, the Centre may have to intervene and take charge of procurement, he said. Dr. Ravi also said it would have been better if the Centre had collated the requirements for all the States and floated one big tender. “Now the suppliers will also play one State against the other. They can quote different rates to different States,” he said. Karnataka, which has so far vaccinated over two crore people, is one of the few States that has promoted inoculation in a big way. Around 30% of the population has received one or the other vaccine here, which is higher than the national average (only 20 crore of the 100 crore population across the country have been vaccinated). Although there is a need to further increase of vaccination, availability is a big issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/global-tenders-not-a-solution-expert/article34680174.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gang rape: Statement of woman recorded||The police on Saturday, recorded the statement of the 22-year-old woman from Bangladesh, who was tortured and sexually assaulted by a gang of four men and two women over a fortnight ago. A special team traced her to Kozhikode, Kerala, and brought her back to Bengaluru where she underwent a medical examination on Thursday. Her statement confirmed what the police had gathered after questioning the accused, who allegedly ran a multi-State flesh trade operation. “The victim and the gang had a financial dispute, following which she left Bengaluru and opened a massage parlour in Kozhikode,” said a police officer. Information collected When contacted, DCP (East) S.D. Sharanappa said: “The investigation is in the preliminary stage and we are recording the statement of the victim to ascertain the details about the incident. We have information about the work she was doing here and about the people she was living with, which is verified.” All the accused hail from Bangladesh, and the police are also probing how they were able to rent houses in the city and conduct their business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-rape-statement-of-woman-recorded/article34680143.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Driver sets self, female employer on fire||A truck driver attempted to set himself and his employer on fire after he sexually assaulted her when she refused his advances. The incident took place on May 24, said the police, who have registered a case against the driver, Chandrashekhar, 50, for attempt to murder and attempt to commit suicide. Both the victim and the accused sustained serious burn injuries and have been admitted to Devanahalli general hospital, the police said. The woman, who is 34 years old, lives with her minor son at Garereravi Layout in Devanahalli. Her husband died two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driver-sets-self-female-employer-on-fire/article34680144.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20,628 new cases, 492 deaths registered||Karnataka on Saturday reported 20,628 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 25,67,449. Of these, 4,889 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 492 deaths, the toll rose to 28,298. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 42,444 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 21,89,064. The State now has 3,50,066 active patients. As many as 1,37,894 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,07,192 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,94,75,822. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 14.95%, the Case Fatality Rate was 2.38%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20628-new-cases-492-deaths/article34680151.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka State Bar Council seeks funds to compensate advocates||The Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) has urged the State government to sanction Rs. 25 crore, in addition to the Rs. 5 crore released last year, to pay compensation to a large number of advocates who have either lost or suffered reduction of income because of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to the government, KSBC chairman Srinivasa Babu L. pointed out that a majority of the advocates were from rural backgrounds and need financial assistance as they and their family members have been severely affected by to second wave, which has added mental stress as well as financial losses.   The KSBC said that it had recently released financial aid of Rs. 1.06 crore to 733 advocates in the State who were either undergoing home quarantine or hospitalised after testing positive during the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-state-bar-council-seeks-funds-to-compensate-advocates/article34680158.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Food delivery workers seek COVID-19 relief package||United Food Delivery Partners Union held an online protest on Saturday demanding a financial package from the government. Union president Vinay Sarathy V. in a press release said thousands of delivery workers have been working during the pandemic, risking their lives. It demanded that the State government immediately announce a COVID-19 relief package for them and urged the State government to provide vaccination for food delivery partners and their family members on priority. He said that they should be provided with sanitizers, masks and face shields, and offered better pay-outs and incentives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-relief-package-sought/article34680145.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bala Seva Yojana for children orphaned by COVID-19||Based on the suggestions by the Centre, the Karnataka government on Saturday announced the ‘Mukhyamantri (Chief Minister) Bala Seva Yojana’ for taking care of children orphaned by COVID-19. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said financial support of Rs. 3,500 per month would be given to children, aged below 10 years, who have lost their both parents/single parent/adopted person/the family breadwinner owing to COVID-19. In case there are no caretakers/guardians for children aged less than 10 years, such kids would be taken care f by registered childcare institutions. These children would be provided admission in residential schools such as Kasturba Balika Vidyalaya, Morarji Desai and Kittur Rani Chennmma, the CM said. Children who have passed Class 10 will be given laptops for free for higher/vocational education and skill development. For girls aged 21 years, the government would provide Rs. 1 lakh for higher education, self-employment and marriage expenses. Mentors would be appointed to look after the all-round development of orphaned children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bala-seva-yojana-for-children-orphaned-by-covid-19/article34680147.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior citizen blackmailed||The Central Division cybercrime police are on the lookout for a person who, posing as a woman, blackmailed a 72-year-old businessman by threatening to publish morphed photos of him online. The victim, a resident of Lavelle Road, was forced to pay the accused Rs. 30,000, which he transferred using an e-wallet. When the accused demanded more money, he approached the police. In his complaint, the victim, George M.C. said the person using the fake profile of one Anjali Agarwal misused his photos and started extorting money from him. The police have taken up a case against the unknown person charging them under Section 76 (transmitting obscene material) of the IT Act and for cheating and extortion under the IPC “The accused provided the victim a cellphone number which he used to transfer the Rs. 30,000 via Google Pay. We are tracking down the person with this information,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-citizen-blackmailed-online/article34680153.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai hints at extension of lockdown||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has told elected representatives and officials to make a concerted effort to bring down the COVID-19 positivity rate to below 10%. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai hinted at extending the lockdown beyond June 7 if the positivity rate does not fall below 10% in the State. He said that a decision would be taken at a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister. On Saturday, the Chief Minister held a videoconference meeting with MLAs, MPs, and officials of Mysuru, Hassan, Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts, and discussed the availability of facilities for treating COVID-19 patients. About 60% of the total number of cases in the State is being reported from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Hassan, and Ballari districts. Mr. Yediyurappa told the MLAs and MPs to work in tandem with officials of thedistrict administrations to contain the spread of the virus and reduce the deaths. No home isolation Referring to the spike in cases in villages, he said that instead of home isolation, patients should be convinced to go to COVID Care Centres for treatment. On the payment of honorarium for Accredited Social Health Activists, Mr. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, said it would be released in two or three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-hints-at-extension-of-lockdown/article34680168.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Only pandemic preventing BJP resort politics’||The Opposition Congress has mocked the BJP by saying that if there was no COVID-19 pandemic, the legislators of the saffron party would have settled in a resort by this time to plan a strategy for replacing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. In a series of tweets, the State Congress said that the BJP legislators who had remained indoors so far were all of a sudden appearing in public to grab the Chief Minister’s seat. Only the pandemic has prevented the BJP legislators from indulging in resort politics, the party said. This comes in the context of Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar’s visit to Delhi, apparently to explain to the Central party leaders the necessity of changing leadership inthe State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-pandemic-preventing-bjp-resort-politics/article34680164.ece
30 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan sees eight more COVID-19 deaths||As many as eight more people died of COVID-19 and 1,311 fresh cases of the infection were reported in Hassan on Saturday. With that, the total number of deaths rose to 984 and the number of cases increased to 82,038 in the district. Among the fatalities, four are from Hassan, one each from Alur, Belur, Channarayapanata, and Sakleshpur taluks. So far 67,128 people have recovered and 13,926 are under treatment. Among the fresh cases, 380 are from Hassan taluk, 187 from Belur, 154 from Arkalgud, 156 from Channarayapatna, 152 from Holenarasipur, 124 from Arsikere, 84 from Alur, 73 from Sakleshpur, and one from another district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-sees-eight-more-covid-19-deaths/article34680229.ece
30 May 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Jaladhare project will be implemented at the earliest: Shettar||With the Cabinet approving the Rs. 1,032-crore Jaladhare project for providing drinking water to 388 villages in Dharwad district, steps will be taken to implement the project at the earliest, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Shettar said that steps will also be taken to implement the Rs. 53-crore drinking water project for Annigeri town, which had also been approved by the Cabinet. Mr. Shettar said that of the Rs. 1,032-crore project, the Union government will provide a grant of Rs. 430.48 crore under the Jal Jeevan Mission, while the State government will give Rs. 602 crore. The remaining Rs. 423 crore will be raised as loan from NABARD, he said. He said that the Cabinet had approved Rs. 9,000 crore projects for seven districts. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa had taken interest in the project while Union Minister Pralhad Joshi had succeeded in getting funds from Centre for the project. This apart, MLAs Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and Amrut Desai had played a role in preparing a comprehensive project report, he said. To a query, Mr. Shettar said that water allocation for the project was from the Malaprabha from the Irrigation Department and this apart, water would be drawn to the reservoir from the Kalasa Banduri Project too. Clarifying that the Centre had written to the State regarding extending containment measures, he said that as the lockdown was in place till June 7, any decision on extending it would be taken by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jaladhare-project-will-be-implemented-at-the-earliest-shettar/article34680232.ece
30 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Not in race for CM post: Nirani||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani made it clear that he was not an aspirant for the post of Chief Minister. “I am not in the race. It is speculation by a section of the media. I have not visited Bengaluru for the last few days. I am completely engaged in COVID-19 containment activities in Bilagi and Kalaburagi. B.S. Yediyurappa is our leader and the government will work under him,” he said at a press conference in Kalaburagi on Saturday. After chairing a meeting of legislators and district-level officers from Kalaburagi district, Mr. Nirani, who was also the in-charge Minister for Kalaburagi, announced that the administration would come up with Kalaburagi Mission 2020-2050 to fundamentally transform the district which had been one of the backward ones in the State as per Dr. D.M. Nanjundappa panel. On the State’s financial aility to handle COVID-19, Mr. Nirani said that there was no dearth of funds to deal with the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-in-race-for-cm-post-nirani/article34680233.ece
30 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP to organise service activities today to celebrate 7 years of Modi governance||The BJP will celebrate the Narendra Modi government completing seven years by organising different types of service activities across 10,000 booths in the State on Sunday, according to the State chief spokesperson of the party Capt. Ganesh Karnik. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday Mr. Karnik said that the celebrations will adhere to COVID-19 guidelines. Some of the activities are planting of saplings, distribution of masks and sanitisers to the aged and those affected by the lockdown, blood donation, financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 to those hit badly, distribution of food kits and the like. The money for extending financial assistance will be raised by party workers from activists in the booth level, he said. Mr. Karnik said that some of the activists will bear the school fees of students, supply medicines to COVID-19 patients, arrange for ambulance services, help in cremation and mobile recharges. Capt. Karnik said that the COVID-19 cases in the State have dropped from 50,112 reported on May 5 to 39,900 on May 28. He said that the government hospitals under the Health Department in the State had 1,970 oxygenated beds, 444 beds in ICUs, 610 ICU beds with ventilators in March last year (2020). The same facilities have been increased with the government hospitals now having 24,000 oxygenated beds, 1,145 ICU beds, 2,059 beds with ventilators and 1,248 HFN (High Flow Nasal Cannula) facilities. He said that the health facilities in health institutions under the Medical Education Department too have been increased. The number of oxygenated beds have been increased from 4,700 to 9,405, the ventilated beds have gone up from 341 to 646 and HFN facilities have been increased from 15 to 570. The government has provided about 200 ventilators to private hospitals. The government is providing 70 % financial assistance to private medical colleges to set up oxygen production units and increase beds with oxygen supply facilities, Capt. Karnik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-to-organise-service-activities-today-to-celebrate-7-years-of-modi-governance/article34680235.ece
30 May 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays demolition of Central Market buildings||The High Court of Karnataka through an interim order has stayed the process of demolishing two Central Market buildings of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) and has directed the MCC Commissioner not to continue with the demolition till the next date of hearing. The date of next hearing is yet to be notified. Judge Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on Thursday on a petition by M. Ganesh Anchan and nine other traders. The MCC commenced the demolition works om May 26. The petitioners contented that the MCC Commissioner earlier made an attempt to dispossess them from the building by issuing a public notice on April 7, 2020. They were asked to vacate the building and enable MCC to demolish the structure that was in dilapidated condition. This notice was questioned and the single judge had passed an interim order. The MCC Commissioner filed an appeal and the Divisional Bench of the High Court did not interfere with the interim order of the single judge. The MCC withdraw the public notice on August 11, 2020. The petitioners said the MCC Commissioner passed a new order on April 7, 2021 to revoke the permission to vend the market building. The petitioners have been told to hand over the vacant possession by the end of May. The judge said the new order needs to be examined by the court as there was an imminent threat of dispossession and also demolition of the building. The petitioners are entitled to be granted limited protection in that regard, the judge noted. This order of the High Court has come a day after the MCC began the process of demolishing the two six-decade-old vegetable and fish market buildings of the Central Market. The MCC started the demolition following an order by the Urban Development Department on May 25. Mangaluru Smart City Limited will reconstruct new market building under the Smart City Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-demolition-of-central-market-buildings/article34680228.ece
30 May 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||DHO issues notice over vaccination of forest staff||The District Health Officer of Mysuru has issued notice to two of his subordinates for vaccinating Forest Department personnel on the grounds that they were not frontline workers. Mysuru DHO T. Amarnath sought an explanation from the Taluk Health Officers of H.D. Kote and Nanjangud as to why the Forest Department staff were vaccinated. He said the action has “drawn vehement objections from other officials in the State”.  Senior officials in the Forest Department said the tone and tenor of the notice was in bad taste and amounted to pitting one department against another though all were equally involved in the fight against COVID-19. The DHO did not take calls seeking clarification. Incidentally, the Forest Department had urged the government to consider its staff as frontline workers for them to receive priority vaccination. But in the list released recently notifying workers from various fields and professions in the age group of 18 to 44 years as frontline workers, employees of the Forest Department were not listed. When contacted, Madhu Sharma, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Publicity and ICT), refused to comment on the controversy, but said, “A corrigendum correcting the earlier circular and including Forest Department staff under frontline workers is expected to be issued soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dho-issues-notice-over-vaccination-of-forest-staff/article34680169.ece
30 May 2021||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||‘Third wave: State has learnt from second wave and should tread cautiously’||After easing lockdown restrictions, the State should keep a keen watch over the test positivity rate (TPR) and the seven-day average TPR. Local restrictions including closure of all activities related to crowding such as schools, malls, markets, theatres and places of worship should be imposed the moment the seven-day average starts increasing, said V. Ravi, member of the State’s TAC. Speaking at a webinar on ‘COVID-19 Third Wave: Vaccination, Protection’ organised by Karnataka Patrakarteyara Sangha here on Saturday, Dr. Ravi said the State has learnt valuable lessons from the second wave, which need to be carried forward to deal with the third. “Experts have already suggested that children are likely to be affected in a greater proportion in the third wave. Therefore, appropriate arrangements have to be made for taking care of paediatric health infrastructure in the State. It is good that the State has started preparations early and has already set up a task force headed by Devi Shetty. Training of doctors and other staff for paediatric cases has also begun,” he said. Hopeful that the State will handle the third wave efficiently as there is action on the ground, Dr. Ravi said, “Last time, despite warnings there was no control over super spreader events.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/third-wave-state-should-tread-cautiously/article34680150.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Black fungus in 2 children||“It is unfortunate that both the children have severe infection in the eyes and will lose vision in one eye. We will have to surgically remove one eye in both the children,” he said. Although there is a shortage of Liposomal amphotericin B, the antifungal drug used in treatment of mucormycosis, the hospital has adequate stocks to manage children’s treatment so far, he said. “As there is brain involvement in both the children, the next one week is crucial,” Dr. Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-fungus-in-2-children/article34680154.ece
30 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Experts bat for crop calendar in Kuttanad||With recurring natural disasters causing enormous losses to the agriculture sector and forcing several farmers in Kuttanad to abandon farming, experts have called for strict adherence to the crop calendar and adopting alternative farming techniques to cope with changing climate conditions. K.G. Padmakumar, Director, International Research and Training Centre for Below Sea level Farming, Thottapally, says there is a need for serious thinking on the way forward for agriculture in Kuttanad. Six zones “As entrusted by the State government, we prepared a crop calendar for Kuttanad. Kuttanad consists of six zones and they are all highly heterogeneous. People practice different farming patterns in these zones. The crop calendar was prepared after considering all the factors. But the government is yet to take meaningful steps to implement it,” he says. He says recurring floods have dashed hopes of the people of the region . “Farmers feel they can’t go on like this. They have realised the importance of following the crop calendar. Various departments and agencies need to work together to implement the calendar by providing farmers seeds on time, construct/repair bunds, dewatering, among other things,” he says, adding implementation of the calendar will help standardise the operation of the Thanneermukkom barrage to a certain extent. Changing conditions Mr. Padamakumar also recommends practising alternative farming — one paddy one fish, cage and pen fish farming, floating agriculture, and so on as part of adapting to the changing conditions. G. Nagendra Prabhu, associate professor and principal investigator of the Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources at SD College, says alternative farming strategies need to be identified. Traditional farming “Climate change will soon make it difficult to carry out traditional farming activities. We need to think out of the box. One such technology is floating agriculture or modified hydroponics. In flood-prone countries such as Bangladesh and Myanmar, people use it to grow more than 20 different types of vegetables,” he says. Floating agriculture is a way of utilising areas that are waterlogged for long periods of time in the production of food. A few years ago a team led by Mr. Prabhu successfully completed a research project on this aspect at SD College. As part of the study, aquatic weeds, mainly water hyacinth, were collected and allowed to rot in a pond creating floating beds. Seeds of ladies finger, chillies, and cow pea were planted in balls made of decayed hyacinth. Germinated plants The germinated plants were later transplanted into the water hyacinth beds. “Their growth was normal and without any obvious problems. Using aquatic weeds can also help minimise its impact on the waterbodies,” says Mr. Prabhu.  Floating agriculture is a way of utilising areas that are waterlogged for long periods of time in the production of food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-bat-for-crop-calendar-in-kuttanad/article34680598.ece
30 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||4 killed in car-lorry collision||Four persons, including a child, were killed and four others suffered injuries when the car in which they were travelling collided with a lorry at Nangiarkulangara, near Haripad, in the wee hours of Saturday. According to the Kareelakulangara police, the deceased were identified as Riyas (27), Aiysha Fathima (25) and her son Bilal (5), all hailing from Kayamkulam in Alappuzha, and Unnikuttan (26) of Kottakarakara in Kollam. The police said the accident occurred around 3.30 a.m. in front of the Kareelakulangara police station on the National Highway 66. The injured have been identified as Ajmi and Ansab, the latter husband of deceased Aiysha Fathima. Lorry driver Noushad and helper Rajesh were also injured in the accident. The car was heading to Ernakulam from Kottarakara. The truck was transporting sand. The police said the deceased Riyas and injured Ansab were involved in several criminal cases and had been slapped with the Kerala Anti-Social Activities Prevention Act (KAPA). They were restrained from entering Alappuzha district. A knife and 10 gm of ganja were seized from the ill-fated car. Ganja business “The group was involved in ganja business. Recently, Ajmi’s husband was jailed in Kollam for drug peddling. They went to Kottarakara to pick Ajmi and proceed to Ernakulam, where they were living,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-killed-in-car-lorry-collision/article34680295.ece
30 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,984 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 1,984 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded 15 COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, 1,977 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of three others remains unknown. Two persons each who came from abroad and other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity for the day stood at 17.32%. The 1,984 cases include 275 reported from Alappuzha, 78 from Arattupuzha, 77 from Mararikulam South, 56 from Cherthala South and 50 each from Kayamkulam and Mannancherry. As many as 1,780 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 20,008. Kottayam As many as 1,167 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 1,165 persons including two health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 18.65%. With 136 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Vazhappally with 83 cases. As many as 954 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 9,788 while 42,082 others remain under observation. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamathitta, 683 persons tested positive for the disease. Of these, 673 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day was 17.6%. With 47 cases, Pathanamathitta reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pallickal with 37 cases. As many as six persons were reported dead due to COVID-19 related illness during the day. With 1,146 recoveries on Saturday, the district currently has 9,934 active cases.  Ernakulam With 2,606 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, Ernakulam district recorded a test positivity rate of 17.9%. As many as 4,280 people were considered to have recovered on Saturday, and the district’s active caseload now stands at 36,235.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Ernakulam bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1984-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34680602.ece
30 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||More relief camps opened in Alappuzha||With several low-lying areas in the district remaining submerged due to heavy rains and increased flow of floodwater from neighbouring districts, the administration has opened more relief camps in the district. As of Saturday evening, a total of 387 people belonging to 104 families were shifted to 21 camps—13 in Chengannur, six in Mavelikkara, and two in Cherthala taluks. The district administration has also opened four gruel centres—three in Ambalappuzha taluk and one in Chengannur taluk for 475 people of 118 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-relief-camps-opened-in-alappuzha/article34680296.ece
30 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||152 cadets pass out of Ezhimala academy||In a spectacular passing out parade held at the Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, 152 trainees comprising 100 midshipmen of the Indian Naval Academy Course, cadets of 30A Naval Orientation Course (Extended) and 32 Naval Orientation Course (Regular) passed out with flying colours, marking the culmination of their ab-initio training, on Saturday. The parade was reviewed by Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, who awarded medals to meritorious midshipmen and cadets on completion of the ceremonial review. Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Commandant, INA, was the conducting officer. The successful trainees marched with their gleaming swords and rifles held in salute, past the academy’s auarterdeck in slow march to the traditional notes of Auld Lang Syne, the poignant farewell tune played by armed forces around the world when bidding adieu to colleagues and comrades, for their Antim Pag or final step at the academy. Vice Admiral Singh congratulated the trainees on their impeccable turnout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/152-cadets-pass-out-of-ezhimala-academy/article34680327.ece
30 May 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Liquor not to be sold via app: Minister||Excise Minister M.V. Govindan has said that sale of liquor through mobile app during the lockdown period is not under discussion. The Minister told mediapersons on Saturday that this was not the time to open liquor shops and there was no plan to sell liquor through the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. The decision to open bars would be considered later depending on the circumstances. The possibility of selling alcohol by maintaining physical distancing would be considered and bars would be opened when all other establishments too would reopen, he said, adding that there were no plans to give “special consideration” to liquor stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/liquor-not-to-be-sold-via-app-minister/article34680346.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,606 test positive in Ernakulam, TPR at 17.9%||With 2,606 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, Ernakulam district recorded a test positivity rate of 17.9%. A total of 14,531 samples were sent for testing, and 6,257 of the tests done were RT-PCR tests. As many as 4,280 people were considered to have recovered on Saturday, and the district’s active caseload now stands at 36,235. Ten health workers tested positive, along with one police officer. While Thrikkakara recorded 109 new cases, Fort Kochi saw 81, Palluruthy 75, Thripunithura 72, Kalamassery 60, Vengola 56, Elamkunnapuzha and Kottuvally 55 each, Chellanam 54, Edathala 52, and Kadungalloor and Vyttila 49 each. The source of infection could not be traced in 51 cases. As many as 86,456 people remain in quarantine. While 669 people were admitted to treatment centres on Saturday, 665 people were discharged. A total of 28,877 people are recovering at home, 1,964 are admitted at private hospitals, 52 are at INHS Sanjivani, 520 are being monitored at first-line treatment centres, 390 are at second-line treatment centres, and 1,132 are at domiciliary care centres that have been readied for those who are unable to isolate themselves at home. At government hospitals, 687 patients are recovering, including 166 at the Government Medical College Hospital and 74 patients at PVS Hospital. A total of 496 patients are admitted in intensive care units. Two people are recovering from mycormycosis (black fungus disease) in the district. Available beds Of the 3,710 beds available for COVID treatment at government treatment facilities in the district, 1,731 at domiciliary care centres, according to a release from the district administration. A total of 71 domiciliary care centres have been set up. Across 13 FLTCs, 389 beds are available. There are 13 SLTCs as well, where 270 beds are vacant. At 17 government hospitals where treatment for COVID is offered, 1,284 beds are available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2606-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-at-179/article34680337.ece
30 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Chellanam to be made model fishing village||A brief on the proposals for turning Chellanam into a model fishing village will be ready in four weeks and submitted to the State government. Vice Chancellor of Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) K. Riji John said here on Saturday that a detailed action plan for the project would be ready in about three months. The detailed report would contain proposals on the responsibilities of the university as well as other agencies involved in implementing the programme, he said. The Vice Chancellor was addressing a consultative meeting organised at the university on addressing the issues faced by the people of Chellanam and its 17-km coast. He said in his introductory remarks that life had become totally uncertain for the people of Chellanam. The government had earlier announced that KUFOS would adopt Chellanam, and all programmes would be implemented under its supervision. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, who inaugurated the consultative meeting via videoconferencing, said the Chellanam model fishing village project would be a model for the whole State. The government’s effort was to find a permanent solution to all the problems facing the people of the coastal village, he said, and promised that the implementation of the model fishing village programme would ensure that all infrastructure requirements of Chellanam were addressed. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, who presided via videoconferencing, said the university’s effort was part of a programme by the government to involve educational and research institutions in the lives of people. Govt. aid The State government had earlier announced a Rs. 18-crore package to immediately address the issues of sea erosion and threat to life and property in the village. The amount is in addition to the Rs. 8 crore already sanctioned for completing the geotextile tube works to temporarily prevent sea erosion and incursion of sea into houses. Besides, Rs. 2 crore from the emergency fund of the government will be utilised to clean up homes that were flooded recently following heavy rains triggered by cyclonic storms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-to-be-made-model-fishing-village/article34680330.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||After years of lending a helping hand, Theruvoram now seeks one||In over a year since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the State, Theruvoram, a Kochi-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), has rescued and rehabilitated around 1,300 people from across the State. After rescuing thousands of sick and abandoned persons from the streets in the last two decades, the NGO is now staring at a crisis as donations on which it was being run are fast drying up due to the pandemic. “We are running up debts and, going by the alarming rate at which it is rising, we may have to shelve our services very shortly unless kind-hearted people come to our rescue. One of our two ambulances is languishing in the workshop for want of money to pay repair charges,” said Murugan S., the NGO founder. Resource crunch has also forced Theruvoram to terminate the service of five out of its nine staff members. Its many services cost nearly Rs. 13,000 a day, and, at the moment, finding that amount is proving tough. Mr. Murugan said the number of people pushed to a life on the streets had risen since the pandemic. “Many people got stranded here after being rendered jobless and unable to bear the expense of lodging, while there are also the abandoned, sick, and mentally imbalanced people who land up at railway stations across Kerala. We have rescued them and taken many to hospitals,” he said. The COVID-19 protocol has also created hurdles in the rehabilitation of people, as most centres were turning them away, forcing Theruvoram to accommodate 40 of them at its centre at Kakkanad. Those willing to help the NGO may contact 7561041036 or 9846051098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-years-of-lending-a-helping-hand-theruvoram-now-seeks-one/article34680335.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Survey in progress for rehabilitating vendors||The Kochi Corporation will shortly complete a survey commissioned to finalise a list of vendors who are eligible for rehabilitation in vending zones that are to be identified in different parts of the city. This follows complaints from the police and the public about unscrupulous vendors carrying out organised encroachment on footpaths and public spaces, to the point of obstructing the safe movement of pedestrians and motorists. Many NGOs and residents’ associations too had demanded action against vendors establishing kiosks and pushcarts on even newly-laid footpaths which had tactile tiles to guide visually challenged people. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the survey to compile a list of vendors who would qualify for rehabilitation could not be completed due to the second wave of the pandemic. “A notification on vending zones will follow. However, rehabilitation cannot be claimed as a right and only those who qualify on the basis of the survey will be rehabilitated,” he said. Relocating eligible vendors is part of efforts to clear encroachments, stray cables and abandoned or illegally parked vehicles from public spaces. Street trader associations welcomed the survey as a good beginning and sought early compilation of a list of vendors. “We were demanding rehablitation soon after the enactment of the Street Vendors Act, 2014. An earlier survey had pegged the number of street vendors in Kochi Corporation area at 1,980. This would have increased since many who lost their means of livelihood in the pandemic have taken to vending,” said K.A. Usman, district secretary of Vazhiyora Kachavada Thozhilali Union (CITU) and national committee member of National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI). ID card The vending committees at the town and district levels, headed by the Corporation Secretary and the District Collector respectively, have street vendor representatives as members. It decides whether a vendor is genuine or not and issues ID card and licence. “As per the national street vending policy, vendors having ID card can be permitted to sell wares in 6x4 feet or 5x3 feet space in areas where vending is permitted. As per a 2009 survey, 2.50% of India’s population earns a living from street vending,” he said. Mr. Usman said that many people had multiple shops or pushcarts, while some had sublet vending spaces to workers from other States. “All this is illegal and could have been prevented if they were issued identity cards following the 2014 enanctment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-in-progress-for-rehabilitating-vendors/article34680333.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||People’s committees to check waste dumping||Soon, local bodies in the State will have people’s vigilance committees to check illegal dumping of waste in public places and waterbodies. The Department of Local Self-Government has asked the secretaries of grama panchayats, municipalities, and corporations to act tough against violators. The people’s vigilance committee will comprise elected representatives in each ward, members of residents’ associations and officials of enforcement agencies, it is learnt. Assessment done The decision comes close on the heels of an assessment of the solid waste management scenario in local bodies carried out by the department in April. It was found that dumping of waste in public spots was rampant in many panchayats and municipalities. Open burning of waste was also detected in many civic bodies, in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The local bodies had lacked personnel and monitoring systems to track those involved in dumping waste into waterbodies. Many panchayats did not have CCTV facility in various wards to catch hold of those involved in dumping of waste in open places, lakes and rivers. The people’s vigilance committee is expected to ensure the involvement of the local communities in empowering people against waste dumping, according to the officials involved in the project. More steps The local bodies found lagging behind in doorstep collection of solid waste should step up its coverage to at least 50% within three months. The panchayats, municipalities and corporations that had achieved 50% coverage should increase it to 100% by September. The local bodies have to provide PPE kits, gloves, masks, sanitisers, and gumboots to workers involved in the collection of waste. The secretaries of the local bodies have to review the measures taken to ensure solid waste management and sanitation on a weekly basis. The gaps in waste management systems have to be rectified without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peoples-committees-to-check-waste-dumping/article34680297.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Forum formed to ‘save island’||A ‘Save Lakshadweep Forum’ was formed at an all-party meeting of the Union Territory held online on Saturday. P.P. Koya, former MP and NCP leader, and U.C.K. Thangal of the Congress have been elected joint conveners. Sadique [JD(U)] is the coordinator and Komalam Koya [CPI(M)], Najamudeen CT (CPI) and Kasim Koya (BJP) are joint coordinators. In the event of the Administrator visiting the Dweep on June 1, they will try to meet him to tell him the apprehensions of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-formed-to-save-island/article34680341.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||App developed by MVD official launched||A new app. developed by an Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector attached to the Ernakulam RTO Office, that makes available provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, updated rules and procedures of the MVD at one’s fingertips, was released on Saturday by Minister for Transport Antony Raju. The app named ‘Motor Vehicles Act and Rules’ is available on Google Playstore and was readied by Abbas C.M., AMVI. The app makes available a compilation of updated rules, road tax schedules, driving regulations and case laws offline to all Android phone users. It will help employees of MVD offices, judicial officers, lawyers, law students, and citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-developed-by-mvd-official-launched/article34680338.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ASI reported missing||The Palluruthy police have launched a probe for tracing a serving policmeman who has allegedly gone missing since Friday. The assistant sub inspector (ASI) of Harbour police station, Uthamkumar, has been missing as per his wife’s complaint. The family lives in Pampayimoola within Palluruthy station limits. The wife, in her petition, alleged that her husband was frequently harassed by the Harbour station Inspector. Mr. Uthamkumar had been served with a show cause notice reportedly for turning up late for duty. As per the petition, he had left the house for replying to the notice on Friday but did not return. The Palluruthy police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asi-reported-missing/article34680339.ece
30 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Govt. in a fix over HC order on minority scholarships||The High Court’s order striking down government orders allocating scholarships for Muslim and Christian communities in 80:20 ratio is set to become a political hot potato for the new Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The Division Bench order on Friday overturning the government order sub-classifying the minorities by providing scholarships to Muslims and Christians (Latin Catholics and converted Christians) in 80:20 ratio has already stirred contrary but expected responses from leaders of political and religious organisations representing the two communities. Caution rules The government has not yet responded to the court order. Giving an indication that the government will take extreme caution before taking a stand on the demands for and against going for appeal against the court order, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at a press conference said any decision on the issue will be made after studying the details of the order. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership is in the forefront of the demand that the government appeal against the Division Bench order. VS-led govt. blamed Blaming the LDF government for the High Court ruling, IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty and organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer said at Malappuram that the order issued in 2011 by then LDF government led by V.S. Achuthanandan that introduced allocation up to 20% for Latin Catholics and converted Christians had created all the trouble. They noted that the earlier decision to provide scholarships and training to Muslim youths had been based on the Paloli Mohammed Kutty Committee recommendations. Sunni leader Kanthapuram Aboobacker Musaliyar, the Samastha Sunni faction, Jamaat-e-Islami State ameer M.I. Abdul Azeez and Kerala Nadvathul Mujahid State committee also separately demanded that the State government appeal against the verdict. Kasim Irikkur, general secretary of the Indian National League, a coalition partner in the LDF, said the court order did not take into consideration the backwardness of the Muslim community detailed by the Rajindar Sachar Committee. Churches’ reaction As expected Christian organisations welcomed the court order. Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church episcopal synod secretary Youhanon Mar Diascorus and Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church head Mar Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan were among the Church leaders who said that the court order would bring equality in the distribution of benefits to the minority communities. The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council and the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church too have hailed the verdict. P.J. Joseph, chairman of the Kerala Congress, which is a coalition partner in the Opposition United Democratic Front, urged the State government to implement the HC order. A balancing act The LDF’s political experiment of forging a rainbow coalition that helped it make inroads into traditional anti-Left vote bases in the two dominant minority communities will now be under scrutiny. For the LDF’s return to power in the State is attributed to, among others, its efforts to strike a balance between the conflicting interests of the Muslim and Christian communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-in-a-fix-over-hc-order-on-minority-scholarships/article34680345.ece
30 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Domestic tourism to get a boost||Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Saturday said that the Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu road in Kozhikode district would be completed in time after clearing hurdles. Addressing a meet-the-press event at the Calicut Press Club, Mr. Riyas promised to solve the deadlock over the construction of the Kozhikode Bypass Road. Focus will be given to the Mysuru-Wayanad-Kozhikode-Malappuram Road. Work on the Azhiyur-Vengalam Road will be completed in time, Mr. Riyas said. The State government will focus on boosting domestic tourism against the backdrop of the impact of the pandemic on the sector. Responsible Tourism initiatives will get priority. Once the second wave of COVID-19 weakens, more projects will be launched. Responsible Tourism will bring in more jobs too. The late writer Vaikom Muhammed Basheer will soon get a memorial at Beypore, where he had settled. The tourism potential of Kozhikode district will be explored further. rThe Kerala Tourism Development Corporation will improve its facilities for accommodation of tourists. The buildings of the Public Works Department will be utilised for the purpose. All the staff in the tourism sector will be vaccinated, Mr. Riyas added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-tourism-to-get-a-boost/article34680325.ece
30 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||1,354 fresh COVID cases in Kozhikode||As many as 1,354 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Saturday. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 1,337 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 16 others is not known. A total of 10,199 samples were tested, and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) is 13.6%. The Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 347 locally acquired infections, Thiruvallur 48, Kakkodi 41, Mukkom 38, Unnikulam 35, Koduvally 34, and Feroke and Kuruvattur 33 each. As many as 2,466 people recovered from the infection, and the active caseload dropped to 21,328. Meanwhile, differently-abled persons in the 18-44 age group in the district were given COVID-19 vaccine at 96 centres. Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohammed Riyas inaugurated the drive at the Government General Hospital on Saturday morning. In Thrissur Thrissur district registered 1,707 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, while 2,574 persons recovered from the disease. The TPR in the district is 18.60%. The TPR was over 50% in Kaiparambu (54.90%), Elavally (55.95%), and Anthikkad (52.56%). According to official figures, 1,696 people, including six health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 288 are above the age of 60 and 125 children are below the age of 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1354-fresh-covid-cases-in-kozhikode/article34680323.ece
30 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Road repairs ahead of rains||Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said he will personally address monsoon-related complaints at the PWD control room once in a week. Addressing a meet-the-press event at the Calicut Press Club on Saturday, he said priority would be given for the pre-monsoon maintenance works of roads. The control room system would be made more effective. Potholes would be filled soon. The web application to directly contact the Public Works Department would be active from June 7.  Land acquisition for the development of national highways would be expedited. Meetings of landowners would be convened to sort out objections. Construction of 13 reaches of the proposed hill highway would be completed soon. The Wayanad tunnel road too would get priority and Rs. 40,000 crore would be spent on the project. New bridges and roads worth Rs. 20,000 crore would be approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-repairs-ahead-of-rains/article34680343.ece
30 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Special squad probing bomb attack case||The Kozhikode Rural police have formed a five-member special investigation squad to probe the recent petrol bomb attack on the house of a Civil Police Officer (CPO) from the Vadakara station. It was on May 22 that the house came under attack from three suspected persons who reportedly came by two motorcycles, according to eyewitness account. As part of the probe, CCTV visuals were collected by the investigation team led by a Circle Inspector. However, it could not identify any of the suspects from the footage. It was found that the attackers were cautious to avoid surveillance cameras. Meanwhile, the team sought the support of the Cyber Cell to gather digital evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-squad-probing-bomb-attack-case/article34680326.ece
30 May 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Triple lockdown in Malappuram withdrawn||District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan on Saturday withdrew the triple lockdown imposed in Malappuram district in view of a control in the spread in COVID-19 cases. However, lockdown restrictions across the State will continue to be in force in Malappuram. The district registered a test positivity rate (TPR) of 12.34% on Saturday. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said the triple lockdown had been imposed in the district as a measure to bring down the spiralling cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/triple-lockdown-in-malappuram-withdrawn/article34680328.ece
30 May 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Private buses converted into COVID wards||A bus owner at Cherpulassery in the district has converted three of his buses into mobile COVID-19 wards that can be attached to hospitals. He is willing to convert his entire fleet of three dozen buses if the situation demands. P. Rajendra Kumar, aka Elephant Raju, is getting many calls, most of them congratulatory, after he made the move by spending more than Rs. 1.3 lakh for the conversion of each bus. “Everyone is contributing in the best possible way they can to help their fellow beings survive this pandemic. This is what I can do at the moment,” said Mr. Raju. He made the conversion by removing the seats and installing three beds in each bus. Facilities including oxygen cylinders have been set up. Running cost He will also meet the running cost of the mobile hospital and that of the oxygen cylinders. One of his buses is set to leave for the Government Hospital at Paravur in Ernakulam following an SOS call. One bus is currently at Kerala Medical College, Mangode, and the other at Government Taluk Hospital, Ottappalam. Organisations involved in COVID-19 care across the State have started seeking his help. “I am ready to take the buses anywhere, if needed. The cost is not an issue, but maintaining the sterility is,” Mr. Raju told The Hindu . Mr. Raju's initiative has the tacit approval of the authorities concerned. According to P. Sivakumar, Regional Transport Officer who retired from service during lockdown, humanity can dwarf the technicalities in the pandemic. The police too lent support to Mr. Raju's initiative. According to a senior police officer, the mobile hospital with limited number of beds with basic facilities, including oxygen, could render an invaluable service at a time when the pandemic is tightening its grip on society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-buses-converted-into-covid-wards/article34680300.ece
30 May 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Elephant calf dies at Konni||Junior Surendran, an elephant calf brought to the jumbo camp in Konni last month, died on Saturday. The three-month-old calf had been under treatment for indigestion and hernia and was slated to undergo a surgery on Sunday. The carcass will be buried in the Uliayanad forests on Sunday after a post-mortem examination. The calf was found alone at a lawn, Putharipadam, close to forest area under Nilambur North Forest Division in Malappuram on March 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-calf-dies-at-konni/article34680298.ece
30 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strict curbs in 15 grama panchayats in capital||The district administration has imposed stricter COVID-19 curbs in 15 grama panchayats where the test positivity rates (TPR) are above 34%. The 15 panchayats have been declared ‘critical containment zones’, where existing lockdown measures have been further tightened, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. The following panchayats are listed as critical containment zones: Anad, Aruvikkara, Azhoor, Edava, Kadinamkulam, Kalliyoor, Karode, Kizhuvilam, Kottukal, Manikkal, Nagaroor, Ottasekharamangalam, Venganoor, Vettoor, and Vilavoorkal. The TPR is above 30% in these regions when the overall TPR in Thiruvananthapuram district is hovering around the 20% mark. In the 15 panchayats, shops selling food items, fruits, vegetables, milk products, meat, fish, and cattle feed could function up to 7.30 p.m. Bakeries are also permitted. Distribution of newspapers should be completed by 8 a.m. Ration shops, Maveli stores, and milk booths should close by 5 p.m. Restaurants could remain open from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. for home delivery of food. Dining and parcel services are prohibited. Ms. Khosa has urged the people in critical containment zones to purchase essential commodities from the shops nearest to their homes. Long distance travel for the purpose will not be permitted. e-commerce delivery services are restricted to essential commodities, and the delivery should be completed by 2 p.m. Markets will remain shut in the critical containment zones until further notice. The District Collector has asked the public not to leave the critical containment zones unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-curbs-in-15-grama-panchayats-in-capital/article34680306.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State adds 23,513 new cases||Kerala reported 23,513 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,41,759 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 16.59% on the day. The State’s active case pool continues to decline. With 28,100 recoveries being reported, the case pool now has 2,33,034 patients. However, hospital admissions, ICU occupancy and deaths due to COVID-19 are yet to show a declining trend. The State added 198 new deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the cumulative fatalities to 8,455. These deaths had occurred over the past several days. On Saturday, 3,624 persons were hospitalised. At present, 39,466 patients are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals. Total ICU admissionsin public and private hospitals now stand at 3,882, with 1,532 patients requiring ventilator support. In Thiruvananthapuram, the active case pool declined to 16,411. Even though the number of hospitalised patients went down marginally on Saturday, the district still has the highest number of hospitalisations, at 6,084. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,990, followed by Thiruvananthapuram, 2,767, Palakkad 2,682, Ernakulam 2,606, Kollam 2,177, Alappuzha 1,984, Thrissur 1,707, Kozhikode 1,354, Kottayam 1,167, Kannur 984, Pathanamthitta 683, Idukki 662, Kasaragod 506, and Wayanad 244 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-adds-23513-new-cases/article34680353.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination process to gain pace: CM||The current pace of COVID-19 vaccination in the State is expected to speed up when the State receives more vaccine stocks in the first week of June, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The State will utilise its vaccine stocks and try to vaccinate as many people as possible before June 15, the Chief Minister said here on Saturday. Inmates in elderly care homes, those who are bedridden with chronic illness and those above 45 years in tribal colonies would be vaccinated as early as possible. Neonates contracting COVID-19 had been noted and steps would be taken to address the issue, he said.  Long-term plans Mr. Vijayan said that long-term plans would have to be devised for the State to enter into vaccine manufacturing. Various vaccine manufacturing firms had expressed their interest and willingness to open their units in the Life Sciences Park, in association with the Institute of Advanced Virology. The government would explore this possibility, he said. Mr. Vijayan said that through lockdown, the State had successfully brought down its active case load, which had gone above 4.45 lakhs, down to 2.3 lakhs. Despite the massive surge in cases, the State had managed to prevent the hospitals and health systems from being overwhelmed. As it happened elsewhere in the country, patients did not have to scramble for ICU beds or ventilators. He said that lockdown cannot be withdrawn till the test positivity rate and hospitalisations reduced further. At present, ICU occupancy in government hospitals was 70% and the average TPR since the past three days was 18%. ICU occupancy should go below 60% and TPR should remain below 15% for three days continuously for lockdown to be withdrawn. Pre-monsoon cleaning would be taken up across the State from June 4 to 6 and all departments should work in a coordinated manner, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-process-to-gain-pace-cm/article34680309.ece
30 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keralites flock to Clubhouse for discussions||From teashops and barbershops to cafes, every available space or platform is one for political and cultural discussions for the Malayali. The latest such space is Clubhouse, an audio-only social network, which seems to have taken Kerala by storm. Though it has been available on Apple’s iOS platform for about a year, its release in Android phones last week has led to an explosion in the number of users from the State. Discussion rooms on a range of subjects, including politics, literature, cinema, history, sports, and COVID-19, have popped up in the application. Users can join in any discussion room of their choice, can either listen to the ongoing conversations or add their own two cents to the debate, with permission from the moderator. Users also have the choice to seamlessly switch between discussion rooms. Parties warm to app Political parties seem to have realised the immense possibilities of the platform. The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) was one of the first to latch on to this, hosting a discussion on the ongoing issues in Lakshadweep on Friday night, with more than 3,000 people joining in as participants along with Left leaders. On Saturday, the Congress’ IT wing hosted a discussion on the same subject, with party leaders leading the debate. “It is a platform which allows people to express themselves without fear. Many who have found it hard to communicate their ideas through writings on existing social media have found this ideal for them. I joined the platform with an intent to learn the possibilities of this technology. In the past four days, I have been part of numerous discussion rooms and also initiated some, including some for light-hearted discussions,” says N.E. Chithrasenan, partner, Modern Book Centre, in the capital. The ongoing COVID-19-induced lockdown, which has cut off most interpersonal interactions, also seems to have led people to joining the application in large numbers. Clubhouse was founded in March 2020 by Paul Davison and Rohan Seth of Alpha Exploration Company in March 2020, after many of their previous ideas failed to take off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralites-flock-to-clubhouse-for-discussions/article34680351.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teachers’ forums not happy with decision on CM’s circular||A circular asking teachers to try and deliver cards containing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s message to students at the beginning of the new academic year to their homes has drawn flak from teachers’ organisations. They have termed the circular from the Director of General Education to Deputy Directors of Education, Assistant Education Officers, and school head teachers mystifying, especially in the wake of the worrying COVID-19 situation in the State. They pointed out that with the lockdown extended in the State till June 9, asking teachers to visit students’ homes to deliver the cards in person defied logic. The Chief Minister’s message to students could be delivered at the inauguration of Pravesanotsavam on June 1 that was to be telecast on the KITE VICTERS channel and watched by students, their parents, and teachers. There was no need for teachers to deliver the message cards, printed by the Kerala Books and Publishing Society, to students’ homes in person when COVID-19 restrictions were still in place. The circular says that once the cards reach schools, head teachers should seek the help of teachers, parent-teacher associations, school management committees, and volunteers to get the cards into students’ hands before June 1. All COVID-19 protocols should be adopted while distributing the cards, it says. The All Kerala School Teachers’ Union came out against the move saying that at a time when latest technology was available for disseminating the message, there was no logic asking AEOs to take steps to deliver it to students. The Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association said teachers were already tied up with COVID-19 duty, Pravesanotsavam preparations, school admissions, and textbook and uniform distribution, and it was not right to burden them further.  Minister’s stance Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty told The Hindu that the distribution of the message cards would be held following all COVID-19 protocols. The Chief Minister’s message was meant to welcome students and their parents and re-energise them as the new academic year got off to a start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-forums-not-happy-with-decision-on-cms-circular/article34680302.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Signature video ready||The signature video of the second edition of the First Bell digital classes to be telecast by KITE VICTERS channel from June 1 is ready. First Bell 2.0’s signature video uses painting animation done using free software such as Krita and the like. The half-a-minute video has elements ranging from imagination to fantasy to science to pure, simple fun that will appeal to students’ sensibilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/signature-video-ready/article34680301.ece
30 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MCH nodal centre for mucormycosis||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, has been assigned as the nodal centre for tackling mucormycosis, an invasive fungal infection. The decision was taken as mucormycosis, also called black fungus, has been reported in the State in some COVID-19 patients and those who have recovered from COVID-19, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Ten beds in the MCH will be earmarked for COVID-19 patients affected by mucormycosis and 30 beds, for patients with the fungal infection who have recovered from COVID-19.  A nodal officer will be appointed for coordinating the preventive measures with the District Medical Office. The district administration also plans to form an expert committee consisting of doctors from the MCH to ensure the availability of medicines, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-nodal-centre-for-mucormycosis/article34680307.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Distribution of textbooks, uniforms commences||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Saturday reiterated the government’s commitment to distribution of textbooks and uniforms in a time-bound manner despite the COVID-19 challenges. He was speaking after inaugurating the distribution of textbooks for Class I students and free handloom uniforms for the new academic year at the Teacher Training Institute, Manacaud, here. As many as 2.62 crore first volume textbooks across 288 titles will be distributed through 13,064 societies this year. The distribution resumed on May 24. Uniforms for 9.39 lakh students have reached distribution centres. As much as 39 lakh metres of cloth has been arranged. Students who do not get uniforms would be given an allowance of Rs. 600, Mr. Sivankutty said. Mr. Sivankutty inaugurated the textbook distribution for Class 1 by handing it over to S. Aswathi, mother of Class 1 student V. Kaushal. Minister for Transport Antony Raju kicked off the free uniform distribution for Class 2 by handing it over to M. Mahesh, father of student Kavya M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-textbooks-uniforms-commences/article34680342.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corpn. to ensure welfare of migrant workers||The Thiruvananthapuram district administration has prioritised welfare of migrant workers amid the pandemic situation. As per official figures, there are 11,950 migrant workers in the district presently. The district administration is implementing a number of projects to ensure food and accommodation for them. Food kits have been provided to 9,136 eligible migrant workers. Besides the kits, milk and eggs have also been supplied to them. The distribution is being undertaken through the tahsildars of the taluks concerned. Health checks and COVID-19 testing are also being undertaken at regular intervals in places where the migrant workers live. Awareness generation is being taken up under the supervision of assistant labour officers to prevent mental health problems among the workers. Care centres Six domiciliary care centres have been identified in the district to house migrant workers who have tested positive for COVID-19. Some have been admitted to the centre started at the Kazhakuttam higher secondary school. A special control room is functioning at the district labour office under the control of Nedumangad Sub-Collector Chetan Kumar Meena. Services are available round the clock on the helpline numbers 0471 2783944, 9447440956.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-ensure-welfare-of-migrant-workers/article34680303.ece
30 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,767 more test positive in capital||The district added 2,767 new cases to its COVID-19 case load on Saturday, even as 3,058 people recovered from the infection. The district registered a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.8%, while the active case pool stood at 16,411.  Local transmission Of the new cases, local transmission accounted for 2,648 cases. The list includes eight health workers, the district administration said. As part of precautionary measures, 4,520 people were quarantined on Saturday, taking the total number of people currently in quarantine in the district to 77,327.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2767-more-test-positive-in-capital/article34680308.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Action against doctor for quackery||The Travancore Cochin Council of Modern Medicine (TCMC) has removed the name of a Kasaragod-based doctor from the register of the Modern Medicine Council for a period of two months for practising as a consultant sonologist without requisite qualification. The council decided to remove the name of Subrahmanya Bhat K. (reg. no. 36760) for practising merely on the strength of a certificate issued for attending a Preconception and Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) training, even though he had not acquired or registered any higher qualification apart from MBBS degree. The complaint against Dr. Bhat was filed by T.V. Padmanabhan, chairman, anti-quackery committee of the Indian Medical Association in 2008. Though the council had issued an order in August 2008 itself, directing Dr. Bhat not to practise as a consultant sonologist, Dr. Bhat continued to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-doctor-for-quackery/article34680348.ece
30 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. mulls steps to tackle vector-borne diseases||Thiruvananthapuram Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran on Saturday chaired a meeting to discuss the measures to be adopted to control the spread of vector-borne diseases during the monsoon season.  Anti-mosquito drive It has been decided to take up activities for the source destruction of mosquitoes across the city on June 5 and 6. The cooperation of residents' association, youth organisations and youth clubs will be sought for the purpose in order to make the larger public be a part of the measures to protect residents from dengue and similar diseases. Meeting tomorrow Following instructions from the State government, a meeting of the health standing committee will be held on Monday and a special council meeting on Tuesday to discuss the matter. The Deputy Mayor, standing committee chairpersons, Secretary and health wing officials participated in the meeting on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-mulls-steps-to-tackle-vector-borne-diseases/article34680304.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shibu takes leave from RSP||RSP leader and central committee member Shibhu Baby John has taken leave from the party for ‘personal reasons.’ The move triggered speculation in political circles, with some suggesting that it could signal a shift to the LDF. Mr. John told a television channel that defeat in polls was not a reason to switch sides. He had stayed away from the UDF leadership conference on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shibu-takes-leave-from-rsp/article34680349.ece
30 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Devaswoms to be revamped||Functioning of Devaswoms will be revamped by taking believers into consideration, Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan has said. “Reforms will be brought out only after talks with all concerned. Our objective is not to create controversies. The reforms will be for the benefit of devotees,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devaswoms-to-be-revamped/article34680347.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||When monsoon’s almost here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-monsoons-almost-here/article34680332.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Serving humanity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/serving-humanity/article34680563.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Smooth start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smooth-start/article34680565.ece
30 May 2021||ADDAMPALLI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps to buy unsold products from weavers: Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday promised measures to ensure purchase of handloom products that remained unsold owing to COVID-19 impact on the trade and marketing activities. In East Godavari district alone, where more than 15,000 families are engaged in handloom weaving, products worth Rs. 12 crore are lying in the godowns of 50 weavers’ cooperative societies. They included saris, blankets and towels. At Addampalli village in the Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment, weavers told the Minister that blankets worth Rs. 1.36 crore supposed to be purchased by the AP State Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society Limited (APCO) had piled up with them. The Minister tried to know how the handloom activity came to a grinding halt due to a delay in the marketing of the products and the impact of COVID-19 from the weavers of Sri Malleswara Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society Limited, which has 334 members operating 130 handlooms. He observed that women were the major contributors in handloom weaving at various stages. “The State government’s annual package of Rs. 24,000 has come to the rescue of the weavers affected by lack of sales due to COVID-19. Many of them are now eking out a livelihood through the national rural employment guarantee scheme. Their plight will be brought to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. “The reasons for the delay in procurement of handloom products by APCO will be looked into. The BC Welfare Department will also persuade APCO to purchase blankets and towels for use in the department’s welfare hostels,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-to-buy-unsold-products-from-weavers-minister/article34680652.ece
30 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||First crowd-funded COVID ward with oxygen support set up at Dharmavaram||A crowd-funded 30-bed oxygen-supported COVID-19 ward became a reality at Dharmavaram on Saturday with Dharmavaram Revenue Divisional Officer G.R. Madhusudhan ensuring the project was accomplished in the shortest possible time at the Community Health Centre in the town. Mr. Madhusudhan first donated one month’s salary and then appealed to the general public to liberally donate for their own cause. As of Saturday morning, 36 donors generously responded pooling in Rs. 20.5 lakh and the first ward with 30 beds got ready at a cost of Rs. 11 lakh. The team is now immersed in expanding the facility to 50 beds in the next few days as the positivity rate is on the rise in the rural pockets. “The most precious donations included Rs. 10 by an 85-year-old woman and Rs. 50,000 by a group of schoolchildren who pooled in their pocket money to help the cause,” Mr. Madhusudhan said. Other donors included some NGOs, municipal Staff, owners of silk sari stores and the general public. The hospital now has 12 oxygen cylinders connected to a network of pipelines to ensure supply to each bed. The facility also has some advanced laboratory facilities tying up with local diagnostics Spandana for instant digital X-ray and other blood tests done locally on the hospital premises. Cell counters and semi-auto analysers have also been set up and food is being supplied as prescribed by the State government. Dharmavaram MLA Kethireddy Venkatarami Reddy inaugurated the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-crowd-funded-covid-ward-set-up-at-dharmavaram/article34680100.ece
30 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four private hospitals penalised for charging excess fee in Anantapur||Four private hospitals in Anantapur, which were allegedly charging excess fee for treatment of COVID-19 patients, were on Saturday penalised after a detailed study of their violations. Joint Collector A. Siri prepared a report on these hospitals and imposed a penalty of Rs. 3 lakh on Asha Hospital, Rs. 2 lakh on S.V. Hospital, Rs. 2.10 lakh on Sai Ratna Hospital and Rs. 2.55 lakh on S.R. Hospital. All these penalties were imposed as per the G.O. No.256 of the State government to streamline the operations of the private hospitals. These hospitals had offered some beds for COVID19 treatment under Aarogyasri. Acting tough Ms. Siri said that in the future if these hospitals charged patients excessively, criminal cases would be filed against them under the Establishment Act. Some hospitals in Anantapur reportedly had not been treating patients under the Aarogyasri despite having beds with them or those not eligible under the AarogyaSri were asked to pay astronomical figures. Meanwhile, a circular from the YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust has empanelled KIMS Saveera Hospital in Anantapur for treatment of Mucormycosis from among the 19 private hospitals in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-pvt-hospitals-penalised-for-charging-excess-fee/article34680101.ece
30 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen supply from Karnataka halted||Supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen(LMO) from Karnataka to some hospitals in Anantapur stopped on Saturday, forcing the district administration to allocate oxygen from its quota, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said. The supply to Rural Development Trust’s Bathalapalli and Kalyanadurgam Hospitals, Sri Sathya Sai Hospital(Puttaparthi) and District Hospital in Hindupur was hit. “With great difficulty, we are ensuring continuous supply of oxygen in these hospitals,” he observed. District Oxygen Committee member R. Jagannath Singh allwayed fears and said that the deficit in the hospitals was being met. The district receives 16 MT (13.6 KL) from the Varasi Oxygen suppliers out of which 5 KL was being provided to the RDT’s hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-supply-from-karnataka-halted/article34680102.ece
30 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. vaccine proposal may not get nod||The Congress party’s requisition to the government seeking legislators’ fund to purchase COVID-19 vaccine is unlikely to get approval, with the Planning Department ruling out the possibility of releasing money directly for the purpose. While the Planning Department has agreed to utilise the funds in COVID-19 testing, management, and vaccination based on the party’s letter, it has ruled out the possibility of releasing the money directly for the purpose of vaccination. The file, it is learnt, is currently under the consideration of the Chief Minister’s Office. The Congress has sought Rs. 1 crore each from the local area development funds of its MLAs, MLCs, and MPs, which in total amounts to Rs. 90 crore. The party has also informed the government that it would raise Rs. 10 crore additionally, to procure vaccines worth Rs. 100 crore. It has said that it will vaccinate people adhering to the ICMR protocols. Each legislator gets Rs. 2 crore annually for local area development, while the Parliamentarians have an allocation of Rs. 5 crore a year. The money to the MPs is released by the Centre and is directly made available in the Deputy Commissioner’s office. First time Government sources said that though the LAD funds could be used for health and medical purposes, they were encountering a request like this for the first time. “When governments are struggling to get vaccine, we are not sure about the Congress procuring the vaccine by itself,” said a source. Sources also added that while the party has been seeking money to purchase vaccines and supply it to the public, it has not indicated where and how will it will procure the vaccine and to whom will it will administer it. “Allowing legislators to use the funds to purchase vaccines has been ruled out,” the source said. A few days ago, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee launched an online campaign to create awareness about the importance of vaccination and to build pressure to allow the Congress to directly procure vaccines worth Rs. 100 crore using legislators’ funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-vaccine-proposal-may-not-get-nod/article34680059.ece
30 May 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vairamuthu to ‘return’ ONV Kurup literary prize||Tamil lyricist Vairamuthu on Saturday said he was “returning” the ONV literary prize. This comes in the wake of criticism against the grant of the award to the songwriter, who has been accused of sexual harassment by several women. The award was instituted in the memory of Malayalam poet late O.N.V. Kurup. Mr. Vairamuthu said he was declining the honour as he did not want the jury to face embarrassment.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vairamuthu-to-return-onv-kurup-literary-prize/article34680074.ece
30 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown extended in Chittoor till June 15||Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy has said that as there is no respite from the spread of COVID-19, the existing lockdown has been extended in Chittoor district till June 15. The hours of relaxation during the lockdown will be from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., as against 12 noon. Addressing a press conference at Tirupati, after conducting COVID-19 monthly review, the Minister said the decision had been taken to tackle the pandemic. He said the neighbouring States of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu were also under lockdown and the number of infections continued to be worrisome there. Strict surveillance at check-posts Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the fortnight-long extended lockdown would be more rigorous in the interests of public safety. He said the inter-State border check-posts in Chittoor district would be under strict surveillance and those who enter the district would be subjected to undergo COVID protocol of tests and isolation. Emergency services allowed However, emergency services would be allowed to function as usual, the Minister said. In spite of little support from the Centre, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was going all out to bail out the State from the pandemic, by regulating the inoculation drive, supply of oxygen, providing protection gear to the medical and paramedical staff, and medicines to the hospitals treating COVID patients. Earlier, the Panchayat Raj Minister along with his Cabinet colleagues Mekapati Gowtham Reddy and K. Narayanaswamy and Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy presented the cheques worth Rs. 10 lakh each to three beneficiaries, who lost their parents to COVID. YSR Congress Party MLAs, senior officials of the district administration were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-extended-in-chittoor-till-june-15-relaxation-from-6-am-to-10-am/article34680103.ece
30 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed in quarry blast||A 25-year-old youth was killed on the spot after a portion of boulder from a stone quarry hit him on head while workers were blasting a rock with gelatin sticks atop Ankalamma hillock, near Kadiyalakunta village in Chowdepalle mandal, 65 km from here on Saturday. The police identified the deceased as Jakir, a native of Uturu village of Chowdepalle mandal. The deceased was a daily wager working in a mango orchard, abutting the stone quarry in a hilly terrain. The quarry operators had reportedly informed the mango orchard owner to complete loading the stocks by afternoon, so that they could start the blasting works. After gathering the labour force, Jakir had completed loading the mangoes into a tractor trailer and was proceeding to the road point, half a kilometer away from the quarry site, when a sudden blast ensued. A huge portion of rock which darted across the orchard had hit Jakir. A police officer who rushed to the spot confirmed that except for Jakir, none was hurt in the incident. “We have booked a case under IPC Section 304 (A) against one Mallesh, working as supervisor in the quarry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-in-quarry-blast/article34680104.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT-Hyderabad develops oral solution for black fungus||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), have approved the mass production of an oral solution to treat black fungus, providing huge relief to patients. After two years of study, the researchers are now confident that the technology can be transferred to suitable pharma partners for large-scale production. Affordable medicine The oral solution will ensure easy medicare for patients and also affordable with a 60 mg tablet likely to cost Rs. 200. At present, Kala Azar (visceral leishmaniasis) treatment is being used for black fungus and other fungus in the country but its availability, affordability and the procedures involved make it imperative to allow emergency and immediate trial of this oral drug, feels the team of Prof. Saptarshi Majumdar and Dr. Chandra Shekhar Sharma and their Ph.D scholars Mrunalini Gaydhane and Anindita Laha, who have been working on the oral solution for the last two years. According to IIT-H, Prof. Saptarshi Majumdar and Dr. Chandra Shekhar Sharma from the Department of Chemical Engineering made a proven study in 2019 about oral nanofibrous Amphotericin B (AmB) to be effective for Kala Azar. This was the first attempt to fabricate nanofibrous oral tablets of Amphotericin B (AmB) for the potential cure of Leishmaniasis or Kala Azar. The institute further said the research funded by DST-Nanomission intended to deliver AmB orally at an extremely slow rate within the therapeutic window. The purpose was to increase the drug absorption and reduce aggregation, to lower the drug toxicity. For this, the team selected gelatin, an FDA-approved polymer as an excipient for drug molecules. They explaining the reason for oral administration not preferred earlier despite the comfortable and effective route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iit-hyderabad-develops-oral-solution-for-black-fungus/article34680064.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TITA launches COVID DawaKhana in rural areas||Taking its social responsibility activities to a new level, the Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), an IT professionals body, has launched COVID DawaKhana, a pilot project to offer e-health services, at Maganur in Narayanpet district in association with American Telangana Society (ATS). “It’s a service to provide proper medical prescription to people infected with the novel coronavirus by involving our TConsult service in rural areas where the healthcare services are marginal,” founder of TITA Sundeep Kumar Makthala said during the virtual launch of the new service. The two associations have come together to launch the new health service to help patients battling COVID-19 in rural areas. Principal Secretary (IT, Industries) Jayesh Ranjan launched the COVID DawaKhana at Zilla Parishad High School in Maganur virtually on Friday. TITA announced expansion of its new service across the State in the coming days. Immediately after the formal launch, several villagers availed online medical advice on COVID from doctors at nine centres. Explaining the functioning of COVID DawaKhana, Mr. Makthala said persons infected with novel coronavirus could avail of doctor services through online consultation. For this, TConsult app services, another initiative of TITA, would be utilised while ATS would provide financial help for the health service. Two doctors would be available online to offer medical advice while two health volunteers available at the COVID DawaKhana would help people by explaining the advice. The TITA would provide technical and other local logistics at the medical centre for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tita-launches-covid-dawakhana-in-rural-areas/article34680543.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRDO achieves a new milestone||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has established the near-isothermal forging technology to produce all the five stages of High-Pressure Compressors (HPC) discs out of difficult-to-deform titanium alloy using its unique 2000-MT isothermal forge press for establishing self-reliance in aero-engine technology. The technology has been developed by Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory (DMRL), the metallurgical laboratory of DRDO at Hyderabad. This is a crucial technology and with this development, India has joined the league of limited global engine developers to have the manufacturing capabilities of such critical aero-engine components. Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence (R&D) secretary G. Satheesh Reddycongratulated the scientists of DRDO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drdo-achieves-a-new-milestone/article34680649.ece
30 May 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muslim scholarship quota to go down||The minority scholarship quota for Muslims will be reduced drastically from 80% to 58.67% whereas the share of the entire Christian community would be nearly 40.6% with the Kerala High Court ordering a population-based allocation of the merit-cum-means scholarship for the minorities. The other minority communities including Sikhs, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains, can stake claim for the remaining 0.73%. On Friday, the court scrapped the 80:20 ratio [80% to Muslims and 20% to Latin Catholic Christians and converted Christians] of distribution of the benefits and struck down three orders in this regard. The scholarship has its genesis in the Rajinder Sachar Commission report, which looked into the socio, economic and educational conditions of Muslims in India and the subsequent Paloli Mohammad Kutty committee report, which suggested steps for implementing the recommendations of the commission report in Kerala. Both committees had exclusively looked into the issues faced by the Muslims and suggested measures for alleviating them. It was during the fag end of the tenure of the Left Democratic Front government led by V.S. Achuthanandan in 2011 that the benefits, originally meant for the Muslims, were extended to Latin Catholic and converted Christians. “This was done after the Paloli committee report noted that the two communities were equally backward as the Muslims of Kerala”, said K. T. Jaleel, a member of the Paloli panel.  Raju Joseph, senior lawyer who represented the petitioner, felt that the three government orders issued in connection with the scholarship went against the basic principles of secularism and equality enshrined in the Constitution. The Indian Union Muslim League demanded that that the government appeal against the HC order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muslim-scholarship-quota-to-go-down/article34680066.ece
30 May 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Turf war unfolding in Lakshadweep||A bitter turf war is unfolding in Lakshadweep between elected representatives of panchayats and officials of the Union Territory administration in the wake of the latter trying to push a series of ‘belligerent reforms’ unmindful of protests. On May 26, Hassan Bodumukagothi, president and chief councillor of the only district panchayat in the Union Territory, issued a notice to A.T. Damodhar, Secretary in charge of Agriculture, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Panchayats, asking him to explain why he was interfering in the functioning of the departments whose control had been transferred to the panchayats by an order in 2012. The official had been given three days to explain his position, failing which appropriate action would be recommended to the Union Home Ministry, which supervises the administration, he said in a letter, a copy of which has been accessed by The Hindu . He said while the proposed panchayat regulation is still in the draft form, Mr. Damodhar had shown extreme disrespect to the Union “cabinet, the houses of the people and as well as to the hon’ble President of India (sic)”. The letter also flays the official for violating protocol by excluding top panchayat officials from the meetings. Immediate rollback While the administration maintained that its proposals were still to be approved, a notification issued by Mr. Damodhar on behalf of the administrator on May 5 had ordered an immediate rollback of the powers delegated to the panchayat raj institutions (PRIs). “It was felt that the said notification dated 7.3.2012 had overburdened the PRIs with manpower management and issues regarding procurement of various commodities whereby adversely affecting the efficiency of the seamless execution of schemes transferred to PRIs,” the May 5 order read. The Kavaratti village (dweep) panchayat passed a resolution protesting the ‘unconstitutional, undemocratic and unscientific’ reforms pushed by the administration. “Any project or plan should be implemented in consultation with the elected representatives of the village and district panchayats as per the integrated island management plan (IIMP) approved by the Supreme Court,” it said and registered its protest against District Collector Asker Ali for “humiliating the people of Lakshadweep at a press conference held in Kochi.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/turf-war-unfolding-in-lakshadweep/article34680067.ece
30 May 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||People pour into Krishnapatnam||Despite the State government suspending the distribution of the herbal preparation of ayurvedic practitioner B. Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam, which reportedly claims to provide a cure to COVID-19, people from different parts of the State and also neighbouring States are thronging the village hoping against hope that the government will take an early decision based on inputs from the AYUSH department. Meanwhile, State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the government would take a decision once full clarity emerged on the herbal preparation being subjected to study by Union and State Government organisations. Getting to know that Mr. Anandaiah had returned to his village late on Friday, people from far and near thronged his house, where the Nellore Rural police beefed up security. The residents surrounded him and expressed their concern over his being kept away from the village for more than a week. Sensing that the situation might go out of control, a special police party amid tight security once again took him away to undisclosed destination on Saturday. Check-post A check-post has been set up at the village entrance to prevent outsiders from entering the village in a big way. Barricades were erected at different places on the Chennai-Kolkata highway to regulate the crowd, the police said. Telugu Desam Party national secretary Beeda Ravichandra urged the State government to end the uncertainty by taking an early decision on the herbal preparation. While poor people who visited the village returned empty-handed, the ruling YSR Congress Pparty ensured the herbal preparation to influential persons clandestinely by holding Mr. Anandaiah on the pretext of providing security, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-pour-into-krishnapatnam/article34680656.ece
30 May 2021||NELLORE / ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGO: handhold children who lost single parent to COVID-19||Eight-year-old Sandeep and his three-year-old sister from Kesamnenipalli, near Kaluvoya, in Nellore district had first lost their mother to COVID-19 and then their father, leaving them in the lurch. The children were since being taken care of by their uncle Ramasubbaiah, who was finding the going tough. The State government’s decision to issue Fixed Deposit (FD) bonds for Rs. 10 lakh each in the names of children below poverty line (BPL) who have lost their parents to the dreaded virus has come as a big relief. “The decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has given some hope to the children whose parents have succumbed to the virus,” Mr. Ramasubbaih said while taking the FD bonds issued to the siblings by Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. The district administration has so far identified 10 such children. ‘Adoption no solution’ Adoption of such children may not be successful going by the past experiences. Children above the age of six have not been getting well with the adopted parents. Hence, foster care has to be promoted in a big way to take care of such children by providing financial support on a monthly basis to the immediate family members and additional ration supply. According to official sources, there are about 240 children in Nellore district who have lost either their father or mother, and their plight is no different. “Children hailing from such families should also be provided succour by the government in this hour of crisis,” said N.V.S. Rammohan, director of HELP, a non-governmental organisation. The government should arrange for admission of such children in the State-run residential schools, he said. Meanwhile, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Prakasam district has stepped up its efforts to identify all such hapless children. While seven children have lost both their parents, 91 others lost a single parent in the district, according to official sources. Accommodation had been arranged for a 11-year-old girl from Tripurantakam in the State-run Kasturba Gandhi Balikala Vidyalaya, said CWC Chairperson Ch. Bharati. The girl’s father had deserted her after her mother succumbed to COVID-19. ‘Vulnerable lot’ “Children are the most vulnerable during the pandemic times. This is also the time when hundreds of children drop out of school for various reasons. The partial curfew has forced many adolescent daughters and sons of migrant workers to go in search of work. Some of them become victims of sexual abuse when they go for work without accompanied by their parents,” Ms. Bharati said. “The CWC has begun a massive exercise in coordination with the officials of the Education and Police departments to identify all such children and join them preferably in the State-run residential schools so that they can study without any break,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngo-handhold-children-who-lost-single-parent-to-covid-19/article34680654.ece
30 May 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees six COVID deaths||As many as 1,854 persons contracted the viral infection while seven patients succumbed to it in the past 24 hours in South Coastal Andhra. COVID deaths, which had been in the double digit in the region till recently, came down to 7 as 6 patients in SPSR Nellore district and one in Prakasam died on Saturday. With this the combined toll in the two districts stood at 1,589. As many as 809 patients had died of COVID in SPSR Nellore district, while Prakasam saw 780 deaths. Recoveries continued to outnumber new cases, as at least 2,870 patients recovered from the illness during the period. The overall coronavirus case tally inched closer to 2.23 lakh while active cases stand at 34, 981. Meanwhile, State Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav observed that the health situation in Nellore would improve further in the next two weeks. Industries Minister P. Goutham Reddy patted the health professionals for the relentless efforts which facilitated speedier recovery for the patients. BMR Foundation chairman Beeda Mastan Rao donated 250 oxygen concentrator machines, including 200 imported from China to the district. He promised to supply 1,000 doses of the Defence Research Development Organisation(DRDO)’s anti-COVID drug 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose(2-DG) to the administration during the first week of June when it is expected to enter the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-sees-six-covid-deaths/article34680105.ece
30 May 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six persons held for ‘adulterating’ liquor at govt. outlet at Dowleswaram||Six persons, including four employees of a government liquor retail outlet, have been arrested on Saturday for adulterating liquor with water and selling them with fake labels at the government liquor outlet at Dowleswaram in East Godavari district. According to Rajamahendravaram in-charge ASP (Special Enforcement Bureau, Liquor and Sand) Sumit Garud, the accused have been identified as outlet Supervisor Anala Sateesh and three salesmen D. Durga Lakshmi Kumar, M. Naga Raju, and Kolati Venkatesh. The two main accused, who adulterated the liquor with water and printed labels and packaging, are Doddi Jogeeswara Rao and Chandram Govindu. The modus operandi was to inject the water into the sealed bottles after collecting some quantity of liquor from them. The liquor collected from the sealed bottles used to be filled in empty bottles for selling with fake labels. “The gang had been adulterating the liquor for the past three months, earning Rs. 75,000 per month. Every month, at least 480 bottles of adulterated liquor of various brands were sold by the gang at the outlet. The gang also sold the adulterated liquor through some belt shops,” said Mr. Sumit Garud. On Saturday, the SEB teams have seized 348 adulterated liquor bottles from the outlet. “The investigation is on and cases have been registered against the accused,” said Mr. Sumit Garud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-persons-held-for-adulterating-liquor-at-govt-outlet-at-dowleswaram/article34680679.ece
30 May 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||KSPL donates Rs. 50 lakh to KMC||The Kakinada Sea Ports Limited (KSPL) management on Saturday donated Rs. 50 lakh to the Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) for procurement of equipment required at the vaccination centres and safety equipment for the field-level staff. KMC Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar said, “We have received the financial aid from the KSPL management.” It is primarily to fight the COVID-19 by procuring the safety equipment for the staff, Mr. Swapnil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kspl-donates-rs-50-lakh-to-kmc/article34680680.ece
30 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala extends lockdown with some changes||For the fourth day in a row on Saturday, Coimbatore logged more COVID-19 cases than Chennai — the district saw 3,692 infections, while Chennai recorded 2,705. Across the State, the number of people testing positive in a day continued to dip, while fatalities stayed high. The State clocked in 30,016 new cases and 486 deaths, taking its tally to 20,39,716 and toll to 23,261. The number of people discharged after treatment exceeded fresh cases. As many as 31,759 people, including 5,327 in Chennai, were discharged across the State. Presently, 3,10,157 persons are under treatment for COVID-19. Chennai’s active caseload dipped from 41,387 on Friday to 38,680 on Saturday, while that of Coimbatore marginally rose from 38,340 to 38,824. While the daily cases have been steadily declining, there seems to be no reduction in fatalities. Except for three districts — Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri and the Nilgiris — deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in every other district. Chennai continued to lead the table with 85 deaths. While 49 persons died in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram recorded 26 deaths. There were 24 deaths in Dindigul and 21 in Tiruvallur. Coimbatore and Tiruppur accounted for 20 deaths each. About 22% of the deceased were aged 20 to 49. A majority of those who died were in their 60s, followed by people in their 50s — 141 people in their 60s and 106 in their 50s died. Kerala reported 23,513 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, after carrying out 1,41,759 tests. The test positivity rate was 16.59%. The active case pool declined with 28,100 more recoveries, to 2,33,034 patients. Karnataka on Saturday reported 20,628 new cases, taking the total to 25,67,449, of which 4,889 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. TPR at 14.95% With 492 new deaths, the toll rose to 28,298. The day’s TPR stood at 14.95%. The State conducted 1,37,894 tests, including 1,07,192 RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh reported over 100 new deaths for the third day. On Saturday, 104 new deaths and 13,756 new infections were reported. The overall death toll was 10,738 and case tally 16,71,742. The TPR of 79,564 samples was 17.29%. Active cases dropped to 1,73,622 with 20,392 new recoveries. West Godavari reported 20 new deaths, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam 13 and 10 new deaths respectively. Anantapur and East Godavari reported nine new deaths each while Guntur and Krishna reported eight each. East Godavari reported 2,301 new infections, Chittoor (2,155), West Godavari (1,397), Anantapur (1,224) and Visakhapatnam (1,004). Telangana reported 2,982 cases, taking the tally to over 5.74 lakh, while the toll stood at 3,247 with 21 more deaths on Saturday. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) added the maximum cases at 436, followed by Nalgonda (190) and Khammam (176). Active cases stood at 36,917.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru, Vijayawada bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-extends-lockdown-with-some-changes/article34680071.ece
30 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RT-PCR report with QR code must for flyers||The Civil Aviation Ministry has made a negative RT-PCR test report with QR code mandatory for those flying out of the country. Airlines operating on international routes as per bubble agreements have already enforced the rule following reports of passengers procuring fake reports. Laboratories have started providing QR codes on RT-PCR test reports after instances of editing of reports to show a negative result to meet the regulatory requirements have come to notice. Air India Express, which operates 16 international flights, has informed passengers having negative RT-PCR report, to ensure that it has a QR code linking to the original report. Airline officials in Kerala say instances of fake RT-PCR reports have been reported from the northern region of the country. Cases of flyers testing positive for COVID-19 in tests conducted immediately after reaching the airports have also forced the Civil Aviation Ministry to intervene.  Besides preventing the use of false and forged negative RT-PCR reports at airports, the QR-coded certificate will ensure that the test reports are authentic. This will also allow for verification with minimal physical interaction between the airline staff and flyers.  Testing at airports Airline sources say flyers need not worry much about the new directive as several airports have introduced express testing facilities. Effective Saturday (May 29), all travellers, including Singapore citizens and permanent residents, entering or transiting or transferring through Singapore should take COVID-19 RT-PCR test within 72 hours of their departure for Singapore. Children of six years of age and below are exempted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rt-pcr-report-with-qr-code-must-for-flyers/article34680068.ece
30 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make stand clear on Anandaiah’s herbal preparation: Narayana||Vouching for Krishnapatnam Anandaiah’s “herbal preparation” for COVID-19, CPI national secretary K. Narayana has asked the State government to make clear its stand on administering it to the people. On Mr. Anandaiah’s “prolonged absence,” Mr. Narayana has demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy “shun his silence” and spell out the future course of action on the raging issue. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Dr. Narayana cited the presence of lakhs of traditional practitioners and natural healers across the country, and wondered why Mr. Anandaiah was being targeted in the name of Central government clearance, or research by AYUSH team. “We have local healers administering medicine for jaundice at Kotala and bone fracture at Puttur. But there is unnecessary politics going around Mr. Anandaiah issue,” he pointed out. Suspecting foul play by the pharma industry and corporate hospitals to either demean the “local medical recipe” or usurp it, he said the 60,000 persons who had been administered the “drug” were ample proof of its efficacy on immunity, if not for COVID-19. “Local people have started mobilising in favour of Mr. Anandaiah, but some Cabinet Ministers are learnt to be misusing him for preparing the drug for personal use, which is condemnable. We want an answer from Mr. Jagan,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-stand-clear-on-anandaiahs-herbal-preparation-narayana/article34680657.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newborn with rare disorders recovering after treatment||A newborn diagnosed with COVID-19 multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MISC) and neonatal purpura fulminans, a rare combination of conditions in an infant, has been treated and the baby was clinically recovering at a private hospital here. Chief of children’s services and director, Andhra Hospitals, Dr. P.V. Rama Rao, in a virtual press conference, said the baby was admitted to the hospital on the seventh day after birth with extensive skin lesions and a high fever. “The skin lesions in shades of black, red and blue appeared on the waist, abdomen, buttocks and legs along with ulceration at some places, 16 hours after birth, and they got worse over the next four days. The baby was diagnosed with purpura fulminans and MIS-C,” he said. “Though both mother and baby tested negative for COVID-19 in Rt-PCR test, their COVID IgG antibodies test turned positive indicating transplacental transmission of antibodies from mother to baby. Blood investigations showed high white blood cell count, rise in inflammatory markers like C-reactive protein and others. The baby was treated with immunoglobulins, steroids and blood thinners. Paediatric surgeons performed surgeries and removed the infected and dead skin lesions. The skin started healing, the fever came down and the baby is feeding now,” Dr. Rama Rao said. The baby would need more surgeries and continuous medication, he added. Children and adolescents were at risk of developing MIS-C two to three weeks after acute COVID-19 illness.  Though the mother and baby tested negative for COVID-19 in Rt-PCR test, their COVID IgG antibodies test turned positive, indicating transplacental transmission of antibodies from mother to baby. Dr. P.V. Rama Rao Andhra Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newborn-with-rare-disorders-recovering-after-treatment/article34680650.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lending dignity to the dead||The NTR Memorial Trust has decided to perform the last rites of the unclaimed bodies of COVID-19 victims. Moved by the rising instances of families and relatives abandoning the bodies of those succumbing to the virus, managing trustee Nara Bhuvaneswari has announced that the trust will provide an honourable last journey for the unfortunate victims of COVID-19. Special vehicles have been made available for the purpose. Oxygen plants Meanwhile, the trust’s initiative of establishing oxygen plants at Repalle, Palacole, Kuppam and Tekkeli towns is moving at a fast pace. The oxygen plants are being set up with the CSR funds of the Heritage company. The NTR Trust has sponsored more than 10 oxygen concentrators for the COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in home isolation. Online consultation It has also sponsored the online consultation services launched with the help of noted doctors abroad such as Lokeswara Rao (America), Niranjan Moturi (U.K.), Lakshmi Polisetti (Bridgeport City), Panduranga Koya (St. Louis), Dheeraj Nandanur (Stanton City), Venu M. Madipatla (pain management specialist), Sunil Kolli (anaesthetics), and Sathi Raju Vundavalli (Minnesota). The trust is also providing telemedicine services, besides taking up distribution of medicines free of cost to the needy patients. The 24/7 call centre opened by the trust has been designed to rush help to the caller regardless of the time. WhatsApp service Considering the severity of the second wave of the pandemic and the lack of facilities in hospitals, the NTR Trust has also started a WhatsApp service to extend expert medical advice by noted doctors to the patients. In addition, medicines, food and essential commodities are being supplied free of cost to thousands of needy patients through the TDP offices in the districts and parliamentary constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lending-dignity-to-the-dead/article34680660.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. disburses Rs. 1.31 lakh cr. under welfare schemes in last two years||The State government has directly credited Rs. 95,529 crore into the bank accounts of beneficiaries of various welfare schemes in the last two years, and has indirectly spent over Rs. 36,198 crore on certain other schemes, aggregating Rs. 1.31 lakh crore. It is in fulfilment of a majority of the promises Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had made in the run-up to the elections in 2019, according to an official release, in which the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme has been claimed to have rooted out corruption by eliminating middlemen. The overwhelming mandate in the panchayat and municipal elections, and in the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection endorsed the governance of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the release claimed. Pensions and benefits under several welfare schemes were being door-delivered to the eligible people through the village and ward volunteers on the first of every month, the release said. Healthcare The government fulfilled all the promises in two years in spite of COVID-19’s devastating blow to the economy, it was observed. On the healthcare front, the government took effective measures for the distribution of oxygen and vaccines as part of its fight against the virus, the release said. In fact, Andhra Pradesh was the first State to bring the treatment for COVID-19 and black fungus under the Dr. YSR Aarogyasri scheme. The government had spent Rs. 2,229 crore on COVID-19 treatment in the last 14 months, and was in the process of setting up oxygen plants keeping in view the future requirement, it said. A special focus was laid on upgrading the Aarogyasri scheme, which made it applicable to all families with an annual income of Rs. 5 lakh. The number of procedures done in the empanelled hospitals had been increased to 2,434. Modernisation of hospitals was undertaken on a large scale under the Nadu-Nedu programme. Besides, the government embarked on the construction of 16 new medical colleges and three cancer and two kidney speciality hospitals, along with six multi-speciality hospitals in the ITDA areas. Education sector In the education sector, the government started a major revamp of schools and was providing English medium education, apart from supporting the families with welfare schemes such as Vidya Deevena, Vasathi Deevena, Amma Vodi, and Vidya Kanuka. The government had spent Rs. 25,714 crore in two years on these programmes. Further, the government had decided to implement CBSE syllabus from 2021-22 academic year for improving the academic standards of students. Rythu Bharosa The government had spent Rs. 83,000 crore on the welfare of farmers, including Rs. 17,029 crore on Rythu Bharosa. A sum of Rs. 1,038 crore had been paid to 13.56 lakh farmers towards compensation for crops damaged, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-disburses-rs-131-lakh-cr-under-welfare-schemes-in-last-two-years/article34680664.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre, State indifferent to people’s woes’||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Saturday accused the State and Central governments of being indifferent to the problems of the people on account of the unprecedented surge in the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sailajanath participated in a protest staged here as part of the State-wide protest called by the party to protest against the government’s “inaction” in the wake of the pandemic and the price rise. He said instead of granting financial assistance to people, the Centre had effected a steep hike in the prices of petrol and diesel, which had a cascading impact on prices of essential commodities, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-state-indifferent-to-peoples-woes/article34680658.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reverse tendering helps save Rs. 5,070 crore||The government’s reverse tendering and judicial preview policy helped in saving Rs. 5,070 crore to the State exchequer in the last two years, according to an official release. Reverse tendering was implemented mainly in the Water Resources, Municipal Administration, Education, Health & Family Welfare, Energy, Housing and Panchayat Raj Departments. In the works related to the Water Resources Department alone, including the Polavaram project, nearly Rs. 1,825 crore was saved during the above period. The other major savings are: Rs. 1,203 crore in housing projects, Rs. 625 crore in APMSIDC, Rs. 604 crore in the Panchayat Raj Department, Rs. 486 crore in AP-Genco and Rs. 326 crore in the education sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reverse-tendering-helps-save-rs-5070-crore/article34680662.ece
30 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP complains against fake FB group||BJP State office secretary P. Srinivasa Rao has lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police against “spreading of misinformation” about the party through a fake Facebook group with the title, ‘BJP IT Cell Andhra Pradesh’, hosted by a person with the profile: https://facebook.com/srisailam.sri.507. Objectionable comments were made on the Prime Minister, BJP A.P. president and other party leaders in what was a deliberate campaign to make a dent to their image, he alleged. In a separate complaint, he sought action against Bobburi Vengal Rao @ BVR for resorting to character assassination of the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-complains-against-fake-fb-group/article34680661.ece
30 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 1,004 new COVID infections, lowest since April 24||The COVID-19 daily infections have been declining for the past few days in the Visakhapatnam district. In the last 24 hours ending on Saturday morning, 1,004 new infections were reported, taking the cumulative tally to 1,36,079. This is the least single-day tally the district has reported since April 24. As many as 2,006 persons recovered from the coronavirus. The district also reported 10 more deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 894. The total number of deaths reported in this month so far was 283. There has been a significant decline in cases in the last one week. The active cases, which were 20,343 on May 21, decreased to 15,968 on Saturday morning. The number of discharges/recoveries has also increased rapidly and stands at 1,19,217 on Saturday morning. Around 19,000 people have recovered from the virus since May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-1004-new-covid-infections-lowest-since-april-24/article34680669.ece
30 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State breathes easy as Naval Dockyard teams repair oxygen generation plants||Based on a request from the State administration, specialist teams from Naval Dockyard Visakhapatnam (NDV) jointly completed repairs and audit of Oxygen Distribution Systems and Generation Plants. Working in close coordination with the State government Authorities for the past one month, six naval teams covered several far-flung places in the State visiting government hospitals at 12 cities, including Nellore, Tirupati, Guntur, Ongole, Rajamahendravaram, Anantapur, Vijaywada, Kakinada and Kadappa. This included visits to 15 major hospitals and four industries with Oxygen Generation Plants. The specialist teams undertook a thorough inspection of the systems and worked out solutions with the local administration. In several places, the teams worked on live systems by using techniques used on ships/submarines. This ensured that there was no interruption in oxygen supply to patients. Teams also demonstrated and set up the portable Multifeed Oxygen Manifold developed by NDV which can be easily manufactured by the local industry. The synergy between NDV teams and local authorities was best demonstrated while operationalising the Cryogenic Oxygen Generation Plant at Sri Krishna Teja Air Products, Nellore, which was not functioning since 2012. The team stayed on site for a week to run the plant and generate oxygen, thus giving a major boost to the State’s capacity. The NDV personnel undertook work at VSPA plant at Srikalahasti to make the oxygen fit for medical purposes. The Navy has also set up the Oxygen on Wheels facility at Palasa in Srikakulam district paving the way for oxygenated beds at a COVID Care Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-breathes-easy-as-naval-dockyard-teams-repair-oxygen-generation-plants/article34680673.ece
30 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No vaccination today||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner G. Srijana in a release on Saturday said that there will be no vaccination drive in PHCs, First Referral Units in Arilova and Malkapuram on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-vaccination-today/article34680671.ece
30 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient ‘jumps’ off third floor of KGH, dies||A 28-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, reportedly ended his life by jumping from the third floor of the CSR Block of King George Hospital (KGH) here on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Vanthala Ramesh, a resident of Araku mandal. According to the police, Ramesh had been undergoing treatment at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for the last few days. The reasons for him to take the drastic step are not yet known. A case was registered and investigation is on. Those who are in distress can contact the police helpline No. 100. So far, five COVID patients reportedly ended their lives in Visakhapatnam in the last two months. While the CSR Block of KGH had reported three such incidents, Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and another private hospital has reported one incident each. KGH Superintendent P. Mythili said that they have been trying to provide moral support to COVID patients through volunteers and doctors. Iron grills are needed to be fixed to the windows, but workers are not coming forward to do so, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patient-jumps-off-third-floor-of-kgh-dies/article34680667.ece
30 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three tonnes of ganja seized, two arrested||The police arrested two persons and seized nearly three tonnes of ganja while they were allegedly transporting in a van at Sabbavaram in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. Though the seized ganja is estimated to about Rs. 50 lakh in the interior parts of the Agency, it could be sold close to about Rs. 3 crore in a few States. Based on credible information, the police teams conducted vehicle checks on the outskirts of Sabbavaram. Noticing the police team, two persons who where in the van escaped from the spot.  Special teams The police formed special teams and conducted searches. By afternoon, the two accused were caught at an isolated place at Tavvivanipalem. The police identified that the accused were from Bihar. They have allegedly procured the ganja from interior parts of Agency and trying to transport it to Kanpur. In order to escape from the police checks, the smugglers have arranged mangoes on the ganja bags, said the police. Last week, the Sabbavaram police had arrested three persons while they were allegedly transporting 2,645 kg ganja, worth Rs. 2.5 crore. With this case, 5,645 kg ganja was seized in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-tonnes-of-ganja-seized-two-arrested/article34680069.ece
30 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to lay stone for medical college tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be laying foundation stone for the construction of a government medical college at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district through virtual mode on May 31 (Monday), officials from the district administration said in a note released on Saturday. The medical college will be coming up on 50 acres near Tummapala road with an estimated budget of Rs. 500 crore. The college will have teaching hospital, medical college, nursing college, hostels and doctor quarters. Officials plan to construct the college within 30 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-lay-stone-for-medical-college-tomorrow/article34680670.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai ahead of Bengaluru in virus fight||The two mega cities of South India – Bengaluru and Chennai – may be separated by barely 350 km from each other, but the difference in COVID-19 mortality between the two cities, particularly in the second wave, has been quite stark. During the 90-day period between February 25 and May 25 this year, Bengaluru Urban recorded 7,397 COVID-19 deaths while Chennai registered 2,401, which is only about a third of the country’s IT capital. This, despite the elections to Tamil Nadu Assembly held on April 6. According to a comparative analysis carried out by Project Jeevan Raksha, a public private initiative by Proxima, a management consulting firm, with technical support and guidance of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Bengaluru also added positive cases and active cases at a faster pace than Chennai. If the total positive cases in Bengaluru raced to 11,31,496 on May 25 from 4,04,628 on February 5, at a scorching moving growth rate (MGR) of 180%, Chennai’s total cases reached 4,87,691 on May 25 from 2,35,005 on February 25, at a MGR of 108%. Surge in numbers Similarly, the active cases in Bengaluru went up to 2,19,551 on May 25 from 3,887 on February 25, registering a MGR of 5,548, while the corresponding numbers for Chennai were 47,553 on May 25 and 1,780 on February 25 with a MGR of 2,572. A year ago, on May 25, 2020, the number of people dying due to COVID-19 in Bengaluru was 10 while in Chennai it was 87, recalled Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha. But, a year later, 11,863 people had died in Bengaluru urban while in Chennai the figure stood at 6,546. He added that Bengaluru was compared with Chennai in terms of “population and eco-system”. Citing the reasons for difference in pandemic management in the two cities, Mr. Sanjeev said the Tamil Nadu government had recognised that critical medical infrastructure and resources were needed and equipped the city to manage the surge. Also, Tamil Nadu is the only State in India to stick to 100% RT-PCR, the gold standard for COVID-19 testing, ensuring both “quantitative” as well as “qualitative” testing in Chennai. But in Bengaluru, the number of tests were reduced when the cases surged, he pointed out. “Our study indicated that one in every five persons, who had died due to COVID-19 in Bengaluru Urban, had succumbed on the day of hospitalisation itself,” Mr. Sanjeev claimed, while adding that the fear of exorbitant hospitalisation charges was pushing people to delay treatment. “Despite being the IT capital of the country, Bengaluru failed to put in a robust process and system for hospitalisation, which created major bottlenecks in clinical management especially in the second wave. Another major issue in Bengaluru was the interference and high-handedness of local politicians in the administration,” said Mr. Sanjeev. He said intimidatory tactics adopted by local MP and MLAs against the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) staff had demoralised the entire administration, which was working round the clock to improve the situation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chennai-ahead-of-bengaluru-in-virus-fight/article34680063.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time is up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-is-up/article34680676.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making haste||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/making-haste/article34680109.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID patient load easing at govt. hospitals||Early signs of decreasing load of COVID-19 patients on Telangana government hospitals are on the horizon. The major government hospitals in Hyderabad where COVID patients are treated have started to report availability of hundreds of oxygen beds from the past two to three days. Until then, people had to wait for several hours to get an oxygen bed. The images of patients waiting inordinately in ambulances at government hospitals are still fresh in the minds of families, volunteers, doctors, and hospitals administrators. Corporate hospitals in the city, however, are still packed to the brim. Doctors at the government hospitals said patients in need of oxygen beds are not having to wait like they did in the past weeks. The rush for beds at government hospitals began around 40 days ago, and soon, the occupancy for beds ran full. The situation remains more or less the same for ICU beds in most hospitals, barring a few facilities where the availability is slowly opening up. On Saturday evening, around 120 oxygen beds were available at District Hospital in King Koti but ICU beds were completely occupied. Gandhi Hospital authorities said a few of their oxygen beds and ICU beds were available from the past two or three days. However, according to the Health department’s website (health.telangana.gov.in) which shows availability of beds in government and private hospitals, ICU beds were fully occupied at Gandhi Hospital and the Government General and Chest Hospital in Erragadda too. In case of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), 500 oxygen beds and 16 ICU beds were available on Saturday morning. Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital, M. Raja Rao said that around 10 to 15 ICU beds, and around 50 oxygen beds were available. “We used to struggle and try a lot to accommodate more patients. Now, patients are able to get oxygen and ICU beds,” said Dr Raja Rao. Phasing out lockdown Professor at School of Medical Sciences at University of Hyderabad, B.R. Shamanna said if there are plans to lift the lockdown, it should be in graded manner such as increasing the relaxation time. “If the spread of infection increases again, more people without vaccination might develop severity. This would again increase load on ICU and oxygen beds,” he said. Mr Shamanna also said that coronavirus containment measures for urban areas cannot be followed in slum areas and rural areas as density of population varies. “Slums are densely populated. So people with COVID have to be immediately admitted to isolation centres or COVID Care centres depending on severity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-patient-load-easing-at-govt-hospitals/article34680535.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to ask Centre to lift entire food grain produced in State||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the State government will ask the Centre to lift the entire food grain produced in Telangana like Punjab. He expressed unhappiness that the procurement of rice by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was cent per cent in Punjab but not so in Telangana. He will write a letter against the ‘bias’ shown by the Centre towards the State, Mr. Rao told an official meeting on Saturday to discuss the arrangements for the ensuing agricultural season. Mr. Rao asked agriculture officers to promote the technique of tossing paddy seed on fields for sowing purposes instead of raising nurseries and taking up transplantation. This will save an expenditure of over Rs. 10,000 crore on one crore acres that farmers will cultivate in two crops. This will also result in additional yield of one to two quintals of paddy for every acre. The agriculture department should take up an extensive campaign on the technique to sensitise farmers, he said. The system will help farmers cultivate paddy crop without even stepping into slush. It will reduce dependence on labour and water usage will also come down by 30 to 35%. The crop will mature for harvest 10-15 days earlier. In normal circumstances, he said that 25 kg seed was needed for every acre. But, this technique will require only eight kg. There was no time frame for supplying water after sowing of seed. It would be much better to wait for rains for natural wetting of the crop. Mr. Rao said that the technique would be of much use to farmers in all zones, including the ayacut of Kaleshwaram and other irrigation projects, lift irrigation schemes and borewells. He had studied the system from farmers in Khammam district and had himself reaped good harvest in his own fields. Machinery to spray the seed was also available in the market. Warning against the availability of spurious seed, he called up the Director General of Police over phone and asked him to track down such sellers. The Inspector General of Intelligence was also asked to keep an eye on such manufacturers. If agriculture officers were found to be in nexus with dealers of spurious seed, Mr. Rao said they should not only be dismissed from service but sent to jail for five years. The cover of genuine seed packets is QR coded and certified by government. Scanning by smartphones will disclose complete details of manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-ask-centre-to-lift-entire-food-grain-produced-in-state/article34680554.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily infections drop below 3K for first time since April 9||The daily COVID-19 positivity rate in Telangana has slipped below 3% and stood at 2.96% on Saturday as 2,982 new cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Saturday. Besides, 21 deaths were also reported during the day. It is the second lowest COVID cases reported in a day in the State since April 9, when 2,909 positive cases were reported with 1,11,726 tests conducted that day. From April 10, the daily cases stayed above the 3,000-mark. During the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Saturday, the tests done were 1,00,677. Reports of another 1,381 samples were awaited. The tests done on Saturday have also taken the total tests done in Telangana so far beyond the 1.5-crore mark as they stood at 1,50,27,996. The daily screening tests crossed the 1 lakh-mark on Saturday for the first time since April second week. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, the cumulative total of positive cases and deaths so far have reached 5,74,026 and 3,247, respectively. With another 3,837 infected persons declared recovered, the number of recoveries have gone up to 5,33,862. Based on active cases in a locality, there were 81 active micro containment zones in the State as of Saturday with a highest of 16 in Warangal Rural district followed by 12 in Hyderabad and 11 in Siddipet. On the availability of hospital beds in the State, the website of director of public health stated that a total of 36,441 beds were available as of Saturday evening, including 8,564 in government facilities and 27,877 in private hospitals. On COVID vaccination, a government bulletin stated that a total of 1,02,493 doses were administered on Friday (till 10 p.m.), including 59,440 doses for the 18-44 age group at private vaccination centres. The total doses given till Friday were 58,05,475, including 13,29,765 being fully vaccinated (two doses).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-infections-drop-below-3k-for-first-time-since-april-9/article34680531.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS police develops COVID app to monitor biometrics||To constantly monitor the vitals of COVID affected personnel, and provide them with immediate medical assistance, if required, Telangana police have developed a new mobile app called ‘COVID Care’. The department has mandated the isolated officers to upload their body temperature, oxygen level (Spo2), and blood pressure, three times a day. This information is processed by the app and it sends real time alerts to the officials and unit officers concerned. Explaining the salient features of the app, a senior police officer said when the biometrics entered show a critical range like oxygen levels falling below 95 and constant rise in body temperature, the app automatically alerts the unit officer and personnel concerned at COVID control room in the district/commissionerate about the critical health condition of the personnel. “This helps in providing logistical support to the person in need as it saves time and health,” the officer said. While registering, the personnel should enter if they have symptoms, need oxygen support and ventilator support, apart from their test results. They can also add details of their family members in the app. Daily Health Update, Request for Support and Add (COVID +ve) family members are the three key features in the newly-developed app, and its data is consistently monitored at the DGP office. The Admin (unit officer or COVID control room) can see the number of positive cases, active cases, recovery cases, deaths, critical cases, severe cases, mild cases and stable cases on their dashboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-police-develops-covid-app-to-monitor-biometrics/article34680546.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Beyond the call of duty||Displaying its humane side, Madnapur police in Wanaparthy district, on Friday, performed the funeral of an octogenarian woman, who breathed her last following a prolonged illness. The 85-year-old Shakuntala, whose husband passed away several years ago, was living in a tenement in Madnapur mandal headquarters. As there was no support from her daughter, Shakuntala was seeking alms for her livelihood. When she was informed about her mother’s death, neither the woman nor any other villagers turned up even to give her decent last rites due to the pandemic. Soon after getting information about Shakuntala’s body left unattended, Sub-Inspector Tirupajji along with his colleagues made all arrangements, became pallbearers and carried the elderly woman’s body to cremation ground in the village. The police team cremated her as per Hindu traditions, police said. The humane gesture by Madnapur police was appreciated by villagers, senior police officers and even netizens, as the photo went viral on social media. District Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao tweeted: “Beyond call of duty! We are all in this together.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/beyond-the-call-of-duty/article34680549.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||40-plus Mucormycosis surgeries at two govt. hospitals every day||At least 45 surgeries on Mucormycosis patients are being performed at two major government hospitals in Hyderabad. While around 30 to 35 patients are operated on four to five operation tables at the Government ENT Hospital in King Koti over 14 hours on a daily basis, Gandhi Hospital has now started conducting surgery on at least 13 Mucormycosis patients in need of ENT and Opthalmology surgeries as part of a week-long special drive initiated on Saturday. ENT surgeons said that this is one of the highest number of surgeries performed in a day on Mucormycosis patients across the country. A maximum of 10 such surgeries are taken up at a corporate hospital. While Mucormycosis patients without COVID are admitted at the ENT Hospital, COVID patients with the fungal infection are treated at Gandhi Hospital. Around 280 patients were admitted at the former, and around 200 at the latter. “Our target is to operate on 40 cases a day. We have performed 163 Mucormycosis surgeries in the past five days. Of them, 20 post-operation patients were shifted to Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital so that newer patients can be admitted. Around 280 patients are admitted at our hospital,” said T. Shankar, superintendent of the ENT Hospital. An associate professor at the hospital, Manish Gupta said four teams of doctors are working in three shifts from 8 am to 10 pm. Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital M. Raja Rao said that the special drive which is conducted from 9 am to 5 pm helps clear the load. A team led by head of ENT department Shobhan Babu, along with doctors Sunitha and Nagarjuna Chakraborty among others are conducting the surgeries. Three operation theatres were allotted to the drive. “Minor procedures are carried out in one to two hours, while the major ones take three to four hours. The surgeries are taken up after COVID treatment is over and the patient is stable,” said Dr Shobhan Babu.  Our target is to operate on 40 cases a day. We have performed 163 surgeries in the past five days. T. Shankar, ENT Hospital superintendent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/40-plus-mucormycosis-surgeries-at-two-govt-hospitals-every-day/article34680537.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NIT-W scripts a new page in placements||The National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NIT-W), saw more than 800 students of 2021 batch placed in different companies with the highest package offered standing at Rs. 51.5 lakh per annum and the average package being Rs. 13 lakh. NIT Warangal director N.V. Ramana Rao said that 130 students got a package of more than Rs. 20 lakh per annum. In total, more than 600 B Tech and more than 200 PG students got placed. The placement drive was held through the virtual mode this year due to the pandemic. Nearly 250 companies visited the campus this year to hire the talented students. He said that another 50 students got the jobs through off-campus drives. Prof. Rao said that nearly 350 pre-final year students also got internships in different companies with a stipend varying from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 1.6 lakh. At a placement success meet held on Saturday, the director said that students were placed in different sectors such as software, banking, education, service and core engineering sectors. Prof. Rao appreciated the Centre for Career Planning and Development in particular and faculty in general.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nit-w-scripts-a-new-page-in-placements/article34680555.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||One booked for cheating COVID patient’s kin||A man who cheated a COVID-19 patient’s son with the promise of getting him a bed at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) was booked by the Punjagutta police here on Friday. The incident, which took place last week, came to light only on Saturday. Police said NIMS superintendent N. Satyanarayana approached them stating that on May 18, one Krishna Reddy came to his office and lodged a written complaint stating that he brought his mother Sugunamma to the hospital for treatment, where he met one Prashanth who claimed that he will get his mother admitted and treated. “Since his mother was critical, he believed him and paid Rs. 1 lakh through GPay and got his mother admitted,” Mr. Satyanarayana told the police. Subsequently, Prashanth demanded another Rs. 1 lakh for continuing the treatment and informed him that the normal treatment would cost up to Rs. 3-4 lakh with oxygen facility and Rs. 7 lakh for ventilator facility. “Reddy got suspicious and verified the admission register, and found that only Rs. 1,000 was recorded to have been paid and no other receipts were available in the case sheet. He requested us for necessary action,” the superintendent said. Soon, a departmental inquiry was ordered, during which it was found that Deputy Medical Superintendent N. Lakshmi Bhaskar had instructed Resident Medical Officer Mahender to admit Sugunamma and accordingly, she was admitted in D-Block. Further inquiries revealed that Prashanth was not an employee or in any way connected to the administration of NIMS. “He is suspected to have good contacts with some of the employees of the institute and cheating gullible, innocent patients and their relatives by collecting huge amounts in the name of ensuring admission and treatment,” the doctor told police and requested them to take action against Prashanth. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-booked-for-cheating-covid-patients-kin/article34680542.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS may borrow from RBI’s overdraft facility||In anticipation of Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 crore dip in revenue due to lockdown in May, the State government was contemplating to borrow money from ways and means advances and overdraft facility of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to shore up its resources in June. The government has already raised Rs. 5,500 crore through securities and bonds till now in this quarter and was left with a borrowing capacity of Rs. 2,500 crore till June-end. Drop in earnings With the drop in earnings and a commitment to disburse Rs. 7,000 crore towards Rythu Bandhu in June, officials said there was no other option but to resort to ways and means and OD. It was precisely the tight financial position of the Telangana government which motivated Finance Minister T. Harish Rao to seek a hike in FRBM limit up to 5% of GSDP at the GST Council meeting on Friday. Norms eased The Centre had eased FRBM norms last year due to first wave of COVID and given them permission to raise borrowings up to four per cent which was an increase of one per cent over normal rate. At four per cent, the exposure of government to credit for 2021-22 was Rs. 41,000 crore. Of this, Rs. 8,000 crore would be exhausted by June-end. But, officials said a recurring loss in revenue of Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 4,000 crore a month in the present circumstances would far overshoot Rs. 41,000 crore. As one more per cent of hike in FRBM limit would have given the government some more leeway since it would fetch an additional Rs. 10,000 crore, the Centre was asked to concede the same at the GST Council meeting on Friday, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-may-borrow-from-rbis-overdraft-facility/article34680550.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Generic medicine outlet at Secunderabad station||An emergency room-cum-generic medicine outlet was inaugurated on Saturday at Secunderabad Railway Station here to cater to the emergency medical needs of passengers. The outlet is situated on Platform 1 in the general waiting hall. Divisional Railway Manager Abhay Kumar Gupta inaugurated the facility in the presence of officials of Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Ltd (IRSDC). “This new facility will cater to emergency healthcare needs of passengers. It is in line with our commitment to enhance the travel experience at railway stations,” Managing Director of IRSDC S.K. Lohia said. The generic medicine outlet-cum-emergency room will be operated and managed by DavaDost Pharma Private Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/generic-medicine-outlet-at-secunderabad-station/article34680530.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. initiates action against 5 more private hospitals||Close on the heels of acting against five private hospitals for harassing patients in these troubled times, the State government has booked five more private hospitals in the State on Saturday on charges of collecting excess and irrelevant tariff against the prescribed norms, mismanagement and lack of proper attention on COVID patients. The permission given to them for admitting new COVID patients was also withdrawn. In a statement, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said the hospitals against which action was taken were – Image Hospital in Ameerpet, Ankura Hospital in L.B.Nagar, Sia Life Hospital in Kondapur (all in Hyderabad), Panchavati Hospital, Bhoothpur (Mahabubnagar) and Sai Siddartha Hospital in Sangareddy. However, they were allowed to complete the treatment course to patients already admitted before discharging them. With this, the action taken for excess billing and other violations has gone up to 10. A total of 115 complaints were received against 79 private hospitals so far, including 27 on Saturday against 15 hospitals. On Wednesday, 88 complaints were received against 64 hospitals. Dr. Srinivasa Rao said show-cause notices were issued to all the hospitals and action was being taken following their response and finding of facts. He warned that any private hospital found guilty of violating the established protocols, norms and guidelines would be subjected to appropriate disciplinary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-initiates-action-against-5-more-private-hospitals/article34680532.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ramps on PVNR Expressway opened||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao inaugurated ramps at Upparpally on the P.V. Narasimha Rao Expressway that will reduce travel time between the IT corridor and the airport apart from decongesting traffic on the Rajendra Nagar road. The ramps constructed at a cost of Rs. 22.08 crore will also de-congest traffic in inner ring road covering areas like Rajendra Nagar, Upparpally and Budvel. The project was executed by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority. The new ramps have 5.5 m-wide service roads on both sides with 2 m-wide footpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramps-on-pvnr-expressway-opened/article34680539.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telemedicine facility for forest staff||With a view to make healthcare advice easily available to its employees working in remote and interior areas and their family members during the ongoing pandemic situation, the Forest Department has entered into a memorandum of understanding with an NGO to provide telemedicine services. At a virtual meeting held on Saturday on providing the telemedicine facility to the forest employees and their family members in remote areas, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) R. Shobha said that the new service would help the department create awareness on COVID symptoms, preventive measures, response needed on finding heavy symptoms and take steps for hospitalisation, if necessary. She stated that the MoU with Helping Hand Foundation would help the forest staff in remote areas get medical advice as doctors would be available round the clock for treatment as per the protocol on finding infection symptoms. The organisation would also take care of emergency medical services and hospitalisation (in government facilities) of the infected staff, if required. The NGO would help the staff and their family members cope with the side effects after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telemedicine-facility-for-forest-staff/article34680544.ece
30 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seven oxygen concentrators donated (photo briefly)||Seven oxygen concentrators were donated to the SCR Health Unit, Chilkalguda, by Rotary Club of Hyderabad East, Asha Jyothi and Doctors for You under the Project Breath on Saturday. These oxygen concentrators have the capacity of 5 litres each and can deliver oxygen with 90 (+/- ) 3% concentration. The Chilkalguda health unit being in the heart of the city is serving majority of railway employees and their dependants especially in and around Secunderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-oxygen-concentrators-donated-photo-briefly/article34680552.ece
30 May 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Youth nabbed for theft in trains; gold, mobiles seized||A 26-year-old youth, who was allegedly involved in a string of thefts on-board trains in the past one year, was arrested by a joint team of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the Government Railway Police (GRP) here on Saturday. Stolen gold ornaments and mobile phones worth about Rs. 6 lakh were recovered from his possession. The accused was identified as Pallapu Gopi of Mahabubabad district. He was allegedly involved in robbing several passengers on board the Ganga-Kaveri express near Motamarri railway station on May 5. He made away with two hand bags containing four cellphones, 60 tola gold ornaments and one wrist watch after stealing them from passengers aboard the long-distance train, GRP sources said. During his interrogation subsequent to his detention, he reportedly confessed to his involvement in the theft of eight cellphones from train passengers in the last two months. The joint squad consisting of RPF Inspector, Khammam, K. Madhusudhan and sub-inspector Venkat Reddy cracked the Motammari train robbery case by tracking the movement of the accused using GPS under the supervision of senior commandant, RPF, Secunderabad Division, S.R. Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-nabbed-for-theft-in-trains-gold-mobiles-seized/article34680558.ece
30 May 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Taking tough action against illegal clinics, the district authorities sealed Modern Clinic, New Nova Clinic, Akhil Nikhil Clinic, Digwal Village Clinic, Krishna Diagnostic Centre and Citizen Poly Clinic at Kohir mandal on Saturday. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao warned that clinics running illegally would be closed and action would be taken against hospitals charging high fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34680557.ece
30 May 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Harish Rao’s noble gesture||Moved by the plight of a woman E. Ellavva and her son Parashuramulu, who could not go to work due to COVID for the last 10 days at Erravalli in Markook mandal of Gajwel constituency limits, Finance Minister Harish Rao directed party leaders to reach out to them and extend the required aid. Forest Development Corporation chairman V. Pratap Reddy and others handed over groceries and money to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-raos-noble-gesture/article34680556.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Kalra gets bail in O 2 concentrators case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to businessman Navneet Kalra in the oxygen concentrator black marketing case, saying he has clean antecedents and will not tamper with the evidence. During a recent raid amid the second COVID wave, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Mr. Kalra in the national capital. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg has directed the accused not to contact the customers to whom he had sold the concentrators and not to tamper with evidence or influence the witnesses. Mr. Kalra, who is accused of black-marketing the critical medical devices, has also been directed to join the investigation as and when called by the police and furnish personal bond and two surety bonds of Rs. 1 lakh each. "Apparently accused is having clean antecedents, in as much as, no previous involvement of the accused in any criminal case has been reported. No purpose will be served by keeping the accused behind bars,” stated the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. Further, the judge stated that there is no material supporting the “bald averment” of the prosecution that Mr. Kalra may influence the witnesses. Since all the relevant documents have already been seized from Kalra's possession, there is no substance in the plea of the state that the accused may tamper with the evidence, the 23-page court order stated. The magistrate, however, said that prima facie the accused was involved in commission of offences such as cheating under the Indian Penal Code and other sections under the Essential Commodities Act, both of which are punishable with imprisonment up to seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kalra-gets-bail-in-o-2-concentrators-case/article34680503.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for cheating over 200 traders with fake payment app||A 21-year- old man has been arrested for allegedly cheating over 200 shopkeepers using a PayTM clone, making the victims believe he paid them, the police said on Saturday. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused has been identified as Kunal Sharma alias Sonu from Uttam Nagar. The case came to the fore when a general store owner in Palam Village, Ramesh Kumar, complained to the police that on May 20, a man came to his shop to buy refined oil for Rs. 2,560. During payment, the man allegedly told the victim that he is not carrying cash and asked if he accepted payment via Paytm. Next, Mr. Kumar gave him his Paytm QR code for scanning. The accused told Mr. Kumar that his mobile phone camera was broken, and he would pay him using the victim’s number on Paytm. “Then the accused took the shopkeeper’s mobile number and entered it in the spoof app. Next, a notification similar to that of Paytm flashed on the accused’ mobile screen which he showed to Mr. Kumar,” the officer said, adding that the complainant got an impression that the payment was done. The accused also forwarded a pre-drafted message regarding his payment to the complainant. A probe was taken up and Sharma was arrested. During interrogation, he allegedly told the police that he has cheated more than 200 shopkeepers this way. Sharma is a Class X graduate and currently unemployed. “As he is well versed with online payment apps, he hatched this conspiracy to cheat shopkeepers,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-cheating-over-200-traders-with-fake-payment-app/article34680519.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man loses parents to COVID-19, burglars take away memories||A 35-year-old man, who lost both his parents to COVID a few days ago, lost their memorabilia too when their house in Inderlok was burgled in the last week of April. The man and his wife were in the hospital also recuperating from the virus when the crime took place. The police have arrested two persons — Azad (34) and Shahzad (24) — both residents of Meerut — in connection with the case. On April 28, the man — who works in Muscat — complained to the police that his parents’ house had been burgled. On reaching the spot, the police found the house ransacked. The victim called the police, saying he, his wife and his father were undergoing treatment for COVID at a hospital. He also said his mother died a few days ago due to COVID. During treatment, his father also passed away, an officer said. On May 21, after recovering from the virus, he went to the house and listed the number of things, which had been stolen. His father’s engagement ring, a pair of earrings, old currency and Rs. 1.5 lakh cash were missing from the house. “They are gone. I had gifted the earrings to my mother after I got my first salary in 2007. It is not the things that matter but the memories attached to the belongings. The thieves also stole ancient coins of my great grandparents,” he said. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said during the probe, two persons were seen in CCTV footage carrying two bags. With the help of technical and human intelligence, Azad was arrested and when interrogated, he allegedly told police that he sold some of the stolen articles to Shehzad who was subsequently arrested. The police claim to have recovered pieces of gold and silver from the accused. “I am happy with the help from police. They have recovered a lot of items and I hope my parents’ belongings are in it,” the victim said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-loses-parents-to-covid-19-burglars-take-away-memories/article34680517.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||‘AAP govt. letting ration go to waste’||The BJP on Saturday accused the Delhi government of letting ration provided by the Centre for free distribution among the poor go to waste in an attempt for “low political gains”. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged wheat and rice sent by Centre was kept at different schools so that it could be distributed to the needy in the vicinity of such schools but, specifically at a south Delhi school, ration weighing 700 quintals had been allowed to rot. “It clearly shows CM Arvind Kejriwal is indulging in low-level politics to defame the Modi government by ensuring this ration does not reach beneficiaries. A lot of this ration is rotting at several places in the city. There should be an enquiry,” Mr. Gupta said. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accused the Delhi government of being “anti-poor”. “It is shocking that free ration for the poor is not reaching them despite being provided by the Centre on time. There must be a high-level probe in the matter,” he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-govt-letting-ration-go-to-waste/article34680514.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||NGT refuses to quash closure notices issued by DPCC to dairy farms||The refused to quash closure notices issued by the DPCC to dairy farms located in east Delhi on grounds of causing pollution. An NGT Bench said: “If the dairies in question are to be allowed, it cannot be at the cost of public hygiene and health.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-refuses-to-quash-closure-notices-issued-by-dpcc-to-dairy-farms/article34680513.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||NGT permits petitioner to approach DPCC for personal hearing||Following an appeal against an order of the DPCC, which imposed a fine of Rs. 2 lakh on an industrial unit, the National Green Tribunal has permitted the petitioner to approach the pollution panel for a personal hearing and disclose the nature of operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-permits-petitioner-to-approach-dpcc-for-personal-hearing/article34680518.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Feeding the needy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/feeding-the-needy/article34680512.ece
30 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Pick-and-drop facility for jab beneficiaries||A pick-and-drop facility will be rolled out for the physically challenged people eligible for the vaccine by the Rewari administration from this coming week to ensure full coverage under the COVID-19 vaccination programme.  Emergency vehicles Deputy Commissioner, Rewari, Yashendra Singh, said travel and other support would be provided to all physically challenged persons above 18 years so that they do not miss out on vaccine. All Deputy Commissioners and Civil Surgeons in the State would implement this outreach programme. Those persons requiring assistance would be transported to nearby camp sites and back home in the 112 Emergency Response Support System vehicles provided to the Deputy Commissioners for this purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pick-and-drop-facility-for-jab-beneficiaries/article34680520.ece
30 May 2021||Kolkata,||The Kolkata doctor who finds house visits ‘relaxing’||At a time when seeing your neighbourhood general physician or a specialist in the nearest hospital for a non-COVID-19 ailment is challenging enough, to have a doctor examining you in the comfort of your home is nothing short of a luxury. It’s a luxury that a growing number of families in Kolkata’s Salt Lake City feels entitled to — all thanks to a medical practitioner who, in fact, finds house visits relaxing. “Once I examine a patient, the family’s worries are put to rest. What usually follows is a chitchat, a small adda , which I find very relaxing. It is my way of relaxation in between seeing patients,” says Dr. Rajesh Kumar Chel, 46, who is also attached to four large hospitals in the city, including AMRI and ILS. Dr. Chel is indeed a busy man; in every five minutes one spends with him, he receives almost as many calls, and the callers would invariably be waiting for him at their homes or in one of the hospitals. He visits 8-10 homes daily apart from spending time in the OPD of the four hospitals. “When someone in distress calls me home, I think differently: ‘What if the patient was my father or mother?’ I advise accordingly,” says Dr. Chel. As a young doctor, he was among the doctors deputed to attend to CPI(M) veteran Jyoti Basu and over the years, the number of families that relied on him grew. “Today, I am known to some 4,000 families in Salt Lake City. I mostly visit known families,” he says. Being on call has its downsides; one of them is that there’s hardly a time he can call his own. “Calls come when I am just about to reach home. This is compensated for once I see the patient and the chitchat begins. I like the personal touch. I enjoy being the guest who also happens to be a doctor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/the-kolkata-doctor-who-finds-house-visits-relaxing/article34680266.ece
30 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||Positivity rate coming down in Uttar Pradesh||The positivity rate for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours has come down to 0.8% while the recovery rate stood at 96.10%, the State government said on Saturday. The overall positivity rate stood at 3.5%, Amit Mohan Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said. In May, the positivity rate has been 5.5%, he said. The cases continued to drop as 2,287 new cases were recorded while 7,902 were discharged in the last 24 hours. The State recorded 157 deaths. The State has 46,201 active cases, out of which 26,187 are in home isolation, the government said. So far, 34.24 lakh people have got both doses of vaccine while 1.42 crore received the first dose, according to official figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/positivity-rate-coming-down-in-uttar-pradesh/article34680523.ece
30 May 2021||Mumbai,||MVA govt. not serious about reservation for OBCs: Fadnavis||Even as the row over the Maratha reservation continues to flare in Maharashtra, the State is set to witness an uproar over the Supreme Court striking down reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the local body elections. Devendra Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had never been serious about political reservation for OBCs. “The State government’s review petition has been rejected. It happened because of unpardonable negligence of the State towards the issue. The MVA government was never serious about the issue,” said Mr. Fadnavis in his letter to the CM. “During one of the hearings, the apex court had asked the State government to set up a backward classes commission and produce empirical data that would justify the reservation. However, the State did not follow it,” he said. The Congress, however, used the issue to criticise the BJP government in the Centre. The party claimed that the situation arose as a result of the Centre taking up the demand for an OBC census. State Congress chief Nana Patole also wrote to Mr. Thackeray on Saturday and highlighted the Centre’s failure to provide key information to the apex court. “The Supreme Court had sought data on the population of OBCs. The Centre conveyed that it cannot provide the information. The present reservation is as per the 1931 Census and the court had given its verdict based on that,” he said. The Congress said the Centre’s position on reservation damaged the case for Maratha reservation and now that of the OBCs. “It is clear that the BJP-led Central government is working to damage the reservation policy,” he said. When Mr. Patole served as Speaker of the State Assembly, he had introduced a resolution seeking OBC census, which was unanimously passed by the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-govt-not-serious-about-reservation-for-obcs-fadnavis/article34680289.ece
30 May 2021||Mumbai,||Ex-chiefs of women panel criticise Tejpal case order||Activists and former chairpersons of the Maharashtra Commission for Women have criticised the judgment that acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal in the case of sexual assault and rape. They said “the judge has put the survivor on a trial and not the accused”. On May 21, additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi at the Mapusa District and Sessions Court, Goa, acquitted Mr. Tejpal in the 2013 case, saying, “The prosecutrix’s [female victim] account neither demonstrates any kind of normative behaviour on her part – that a prosecutrix of sexual assault on consecutive nights might plausibly show, nor does it demonstrate such behaviour on the part of the accused.” Vijaya Rahatkar, former chairperson of the Maharashtra State Commission for Women, said, “It is unfortunate that a woman judge has delivered such a judgment. The judge has put the survivor on trial instead of trying the accused. The judge has revealed the identity of the survivor even after so many judgments explicitly saying that the identity must be withheld. What is the relevance of going into the woman’s history? Judgments like these discourage women to report cases of sexual assault and rape. Judges are hearing these cases with a prejudiced mind and should not be allowed to hear cases of sexual assault.” Sandhya Gokhale, screenwriter and activist, said, “The survivor is being tried in this case. The judge has overlooked all the Supreme Court judgments and commented on the fact that the survivor was an intelligent and physically fit woman so how did she not ward off the accused. These traits have gone against her. This is travesty of justice and the judge needs to step down from hearing any more cases of sexual assault. The judge did not abide by the Criminal Law Amendment Act after the 2012 Delhi rape case.” ‘Very disturbing’ Hasina Khan, who is associated with Bebaak Collective, a group that speaks up for women’s rights, said, “The judgment is very disturbing and the collective condemns it. The judge has got into the survivor’s sexual history. In this trial, the accused is treated as a victim and the survivor is not protected at all. The judgment has spoken about the survivor’s behaviour post the incident and implied that the survivor was “available”. It is shocking to see that her dignity is questioned.” Commenting on the ‘faulty’ investigation into the case, Susieben Shah, former chairperson of the commission, said, “Apart from the shocking remarks made by the judge on the survivor, the prosecution had no legs to stand on in a court of law. In cases of sexual assault and rape, activists, non-governmental organisations and spirited individuals must come together and help fight for the survivor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ex-chiefs-of-women-panel-criticise-tejpal-case-order/article34680290.ece
30 May 2021||Mumbai,||Kids’ camp from tomorrow||The Hindu In School , in collaboration with Parisar Asha, has organised ‘Creative Kids’, a fun online camp for children from all over the country. Parisar Asha is a Mumbai-based registered public trust that has been in the field of education since 1982. The online camp will be conducted for children in two different age groups: juniors (7 to 10 years) and seniors (11 to 15 years). The camp, which starts on Monday and will go on till June 11, will focus on breaking the monotony of online classes and provide an opportunity for the holistic development of children. The main aim is to help children utilise their time productively during the school break. Considering the stress and panic over the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, there will be a special session on mental health, which will be conducted by experts. Parisar Asha’s professional artistes, experts, and psychologists will conduct fun activities on a range of topics from art, craft, games and language enrichment to drama, music, and movement. The camp is sponsored by Life Insurance Corporation of India, while Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited is the energy partner. The registration fee is Rs. 1,500 per participant. To register, log on to: bit.do/this-funcamp. For further information, call: 9820955057/9821083540 or email: info@parisarasha.com or ajit.balan@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kids-camp-from-tomorrow/article34680287.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers to observe June 5 as ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’||Farmers will observe June 5 as ‘Sampoorna Kranti Divas’ by burning copies of the Central farm laws in front of the offices of the BJP MPs and MLAs to mark the day when these legislations were initially promulgated as Ordinances last year, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday. Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding the three laws be rolled back and a new one made to guarantee minimum support price for their crops. The SKM said, “On June 5, 1974, Jayaprakash Narayan had declared ‘Sampoorna Kranti’ and launched a mass movement against the then Central government. Last year on June 5, the government had presented these anti-farmer laws as Ordinances.” The SKM added, “We appeal to the citizens to burn the copies of the three agricultural laws in front of offices of the BJP MPs, MLAs and representatives... make it a mass movement and force the government to repeal the farm laws.”  Tributes to Charan Singh The protesting farmers on Saturday also paid tributes to former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his death anniversary and remembered his contribution for the development of agriculture, farmers and villages. According to the SKM, a large number of farmers from Punjab’s Doaba have joined the protesters at the Singhu border on Saturday and many more are expected to join in the coming days. The Centre has been maintaining that the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-to-observe-june-5-as-sampoorna-kranti-divas/article34680522.ece
30 May 2021||Washington,||Republicans block Capitol riots probe||Senate Republicans blocked creation of a bipartisan panel to investigate the deadly January 6 attack on the Capitol, displaying continuing party loyalty to former President Donald Trump and firm determination to shift the political focus away from the violent insurrection by his GOP supporters. The Senate vote on Friday was 54-35 — six short of the 60 needed — to take up a House-passed Bill that would have formed an independent 10-member commission evenly split between the two parties. Call for support It came a day after emotional appeals for the commission from police who fought the mob, the family of an officer who died and lawmakers in both parties who fled Capitol chambers in the worst attack on the building in two centuries. The Republicans were mostly but not totally united: Six voted with Democrats to move forward. Eleven Senators — nine Republicans and two Democrats — missed the vote, an unusually high number of absentees for one of the highest-profile votes of the year. At least one of the missing Republicans would have voted in favour of considering the commission, according to his office. The GOP opposition means that questions about who should bear responsibility for the attack could continue to be filtered through a partisan lens — in congressional committees — rather than addressed by an outside, independent panel modelled after the commission that investigated the September 11, 2001, terror attacks. “The investigations will happen with or without Republicans,” declared Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy, one of the Republicans who voted to move forward. “To ensure the investigations are fair, impartial and focused on the facts, Republicans need to be involved.” Avoiding reprisals The vote was in part a GOP attempt to placate Mr. Trump, or avoid his reprisals, as he has kept a firm hold on the party since his defeat by Democrat Joe Biden. The former president told his supporters to “fight like hell” to overturn his defeat before the siege and continues to falsely say he won the election — claims shouted by his supporters as they stormed the building. Trump called the commission legislation a “Democrat trap.” Friday’s vote — the first successful use of a Senate filibuster in the Biden presidency — was emblematic of the profound mistrust between the two parties since the siege, especially among Republicans, with some in the party downplaying the violence and defending the rioters. The vote is likely to galvanise Democratic pressure to do away with the filibuster, a time-honoured procedure used to kill major legislation. It requires 60 votes to move ahead, rather than a simple majority in the 100-member Senate. With the Senate evenly split 50-50, Democrats needed support from 10 Republicans to move to the commission bill. Speaking to his Republican colleagues, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said after the vote they were “trying to sweep the horrors of that day under the rug” out of “fear or fealty” to Mr. Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/republicans-block-capitol-riots-probe/article34679974.ece
30 May 2021||KAMLOOPS,||Remains of 215 children found in school||The remains of 215 children, some as young as 3 years old, have been found buried on the site of what was once Canada’s largest indigenous residential school — one of the institutions that held children taken from families across the nation. Chief Rosanne Casimir of the Tk’emlups te Secwépemc First Nation said in a news release that the remains were confirmed last weekend with the help of ground-penetrating radar. More bodies may be found because there are more areas to search on the school grounds, Ms. Casimir said Friday. In an earlier release, she called the discovery an “unthinkable loss that was spoken about but never documented at the Kamloops Indian Residential School.” It was the once the site of Canada’s largest residential school. Rampant abuse From the 19th century until the 1970s, more than 1,50,000 First Nations children were required to attend state-funded Christian schools as part of a programme to assimilate them into Canadian society. They were forced to convert to Christianity and not allowed to speak their native languages. Many were beaten and verbally abused, and up to 6,000 are said to have died. The Canadian government apologised in Parliament in 2008 and admitted that physical and sexual abuse in the schools was rampant. Many students recall being beaten for speaking their native languages; they also lost touch with their parents and customs. Indigenous leaders have cited that legacy of abuse and isolation as the root cause of epidemic rates of alcoholism and drug addiction on reservations. A report more than five years ago by a Truth and Reconciliation Commission said at least 3,200 children had died amid abuse and neglect, and it said it had reports of at least 51 deaths at the Kamloops school alone between 1915 and 1963. “This really resurfaces the issue of residential schools and the wounds from this legacy of genocide towards Indigenous people,” Terry Teegee, Assembly of First Nations regional chief for British Colombia, said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/remains-of-215-children-found-in-school/article34679980.ece
30 May 2021||Washington,||As Putin hosts Lukashenko, U.S. hits Belarus with sanctions||The United States on Friday announced punitive measures against Belarus targeting the regime of strongman President Alexander Lukashenko, who met with Russian leader Vladimir Putin amid a global outcry over the forced diversion of a European plane. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki called for “a credible international investigation into the events of May 23,” which she called “a direct affront to international norms.” Belarus scrambled a military jet to divert a Ryanair plane and arrested 26-year-old opposition journalist and activist Roman Protasevich who was onboard, triggering a global outcry. The White House announced it was working with the EU on a list of targeted sanctions against key members of Mr. Lukashenko’s regime. Meanwhile, economic sanctions against nine Belarusian state-owned enterprises, reimposed by Washington in April following a crackdown on pro-democracy protests, will come into effect on June 3. Further U.S. moves on Belarus could target “those that support corruption, the abuse of human rights, and attacks on democracy,” Ms. Psaki said. The White House also issued a “Do Not Travel” warning for Belarus to U.S. citizens, and warned American passenger planes to “exercise extreme caution” if considering flying over Belarusian airspace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-putin-hosts-lukashenko-us-hits-belarus-with-sanctions/article34679975.ece
30 May 2021||Beijing,||Chinese city locks down area amid virus surge||The southern Chinese city of Guangzhou shut down a neighborhood and ordered its residents to stay home on Saturday for door-to-door coronavirus testing following an upsurge in infections that has rattled authorities. Guangzhou, a business and industrial centre of 15 million people north of Hong Hong, has reported 20 new infections over the past week. The number is small compared with India’s thousands of daily cases but alarmed Chinese authorities who believed they had the disease under control. Spreading fast The spread of infections was “fast and strong,” the official Global Times newspaper cited health authorities as saying. Saturday's order to stay home applied to residents of five streets in Liwan District in the city center. Outdoor markets, child care centers and entertainment venues were closed. Indoor restaurant dining was prohibited. People in parts of four nearby districts were ordered to limit outdoor activity. Grade schools were told to stop in-person classes.  The city government earlier ordered testing of hundreds of thousands of residents following the initial infections. The government said some 7,00,000 people had been tested by Wednesday. China reports a handful of new cases every day but says almost all are believed to be people who were infected abroad. The mainland’s official death toll stands at 4,636 out of 91,061 confirmed cases. On Saturday, the National Health Commission reported two new locally transmitted cases in Guangzhou and 14 in other parts of the country that it said came from abroad. Most of the latest infections in Guangzhou are believed to be linked to a 75-year-old woman who was found May 21 to have the variant first identified in India, state media say. Most of the others attended a dinner with her or live together. That infection spread to the nearby city of Nanshan, where one new confirmed case and two asymptomatic cases were reported Saturday after people from Guangzhou were tested, according to The Global Times .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-city-locks-down-area-amid-virus-surge/article34679972.ece
30 May 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka faces marine disaster after ship fire||Sri Lanka faces an unprecedented pollution crisis as waves of plastic waste from a burning container ship hit the coast and threaten to devastate the local environment, a top environment official warned Saturday. Thousands of Navy ratings using mechanical diggers scooped tonnes of tiny plastic granules on the beaches that had come from the Singapore-registered MV X-Press Pearl that has been smouldering on the horizon for ten days. Sri Lanka’s Marine Protection Authority (MEPA) said the microplastic pollution could cause years of ecological damage to the Indian Ocean island. “This is probably the worst beach pollution in our history,” MEPA chairman Dharshani Lahandapura said. The tiny polyethylene pellets threaten tourism beaches and fish-breeding in shallow waters. Fishing has been banned along an 80 km stretch of coast near the ship that has been burning for 10 days despite an international firefighting operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-faces-marine-disaster-after-ship-fire/article34679981.ece
30 May 2021||JAKARTA,||AS--Indonesia-Iran-China||Authorities said on Saturday that two oil tankers — the Iranian-flagged MT Horse and Panamanian-flagged MT Freya — were released after a four-month detention for illegally transferring oil in Indonesian waters.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-indonesia-iran-china/article34679976.ece
30 May 2021||Bamako,||Mali constitutional court declares Goita transitional president||Mali’s constitutional court on Friday named Colonel Assimi Goita, leader of the post-coup junta, as the country’s transitional President. Soldiers detained caretaker President Bah Ndaw and Prime Minister Moctar Ouane on Monday, before releasing them on Thursday after they resigned.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mali-constitutional-court-declares-goita-transitional-president/article34679979.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Industry laments inadequacy of GST compliance relaxations||The GST compliance relaxations announced on Friday to help businesses cope with the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic need to be enhanced to provide meaningful relief to firms hit by the ongoing severe disruption, industry representatives contend. Following the GST Council’s meeting, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an amnesty scheme for late fees on small businesses’ pending returns from July 2017 to April 2021, and lower interest rates for tax payment delays for the months of March to May this year, among other measures. “About 89% of the GST taxpayers constitute small tax payers, so tax payers can now file their pending returns and avail the benefits of the amnesty scheme with reduced late fee,” she had said. “ate fees have also been rationalised, so that it's not too high or too low for some,” she added. Industry body FICCI said the amnesty scheme to reduce the late fee would provide some relief to the small taxpayers, but it would recommend ‘a waiver from the late fees and interest’ too. “While the announced relaxations are a welcome relief to the pandemic ridden businesses, the overall expectation was a complete waiver from payment of late fees, especially for the months where the pandemic had disrupted business since early 2020,” said Sandeep Jhunjhunwala, Partner, Nangia Andersen LLP. Industries hit hard due to COVID such as hospitality and travel also require some relaxation to be able to sustain themselves, said Shweta Walecha, director at Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys. “The council has not discussed such issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/industry-laments-inadequacy-of-gst-compliance-relaxations/article34679959.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Lockdown changed customers’ holiday patterns’||Sterling Holiday Resorts Ltd. is planning to double the number of rooms in the next four years to 4,800, says chairman Ramesh Ramanathan . Excerpts:  What has been the impact of the pandemic on business? From October 2020 to March 2021, occupancies continued to grow, but not to previous levels. Still, we made a profit due to various cost-control and productivity-enhancement measures initiated by us. We were in a comfortable position and reported profit despite occupancy being at 50% to 55%. Normally, occupancy level would have been over 65%. We expect the coming months, after lifting of lockdown, to improve, but not rapidly. Will FY22 be any better? We expect the second wave to last till end June, but are not sure when or whether there will be a third wave. This year, we lost summer, just like last year. The bookings for the first three months are negligible. We are managing to keep our head above water with some ongoing collections from our members, but all our avenues for income are presently closed. We are betting on the next nine months of uninterrupted business and that depends, on which States are opening up for business and when. What is the biggest learning from the pandemic? The pandemic has taught us a big lesson, especially in terms of running the operations in a more efficient way. We are taking up digitisation across our properties and this has helped us to be more positive in this period and perform better. On impact of the lockdown on the hotel industry... Obviously all resorts were closed and there were travel restrictions. COVID-19 has taught has one thing, people started travelling broadly within the State and within driving distances in their own cars. So, there is a big change in holiday patterns of customers. Instead of booking hotels months in advance, they are waiting till the last minute. But this pattern will change, once normalcy sets in. What is the proposed capital expenditure for FY22? We are going to follow an asset-light model and so [there will be] no major capex for the current year. We will be entering into management contracts with property owners who will provide inventory and infrastructure. Employees, except general manager and CFO, will be from our side. On expansion plans... Right now, we have 2,400 keys (rooms) in 35 resorts Our vision is to have 4,800 keys through 60 to 70 resorts within the next four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lockdown-changed-customers-holiday-patterns/article34679957.ece
30 May 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Second wave sees loans for millennials rising 20%’||About 20% more millennials borrowed to meet COVID-19 related emergency healthcare expenses and other financial commitments during April compared with a year earlier, according to Smartcoin Financials, which analysed data generated by its lending app. Millennials — those in the age group of 25-40 years — are on average taking loans of Rs. 6,000 and the loan demand has peaked exponentially in small towns and rural regions in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. Demand for loans had surged in tier 2, 3 and 4 cities during the first wave as well. South tops repeat loans Stating that people were borrowing to meet unprecedented financial needs, the company said among repeat loan applicants, 29% came from the five south Indian States — Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana — which accounted for about 35% of the total loan value credited. “We have managed to stand our ground during this pandemic and continue to provide valuable financial reprieve and loan packages to those who need it most,” said Rohit Garg, co-founder and CEO, SmartCoin. “Riding on our industry knowledge and ability to gauge customer preferences across every demographic, we have managed to address a plethora of credit needs across the entire expanse of the country, especially the southern States that reflect higher levels of financial literacy and awareness,” he added. The company serves more than 17,000 pincodes across India. It has a loan book of Rs. 500 crore and has disbursed in excess of three lakh loans to more than one lakh borrowers. The April 2021 loan count analysed by the firm showed Tamil Nadu’s contribution was highest at 9%, and has gone up to 10% so far in May, indicating a demand surge. Lack of insurance cover The number of women borrowers in Chennai were found to be higher at 15%, as compared with 9% in the rest of India. Medical/hospital needs took up the largest chunk, 22%, among reasons indicated for availing of a loan in April, followed by bill payment (9%), house rent (7%), education fees (7%) and EMI payments (7%). Overall national figures reflected a similar order of priority for availing of loans. Currently, the need is to address the increasing requirement of payments by the working class that is not covered under insurance plans, the firm said. In the pre-COVID period, the demand for loans intended for medical requirements were at 18% and in August-September 2020 the number went up to 28%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-sees-loans-for-millennials-rising-20/article34679953.ece
30 May 2021||new delhi,||BoB posts loss in Q4 as it shifts to new tax regime||Bank of Baroda (BoB) reported a standalone net loss of Rs. 1,046.5 crore for the quarter ended March 31. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs. 506.6 crore in the year-earlier period. For the fiscal year 2020-21, the bank reported a 52% rise in net profit to Rs. 829 crore. “The bank moved to a new tax structure thus reporting a loss of Rs. 1,047 crore because of DTA (deferred tax asset) reversal. “Excluding the impact of the change in the tax regime, the bank would have reported a profit after tax of Rs. 2,267 crore in Q4FY21 and Rs. 4,143 crore in FY21,” it said in a release. Standalone income in the quarter under review was almost Rs. 21,532.9 crore compared with the year-earlier period. During the fiscal year, income fell to Rs. 82,859.5 crore from Rs. 86,301 crore in 2019-20, the bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bob-posts-loss-in-q4-as-it-shifts-to-new-tax-regime/article34679966.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Divi’s Labs net rises 29% on higher income||Drugmaker Divi’s Laboratories reported consolidated net profit rose 29% to Rs. 502 crore for the quarter ended March. It came on the back of the total income increasing 24% to Rs. 1,811.7 crore. For FY21, the net profit rose 44% to Rs. 1,984.3 crore. Total revenue increased 26% to Rs. 7,032 crore. The company has declared a dividend of Rs. 20 a share . As per a statement, during the fiscal, a capex programme, with an estimated investment of Rs. 400 crore, for fast-tracking a custom- synthesis project was introduced. A part of the project has got completed and became operational.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/divis-labs-net-rises-29-on-higher-income/article34679967.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol price exceeds Rs. 100 in Mumbai||Petrol price on Saturday crossed the Rs. 100-a-litre mark in Mumbai after the 15th increase in fuel prices this month. Petrol price was raised by 26 paise and diesel by 28 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase — 15th this month — took petrol and diesel prices to fresh all-time highs. The price of petrol, which had already crossed the Rs. 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, breached the psychological barrier in Mumbai on Saturday. Petrol now costs Rs. 100.19 a litre in Mumbai and diesel is priced at Rs. 92.17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/petrol-price-exceeds-rs-100-in-mumbai/article34679960.ece
30 May 2021||new delhi,||HMSI restarts production, to aid dealers||Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India (HMSI) said it had resumed production across its manufacturing plants in the country. It has also announced financial support for authorised dealers who were under complete lockdown. As per the initiative, HMSI will bear the full interest cost of the dealer’s inventory under lockdown for 30 days or more. “We are gradually resuming production operations following all COVID-19 guidelines [set] by the respective State governments,” said president and CEO Atsushi Ogata. “While there are visible signs of recovery, we will continue to monitor the situation very closely.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hmsi-restarts-production-to-aid-dealers/article34679961.ece
30 May 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI confirms IPL’s resumption in UAE||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), on Saturday, decided to move the suspended Indian Premier League (IPL) to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in September-October and authorised office-bearers to buy more time from the International Cricket Counil (ICC) for finalising the T20 World Cup venue. “The BCCI announced to complete the remaining matches of IPL 2021 in UAE considering the monsoon season in India in the months of September-October this year,” Jay Shah, BCCI secretary, said in a statement released after Saturday’s Special General Meeting (SGM). “The SGM further authorised the office-bearers to seek extension from ICC to take an appropriate call on the hosting of ICC T20 World Cup 2021.”  The Hindu understands that IPL chairman Brijesh Patel and IPL chief operating officer Hemang Amin are awaiting clearance from UAE authorities to leave for the Gulf and start dialogue and preparation for IPL’s return to its last year’s venue. Only viable option The office-bearers are understood to have stressed the September-October window and UAE as the venue being the only viable option for completing the IPL, suspended on May 4 due to COVID-19. While the BCCI is looking at the window between Sept. 20 and Oct. 10 for pulling off the IPL, the Caribbean Premier League final is scheduled on Sept. 19. Besides, England and Australia have international commitments. “When we raised concerns about overseas players’ availability, the president (Sourav Ganguly) informed the house that the BCCI is consulting other boards and stressed that the IPL will go ahead with whosoever is available,” a member who attended the meeting said. Many representatives were bemused when the resolution about the IPL cited “monsoon” as the reason instead of COVID-19 outbreak. “It was understandable considering the desperation to host the T20 World Cup immediately after the IPL but, in such a case, it would have been better had the resolution not cited any reason at all,” said another member. On June 1, the ICC Board is scheduled to discuss the T20 World Cup venue. The BCCI office-bearers briefed that a month-long extension will help them resolve the COVID-19 proof plan and the tax rebate issue with the ICC. The ICC’s Annual Conference is scheduled from July 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-confirms-ipls-resumption-in-uae/article34680117.ece
30 May 2021||PARIS,||Nadal chasing record 21st Major||Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic will set their sights on more Grand Slam history at the French Open as Roland-Garros embraces a new but eerily empty era of night-time tennis. A 14th title for Nadal would take him to a record-setting 21st Major, surpassing the mark he shares with Roger Federer who has already written off his hopes of adding to his lone success in the French capital back in 2009. Djokovic, the champion in 2016, can move to 19 Grand Slam titles with victory. That would make the World No. 1 the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to win all four Majors on multiple occasions. Only one of the sport’s ‘Big Three’ will make the June 13 final after the draw placed top seed Djokovic, third seed Nadal and eighth-seeded Federer in the same half of the draw. Of the chasing pack, two-time runner-up Dominic Thiem is low on form and confidence while World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev has yet to win a match at Roland-Garros in four attempts. Tsitsipas looks good World No. 5 Stefanos Tsitsipas is the most likely man to upset the odds of Nadal or Djokovic again taking the title. In the women’s section, Iga Swiatek heads into the French Open trying to become the first player since Serena Williams at Wimbledon in 2016 to successfully defend a women’s Grand Slam singles title, with injuries and poor clay form clouding the hopes of several of her chief rivals. In theory, this French Open could be the chance for Naomi Osaka to step up on clay. The 2019 champion and World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty has won three titles this year and reached the Madrid final, but an arm injury at the Italian Open forced her out of the quarterfinals, casting doubt over her fitness here. As for Serena Williams, now 39, she has won just one of three matches on clay this month having returned after nearly three months away following the Australian Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-chasing-record-21st-major/article34680121.ece
30 May 2021||KOLKATA,||Bajrang Punia to train in Russia||Bajrang Punia is confident that his decision to skip the Ranking Series tournament in Poland in order to train in Russia will give him some much-needed sparring with world class wrestlers. Bajrang, the World No.1 in men’s freestyle 65kg category, underlined the importance of good training ahead of his maiden Olympics. “I cancelled Poland because I needed training more than anything else. The National camp is not going on and training is not happening (due to the pandemic). My ranking is good. When we fight for a medal, it is important how much we have trained,” Bajrang said during an online press conference, facilitated by the Sports Authority of India, on Saturday. Elite gathering “I will train in Vladikavkaz, where (Zaurbek) Sidakov (74kg World champion) is training. The 2016 Olympics champion (in 65kg) Soslan Romanov, 70kg World champion David (Baev) and other top wrestlers are there. You get good training centres in Russia.” Bajrang, who said the ‘no quarantine’ rule in Russia at present would help, plans to train there until the Tokyo Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrang-punia-to-train-in-russia/article34679964.ece
30 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Glad constitution prevailed: Azhar||“The constitution is supreme and I am glad it prevailed over everything else,” Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin said on Saturday after attending the virtual Special General Meeting of the BCCI. Azhar’s rival group in the HCA, led by secretary R. Vijayanand, had nominated N. Shivlal Yadav to attend the meeting. However, the BCCI allowed Azhar to participate. “Whatever I have done is legal. What they are doing is against the rules. For instance, once I closed the last Annual General Meeting, there in no way can it be reconvened to take some decisions which are again against the spirit of the HCA constitution,” Azhar told The Hindu . “I am glad the BCCI recognised my efforts and commitment. They know what is happening and you just cannot go on taking arbitrary decisions without the president involved in it. To meet Ganguly “I will meet the BCCI secretary Jay Shah and president Sourav Ganguly personally soon and explain what is happening,” he said. Asked about the possibility of him sitting across the table with the rival group, Azhar said if every action was within the framework of the HCA constitution, there would be no issues. “It was unfortunate that Shivlal got swayed away by the wrong people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glad-constitution-prevailed-azhar/article34680524.ece
30 May 2021||PARMA,||Korda claims maiden Tour title||Sebastian Korda beat local favourite Marco Cecchinato 6-2, 6-4 to win the Emilia-Romagna Open in Parma and claim his maiden title on the ATP Tour. It was also the first triumph for an American on European claycourts since Sam Querry’s success at Belgrade in 2010. Son of former World No. 2 Petr Korda, Sebastian joined Ramanathan Krishnan and Ramesh Krishnan, and Phil Dent and Taylor Dent as the third father-son pair to win tour-level singles titles in the Open Era. Meanwhile at Belgrade, Novak Djokovic enjoyed success at his own tennis centre when he won the Belgrade Open with a 6-4, 6-3 win over Slovakian Alex Molcan in Saturday’s final but his performance left a lot to be desired ahead of the French Open.  It was Djokovic’s first triumph since he clinched his 18th Major at the Australian Open in February. Since then, he has endured patchy claycourt season, including a last 16 exit at the Monte Carlo Masters.  The results (finals):   At Belgrade: ATP Belgrade Open: Novak Djokovic bt Alex Molcan 6-4, 6-3.   At Parma: ATP Emilia-Romagna Open: Sebastian Korda bt Marco Cecchinato 6-2, 6-4.   At Strasbourg: WTA Strasbourg International: Barbora Krejcikova bt Sorana Cirstea 6-3, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/korda-claims-maiden-tour-title/article34680122.ece
30 May 2021||Mumbai,||Compensation package to be delayed||BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal has said that the delay in announcing details of a compensation package for all stakeholders of domestic cricket is not due to lack of will. “It’s not that we don’t want to do it. The AGM had decided it in principle. There are several hurdles in its implementation, so now we need to get all the State associations involved. The process will start very soon and we hope to come up with a formula that is satisfactory to all the players and officials,” Dhumal told The Hindu on Saturday. Last December, the BCCI AGM had decided to form a committee to devise a package due to curtailed domestic season owing to the pandemic. Since then, domestic cricketers and others involved — men and women, umpires, match referees, scorers and video analysts — have been virtually left in the lurch, with many struggling to make ends meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/compensation-package-to-be-delayed/article34680111.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Iniyan ends Gukesh’s run to take the lead||In what was seen as the virtual title-decider, involving two teenage Grandmasters, P. Iniyan pulled off a win over a previously-unbeaten D. Gukesh in the 14th round to snatch a half-point lead in the AICF World Cup qualifier on Saturday. With three rounds to go, the race for the lone World Cup berth is among three youngsters — Iniyan (10.5 points), Gukesh (10) and Raja Rithvik (9.5) — while second seed S.P. Sethuraman (9) has a slim chance. Decisive round Effectively, the picture should get clearer at the end of the 15th round on Sunday morning, when Iniyan takes on Rithvik and Gukesh clashes with S.L. Narayanan.  The day’s results firmly shut the door on three other leading seeds — B. Adhiban, Surya Shekhar Ganguly and Narayanan — after they suffered more reverses. Deep Sengupta beat Adhiban, Aditya Mittal stopped Ganguly, who in turn, defeated Narayanan.  Standings (after Day Four): 1. P. Iniyan (10.5 points), 2. D. Gukesh (10); 3. Rithvik Raja (9.5); 4. S. P. Sethuraman (9); 5. Surya Shekhar Ganguly (8); 6-7. Rahul Srivatshav, S. L. Narayanan (7.5 each); 8-9. S. Nitin, Deep Sengupta (7 each); 10-11. B. Adhiban, Aditya Mittal (6.5 each); 12-13. C. R. G. Krishna, Vishnu Prasanna (5 each); 14-15. Soumya Swaminathan, M. Vinay Kumar (4 each); 16. Krishnan Saravana (3); 17. Vatsal Singhania (2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iniyan-ends-gukeshs-run-to-take-the-lead/article34679962.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI:,||Om Prakash passes away||Om Prakash, who worked as a technical delegate and chief scrutineer with both the Madras Motor Sports Club (MMSC) and the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI), passed away here on Saturday. He was 54. Om Prakash has been associated with the sport for close to three decades. Former F1 driver Karun Chandhok tweeted his condolences, saying: “Very sad news! He was a gem of a guy who volunteered so much of his time because he loved the sport.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/om-prakash-passes-away/article34680178.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coaches to join Indian team||Pistol coaches Pavel Smirnov and Ronak Pandit left for Zagreb, Croatia, on Saturday to join the Indian shooting preparing for the Olympics in that country. Smirnov could not accompany the team earlier owing to a delay in getting a visa, while Pandit and other coaches Samaresh Jung and Jaspal Rana were also unable to leave for various reasons. “Jaspal and I are waiting for the visa and will join the team next week,” said Jung. The Indian team has been competing in the MQS section of the ongoing European championship at Osijek, to get more competitive exposure. There will be a World Cup at the same venue in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coaches-to-join-indian-team/article34680118.ece
30 May 2021||Osijek (Croatia),||Tomar shoots 1172||Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar shot 1172 in men’s rifle 3-position event in the MQS section of the European shooting championship here on Saturday. The 20-year-old Tomar had a series of 395 in kneeling, 392 in prone and 385 in the standing position. Sanjeev Rajput shot a total of 1162, with 392 in kneeling, 391 in prone and 379 in standing section. Henrik Larsen of Norway topped the qualifiers with 1186. He had a series of 398, 399 and 389 in kneeling, prone and standing positions respectively. There were 28 who shot 1170 or more. Meanwhile, Pistol coaches Pavel Smirnov and Ronak Pandit left for Zagreb, Croatia, on Saturday to join the Indian shooters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tomar-shoots-1172/article34680119.ece
30 May 2021||Southampton,||NZ heads to London for Test series||After acclimatising to the conditions in Southampton, which will host the World Test Championship (WTC) final against India next month, the New Zealand team travels to London for the two-match series against England. New Zealand is scheduled to play England in two Tests, in London and Birmingham, starting June 2, following which it will face India in the WTC final from June 18 to 22 at the Rose Bowl here. “The New Zealand team travels to London today,” the New Zealand Cricket (NZC) wrote on its official Twitter handle on Saturday. As part of the preparation for the WTC final, the Kiwis played a three-day team intra-squad game here. The global governing body has also allocated June 23 as a reserve day to make up for any lost time during the regular days of the final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nz-heads-to-london-for-test-series/article34680124.ece
30 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Athletics coach arrested||The city police on Saturday arrested P. Nagarajan, 59, head coach of a sports academy, for sexually harassing girls whom he trained. He was booked by the All Women Police, Flower Bazaar Station, under five sections of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), following a complaint from a 19-year-old girl whom he allegedly sexually harassed. Following registration of the complaint, he swallowed sleeping pills and was admitted to the Government Royapettah Hospital. After his discharge from the hospital, he was arrested and taken to court for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athletics-coach-arrested/article34680177.ece
30 May 2021||DUBAI,||Four Indian women boxers look for gold||Four Indian women, including six-time World champion M.C. Mary Kom, will look to land the gold in the finals of the Asian boxing championships here on Sunday. Mary’s 51kg title clash with Nazym Kyzaibay of Kazakhstan will be eagerly awaited. Lalbuatsiahi (64kg), Pooja Rani Bohra (75kg) and Anupama (+81kg) will also aspire to be continental champions when they take on Kazakh Milana Safronova, Uzbek Mavluda Movlonova and Kazakh Lazzat Kungeibayeva respectively. Sanjeet, Amit Panghal (52kg) and Shiva Thapa (64kg) will also fight in the finals on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-indian-women-boxers-look-for-gold/article34679968.ece
30 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Milkha stable; Oxygen requirement of wife increases marginally||Doctors treating Milkha Singh said on Saturday that his condition remained stable but the oxygen requirement of wife Nirmal Kaur rose marginally days after being admitted in a hospital with COVID-19. Milkha and wife continued to be closely monitored by the doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-stable-oxygen-requirement-of-wife-increases-marginally/article34680110.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 09:55 IST,||Sudoku — May 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-29-2021/article34680828.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Tools of the trade||In the Indira Gandhi days there were always two hands. One, her party’s electoral symbol, the other, the “foreign hand”. And the party hand always knew what the other was up to. The foreign hand practically became a member of the Indian extended family much like the troublemaking sister-in-law who’s part of every TV soap opera parivaar . While the wicked on-screen bhabhi switched salt and sugar in the kitchen, the foreign hand was busy meddling in India’s domestic affairs. In 1976 at a rally in Kolkata, Gandhi said the foreign hand was always trying to run down India and belittle its achievements, whether it was the launch of Aryabhata, India’s first satellite, or the Pokhran nuclear tests. The Emergency, she said, was “an excuse to criticise us afresh.” In 1980, she claimed she’d got reports that the foreign hand was behind the riots in Moradabad and other places. The foreign hand outlived her. Rajiv Gandhi claimed an “invisible” foreign hand was trying to stall development in India even as he tried to fend off Bofors charges. The Left parties routinely saw the foreign hand every time they ran into trouble. When Mamata Banerjee loomed as an existential threat to them in West Bengal in 2011, they called her an American stooge. Not to be outdone, Didi claimed the Communists were involved in a plot to assassinate her using Maoists in league with Pakistani Intelligence, bankrolled by North Korea, Venezuela and Hungary. Banerjee clearly was not content with one foreign hand; she wanted them by the handful. Cold War skulduggery But the hand made more sense in the socialist years, when Coca-Cola was forbidden and we wore rip-off Lavis jeans instead of Levis. “Foreign” was then not to be trusted. It lured the best and brightest away via the brain drain. It was up to all kinds of Cold War skulduggery. Later we learned that Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger had nasty things to say about both India and Indira Gandhi. In a closed society, the foreign hand was understandably an object of suspicion. But as Indian markets opened up, and Indians started going abroad for vacations, medical treatment and undergraduate degrees, the menace became a harder sell. It returned for a cameo during the Anna Hazare protests when the UPA government saw powers “out there” trying to topple the government. But it didn’t work. Even IPL cheerleaders were foreign by then. The current government still sees the foreign hand at work in New York Times editorials, tweets labelled “manipulated media”, photographs of burning ghats during the COVID-19 pandemic’s second wave, and NGOs that ask bothersome questions. The old bugaboo of international forces out to derail the government still needed to be trotted out, but clearly Indira Gandhi’s old and trusty foreign hand needed a 21st-century makeover. Enter the toolkit. ‘Toolkit’ sounds more sophisticated, more 21st-century, more scalable. The very word sets off alarm bells. A toolkit sounds like something that can be used to bring the system down without getting any hands dirty. It’s like a foreign hand but with talking points and trending hashtags and hyperlinks. A hand sounds very amateurish in comparison. Toolkits conjure up images of the 2011 Occupy Wall Street protests and the Hong Kong protests of 2019, making it sound as if they are secret weapons in some kind of organised global conspiracy rather than just a set of guidelines for anything from a protest to widgets to COVID-19 tests. Kitted out Thus, we had the toolkit young climate activist Greta Thunberg shared during the farmers’ protests. The Delhi Police Cyber Crime Cell filed an FIR against its creators. Then, 22-year-old environmental activist Disha Ravi was arrested for allegedly editing and sharing the toolkit. Currently, we have a new toolkit the Congress is supposed to have cooked up to malign the current government in the middle of the second wave. The Congress protests that it was a “fabricated and forged” toolkit, setting off a battle of toolkits. Meanwhile BJP MP Tejasvi Surya, in the throes of a controversy about exposing a hospital bed-blocking scam, says the attack on him is part of the “Congress toolkit”. Now we suddenly have a spate of articles in the media explaining to us with great seriousness what a toolkit is, much as we have had explainers for coronaviruses, R0 factors and mRNA vaccines. Only time will tell if the toolkit will have the same staying power as the foreign hand. It may sound more hi-tech but then, as Aristotle reminded us centuries ago, “the hand is the tool of tools.”  The old bugaboo of international forces out to derail the government still needed to be trotted out, but clearly Indira Gandhi’s old and trusty foreign hand needed a 21st-century makeover||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tools-of-the-trade/article34679927.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||We’re all mad here||A good book can be a window to a world that lies beyond our reach. Sometimes writers build a universe so richly detailed and imbued with personality that the place becomes a character in itself. For instance, in The God of Small Things , the fuming river and the dark trees that bend into it are no less a part of Ayemenem than Rahel or Paradise Pickles. And then there are novels like Manu Bhattathiri’s The Oracle of Karuthupuzha whose world exists solely through its inhabitants. It is as though Karuthupuzha is a blank canvas — indispensable but inconspicuous in itself — brought to life by the milkman, the toddy-shop owner, the businesswoman, the industrious home-maker, and all their cohorts. In the course of three fictional works including the short story collection Savithri’s Special Room and Other Stories (2016) , the much-acclaimed novel, The Town That Laughed (2018), and now The Oracle of Karuthupuzha , Bhattathiri has painstakingly built up a quaint and eccentric South Indian town called Karuthupuzha, which is so removed from the modern world that an overseas call demands a trip to the ISD booth. In this town, men still gather in tea-shops and toddy huts to exchange news and gossip; women squat outside their homes to dry pappadams in the sun; and the local provision store gives credit to ‘clean’ regulars. Slow burn So far as the power of world-building goes, Bhattathiri stands shoulder-to-shoulder with giants like R.K. Narayan or William Faulkner. Equally comparable is Bhattathiri’s slow-burning exploration of the tug-of-war between the individual and the collective. How do you get assimilated into a society that you don’t quite like? What do you choose if you have to choose between rationality and belief? Does idealism stand a chance when shrewdness can help you escape poverty? The last is a question that Nareshan and his wife Kalyani often ponder as they try to wiggle their way out of the world of cheap beedis and pungent cow dung. A poor milkman with four mouths to feed, Nareshan is taken aback one day when his daughter Sarasu is seized with violent fits, which the townies interpret as a blessing from the demon-god Chaathan. Sensing an opportunity, Nareshan anoints himself as Chaathan’s sole interpreter, cleverly setting the stage for a thriving ‘business’. He establishes a new routine, taking care never to step out without smearing turmeric paste and holy ash on his body and wearing rudraksha beads. When in the marketplace, surrounded by crowds, he takes to muttering “vague and lofty phrases”, impressing everyone. Follies and foibles Bhattathiri conveys Nareshan’s craftiness in winning over the cynics and rationalists of Karuthupuzha with dry humour and empathy, appealing to the reader’s insecurities and follies. Each cameo (some of which have been picturised in Mohit Suneja’s brilliantly illustrated cover) is memorable — be it the perpetually cheerful Bhargavi, Paramu the Nail Gulper (he gulped over a dozen rusty nails, hence the name), the daredevil bus-driver Mathai, or the newspaper recycler Abu. The story gathers steam when word of Sarasu’s gift reaches Ponnamma’s ears. A rich widow and mother to a shy young man, Nanu, Ponnamma is convinced that Sarasu will be able to drive out the rakshasa inside him and make him more ‘normal’. Nanu agrees for the Chaathan consultation, not because he thinks anything is wrong with him, but for a simple, heartbreaking reason — he wants someone to listen to him, to understand him. Quick joke From a feel-good story, the novel evolves into a satirical exploration of the power dynamics that exists between communities. If The Town That Laughed revolved around Joby, the neighbourhood drunkard, and Paachu Yemaan, the retired policeman mourning his loss of status, it is Nareshan’s relationship with the disgraced Communist leader Dasappan that grabs the spotlight in The Oracle. A running gag in which Nareshan tries to get Dasappan to refer to him as Nareshan mothalali (boss) instead of the familiar Nareshan etta (brother) is absurdly comical and reminiscent of old Malayalam comedies. Bhattathiri’s unique style serves him particularly well when dealing with darker themes like mental illness, loneliness, and warped ideas of masculinity. Whenever tension builds up over these issues — as they must — it is cleverly diffused with a quick joke or throwaway comment. At the end, as you bid farewell to Nanu, who is no longer misunderstood, it is Nietzsche’s take on perspectivism that lingers: “And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.”  The Oracle of Karuthupuzha Manu Bhattathiri  Aleph Book Company  Rs. 699    Bhattathiri has built up a quaint and eccentric South Indian town called Karuthupuzha that is so removed from the modern world that an overseas call demands a trip to the ISD booth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/were-all-mad-here/article34679897.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The Occupation is fundamentally and undeniably unjust’||Rockets and artillery shells may no longer be lighting up the skies over Israeli and Palestinian territories, but the announcement of a ceasefire last fortnight does nothing to arrest the bleeding from that gaping wound of history. Watching from afar, Irish writer Colum McCann harnesses an intimate understanding of that tortured history — his most recent novel, Apeirogon , is framed against the Israel-Palestine conflict — to provide a rare artistic perspective on events. As the founder of Narrative 4, a non-profit that uses storytelling as a vehicle to promote peace in conflict situations, McCann is deeply aware of the potential of stories to bring home the “complexity” of it all. Excerpts from an email interview: The backdrop of the bookApeirogon, released last year, is the Israel-Palestine conflict, with its two central characters — one Israeli, the other Palestinian — both having experienced personal tragedy. The book was born of your experiences as the founder of Narrative 4, the non-profit that channels storytelling as a vehicle of peacemaking by infusing what you call ‘radical empathy’ among people in conflict situations. Could you elaborate on the concept? ‘Radical empathy’ was a term originally suggested by a teacher who worked on the south side of Chicago, quite a poor neighbourhood with a high incidence of violence. He knew that in order to understand what went on his neighbourhood, he would have to come up with a term that disrupted the conventional thinking. It would have to be radical. And it would have to embrace new ways of seeing and understanding. Radical empathy is about being open to every available doorway. In the context of the current heightened tension in the area, and the deaths (on both sides, but disproportionately high on the Palestinian side), is the space for radical empathy perhaps getting abridged? There is a line from theMu‘allaqāt, a series of 6th century pre-Islamic poems, that asks: Is there any hope that this desolation can bring us solace?  The morning I heard about what was happening in Gaza, I wanted to ask myself the same question. And at that very moment, I thought: No, no, there is no hope that I can get any solace out of the desolation. But then I asked myself if that would be true tomorrow as well. And my answer was that there might be some solace to come from this — eventually. So even if something gets abridged, it does not mean it is destroyed. There is always the possibility of hope, even in the face of all available evidence. I like Gramsci’s construction that one can be a “pessimist of the intellect” while being an “optimist of the will.” What are the prospects of building the mechanisms for radical empathy in inflamed minds, given both the pro-Palestinian riots within Israel and the upsurge in anti-Semitic slurs? This is such a great question, and so timely. How do we go into the places that are throbbing with fear and recrimination? Well, the answer is — slowly, deliberately, and with great care. Stories can heal, but they can be dangerous too. Even empathy can have severe repercussions. It’s not a pill. You start out locally, with small steps, tiny changes. People recover in increments. The work has to come from within a community, from the ground up, often from within schools. InApeirogon, you make a brief allusion to Mahatma Gandhi’s salt march. In that context, you point to satyagraha and say that “the civility of the disobedience was part of its power.” Does the Hamas’ resort to rocket attacks on Israel diminish its “moral” edge? Who is to say where things begin? We know, however, where things end. I don’t think it’s helpful for any of us to sit around and play the blame game when it comes to death and destruction. That becomes a playground mentality. Of course, Gandhi knew this. And many others too down history. I think most people looking at Israel and Palestine know this too. There is an imbalance of power. There is an occupier and an occupied. There are certain fundamentals that are right and wrong, and there are some very clear injustices here. The Occupation is fundamentally and undeniably unjust. Of course, targeting civilians diminishes the moral edge — on all sides. And, let’s face it, it’s wrong to keep referring to “both sides” here. There are more than two sides. It is polygonal. Hamas does not necessarily speak for Palestinians. And Netanyahu doesn’t speak for Israelis. It’s much more nuanced than that. That’s what we need to speak about.  As a storyteller, how would you account for the fact that the Palestinian cause has not resonated well enough among opinion influencers, when, in fact, underdogs usually enjoy an emotional narrative advantage? Well, I think the Palestinian cause has not been properly showcased. But what’s interesting about the present moment is that the narrative does seem to be shifting. Even The New York Times is beginning to be more nuanced about what is going on. The story has to be told over and over again. One of the reasons I wrote Apeirogon is that I wanted to shift the paradigm, even if just a little bit. Bassam doesn’t conform to our preconceived ideas of a Palestinian, and Rami is different from your imagined Israeli, if there is even such a thing. The Israeli government wants one particular narrative and one only. It is our job — as artists and students and activists — to help swerve the narrative in a different direction. What other “stories” need to emerge from the Palestinian side for the narrative imbalance to be fixed? We need to tell the story of the young people listening to music at Singer Café in Beit Sahour. The story of the young woman developing a farming programme with ancient seeds in Bethlehem. The young philosopher breaking new ground in Ramallah. We need to be aware that there are children writing poetry in Gaza. We need to see the complexity at stake here. The world is kaleidoscopic. It doesn’t just come down to a keffiyeh and a sling and a kitchen-made rocket. There is so much more to Palestine than what is being told.  There are many inspirational stories from the subcontinent (for instance, the story of Arun Khetarpal). There have also been many Bollywood movies romancing Pakistan. But these popular narratives invariably lose out to realpolitik. As a storyteller who founded Narrative 4, where are these efforts failing? I think these efforts have to become an integral part of the realpolitik. I’m not naïve. I know how difficult all of this is. But young people in schools are not naïve either. There is a possibility for what I call an “emergent peace” based on the principles of storytelling. What needs to shift is our ability to listen to and engage with the stories of those we don’t necessarily know, or even like. It begins in our own backyards and then spreads outwards, and it gains an intelligence that is greater than the sum of its parts. We live in an age where social media influencers have been known to wade into issues far beyond their ken with at best a superficial understanding of history. As a storyteller, what risks do you see in ‘pop narratives’ overwhelming real historical narratives? Great question. What it takes is a sort of humility and bravery combined. Cultural appropriation is very real. It’s true that writers and artists and others often go in places we shouldn’t go and quite often we condescend. We patronise. We steal. We simplify. We mock. It has happened for decades, centuries even. If our intention is to take away from another culture — to appropriate — we deserve to be called out on it. But at the same time, we should be talking about cultural “celebration” — where we go in to learn, to share, to deepen, to shed light. That’s a different story, or maybe part of the same story. This is when we go in with humility. We go in with grace. We go in saying, I’m confused, please teach me. We go somewhere because we know we are not full enough, or big enough, or bright enough. And we somehow come out the far end a little wiser. Or at least that’s what we hope. Culture critic Edward Said said that no one can deny the continuities of long traditions, languages, and cultural geographies, but there seems no reason except fear and prejudice to keep insisting on their separation and distinctiveness. He suggests that it is more rewarding, and more difficult, to think concretely and sympathetically, contrapuntally, about others than only about “us”. Open the doors up. Go in and go out. And then return again. That’s what it’s all about.  Author of seven novels and three collections of stories Elected to the American Academy of Arts in 2017 Recipient of many international honours, including the National Book Award, a Chevalier des Arts et Lettres from the French government Work has been published in over 40 languages   What needs to shift is our ability to listen to and engage with the stories of those we don’t necessarily know, or even like. It begins in our own backyards and then spreads outwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-occupation-is-fundamentally-and-undeniably-unjust/article34679855.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The emperor’s new city||There’s a sucker born every minute, and the latest is the Mayor of London. On May 11, Sadiq Khan heralded “the first of a series of major art projects we’ve commissioned as part of our brand new #LetsDoLondon campaign” with what he called a “brilliant work by David Hockney”. But the attached doodle was manifestly slapdash, making it clear the 83-year-old artist was — in the language of London’s streets — “taking the piss” out of his client. After much derision, Khan responded that “the great thing about art is that it’s a conversation starter. This piece has got people talking.” Is that enough? Responding to my query, art historian Dr. Rupert Arrowsmith of Oxford University Press says, “I offer you a line from an Ernest Hemingway poem, And in the end the age was handed / The sort of shit that it demanded . What the current age demands is not art that makes you ask questions that count, but brand names. David Hockney has basically become a brand name in the same way Calvin Klein is a brand name, and when was the last time you bought a pair of Calvin Klein underpants that were any good?” Arrowsmith reminds me that “in 2004, Marcel Duchamp’s Fountain (1917) — a urinal jokily signed with a false name under the influence of the Dada movement — was voted by 500 representatives of the British art world to be the most influential artwork of the 20th century, and so, in the history of art, taking the piss is actually no laughing matter. But Duchamp was doing it on purpose and Fountain is in fact a highly complex artwork embodying numerous sly observations about gallery culture and the art world. Does Hockney’s work embody any sly observations?” The contretemps about Hockney is charged with global implications far beyond London, especially after last year’s global Black Lives Matter protests irrevocably recast our relationships with public art and architecture. Now, we are bound to ask: who is being memorialised and for what? What message is telegraphed? Room for imagination “First, I think it is important for artists to question the need for an artwork in a given location,” says artist Sudarshan Shetty. His 2012 The Flying Bus — which whimsically endowed wings on an iconic Mumbai “double-decker” while converting its interiors into intimate gallery space — is a masterpiece of public art that memorialises with great beauty while allowing room for the imagination to soar. Shetty roots his argument in Indian aesthetic traditions to say that absence can speak more eloquently than superfluity: “Our overly industrialised urban set-up produces a constant barrage of objects, ideas and images that are imposed upon us without respite. It’s an artist’s responsibility to exercise more of an erasure before adding another object into an already overcrowded realm. [We must] go back to the wisdom that comes from our own past, and find ways to re-assimilate it into contemporary life, making space for an active and meaningful engagement that is essentially democratic in nature.” These are crucial insights for India in the 21st century, because all over the country, from the heart of New Delhi to my seaside neighbourhood of Miramar in Goa, we are witnessing the wholescale hijacking of public space by an interdependent oligarchy of corporate and political special interests. Already rampant over the past decade, the damage has increased exponentially during the COVID-19 crisis, as citizens have become distracted by more urgent exigencies of simply staying alive. Empathy vs. opacity “Public space is not a blank, unmarked space — it carries on its skin all the stories a society tells itself about itself,” says poet, critic and culture theorist Ranjit Hoskote. “Countries that get their public spaces right are usually those where a liberal public sphere of discussion is prized, where institutional changes are attended by public consultations.” Hoskote calls these “Theory Y polities,” which see the public space as a domain of empathy. On the other hand, he says “Theory X polities” get it wrong because opacity veils public decision-making, and a colonial-imperial distrust of the citizenry prevails. “They distrust the individual, discourage dissent, and see public space as a domain to be controlled through punishment and overblown monumentalism.” Related questions have crowded my mind since visiting Khajuraho earlier this year, where the famous temples celebrate life with sublime grace. That 1,000-year-old architecture constantly uplifted my spirit, but flying back into the thick of Mumbai’s new glass-and-steel monstrosities had the opposite effect: they left me feeling helpless, squashed, short of breath. Most suffocating of all is Antilla, “the world’s most expensive home”, which is nominally private — it’s owned by Mukesh Ambani — but expresses very public alienation. This veritable Guantanamo Bay of skyscrapers subjects the entire landscape to extraordinary rendition beneath its obliterating cowl, from which there is no escape. “Antilla is all wounded feelings,” says Professor Sarover Zaidi, who teaches at the Jindal School of Art and Architecture. A scholar of Mumbai neighbourhoods, she says, “It wants to be noticed, and acts on an idea of individuation. Like most modernist architecture, it performs aspiration. The building wants to say that we are not from here. We want you to know we think we’re better than you.” On May 21, Zaidi made the case on Twitter that contemporary public architecture in India — especially the controversial multi-billion-dollar Central Vista project in New Delhi — has to be seen in the context of the destruction of the Babri Masjid. Speaking to me, she elaborates, “1992 changed everything structurally, socially, in every possible way. It was an extremely symbolic moment when religion came to the fore in the subcontinent in a way it hadn’t since Pakistan was born in 1947. This time around, it was the first nail in the construction of Hindu India. So, while everyone is seeing the Central Vista as an attack on beauty and nostalgia, that’s just a piece. You have to recognise the continuum. This is actually a moment of ideological repetition.” Colonial fetish In Hoskote’s view, the Central Vista redevelopment “is an attack on the legacy of New Delhi and on India’s epic experiment with democracy. Some observers have been tempted to compare it to Baron Haussmann’s modernisation of Paris. I think this is a complete mistake. The real and only point of comparison is Albert Speer’s absurd scheme to rebuild Berlin’s axial vista as the symbol of a new world capital for Hitler, called Germania.” People who support the project contend that the existing vista fetishises colonialism, but according to Hoskote, this reveals ignorance of India’s architectural history. “Only the National Archives building is a Lutyens design. The National Museum was designed by G.B. Deolalikar, the first Indian head of the CPWD. The IGNCA was designed by Ralph Lerner, an American architect who won an international competition in the late 1980s. The Central Vista project will actually destroy the sense of a vista, of expanse, crowding it in with buildings that — from the projections — seem utterly banal and undistinguished.” Back in 1994, architect Gautam Bhatia wrote the fantastically entertaining classic, Punjabi Baroque and Other Memories of Architecture , which contains this perceptive analysis: “The public is given to understand that the designated building or artistic object has little to do with its actual use but is only a medium that presents a picture of India that he wishes were true.” It seems highly relevant to what’s underway in India. Elaborating via email, Bhatia agreed that Antilla typifies what has gone wrong in India, saying “it is less a statement about expressing the owner’s lifestyle than a picture of the state of architecture itself. The industrial, half-baked, modernistic aesthetic — seemingly so naturally expressed, yet so self-consciously cultivated — is an unfortunate reminder that domesticity no longer needs to be expressed in private houses. Antilla could be an office building, a compressed mall, an airport control tower or a shoe factory. It doesn’t matter. As long as it hides the living rooms, the car garages, the snow-making room, the helipads. When it is a ruin, archaeologists will have trouble carbon dating it.” About the Central Vista, Bhatia says “I don’t think anyone has ever revered Nirman Bhavan or Udyog Bhavan or any of the other post-colonial structures. But they are certainly part of an important legacy of that time. No central government should be in a position to dictate what is bad architecture, what should be saved or demolished. Democratic elected governments are custodians for a short, specified time. Parents don’t let the babysitter decide the course of their child’s life.” Architecture for the people There are also compelling moral dimensions. Bhatia asks, “Can a poor country afford to demolish valuable construction on a whim? Even the most affluent societies are careful not to rebuild and alter without reason. The White House and the U.S. Capitol have remained externally unchanged for centuries. Only in India does a mere increase in the accommodation of MPs in Parliament become the logic to demolish and rebuild miles of public buildings on the most visible and public concourse of the city. We started as a democracy, but have regressed to a banana republic.” In recent weeks, as the Central Vista project has advanced inexorably, Ram Rahman, the photographer and veteran cultural activist — he co-founded the Safdar Hashmi Memorial Trust — has been a prominent mourner for what is being bulldozed. His father, Habib Rahman, was an important New Delhi architect in its most intense phase of building from the early 1950s up until 1977, and was instrumental in the construction of several city landmarks. Rahman says, “There is a huge difference between Nehru’s vision of public architecture and what is happening under Modi. Nehru was a democrat. When when he did not like the design of a government building, he deferred to the architects and engineers if informed that the buildings were too far in progress to make major changes. His vision gelled with the ideals of the European Modern Movement and Bauhaus — of a modern architecture that was for the people, simple but aesthetically striking and practical.” By contrast, he says, “Modi’s grand projects are classically fascist: the concreting of the Sabarmati River in Ahmedabad, which has made a section of it into a static tank. The wholesale destruction of a large swathe of Benaras to create an open vista to the Kashi Vishwanath temple. These are projects without public consultation, which override all by-laws, and physically remove people and houses to proceed.” As Rahman says, “The public art and architecture being created now is wholly anti-people. But it is also anti-artist and anti-architect, with single-minded focus on brand identity at the cost of everything that characterises the greatness of India’s built heritage from ancient times through the heady days of modernist breakthrough.” The writer-photographer-columnist is the co-founder/ curator of Goa Arts and Literature Festival.  The real and only point of comparison for the Central Vista is Albert Speer’s absurd scheme to rebuild Berlin’s axial vista as the symbol of a new world capital for Hitler, called Germania, says critic Ranjit Hoskote   Nehru’s vision gelled with the ideals of the European Modern Movement and Bauhaus — of a modern architecture for the people, simple but aesthetically striking and practical, says activist Ram Rahman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-emperors-new-city/article34679888.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Firm in unbelief||Bhagat Singh died at 23 having led a full life. At 21 he threw bombs on the parliament building that India is about to abandon. Having spent two years in jail he was hanged in March 1931, though he demanded to be shot. I say he led a full life because he managed to become mature in his short youth, leaving us material that gives evidence of his maturity. His collected writings are a slim volume, only 100 pages or so. The main piece in it is his essay on why he is an atheist. It is written as an apologia, a formal defence of his opinion. He penned it in jail, while awaiting execution — which makes it even more interesting. He felt compelled to write it because someone (we are not told who) had commented that Singh was an atheist because of vanity — implying that he thought too highly of himself to submit to an almighty. My reward At 22 (the essay was written in October 1930), Singh had become a national celebrity. His act of rebellion, his desire not to harm the enemy — the bombs were only whiz-bangs that produced smoke — and his ability to express himself clearly ensured that the media and the public were riveted to him. His good looks added to his charms and there was almost nobody across the political spectrum who didn’t support him. This might have led to the accusation that he thought too much of himself. Singh defends himself against this in the beginning though he seems to make too much of the accusation. It is when he gets over his eagerness to show he is not narcissistic that his writing becomes beautiful. He accepts that belief has its uses — it softens hardship and can even make it pleasant. Then he asks what he gains by rejecting belief at this point in his life. The judgment is to come in a week’s time, he writes, and he knows what it is going to be. He will be hanged. If he had been a believer he would have had the solace of going to a better place, but he is convinced no god exists. He writes: “I see that a short life of struggle with no such magnificent end shall itself be my reward. That is all. Without any selfish motive of getting any reward here or in the hereafter, quite disinterestedly have I devoted my life to the cause of freedom. I could not act otherwise.” Standing for it This is not the thinking of an average 22-year-old. Clearly, while he had absorbed his fame and was aware of it, he had been contemplating other things as he awaited death. Singh quotes Upton Sinclair and Darwin as he discusses the differences between various faiths and death. He ends the essay with these lines: “One of my friends asked me to pray. When informed of my atheism, he said, ‘When your last days come, you will begin to believe.’ I said, ‘Never. I consider it to be an act of degradation and demoralisation. For such petty and selfish motives, I shall never pray.’ Reader and friends, is it vanity? If it is, I stand for it.” It becomes clear on reading this and Singh’s other essays why he has remained vivid in our imagination almost a century after his death. Singh was hanged in Lahore’s Shadman Chowk on March 23, 1931. About a decade ago, a group of Pakistanis petitioned their government to honour Singh (who had been born on the Pakistan side of Punjab). In 2012, the place was renamed Bhagat Singh Chowk.  At 22, Bhagat Singh had become a national celebrity. His act of rebellion, his desire not to harm the enemy, and his ability to express himself clearly ensured that the media and the public were riveted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/firm-in-unbelief/article34679891.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepal’s links with China||The democratic transition of Nepal was viewed as a dramatic development in Delhi. As politicians including G.P. Koirala and Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda crisscrossed south Delhi neighbourhoods in white official Ambassador cars and held secret meetings, the Indian capital in the early 2000s was taken up with Nepal’s new democratic engagement. There was an unspoken expectation, therefore, that when a democratic government would ultimately be formed to replace the monarchy in Nepal, it would be aligned with India. In 2008, however, the first post-monarchy Prime Minister of Nepal, Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda, flew to Beijing and participated in the Olympic Games’ closing ceremony. The shock in New Delhi at the turn of events would have been lesser if foreign policy experts had taken into account the deep history of China’s engagement with Nepal which is not limited to ideological or diplomatic affinities. Amish Raj Mulmi’s scholarly and deeply engaging treatise, All Roads Lead North , fills a vacuum on scholarship on Nepal-China relations which is a must-read to understand India-Nepal ties.  The author delves deep into classic texts and travelogues to build the case that Nepal indeed had a relationship with China that goes back to the first millennia right up to the Maoist insurgency which was built around the theory of a people’s war developed by Mao Zedong. Deep roots While the book takes up the issue of the China factor in Nepal-India relations, it eschews this narrow focus and weaves it along greater historical developments. In a fascinating twist, Mulmi shows the deep roots of the Tibetan community in Nepal as part of the demographics developed over centuries of a trading relationship which culminated in the armed resistance of the Tibetans known as the Chushi Gangdruk. Trained by the CIA and intelligence officials of India in the 1950s and the 1960s, Chushi Gangdruk was the armed wing of the Tibetan resistance. The pioneers among them underwent training in the United States and were brought to India and flown into Tibet where they were paradropped to carry out subversive activities. These veterans built a strong relationship with Nepal. Many chose to live there and the author shows that some of the weapons of the Chushi Gangdruk in fact went on to be used by the first Maoist guerrillas in the mid-1990s.  These developments over the previous decades reached a turning point in Nepal-China relations after an “unofficial Indian” blockade was imposed on Nepal in 2015. Though India denied involvement with the blockade, the fact remains that South Block supported the rights of the Madhesis who stopped the trucks from India to enter Birgunj and other checkpoints days after the Constitution was adopted on September 20, 2015. The Constitution, the Madhesis and Janjatis claimed, betrayed the promise made during the democratic transition and that it was not representative of some of the oldest communities of Nepal. They claimed the “old elite” of Nepal which dominated the social-political landscape of the country during the monarchy had resurfaced even during the democracy led by Maoist formations. Mulmi shows how the pragmatic response of Nepal to seek the northern supply route was not an impulsive decision but was rooted in ties built with China that spanned both the Maoist leaders of the new democracy as well as the last king Gyanendra who had closed down the office of the Dalai Lama’s local representative in Kathmandu. ‘Non-interventionist’ The result of the developments since 2015 was the image of China as a new superpower that can help Nepal without interfering unnecessarily into the domestic affairs of the country. In this China’s behaviour was different from that of India’s which continues to be viewed as an interventionist “southern neighbour”. China’s growing closeness with Nepal also coincided with the BRI (Belt and Road Initiative) and other landmark Chinese projects which promised Nepal an alternative order in global affairs. Vibrant democracy Most importantly, the turn towards China will not be uncontested as Nepal has a vibrant democracy where every decision about the country’s future is discussed in detail in Parliament and in its expansive media. In recent years, both the ‘southern neighbour’ as well as the ‘northern neighbour’ have attempted to establish dominance in the crucial Himalayan nation but the outcome of such a manoeuvre has not been entirely positive. While India has been criticised for its apparent desire to influence internal discussions like the Constitution-drafting and for its unilateral tendencies regarding territorial issues, China too has come under criticism after its ambassador was seen holding parleys with politicians. Nepal’s roads may lead to the north but ultimately Nepal will choose the path through a reasoned discussion among its volatile domestic stakeholders. What remains unclear is how Nepal will navigate the future as it is caught between the past and the future when China is likely to be assertive and at times an adventurous interventionist. Mulmi has written a book with a long shelf life.  All Roads Lead North: Nepal’s Turn to China Amish Raj Mulmi Context  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nepals-links-with-china/article34679913.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The vanishing act||When Vinay Bhaat, 25, wants to stage a puppet show these days, he logs on to the Facebook page where his production company, Puppet Kala, lives. The online platform is among the few certainties of life for this erstwhile resident of Kathputli Colony in Delhi’s Shadipur area. Everything else has been in medias res since a contentious redevelopment project demolished the homes of at least 3,200 families of street performers like Bhaat in 2017. Bhaat, who received the Delhi government’s Street Theatre and Performing Arts Fellowship in February 2020, is a traditional practitioner of the ancient art of Rajasthani puppetry. Puppet Kala helps fellow puppeteers, magicians, jugglers, stilt walkers and street folk artists showcase their skills and network with potential clients through social media. “You have to adapt if you don’t want to be left behind,” says Bhaat, who has never been to school. Life was never easy for these street performers. Kathputli Colony was itself an unauthorised slum that attracted puppeteers, magicians and singers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from 1950. “It’s a matter of perspective,” says Bhaat. “Some people called Kathputli Colony a slum, while others called it an artists’ village. For people like me, it was home, a place where we were born, and could just be.” As per the original plan, the sale by the Delhi Development Authority of the 5.22-hectare Kathputli Colony was sweetened with the offer of low-cost housing in the same area (2,800 apartments in six towers of 15 storeys each) to the former residents, who would, in the meantime, be accommodated in a transit camp in Anand Parbat for two years until the project was completed. Nearly six years on, the transit has dragged on, and the camp has mutated into a health and safety hazard, with poor quality construction, clogged drains, and intermittent electricity. “There are only two taps to serve the residents. So the water fights start from 6 p.m., and continue late into the night,” says Bhaat. “Most of us are afraid to use the water for bathing as it causes skin problems.” When water woes and neighbourly spats don’t intrude into his creative space, Bhaat sits down in his tiny quarters to create puppets from scratch. “All the puppets are made with seasoned mango wood. I then stitch the costumes and pick out the ornaments according to the story,” he says. Disappearing act For Rehman Shah, 49, magic used to be a matter of gathering a crowd and holding its attention with both comic dialogue and sleight of hand. “Now, with social distancing rules, nobody wants to see street magicians at close quarters. And how does one perform tricks with a mask on one’s face,” he asks. Shah feels the loss of his old home keenly. “Tourists visited us in Kathputli Colony, to take photographs, to see how we lived and worked. We were also more accessible to the people who wanted to book us for events because of our central location. But the Anand Parbat camp has thrown us into a faraway corner of the capital,” he says. Shah, who was featured in the 2014 documentary Tomorrow We Disappear , directed by Jim Goldblum and Adam Weber, which captured the colony on the cusp of demolition, says that housing is just one aspect of a way of life that is staring at oblivion. “Our earliest performances were held in royal households. After Independence, we’ve had to compete with television, malls and cinema. Those who book us are usually of an older age group, and would have seen people like us in action when they were children, so there’s an element of nostalgia attached to our art,” says Shah. “But we are still used as cultural ambassadors by the Indian government when they hold heritage fairs abroad,” he says with a sad laugh. “I have travelled to Dubai, Istanbul and Burkina Faso among other places, as part of official delegations. And our craft gets more respect and appreciation abroad than at home.” Shah’s son has begun to assist him in his magic routines, but he is keen on educating his six children. “A degree will help them become financially independent. And magic will help them carry forward our family legacy,” he says. Former acrobat Bharti, 32, doesn’t remember a day when she was free enough to hang out with her friends. “I was trained in khel (acrobatics) like rope-walking and balancing acts from the age of five by my parents, and since I was the eldest of four children, I started working with them quite early on. I would combine this with work on construction sites, so there was no chance even to think of leisure,” she says. Facing prejudice Street performers like Bharti get little respect for their agility and expertise. “I stopped working a few years before marriage because nobody wants to marry a woman acrobat,” says Bharti, who has performed in Paris and Dubai. “People ridicule us for our craft, even though what we do requires years of intense physical training.” Bharti moved back to Kathputli Colony two years ago to escape her abusive husband and is living with her three children under the care of her brother and other relatives. “We stayed on the pavements for close to a year before we were allotted quarters in the Anand Parbat camp. Times are tough; nobody is happy here,” she says. Moved by the plight of Kathputli Colony’s artists, 23 students of Delhi’s Netaji Subhas University of Technology started Project Kalakaar in December last year in collaboration with the U.S.-based non-profit organisation Enactus. Support network “Our first step was to put them online, and to create a kind of registry so that clients could contact the artists easily. That’s when we started documenting the issue, and talked to the people affected in Anand Parbat,” says Aniket Burman, a second-year MPAE (Manufacturing Production and Automation Engineering) undergraduate who is the project manager. Besides consulting people like designer and art curator Rajeev Sethi, the Project Kalakaar team also used the resources of experts like veteran puppeteer Puran Bhatt to retrain artists for a digital world. “By teaching artists how to use the mobile camera and create scripts for a new audience, we are hoping to empower them to bring in business collaborations themselves,” says Burman. “For the first time, people paid to watch Shah and Bhaat’s shows online, which helped them during the lockdown. We have also listed them on sites such as Delhipedia and hobbi.fun so that they can teach online courses.” Project Kalakaar also helps them market shows in other city venues and educational institutions. It has got seven artists on board, and is aiming to include at least 15 more in the coming months. “Artists’ villages like Kathputli Colony could easily be a way to promote tourism and also empower folk artists, but this has been ignored by the authorities,” says Sethi. “These highly skilled people are forced to perform on street corners and pavements for a pittance. The new Kathputli Colony project should include a shared exhibition space where they can showcase their talent.”  Rehman Shah feels the loss of his old home keenly. “Tourists visited us in Kathputli Colony, to take photographs, to see how we lived and worked,” he says||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-vanishing-act/article34679925.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||My Tiananmen memories||An excerpt from a new book by former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China Vijay Gokhale, who revisits for the first time his first-hand experience of the June 4, 1989, Tiananmen Square incident, which he witnessed as a young diplomat, and explains why, 32 years on, its legacy remains significant for both China and the world.  I have always wanted to tell this story since I witnessed it 32 years ago in Beijing, but my circumstances prevented me from doing so until now. It has been called by many names, but is best known as the Tiananmen Square incident because Tiananmen Square was the stage on which the drama that held the world spellbound for fifty days was performed. The happenings in the square led to the sort of chaos and uncertainty that usually presages a regime change. That did not happen. At the time it was a global phenomenon. Within a few months, however, the Berlin Wall came down and the world’s attention reverted to Europe. The happenings in China in the spring and early summer of 1989 faded from public memory. This is a story that needs telling because China is our neighbour and our people require a much deeper understanding of China than is presently the case. My story is intended to interpret the facts, to some of which I was eyewitness, with the benefit of hindsight. While thirty years have passed, it still remains an event of seminal importance in recent Chinese history. China has changed, yet the communist system remains. Personalities have come and gone, but the Red Aristocracy still rules China and stays focussed on self- preservation and self-perpetuation. Indians can no longer afford to have a superficial understanding of events involving their largest neighbour and to-be-hegemon, other than at their own peril. *** Saturday, 15 April 1989. The day began quietly. Winter was just giving way to spring. There were no signs of the impending storm that broke on the seven o’clock evening news bulletin. The death of Hu Yaobang was the leading story. He had suffered a heart attack during a politburo meeting, and had passed away at 7.53 a.m. that morning in hospital. An embassy colleague who happened to be present in Beijing University that afternoon on some other business was the first to inform us about the appearance of big-character posters in praise of the deceased Hu. That evening students began to gather in small groups across campuses in China to discuss the news. The overwhelming sentiment was one of sympathy for one who they felt had been treated unfairly. By 18 April, the number of students visiting the square swelled to tens of thousands. Aside from Beijing University, two other universities took a lead — the People’s University and the Central Nationalities Institute. The base of the Monument to the People’s Heroes was gradually almost entirely covered with paper wreaths, flowers and elegies to Hu, handwritten on paper and pasted to the column. A growing number of ordinary people were reading them. Criticism about the Party began to surface. There were reports of random acts of throwing of bottles or shoes at the public security forces. The students’ demands focussed on four main areas — greater education and job opportunities; the elimination of benefits to the children of cadres; greater responsiveness to the citizens’ needs by the government; and some personal freedoms. Hu became a useful rallying point because he had been more sympathetic than others in 1986. The Western media started to create the impression that the students were seeking Western-style democracy. The Western media’s initial efforts to define what was happening in the campuses in terms of their own reference points was the beginning of a fundamental misjudgement by Western governments about the nature of the student movement as well as the subsequent actions taken by the Chinese government. Many of them got it wrong from the outset. On the night of 20 April, a group of students decided to stage a sit-in at the Xinhuamen, which is the ceremonial gate leading to the residences and offices of China’s top leadership. The Xinhuamen is set into the ochre-coloured walls that surround the entire Forbidden City. In early April, the magnolia and forsythia that bloom along its southern facade make it particularly attractive in the drabness of the fading winter. After the 1949 Revolution, Mao had decided to appropriate this part of the Forbidden City. It was ironical that the communists, who had fought against imperialism and feudalism, had then decided to reside inside the very symbols of the state they had overthrown. But Mao was nothing if not a bundle of contradictions. He regarded himself as the true inheritor of Chinese imperial power, and had acted like an emperor. I recall it raining exceptionally hard that night, which made it difficult for us to visit the place for a first-hand look. We learnt that many students left the area of the Xinhuamen, but a substantial number also began a sit-down into the early hours of 21 April. There are two versions of what transpired next. According to an official version, the students left the police with no choice but to evict them after they tried to ‘storm the gate’, and this eviction was carried out without force, by picking up the students and loading them into buses for the return journey to their hostels. According to the Xinhua News Agency, no student suffered injuries, though the security forces needed hospitalization because some students had thrown bottles and other objects at them. The students’ version, which was the one that the Western media chose to carry, was rather different. They claimed that around 4.30 a.m. they had been surrounded, beaten with belts and kicked by jackboots, their pleas for mercy had been ignored, and they had been evicted forcefully. *** The remarkable successes that China had in maintaining economic growth and political stability from 1990 onwards hid one major development. Communism as an ideology seems to have vanished in the Chinese state during this period. Mao Zedong Thought did not suit the times. The only ideology that was important was the preservation of the political status quo. This trend seems to have gained momentum under the current Chinese leader, Xi Jinping. Outwardly, General Secretary Xi is viewed as having fundamentally altered Deng’s carefully crafted political arrangements. It is little appreciated that Xi has remained true to Deng Xiaoping’s core message of protecting and perpetuating the rule of the Communist Party of China. Though his methods may be different, there is perhaps no real difference in substance between Deng Xiaoping and Xi Jinping on the core goal. The Tiananmen Square Incident of 4 June marked the end of a decade of political and economic experimentation by the communists. Deng and the Party elders worked out a new modus vivendi. First, economic reform and opening up must proceed unhindered and without reversal. Second, political reform was not open for discussion. The highest principle of politics would be the perpetuation of the Party’s control on power. A new political arrangement was intended to give effect to this principle. The progress that China has achieved should not hide the fact that it is not a fully normal state. It is a one-party state with an army that owes loyalty to the Party above the nation. The 1989 Tiananmen Square incident, by offering a glimpse into the nature of Chinese politics under the Communist Party of China, adds to the knowledge about an institution that reveals little about itself even as it aspires to become the global hegemon by 2049. Extracted fromTiananmen Square: The Making of a Protestby Vijay Gokhale, published by HarperCollins India.  By 18 April, the number of students visiting the square swelled to tens of thousands. Aside from Beijing University, two other universities took a lead — the People’s University and the Central Nationalities Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-tiananmen-memories/article34679858.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||This was not designed to please you||Jerry Pinto experiences himself through his poems, which look at themselves, and in turn, at the poet. His gaze is prosaic, almost dispassionate. The poet-figure reveals himself in a matter-of-fact way. There is plenty he dislikes about himself and he has a lot to say about his follies and foibles. In that, he is quite unlike the Romantic poet adoring and flagellating himself at the same time.  I Want a Poem and Other Poems is a conversation between the different selves of Pinto — some of them presumably his past and future versions. The poems in this collection are decidedly modern; they progress through grief, loss and the ensuing period of self-reflection. A line from the poem ‘Grief’ speaks for the collection: “This script was not written to please you/ This edit wasn’t designed to ease you.” Watching itself Pinto takes on the theme of loving and leaving with similar conversational nonchalance. A line from the poem ‘Loving, Leaving’ reminded me of Neruda: “I loved you and you loved me too”. But the similarity is only incidental. Pinto’s poem stays wrapped in its temporality, watching itself happen. As in the course of the poem, the poet falls out of love, he welcomes back his old self with brazen admonition: “Hi, you swine, make yourself comfy”. He poses to himself the age-old conundrum of love with easeful simplicity: “So could it be that I invented you/ As not-me and so contented myself/ With a tenement in your otherness?” Most love poems would shy away from the admission Pinto makes unabashedly: that a part of you is happy for the leaving, despite the loving. ‘Night Lines’ is another poem that merits attention because of the way it deals with selfhood — “me-ness”, as the poet puts it. In this one, he talks to himself and to you. Poetry is like sex, he says, with the same “dissolution”, “delight”, “expectations” and “detritus”. Therefore, poetry too should be made in bed — a conceit that would have made Donne proud. Poetry and sex lend themselves to conjecture, romanticisation and yearning: but for Pinto both represent shoddy progressions of “me-ness”. At the threshold of his self-awareness, he “plan[s] to die” (reminiscent of the pun on die — to climax — so frequent in Elizabethan poetry), as all things must, stripped of drama or fanfare. He grabs the poem by the scruff before it can spiral out of control, and then watches it “curl up” between his pillow and the wall. The imagistic quality of the poems gives them a cinematic feel. For instance, in ‘My Biggles Moment’, “Breathes there/ The man with balls so dead, who hath not/ Chugged raw eggs…” Biggles, for the uninitiated, is the titular character of W.E. Johns’ adventure series. The poem is a meditation on the children’s book brand of manhood and the poet’s aspiration towards the same. He desires the machismo that can thwart “sunburned death”, complete with a bobbing Adam’s apple, a buddy, and an enemy. Are we to sympathise with this desire, question it, or pity it? He does not say. Like any good poetry, Pinto’s pieces leave enough room to house the reader’s projections. Precariously poised The other reflection on manhood, a vignette titled ‘On Seeing a Friend’s Post Featuring a Young Man in a Bespoke Suit on His Way to His Standard Ten Farewell Party’ , is very different in that it captures the bumbling innocence of an adolescent on the brink of adulthood, poised precariously in the moment before the inevitable betrayal — like Abhimanyu, David, Puru, Eklavya and Nachiketa, all of whom are invoked in the poem. In a rare dramatic poem, a “burning body” is tossed down metal stairs (‘Backstairs, Elphinstone College’). The body is his own and the act is lauded with wry humour as a “Romantic Gesture.” The stairs descend into the past, in a visual march through time and love. Pinto expends much of the collection’s tenderness in ‘Today My Mother is in the Audience’ and ‘Will You Miss Me?’, which offer a sweet, sentimental departure from the rest. The reviewer is a freelance journalist.  I Want a Poem and Other Poems  Jerry Pinto  Speaking Tiger  Rs. 299    Poetry is like sex, he says, with the same “dissolution”, “delight”, “expectations” and “detritus”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/this-was-not-designed-to-please-you/article34679895.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Tales from the Transhimalaya||Subhashini Krishnan expected the Himalayan wolf to preside at the apex of the food chain in Changthang, Ladakh. But she was wrong. The flat open terrain of the desert, 4,300 metres in elevation, is the realm of the only wolf to live at high altitudes. A crucial genetic mutation allows it to survive in low oxygen conditions. A pack, up to seven strong, can pick off Tibetan gazelles, marmots, and hares. The breeding pair gets first dibs and the choicest meat. After the rest of the pack has eaten, scavengers such as vultures and foxes clean up the remains. Krishnan kept watch on the outskirts of Hanle, where its residents dumped carcasses of livestock. Although they knitted sweaters to help their Jersey cows withstand the winters, many animals dropped dead. The disposal site became a feeding station for the area’s carnivores, including a pack of wolves, and to the researcher’s chagrin, lots of free-ranging dogs. Forming packs Dogs may resemble their ancestor, the wolf, but they rarely behave like it. Where they free-range, they live independent lives, gathering only around food, to mate, or chase intruders away. But in Hanle, they revert to their ancestral ways since surviving without the support of others is tough in the harsh winters. They form packs with a clear hierarchy to coordinate hunts and raise pups. Once their quarry is down, the breeding pair dines first. When the two similar-sized canids face off, the wolves would prevail, thought Krishnan. In Europe and the U.S., gray wolves even kill dogs. To her surprise, the Himalayan wolves were wary of their feral relatives. They waited for the dogs to eat their fill and leave before they ventured near the carcasses. Superior numbers gave dogs an advantage. Then Krishnan saw a lone wolf feeding on a horse carcass. If numerical strength was needed to survive and compete in the bleak terrain, how had the lone she-wolf dodged the packs of wolves and dogs? The researcher crept towards her until she was within 35 metres. The healthy animal ripped and bolted chunks of meat while paying no attention to the curious human. When a raven got too close, she charged with her mouth full. After she had eaten her fill, she trotted away, her distended stomach jiggling with every bounce. “Watching her eat for nearly three hours was a dream come true,” says the researcher. Since that first encounter, Krishnan spotted the she-wolf, whom she called ‘Her Lone Self’, a few more times. Each time, the animal made sure there were no dogs or other wolves around when she emerged to scavenge. Caught in the act When Krishnan saw Her Lone Self poop, she exclaimed “Yay!” under her breath. For a long time, she had been trying to collect wolf faecal matter for analysis. Hair and bones sieved from the scat would tell her about the animal’s diet. But in an area overrun by dogs, differentiating between the poop of the two species was difficult. Here, since she saw the wolf in the act, its origin wasn’t in doubt. The resident wolf pack, however, misjudged its timing on more than one occasion and came face to face with dogs. The domesticated canids barked and advanced a few steps, and the wolves backed off, maintaining the distance. This test of nerves ended only after the dogs had pushed their wild cousins to the other bank of the frozen River Hanle. Across the Transhimalaya, wherever villagers discard carcasses and military camps dispose of their excess food, dog numbers are on the increase. The animals harass other species, from snow leopards to foxes. Ironically, they inherited their ability to survive in these oxygen-poor elevations from their wild cousins with whom their ancient ancestors interbred. The beleaguered Himalayan wolves need more than a mutation to compete with dogs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tales-from-the-transhimalaya/article34679944.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A cache against corona||Addressing doctors and frontline workers at Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency, the Prime Minister gave them the new mantra of doorstep delivery of treatment ( jahan beemar wahin upchaar ). He said bringing treatment to a patient’s doorstep will reduce the burden on medical infrastructure. I could almost hear Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal chuckle in desperation over his beleaguered scheme of doorstep delivery of ration. The appeal was made against the backdrop of sky-rocketing novel coronavirus infections and shortage of medicines and vaccines. Since Mohammed was reluctant to go to the mountain, the common man had already started to bring home an assortment of medicines and equipment, as a measure of abundant precaution. When the first lockdown was announced last year, we, an aged couple living alone, were really circumspect. The first thing I did was to download on my smartphone a few popular e-commerce platforms, which I had heard of but never really used before. With the assistance of my relationship manager, I also picked up Net-banking with some trepidation. I then proceeded to assemble a modest “toolkit” for our guerilla warfare against an unknown and unpredictable enemy. It comprised paracetamol tablets, masks, sanitisers of various hues and aroma, a thermometer gun, a pulse oximeter, face shields, a PPE kit and extra-light oxygen cans, all ordered online. Of late, the hospitals, having run out of accessories for treatment, started asking the patients and their attendants to make their own arrangements for medicines and oxygen cylinders, if they want the patient to be admitted for treatment, much in the spirit of an advertisement for a snack which ends with the esoteric advice: BYOB (bring your own bhujiya ). This has propelled a rush to augment the repertory at home significantly. The toolkit is being supplemented not only with exorbitantly priced real as well as fake medicines but also by a hodge-podge of bulky equipment, such as an oxygen cylinder or, better still, an oxygen concentrator and may be a gurney and a patient bedstead. This has given rise to an ungodly race among the Indian diaspora to send disinfection chambers, oxygen concentrators and others. What next? A crematorium in the garage or backyard? Corona is only 10 metres away. How close has the treatment come? Will the burdensome system come forward to meet the citizen at least five step ahead? ( The writer is a former Secretary-General of the Rajya Sabha ) vkagnihotri25@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-cache-against-corona/article34679880.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A Sanskrit classic from Kashmir revisited in Malayalam||Owing to the pervasive distraction of COVID-19, Malayalam readers may have missed a notable event: the first translation into their language of a 12th century Sanskrit classic, Rajatarangini . It is by late Vidwan T.K. Raman Menon, an erudite scholar in both Sanskrit and Malayalam during his time.  Rajatarangini was composed by Kalhana, scion of a noble family of Kashmir. Among other things that fall within its wide sweep, the work contains references not only to such things as the country’s episodic encounters with China across the border, but also to the depredations of Mahmud Ghazni in Kashmir’s neighbourhood around 1013 that portended the eventual Islamic conquest of Kashmir, the land variously heirs to the spiritual heritage of Hindu, Buddhist and Jain faiths. Such striking historical details aside, the preeminent fact is that Kalhana’s is a literary text of extraordinary merit. It has multiple dimensions, such as the aureole of antiquity, the grandeur of epic, the cachet of Sanskritic literary canons, the singular distinction as an ancient Indian historical chronicle and the uniqueness that it embodies as representation of a vital part of Indian selfhood. As history of Kashmir, it has its undoubted deficiencies in terms of conventional chronology and the complex tapestry of myth and legend that it has largely woven together as content, but then Rajatarangini is more aptly described as meta history. And with that touchstone, Kalhana’s work can truly lay claim to an important place in world literature itself. Its apt choice of kavya (poetry), as felicitously described by Shonaleeka Kaul, makes for a versatile and flexible mode that can entertain the mythic and the folk alongside classical and conventionalised registers of imagination and representation. Several interpretations  Rajatarangini ’s first translation into a foreign language was as long ago as in the first decade of the 13th century, by Haidar Malik into Persian. After that, the English translation appeared under the aegis of the Asiatic Society in 1835 and the French translation in 1852. Among the renowned translations of the work in later years were those by Aurel Stein in 1900 and by Ranjit S. Pandit in 1935, the latter with a Foreword by Jawaharlal Nehru. The Hindi translation of Pandeya Ram Tej is another well-acclaimed book. But oddly enough, no translation of the work into Malayalam had been attempted all this time until Raman Menon, a scholar and author of numerous books in Malayalam including an extensive commentary of Ramcharitmanas , accomplished it in 1969. And 40 years after his passing, the translation has now been brought into publication thanks to the zealous efforts of a few lovers of classical literature. The book has a magisterial Foreword by Puthezhath Raman Menon, a considerable figure in Malayalam literature and a contemporary of the translator. In the legacy of Sanskrit, Kashmir and Kerala can be said to have a unique fellowship of literary creativity, with icons like Bilhana and Somadeva in Kashmir and Shankara and Narayana Bhattathiri in Kerala. Unique bond In the imagined community of multilingual India, Sanskritic culture is the one indissoluble bond between Kashmir and Kerala, forever sanctified by the epoch-making mission of Kerala’s Shankaracharya, the enunciator of Advaita philosophy. The long and arduous journey of the great saint across the country to Kashmir, punctuated by philosophical debates with peers and concurrent composition of immortal commentaries on the Hindu texts, is part of India’s sacred history. And for another, Sarvagnana Peetha in Srinagar where Shankaracharya was enthroned is the one mystic chord of tradition that has endured in the Keralite imagination of Kashmir. In this backdrop, the Malayalam translation called Rajatharangini promises to arouse a great deal of interest among readers. It joins a long catalogue of such translations from Sanskrit beginning with that of Kautilya’s Arthashastra , one of the first in the history of Malayalam literature.  The reviewer is a former diplomat.  Rajatharangini  Vidwan T.K. Raman Menon  Priyadarshini Publication Society  Rs. 1,200||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-sanskrit-classic-from-kashmir-revisited-in-malayalam/article34679907.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on May 30, 1908, Melvin Jerome was an American radio personality who was known as ‘The Man of a Thousand Voices’. His talent first came into prominence on The Jack Benny Program when a machine that was supposed to make automobile sounds failed during a live recording and he immediately improvised on the microphone. In 1936, he started working on projects for Warner Bros., through which he got global fame, especially through two series called Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies . How better do we know Melvin? 2 Looney Tunes was created to promote the music catalogue of Warner Bros., and that’s why it’s called ‘Tunes’ and not ‘Toons’. The name was inspired by Silly Symphony , which was another hit series, consisting of 75 animated musical short films that won many Oscars. Known for its innovation on technicolour and multiplane motion picture camera, which industry giant produced Silly Symphony ? 3This character is the official mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment. He is known for his flippant personality and thick New York accent, and a catchphrase that has become iconic in pop culture. His official debut in 1940 was in the cartoonA Wild Hare, in which a befuddled bald hunter meets his prey but is unable to recognise him initially. Who is the character being hunted and what was his first line in this cartoon which went on to become iconic? 4Dumas Horacio Tiberius Armando Sheldon is a character who is often voted as one of the most screwball characters of all time. Initially, his character was so ridiculously loud-mouthed and over-the-top that he soon became the second most famous toon in the series and earned his place as a completely unrestrained protagonist. He has a characteristic lisp and a white necktie. Who is this character who even played a parody of Buck Rogers? 5Marvin is a character who is based on the Roman god of war. He wears hoplite armour, consisting of a helmet and skirt just like the god. Although he appeared in just five theatrical cartoons, his signature phrases ‘Where’s the kaboom?’, and ‘This makes me very angry, very angry indeed’ made him popular. As the only non-terrestrial character, where would you find Marvin living, and fittingly, what is the name of the Roman god of war? 6 Tweetie Pie was a Merrie Melodies cartoon that starred Tweety the yellow canary and Sylvester the cat. In 1948, it broke Tom & Jerry’s record streak of four consecutive wins (1943-1947) of a prestigious award, giving Warner Bros. their first taste of this honour. What award did Tweetie Pie win that has been won the greatest number of times (12) by Disney so far? 7 Sarcophilus harrisii is a carnivorous marsupial that is found only in small parts of Australia. Thanks to its large head and neck, it generates the strongest bite per unit body mass of any predatory land mammal. Its voracious appetite and surly disposition inspired illustrator Robert McKimson to develop a cartoon character who has a very short temper, travels in a vortex and will eat anything in his path. What is the common name of this animal that is also the name of the character? 8 A New Legacy is a live-action/animated movie that is slated to be released in July 2021. It stars LeBron James, the only basketball player to have won NBA championships with three different franchises as Most Valuable Player in the finals. This movie is a sequel to a previous one that was released in 1996 and starred a player, who was responsible for popularising the NBA around the world, teaming up with characters from Looney Tunes . What was the name of this film, which was the first feature film produced by Warner Bros. Feature Animation? 9This now iconic phrase is the signature closing sequence for animated series by Warner Bros. After many variations in 1937, the now legendary sequence was finalised with the phrase being uttered by Porky Pig with his signature stutter. What is this phrase, which is also the title of the official art book of Warner Bros. and is used as an end slide in many quiz PowerPoint presentations? 10Born on May 30, 1962, Kevin Eastman is an American author, illustrator, and former editor of the magazine Heavy Metal . While working at a restaurant, he fell in love with a waitress, followed her to another city, and while looking for a new job discovered Peter Laird, a comic book artist. Together, they created a franchise centered round a quartet of adolescent terrapins, born out of radioactive waste, who are skilled in martial arts. What series did Kevin and Peter create that in the 90s had global fame? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34679931.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Inspired play||Polish star Jacek Kalita has established himself as one of the world’s best players. He was East in today’s deal, where South made a reasonable overcall and ran into murderous defense. South ducked the opening heart lead but won the heart continuation. South cashed the ace of diamonds and continued with the queen of diamonds to West’s king. The defense cashed two heart tricks, ending in the East hand. This was the position: (See right, grid 2) West had played his hearts in a way that suggested strength in clubs, at least in this sophisticated partnership. Most players would have shifted to the queen of clubs and defeated the contract by two tricks for a 500-point penalty. Kalita, however, looked at the position more deeply. He exited brilliantly with the 10 of diamonds! Dummy won with the jack and cashed the nine as East and West both shed spades. What was South, to discard on the last diamond? He chose to discard a club, though he had no winning decision. He led a spade from the board, but Kalita rose with his ace and now shifted to the queen of clubs. The defense took four club tricks and increased the penalty to 800 points. Well done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inspired-play/article34679935.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Work from home and other anxieties||If Zadie Smith’s previous essay collections Changing my Mind (2009) and Feel Free (2018) showcased the depth and range of her intellectual curiosity — from Martin Buber and Jay-Z to Justin Bieber and Sarah Sze — Intimations , a slim volume of essays written in the early months of the lockdown, cements her growing reputation as an essayist, ready to take on the mantle of the next Susan Sontag or Joan Didion. The pieces in Intimations are short but arresting in the acuity of their observations. Something as innocuous as a visit to a nail salon or a walk in the park can set off an intriguing web of observations and epiphanies that, in turn, trigger a fresh chain of ‘intimations’ in the mind of the reader. Discourse on privilege For instance, in ‘A Provocation in the Park’, Smith’s attention is hijacked by a man holding a sign that says, ‘I AM A SELF-HATING ASIAN. LET’S TALK.’ The essay assumes unexpected poignancy in the aftermath of the recent Atlanta spa shootings in which a white gunman killed six Asians. While it is common to label such incidents of targeted violence as a ‘hate crime’, Smith wonders, “When it comes to murder, what other kind of crime is there?” By describing a murder as a ‘hate crime’, are we not lending it “an undeserved aura of power”? Why should we care if a lynch mob was trying to express an ideology through the medium of violence — given that “the hatred of a group qua group is, after all, the most debased and irrational of hatreds, the weakest, the most banal. It shouldn’t radiate a special aura.” And yet, this seemingly commonsensical perspective is mostly lacking in the media coverage of murders driven by xenophobic or majoritarian hate. Suffering is absolute In ‘Suffering like Mel Gibson’, Smith wades into the discourse about privilege. It is essential to teach oneself the various forms of privilege. But can it be applied blindly “to the category of suffering”? For Smith, privilege and suffering are both “bubbles, containing a person and distorting their vision.” But though it is possible to “penetrate the bubble of privilege”, suffering is “impermeable”. Unlike privilege, which is always relative, suffering is absolute. “Your sufferings, puny as they may be in the wider scheme of things, direct themselves absolutely and only to you,” Smith writes. Why else would a wealthy, young, attractive, film star — the epitome of privilege by any yardstick — seek to end his life?  The lockdown left many with time on their hands. In ‘Something To Do’, my favourite from this collection, Smith starts by looking at how work from home has queered one’s relationship with time, which leads her to cogitate on how time flows around work, the difference between an artist’s labour and the labour of someone who is “on the clock”, which causes her to reflect on her own labour (writing) and why she does it (because “it’s something to do”). Before you know it, an essay on time has become a meditation on life, love, art, and loneliness: while time constitutes the raw material of life, without love, is life anything more than “doing time”? Eclectic in their themes, these essays are like chatting with an old friend who rarely calls but when she does, regales you with her unique takes on stuff that everyone thinks about but not often or deeply.  Intimations: Six Essays Zadie Smith Penguin  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/work-from-home-and-other-anxieties/article34679909.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Crazy mole, dimple chin||Dear Agony Akka, Last week, I attended an intimate wedding reception in my neighbourhood, where I met the girl of my dreams. Even though she was wearing a mask, her innate grace and beauty caught my eye. And when she briefly pulled down the mask at the salad counter, I noticed a tiny mole above her lip. Just like my screen goddess, Nayanthara, only this girl’s mole is on the left upper lip. I have now initiated marriage proposal proceedings through the girl’s aunt’s mother-in-law, who also happens to be my grandmother’s third cousin’s sister-in-law on her mother’s side. Do you think I could also ask the girl to do a minor surgery to move the mole from left to centre before our marriage? That would be my ultimate fantasy coming to life. — Dreaming Ultimate Dreams   DearDUD,  You have presented a most challenging molecular problem. But before that let me confess that I too have a most charming mole exactly in the middle of my right elbow. I always try to avoid full sleeves on my blouses and kurtas so that it can be seen well. In fact only last Monday morning when I went to pick up newspaper at the main gate — newspapers not allowed into our housing complex, only fruits and vegetables can come — Shankar from B Block No. 27 was telling me that mole on right elbow means I will be very good in Carnatic music because there is a nerve on that spot that goes directly to vocal chords and vibrates every time we open mouth. That is why we can call it Music Elbow just like Tennis Elbow for sportspeople. This was an uncanny observation on his part because I think I have mentioned before that I sing ‘Brocheva’ very well and I used to perform it in all annual day shows. Maybe next time I meet Shankar at main gate I can enquire if there is any nerve travelling from lips to any significant part of the human anatomy? In your preoccupation with the exact topographical location of mole above lip, you must not ignore importance of what route the nerve is taking. Your future wife might well turn out to be famous brain surgeon or stockmarket expert and I am not sure you want to risk losing such exciting possibilities by shifting the mole hither and thither like carrom coin. For full and accurate reply, however, please to share information on what mole or other significant features you are having or not having. Because girl also might have plans of shifting this and that so that she can fulfil lifelong dream of having husband who has chin like Prabhu, oh sorry he does not have chin. Or maybe she wants you to grow hair all over face like Rajendar so that she need not see you. So, this is what you should do. Send a message through your grandmother’s third cousin’s sister-in-law and fix up meeting in a coffee shop. Oho lockdown. Okay never mind, do Zoom meeting. Exchange notes. You tell her to shift mole and she can tell you to shift your proposal to another girl. This will be mutually beneficial. But I do see how smitten you are. Usually when presented with salad counter I am unable to take in any nearby scenery whereas you have noticed lady’s mole, grace, whatnot. Did you manage to get any salad, just curious. Maybe you made up for it in the dessert counter? Let me give you friendly tip — Nayanthara lookalikes will be looking for Surya lookalikes. Eat salad. — AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/crazy-mole-dimple-chin/article34679929.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Locked up together 24x7||A successful marriage learns to gradually overlook the ego and hear the heart in the journey. It’s very difficult yet it can be achieved. The focus should be on the journey, not the destination. It’s a mutual decision to give and receive unconditional love and care regardless of the situation we are in. Your happiness will grow when you try to understand and accept your partner. I recall my mother’s advice that my job was only to give unconditional love and care, and things will fall in place. Do not take each other for granted. Me time also seems to overlap into we time. With COVID-19, some have seen much deeper connection and some have just lost it as they can’t be together locked up 24x7. Understand that being loyal to one lifelong has its own charm and satisfaction. It’s a choice and once you make it, you own it with joy and pride. Loyalties are on the rise as the second wave has made people more aware of the need for it. Some things, both may not enjoy doing (say cleaning the toilet), but it’s a must to take turns rather than just say thanks for letting the burden be on one. When we are at home almost permanently, this becomes very important. Give space and move out of the command and control zone — live and let live. She may love movies, I may not. I can keep out without making a face. She can decide which movie. I can decide the show timings and dinner venue. Dual career and live-in couples need to give space to each other so that one need not sacrifice a career. It’s the small pleasures regularly that are very important to enjoy daily — spending quality time together even if it’s in silence but without any gadgets. In this time, do not water the wrong weeds; rather water the saplings of common joy. If you are leaving the decision to your partner, don’t find fault with it and accept it gracefully. Be kind towards each other and avoid bringing up the past too much, rather act with compassion, love and gratitude for a better future of both as one. www.naveenkhajanchi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/locked-up-together-24x7/article34679882.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The Wolf Den||Elodie Harper  Apollo Rs. 446 (Kindle price) Set in Pompeii, this is the first in a trilogy of novels reimagining the lives of women of the time. The protagonist here is Amara, a girl enslaved in Pompeii’s brothel but determined to survive. Sharp, clever and resourceful, Amara is intent upon gaining freedom, no matter the cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-wolf-den/article34679893.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Dangerous Women||Hope Adams  Penguin Rs. 308 (Kindle price) A ship carrying 180 women convicted of petty crimes sets sail for Australia from London in 1840. Despised and damned, all they have now is each other. Then a murder takes place on board that threatens to destroy their friendships. Based on a real-life voyage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dangerous-women/article34679899.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Circus of Wonders||Elizabeth Macneal  Picador Rs. 323 (Kindle price) 1866. Nell, ostracised because of her birthmarks, is sold by her father to Jasper Jupiter’s Circus of Wonders. There she achieves fame as the ‘leopard girl’. Who gets to tell Nell’s story? What happens when her fame threatens to eclipse that of the showman who bought her?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/circus-of-wonders/article34679901.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Peaces||Helen Oyeyemi  Faber & Faber Rs. 599 This is the story of Otto and Xavier Shin, a couple who embark on a mysterious train journey. Who is Ava, the full-time inhabitant of the train, and what is her relationship to Prem? Are they passengers or prisoners? Somebody is orchestrating this journey, hurtling them all into their pasts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/peaces/article34679903.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Space. Life. Matter: The Coming of Age of Indian Science||Hari Pulakkat  Hachette India Rs. 699 From the cosmic-ray experiments at the Kolar Gold Fields to ISRO’s space observatory, and the contributions of scientific institutions towards tackling a global pandemic, this book traces the advances made by India’s scientists to original research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/space-life-matter-the-coming-of-age-of-indian-science/article34679905.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The Spirit of Enquiry: Notes of Dissent||T.M. Krishna  Allen Lane/PRH Rs. 599 Musician T.M. Krishna’s key writings have been put together in this collection. It is thematically divided into five key sections including art and artistes, the nation state, the theatre of secularism, savage inequalities and in memoriam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-spirit-of-enquiry-notes-of-dissent/article34679915.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The Power of Geography||Tim Marshall  Simon & Schuster Rs. 699 In 10 chapters covering Australia, The Sahel, Greece, Turkey, the U.K., Iran, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia, Spain and space, Marshall explores the power of geography to shape humanity’s past, present and future. He takes readers into regions that are set to shape global politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-power-of-geography/article34679917.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Languages of Truth: Essays 2003-2020||Salman Rushdie  Penguin Random House Rs. 799 This volume chronicles Rushdie’s engagement with a period of momentous cultural shifts from 2003 to 2020. He explores what the work of authors from Shakespeare and Cervantes to Samuel Beckett, Eudora Welty, and Toni Morrison mean to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/languages-of-truth-essays-2003-2020/article34679919.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3152||Across  1 Zodiac sign contains 50 building blocks: they’re to be read symbolically (10) 6 Lying back, soaks in hot and steamy state (4) 9 Drive time breaking Everyman in France; holiday about to be cancelled (10) 10 No intro for jazz instruments (electric guitars) (4) 11 Cartoon rodent drinking up brine mixed with a component of gin (7,5) 15 Bangkok: in a way, largely Asian city (7) 16 Country’s spies turned, lust comes first (2,5) 17 On the phone, one who sells rings; for engagement, he needs a second (7) 19 Pray to tree, having taken hallucinogens (7) 20 Italian football team stuck in lavatory with German man. Unknown? This is perennial! (6,6) 23 In Oz, to get intimate with cricket captain (4) 24 Did gin and went berserk for tenth anniversary (3,7) 25 Conceal whip (4) 26 Stands for peers, stern, jumped-up (10)  Down  1 Cockney causes injury with weapons (4) 2 I’d like to take part in ballet sometime (4) 3 Suspect vague cliques with forgotten question: help me out here! (4,2,1,4) 4 Some regrets in absorbing strong booze (7) 5 Australia missing ‘re formed’ parolees (they’ve run away) (7) 7 HMRC device seeing dodge after unknown amount slipped into bill (3,7) 8 Feeble hope, year after year: getting clean (5-5) 12 50% of global occupations involving American house hold fittings (11) 13 Wistful odist, romanticizing daffodils, seen wandering o’er rises toward host, primarily! (10) 14 With inward feet, slob takes long time to execute dance at first (6-4) 18 Search for intelligence ... focus lacking, Everyman has to admit (7) 19 Conflict when Duke rejected redesigned wardrobe (4,3) 21 Poster in which function’s announced (4) 22 Hi-tech Tokyo corporation on the rise for very long time (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3152/article34679939.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Black day||Thousands of farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi marked six months of their agitation by observing a ‘black day’ on Wednesday. Marches were held and black flags hoisted at the protest sites, including Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, and across Punjab and Haryana. Effigies of BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi were burnt. “Even if we have to sit here till 2024, we will do so till our demands are met,” said farmer leader Rakesh Tikait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/black-day/article34679860.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Baba vs. IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) locked horns with godman-tycoon Ramdev over a video in which he called allopathy a “stupid science” that caused “lakhs and lakhs” of deaths during the pandemic. Ramdev withdrew the remarks after a letter from the health minister, but sent the IMA 25 questions on allopathy’s utility. The IMA wrote to the prime minister calling for his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/baba-vs-ima/article34679862.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Cyclonic storm||Yaas, classified as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’, left in its wake a trail of devastation as it made landfall in Odisha’s Balasore district. Four people in Odisha and one in West Bengal were killed. Scores of villages in Balasore and Bhadrak districts were deluged by the cyclone, which damaged power transmission lines and houses, uprooted trees, and inundated agricultural fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cyclonic-storm/article34679864.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||State hijacking||Belarus forced a Ryanair passenger plane flying over the country to land in Minsk, citing a bomb threat and deploying a fighter jet to intercept it. Passenger Roman Protasevich, a dissident journalist, and his girlfriend Sofia Sapega were arrested. This sparked international condemnation, and the E.U. asked airlines to avoid Belarusian airspace. Videos showed the couple, likely under duress, confessing to organising protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/state-hijacking/article34679866.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Poll farce||Syrians voted in a presidential election widely derided as a farce, with Bashar al-Assad certain to win a fourth term. He faced two obscure ‘rivals’ — a former minister and a member of the ‘tolerated’ opposition seen as an extension of the regime. Western countries denounced the process as neither free nor fair, with exiled opposition leaders barred from contesting and other factions in the war-torn country refusing to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/poll-farce/article34679868.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Choksi detained||Fugitive diamond merchant Mehul Choksi, wanted for defrauding Punjab National Bank of Rs. 13,500 crore with his nephew Nirav Modi, was caught by police on a beach in Dominica shortly after he was reported missing from his home in Antigua. Choksi had become an Antiguan citizen after fleeing India in January 2018, but its prime minister, Gaston Browne, urged Dominica to deport him to India, saying, “We will not accept him back”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/choksi-detained/article34679870.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||WhatsApp sues Centre||New digital media rules came into force on May 26, including a requirement for messaging platforms to trace the originators of messages. While Twitter said it would push for changes to rules that reined in free speech, WhatsApp sued the Centre in the Delhi High Court, arguing that tracing message sources violated the right to privacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/whatsapp-sues-centre/article34679872.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||New CBI chief||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal was chosen as the new CBI director by a committee comprising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Jaiswal, an 1985-batch IPS officer, is the director-general of the CISF and a former Maharashtra DGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/new-cbi-chief/article34679874.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Nobody’s home||BJP leaders unearthed an allegedly forged ‘toolkit’, claiming it was a Congress document with tactics to attack the government over the pandemic. Twitter flagged tweets about the ‘toolkit’ by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra and others as ‘manipulated media’. The government asked for the tag to be removed. When Twitter did not, Delhi Police descended on its office, which was empty due to WFH provisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nobodys-home/article34679876.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Our inheritance from the Neanderthals||While people like me, in their eighties, use the wrist watch to know the time of the day, today’s ‘hip’ youngsters, typically clad in blue jeans with pre-planned rips at the right place and a watch carrying facilities that not only tell the time but also the right tweets, movies and music of the present day. Compared to them, people like me are museum pieces. But when I challenge some of the more ‘knowledgeable’ among them, about how early this technological advance has come about, they proudly point out that right here in India, there is the Qutub Minar and its Iron Pillar in Delhi, both from the Iron Age. Modern humans ‘Modern’ humans have populated the earth from long before the Iron Age, for some 300,000 years, cohabiting Mother Earth along with other pre-human hominins. Who were these other people? Because bones of one of these ‘others’ were first discovered in the Neander valley, just east of Dusseldorf in Germany, they were called ‘Neanderthals’. This hominin arose about 430,000 years ago and did not evolve in Africa, as Homo sapiens did. Early humans first encountered them when they migrated out of Africa. Compete or co-operate Did they compete with us Homo sapiens, or was there cooperation? Answers to such questions have come, one fragment at a time, from studies on the genetics of populations from Asia and Europe in places where migration brought the two species face to face. The techniques for these analyses are also advancing rapidly – all you need today is a bone fragment or, even better, a tooth – these are drilled to remove a few milligrams of powder, from which DNA is extracted and sequenced. Sometimes, you don’t even need the fragment, dwelling places like caves have extractable DNA in their sediments! Notable driving forces behind all these technical and intellectual advances in this field include the Swedish geneticist Svante Pääbo and the biochemist Johannes Krause. ‘Modern’ humans interbred with the locals in these regions. Recently a thigh bone of such a cross-bred individual became available, as Dr Ann Gibbs points out in her column titled, ‘When modern humans met Neanderthals’, ( Science, 9 April 2012: vol 372, issue 6538, pp. 115-116, DOI:10.1126/science.372.6538.115). A more recent genetic analysis of one set of samples from the region showed that Neanderthals came to the Bacho Kiro cave in Bulgaria first, more than 50,000 years ago and left their stone tools. Next came modern humans in two or more waves, and littered the cave with beads and stones about 45,000, and then 36,000 years ago. Genome-wide data of three human males who lived in this cave 45,000 years ago show that all three had Neanderthals in their family lineage, from just a few generations ago. This clearly showed that the modern human population in that region had interbred with the ‘locals’ and produced a cross-bred group of people – modern with Neanderthals. This cross-bred group had 3.4%–3.8% Neanderthal ancestry (in modern non-Africans it is about 2%). The inheritance was in the form of long chunks of chromosomal segments, which grew shorter with each generation. By measuring the size of these chunks, it is estimated that these three residents had a Neanderthal ancestor 6–7 generations ago. In another study, a nearly intact feminine skull from the Zlatý kůň hill in the Czech Republic, roughly as old as the Bachi Kiro gentlemen, was found to have Neanderthal ancestors going back about 70 generations (2,000 years). Genetic connections Tracing the genetic lineages of these four individuals, it is somewhat surprising that no traces are to be found among today’s Europeans. However, they are connected to present-day East Asians and Native Americans. The descendants of these Eurasian cave dwellers appear to have packed up and moved eastward, finally enduring the hardship of crossing an ice-age Bering Strait, and the luxury of visa-free travel, into the Americas. Conferring immunity Further studies on the genomes of the Neanderthals themselves allow a comparison with those of modern humans (see reference above) and give us a glimpse of the genetic changes in the DNA sequences of the two. The chunks inherited from Neanderthals were whittled down to 2%, but what advantages did these newly acquired genes confer on humans? Having adapted to colder regions for 400,000 years, the Neanderthals gave us out-of-Africa humans variations in skin and hair colour better suited to the cold, as well as adaptive variants for metabolism and immunity – to help better adjust to strange new food sources and to unfamiliar disease-causing viruses in the new environment. dbala@lvpei.org  Neanderthals arose about 430,000 years ago and did not evolve in Africa, asHomo sapiensdid||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/our-inheritance-from-the-neanderthals/article34680043.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The goal of vaccines is to prevent severe disease and deaths’||After approving Covishield vaccination with a four-six-week interval between two doses despite evidence showing higher protection when the gap was more than 12 weeks, India changed the interval to six-eight weeks on March 22 when shortage of vaccines became apparent. With shortage of vaccines becoming more acute since then, on May 13, India once again changed the gap between two doses to 12-16 weeks even as highly transmissive variants were widespread in India. Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore explains the implications of the changes made in the midst of the second wave.  India approved Covishield with an interval of four-six weeks between two doses despite the MHRA approving AstraZeneca with 4-12 weeks gap and JCVI approving a 12-week prime-boost interval. What was the Indian drug regulator’s rationale for deciding the second dose schedule four-six weeks after the first dose? The Indian regulator’s rationale for deciding the second dose schedule at an interval of four to six weeks was based on what had been done in the clinical trials that were conducted in India. A paper in The Lancet based on a pooled analysis of four randomised trials found vaccine efficacy reached 82.4% when the second dose was given 12 weeks after the first but only about 55% when given less than six weeks after the first dose. So why did India not increase the interval between two doses to 12 weeks in early February? In my opinion India should have increased the interval between two doses to 12 weeks in February. However, the committees that decide on policy for India were clearly unconvinced that a 12-week gap was supported by evidence. What evidence was available for India to change the interval between two doses to six-eight weeks on March 22? From the clinical trials and the real-world evidence that was available by mid-March there was no data that distinguished between specifically periods up to eight weeks and those beyond eight weeks. On May 13, the government changed the interval between doses to 12-16 weeks based on real-life evidence. But even in the UK the interval was only up to 12 weeks. So where did the government get real-life evidence to change it to 12-16 weeks? As far as I am aware, the only data that is available beyond a period of 12 weeks is the data from the phase-3 clinical trials. Spain and Canada had proposed longer intervals, but I am not aware of real-world data from those settings. According to a May 24 preprint, in the UK, the effectiveness of a single dose of AstraZeneca/Covishield was only 33.5% against the B.1.617.2 variant and 51.1% against the B.1.1.7 variant. After the second dose, the protection increased to 59.8% against the B.1.617.2 variant and 87.9% against the B.1.1.7 variant. With the B.1.617 and B.1.1.7 variants being the most prevalent in India should we not be reducing the gap between two doses especially since the protection against B.1.617 from the first dose is just 33.5%? I think it is important to emphasise that the report from the UK which shows variant specific protection is only against all symptomatic infection and does not consider severe disease. Since the goal of vaccines is to prevent severe disease and deaths, either from India or from the UK we should be generating the data that tells us how well vaccines are performing with a single dose against severe disease. The UK decision on shortening the interval is not based on available evidence but does rely on the fact that they have immunised all adults with the first dose and have supplies to be able to vaccinate their population with the second dose. Since the B.1.617.2 variant is fast-spreading in the UK, the government has reduced the gap between two doses to eight weeks in those over 50 years and the clinically vulnerable population. Under these circumstances, what is the justification for India to increase the interval between doses to 12-16 weeks? There are two ways to make a decision. One is to have data to support the decision. Currently no country has data to inform how well vaccines work with an eight-week gap. In fact, given that India was the only country to have a six-eight-week gap between doses from March, and in above 60 years, we could potentially be able to provide that data to the world. The second way to make a decision is to model different scenarios that can be varied for predicted vaccine performance against variants and use that to decide whether and what policy change is required. I assume the UK did this. I am not aware that we have any data or any model that states that the decision was incorrect. How much real-world data are available to support a gap of 12-16 weeks for Covishield when B.1.617 variant is widespread? None Though the first dose of Covishield has 51.1% against the B.1.1.7 variant, the second dose increases the protection to 87.9%. Since B.1.1.7 variant too is widespread in India, is it correct to increase the gap between two doses? Against severe disease, a single dose of Astra-Zeneca vaccine has 80% protection. If the goal is to prevent severe disease, then it makes sense to use available doses to immunize more people with a single dose. For me, in the absence of evidence of performance of a single dose against severe disease due to B1.617.2, I would be reluctant to change at a time when we still have intense transmission, and the opportunity to modify disease severity in a larger population with a single dose. Is the logic of partially protecting more people with a single dose than increasing the level of protection in fewer people correct given that the first dose is only 33.5% protective against the B.1.617.2 variant, which is the most prevalent in India today? Once again, these data are for all symptomatic infections. We have not reached a stage in vaccination where we are trying to prevent all disease or all infection. Will a partially protective (33.5%) single dose lead to the generation of vaccine escape variants? No. . Protection is not measured at the level of the individual, but at the level of the population. Vaccine escape variants could be generated in persons in whom the virus can continue to replicate and mutate in the presence of antibodies. Considering the shortage, can people already infected receive two doses at 12-16 weeks while the rest get it at 8-12 weeks interval? Previously infected people have some protection, we do not know yet whether they might be equally protected with just a single dose. However, for the programme to vary schedule based on history of infection is difficult.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-goal-of-vaccines-is-to-prevent-severe-disease-and-deaths/article34680049.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Declining forest bird species in Western Himalaya||With extremely cold winters and pleasant summers, the State of Uttarakhand is home to the Western Himalayan temperate forests which harbour a large number of endemic bird species. A new study that analysed these natural oak-dominated forests and modified forests has noted that there was a drastic loss of bird species in all modified landscapes. The researchers studied an area of about 1,285 square kilometres between the altitudes of 1,700 and 2,400 metres. Six major land-use types which included natural oak forest, degraded oak forest (lightly used), lopped oak forest (intensively used), pine forest, agricultural cultivation area and sites with buildings were studied. The results showed that there was a low diversity of species in monoculture areas and urban sites. They also noted a drastic loss of pollinator birds and insectivores in the degraded forests, monocultures and urbanised sites. The results were published recently in Global Ecology and Conservation.  Habitat guilds Ghazala Shahabuddin, first author of the paper from the Centre for Ecology, Development and Research, Dehradun, adds: “We also noticed strong decline in some of the habitat guilds in the areas that experienced land-use change. Habitat guilds are groups of bird species that have common habitat preferences. For instance, forest specialists include species which forage and breed only in dense protected oak forests at this altitude, while forest generalists can adapt to modified habitats such as orchards and degraded forests.” The researchers noticed that many of the species that dropped out of the modified land areas were recognised oak forest specialists such as rufous-bellied woodpecker, greater yellownape, rufous sibia, white-throated laughingthrush and black-faced warbler. Another paper published by the group looked at woodpeckers in the region to understand how they can be used as indicators of bird diversity and also to understand habitat degradation Woodpeckers enhance They found that the higher the number of woodpeckers at a site, the higher was the richness of all other birds. “The cavities that woodpeckers make on trees are used by a number of other birds to nest in. This may be the primary reason how woodpeckers enhance the diversity in a region. Woodpeckers are known to abandon their cavities and even be chased away from their own cavity by other birds,” explained Tarun Menon, one of the authors of the paper who is currently a PhD student at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. They also noted that two species (rufous-bellied woodpecker and greater yellownape) showed great potential as indicators of forest quality as they were most likely to be found in dense canopied forests with larger and taller trees on which they preferred to forage. “With tourism and other anthropogenic activities increasing in the region, we are witnessing rapid invasion by non-native species. One would not expect to see pigeons and Black Kites in these altitudes, but with increasing concrete urban ghettos, these birds have become a common sight now,” adds Rajkamal Goswami who was associated with the Centre for Ecology, Development and Research, Dehradun, while carrying out the field surveys. He is currently working with the Ashoka Trust for Research and the Environment (ATREE) and is one of the authors of the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/declining-forest-bird-species-in-western-himalaya/article34680041.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||IIT Mandi researchers reveal key SARS-CoV-2 protein structure||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi (IIT Mandi) in Himachal Pradesh have revealed the part of structure of a key protein in COVID-19 virus, which helps in understanding its mode of action, its role in the spread and severity of the disease and development of antiviral therapeutics. The findings have been published in Current Research in Virological Science.   “One route to neutralising any virus is to attack its proteins. Such an approach holds true for the COVID-19 virus as well, and scientists across the globe are involved in studies to elucidate the structure and functions of these proteins to understand the viral disease and develop drugs that are effective against the virus,” said Rajanish Giri, Assistant Professor of Biotechnology, IIT Mandi. This virus has 16 non-structural proteins (NSP1–NSP16), of which the NSP1 plays a vital role in the pathogenicity (ability to cause disease) of the virus. “The NSP1 disrupts the proteins of the host cell and suppresses its immune functions. Its importance can be understood by the fact that it is also called the ‘host shutoff factor’. Earlier in 2020, we have shown through bioinformatics studies that NSP1 C-terminal region has intrinsic disorder propensity between 0.4 to 0.5 scales – very close to borderline of intrinsic disorder prediction. “However, without experimental studies we were not sure that this 13-180 amino acid region is actually an intrinsically disordered protein region. Generally, these regions are unfolded in solution but are folded into particular conformations when binding with specific molecules or partners inside the host cells,” said Giri, explaining the recent developments to his previous research. The IIT Mandi team has experimentally studied the structural conformations of SARS-CoV-2 NSP1 under various conditions – in an organic solvent, membrane mimetic environment and inside liposomes. The researchers have shown the dynamic changes in the conformation of the IDR of the NSP1, in response to its surroundings, due to hydrophobic and electrostatic interactions between the protein and the environment. The other members of the team include IIT Mandi research scholars Amit Kumar, Ankur Kumar and Prateek Kumar, along with Neha Garg from the Banaras Hindu University.  This virus has 16 non-structural proteins (NSP1–NSP16), of which the NSP1 plays a vital role in the pathogenicity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iit-mandi-researchers-reveal-key-sars-cov-2-protein-structure/article34680050.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Resisting worms||Do worms have an immune system? How do they fight infections? Roundworms (Caenorhabditis elegans) are animals that lack dedicated immune cells. But they are constantly under attack from viruses and fungal parasites called microsporidia. Researchers from the U.S have now decoded the complex dynamics that are involved in how these organisms sense an infection. The paper published last month (Plos Pathogens) notes worms can sense changes in their metabolism and then unleash protective defenses, even if they don't directly sense the pathogens. The team studied an important biological pathway in the worms – the purine metabolism pathway. The results suggest that the host has developed ways to sense the theft of purine metabolites. It seems that when these key cellular building blocks are stolen by the pathogen, the host senses this theft to mount an immune response to the pathogen, explains first author Eillen Tecle in a release. The team adds that studying worms can also shed light on some purine-related compound mutations seen in human diseases. Lead author Emily R. Troemel added in a release that in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, it's important to study these questions of immunity in lots of different systems to build new tools so that we can learn how to prevent and treat infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/resisting-worms/article34680053.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Board games||What’s this year taught me? Another question. Like I don’t have enough in my term paper already. So... hmmm… lemme think — don’t watch me while I’m thinking — go away! Games. Totally what I’ve learnt. Duh, not video games — you sound like my mum. Enter Mum. Extends neck like giraffe to peer into my screen. ‘Playing?Again?’ No, of course not! I show her a word document on my screen. The cursor has stayed on the same line for the last three days, ha! She doesn’t realise that a click of her heel outside my door leads to a click of the mouse and a click of a game window disappearing. Mums are cute, no? ‘Do you know how bad it is for your (insert any body part: eyes/ back/ intestines/ nostrils/ brain) — you are ruining your health.’ Whatevva… my nostrils… my problem. Go away! Anyway, much as I love gaming my mum, that’s not what I meant. So I’ve learnt ball games in lockdown — by being the ball. My life is so kicked around. First, zigzag like soccer — perhaps online class for a month, or not, or three or forever. For a bit, I was a cricket ball on a sixer — a flash of hope, of sailing through the blue sky. Then a few months of Me, the Basketball. Bouncing between Yays and NoWays. We get to go to school? Yay! And now that we’re suitably exhilarated (see how I’ve been studying my vocab, Mum?) — tada! Wave 2 — sorry, loser, go get locked up again. Right now, it’s underwater diving. Who waits longest, breath held, without going Boom! Will months of studying end anywhere? In Board exams? Will the state or the states decide? (Civics teacher, proud of me?) Not until we’ve been jabbed. Just not safe! The wave 2 is hitting kids. And they say wave 3 (get out the surfboards!) is on its way. Hold the exams? Or hold back? Online, maybe? Shorten them? Cancel them? Or postpone deciding about them (agaiiiin?) And they say teens can’t make up their minds. Look at this video, guys! Wise old adults (who did their own studying in peace a few light years ago) are discussing what’s best for us. Who is missing? Us! No one asks us. And all the while, we’re wobbling on that diving board on a plane flying higher, wondering when to jump, knowing the chute may not open. There’s the click. Mum on the prowl. She goes, ‘They’re saying on the parent WhatsApp group that…’ Then she says, on cue, ‘What — you’re playing again?’ And I say — for once — truthfully — ‘Yeah, Mum. Wanna join?’ And she squeezes in near me, and we play this stupidly awesome game where zombies keep popping out from nowhere and we gotta whack them down. And she gets that it’s the most honest and closest thing to what we’re all going through now. We play. And it’s less basketball now, and more piano. Where Jane De Suza, author of Flyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/board-games/article34680253.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||A tale of reverence and betrayal||Two-time Olympic medallist and Padma Shri awardee Sushil Kumar was an inspiration for many budding wrestlers at the Chhatrasal Stadium in north-west Delhi. Amongthem was Sagar Dhankar, a 23-year-old, who was bludgeoned to death at the stadium on May 4 by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers at the stadium.. If Mr. Kumar was moving backstage in the wresting arena as an administrator, Sagar had a promising career ahead and would have learnt wrestling tactics from Mr. Kumar, who was an Officer on Special Duty at the stadium. The relationship between the two, according to other wrestlers at the stadium, was that of a teacher and a disciple, leaving many shocked as to how the ties between them turned so bitter. Just like home Mr. Kumar’s friends, who requested anonymity, said that the stadium was like a home to the Olympic medallist over the past two decades and the only thing he spoke about was wrestling and coaching young wrestlers to qualify for national and international events. “The May 4 incident has damaged Sushil’s image that he earned over the years by winning two Olympic medals consecutively. His achievements can never be matched or compared, but the brawl that night has ended everything for him. Sagar was trained by Sushil but God knows what happened that night,” said a friend of Sushil. He added that Mr. Kumar’s life was going smooth. He had opened a school and other businesses were being run by his family members so that he could concentrate in wrestling and never detach himself from Chhatrasal Stadium. Events of the night when Sagar was killed hurts more because Sagar considered Sushil Kumar his guru, the deceased’s friends said. “It’s not just killing a national wrestling prodigy or our beloved family member, it’s also an act of betrayal by someone Sagar revered,” says a wrestler who practises at the stadium. An inspiration Sagar’s friend who used to practice with him at Chhatrasal Stadium said that they all used to learn wrestling from Mr. Kumar as he was their hero. All the wrestlers in the stadium were inspired by him and wanted to represent the nation in the Olympics Games and other international sports events. “We never expected this could happen. It is beyond our imagination. Sagar used to respect Sushil and had always obeyed his orders. We have no clue what tension was growing between them and what were they involved in,” said the man, who wished not to be named. Mr. Kumar’s coach and father-in-law Satpal Singh, who is a 1982 Asian Games gold medallist, was the brain behind making Chhatrasal Stadium, a best wrestling stadium in the country. Both of them had a good hold on akhaaras from where they used to hunt the best talent and train them in the stadium. “In his entire career from junior level to the Olympic Games, Suhsil Kumar has won 29 gold medals, six silver and six bronze medals. He was a gifted player with some extraordinary capabilities that made him a world-class player. After he won a silver medal in the 2012 Olympic Games, he last fought in the 2014 Commonwealth Games at Glasgow, where he won a gold medal. Thereafter, he got distracted from wrestling and failed to qualify for the Tokyo Olympic Games, citing fitness as the reason,” said a player, who used to practise with him in the stadium. Sushil Kumar, who was a senior commercial manager with the Northern Railways, joined the stadium on deputation by the Delhi government. Similar backgrounds For both wrestlers, the journey towards the wrestling ring began at a very young age, they both came from similar backgrounds. Mr. Kumar lives in Baprola village in west Delhi and his father is a driver in a government department. He comes from a rural and simple background. He entered the wrestling ring when he was just 14 years old. He won his first gold medal in 1998 in the National Cadet Wrestling Championship held at Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, when he was just 16 years old. He entered the ring after getting inspired by his father Diwan Singh and cousin Sandeep Singh who used to practise wrestling. Sagar’s family is from Rohtak in Haryana. His uncle Narendra Kumar said that when Sagar was in Class 6, he used to visit the akhaaras with his grandfather Rameshwar Dhankad and took inspiration from him. When he showed interest in wrestling, he was sent to a boarding school for further studies and better training. “After completing his Class 10, Sagar completely engaged himself in wrestling and participated in the junior-level national tournament. He won several medals and represented the country at men’s national and international events,” said Mr. Narendra. He added that because of Sagar’s outstanding performance, the latter got admission in Chhatrasal Stadium where he got an opportunity to learn wrestling tactics from Sushil Kumar. He always dreamt of becoming like Sushil and win Olympic medals for the country too. Heavy competition  Ashok Dhankad, Sagar’s father, said that his son’s wrestling career began at Pratap School in Kharkhoda and since 2013, he was practising at Chhatrasal Stadium. “Sagar, a former junior national champion, wanted to go to Georgia for practice as he told me that there is heavy competition in the senior category and he needed to prepare himself. However, due to COVID-19, he could not go. He has 10 to 12 medals including, four to five gold medals,” Mr. Dhankad said. “Sagar was practising at the stadium for eight years. I had a chance to meet Mr. Satpal who praised Sagar’s performance and said he would become a world champion one day. He was confident that my son was getting trained by the best wrestlers in Delhi,” said Mr. Dhankad. Mr. Dhankar, who is in Delhi Police, said, “We demand a fair probe in the case and strict punishment should be given to Sushil Kumar for the offence. No guru should do this to his disciple. The government should also take back all awards which were given to him,” he said.  Never stayed at hotel A police officer said that when Mr. Kumar was evading arrest, he never stayed in a hotel, he always stayed at akhaaras or in the house of players who were in touch with him. A day before he was arrested by the police, he stayed in the house of a national-level player in west Delhi. The police said that they have come across a piece of information that a day before the brawl, there was a verbal argument between Sushil Kumar and Sagar at the stadium. Sushil had felt humiliated. The following day, he asked help from gangster Neeraj Bawana and reached to teach a lesson to Sagar and his friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-tale-of-reverence-and-betrayal/article34680284.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||How are private hospitals getting vaccines, Sisodia asks Centre||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday questioned the Central government on how private healthcare facilities were getting COVID-19 vaccines, when the Delhi government is allegedly not getting them. “I want to ask the Central government, if the Delhi government wants to vaccinate its youth, what is your problem? When the Delhi government says we want to vaccinate the youth, then you say that companies don’t have any vaccines. But the Central government arranges vaccines from these companies for private hospitals and they vaccinate people at high rates,” Mr. Sisodia said in a video statement. “If the Central government doesn’t have vaccines for youth to give to State governments, then where are vaccines coming from to give to private hospitals?” he said. Delhi has been facing a shortage of vaccines and vaccination of 18-44 age group has not been happening in government schools for the past five days. “We are prepared to vaccinate all 92 lakh people in the 18-44 age group within three months, but we don’t have enough vaccines. We need 1 crore 84 lakh vaccine doses for that. However, we are being told that there isn’t enough availability of vaccines. How is it being made possible then, that private hospitals are being provided vaccine stocks to vaccinate young people at high costs?” the Minister said. “Even on the sixth day in Delhi, vaccination for the youth at the government centres has been completely stopped. Government vaccination centres for youth are almost closed all over the country while private hospitals are getting plenty of vaccine doses,” AAP leader Atishi said. There was no vaccine stock for the 18-44 age group for the sixth consecutive day, according to a bulletin by the government. “Is this a scam happening in which State governments are not getting to provide free vaccination to people, however, vaccines are available in private hospitals at expensive prices,” the AAP leader asked. Tax proposal Mr. Sisodia also alleged that during a meeting of the GST Council on Friday, Finance Ministers of BJP-ruled States said that there should be a tax levied on vaccines and oximeters. “As the Finance Minister of Delhi, I proposed to make vaccines and other essential health equipment tax-free. Finance Ministers of West Bengal, Punjab, Chhattisgarh too demanded for the same. However, when I proposed the need to make vaccines and COVID-19-related equipment tax-free, many Ministers of the BJP-ruled States resisted this suggestion and therefore, a consensus could not be concurred,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-are-private-hospitals-getting-vaccines-sisodia-asks-centre/article34680270.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt., L-G at loggerheads over market reopening||The Delhi government and Raj Niwas were at loggerheads yet again on Saturday over the issue of reopening city markets. The Delhi government, according to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), had proposed the reopening of markets but the request was turned down by L-G Anil Baijal. Sources, however, said the issue was neither on the agenda, nor did it come up for discussion during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority chaired by the L-G and of which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was also a part on Friday. “L-G Baijal wasn’t convinced with the idea of resuming market operations, but industries and construction have been permitted to reopen. The BJP must not monger lies on social media that it was the Delhi government who did not allow markets to reopen as it was the L-G who didn’t sanction it,” AAP trade wing convener Brijesh Goyal alleged. ‘Baseless remark’ According to senior administrative sources present in the meeting, however, Mr. Goyal’s statement was “baseless, false and misleading”. “Leave apart proposing or discussing in the DDMA meeting, the matter of markets was not even there on the meeting agenda” the source said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that if the L-G had indeed refused to sanction the opening of city markets, Mr. Kejriwal should have come forward and said it himself. “The Aam Aadmi Party should stop misleading traders on the Unlock decision taken by the Delhi government. The decision to not to unlock trading activities has been taken with the consent of the L-G and the Chief Minister who announced it,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-l-g-at-loggerheads-over-market-reopening/article34680274.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Serosurvey learnings||The story so far: Since the pandemic began in 2020, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted three countrywide serosurveys to measure the spread of infection due to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The third one (from December 17-January 8) showed that 21.5% of the population had been exposed to the virus. Up to May 23, India has been able to fully vaccinate only 3% of the population and only 10.9% had received one dose. There are indications that the ICMR is unlikely to immediately undertake a fourth national serology survey to estimate the extent of exposure to the coronavirus since January this year. Why are serology surveys important? Serology surveys take blood samples from participants and measure antibodies to check past exposure to the virus. From about 10 days after infection, antibodies grow to sizeable numbers in most patients. As some studies show, they start to decline after five to six months. Researchers are more interested in a class of antibodies called Immunoglobulin G (IgG), that persist the longest and latch onto the coronavirus to prevent them from proliferating and so their longevity and numbers are proxies to immunity against future infection. Because the SARS-CoV-2 virus is new, there is uncertainty on how long these antibodies actually last. Serology surveys are thus a crude measure of what proportion of a population is likely to be protected from a second infection; this can be used by planners to decide on future health-care capacity and opening up the economy. How many serology surveys have been conducted so far? The ICMR has conducted three national serology surveys since May 2020 and found that the exposure to the virus was several times that reported by confirmed cases. The third serosurvey that measured the spread of infection from December to early January found that 21.5% of India’s adult population and 25% of those between 10-17 years old may have been infected. Before that in August-September, it was 7% and the first survey, May-June 2020 estimated infection rate at 0.73%. The ICMR survey spanned 70 districts, across 21 States, that were meant to include high and low prevalence of the infection as well as the spread of the infection in rural and urban India and enrolled about 28,000 individuals. Subsequent surveys were conducted in the same districts but included those from 10-17 years as well as health-care workers. There have also been several city specific surveys in Pune, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai — sometimes several rounds — to assess spread among various districts. Many of these surveys, at least before the second wave struck, appeared to suggest that over 50% of the population in urban clusters may have been exposed to the virus. Why is the ICMR not likely to conduct a fourth serology survey? India’s devastating second wave began around mid-March amidst a vaccination programme that prioritised health-care and front-line workers, and senior citizens. The antibodies that are triggered after a SARS-CoV-2 virus infection are structurally indistinguishable from those after one is vaccinated. However, studies do show that those vaccinated after being exposed to the virus have much higher levels of antibodies than those vaccinated. Add to it the complication of waxing and waning antibody numbers. Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General, ICMR, told The Hindu, “Serosurveys lose their scientific relevance once vaccination starts in the population.”  In theory it could be possible to adjust for this by eliminating those who have been vaccinated from the survey. However, health officials claimed that due to the vicious second wave, hospitals and health-care infrastructure in several districts were overwhelmed by dealing with the surge in cases. A serology survey is a logistically demanding exercise as detailed interviews need to be undertaken with participants, trained phlebotomists have to be available and dedicated laboratories have to earmarked to analyse the blood work. This would require extensive inputs from the districts. Apart from the infections, the focus at the regional level should be on vaccination, and by all accounts, India is struggling to keep up with demand. Only 10.9% of the population has got a single dose in spite of nearly 20.4 crore vaccines having been administered. It is quite possible that the ICMR might consider a future survey when the situation is more amenable. Can serology surveys reveal more than just exposure? Surveys provide information on the questions they are designed to ask. Tellingly, the second serology survey did point to an increase in infections in rural India. These surveys showed that large parts of the country were unexposed to the virus and hence at risk of infection — as the second wave underlined. The specific blood-analysis tests, called assays, can be used to check if antibodies produced by the body are targeting the spike region of the coronavirus or an inner envelope containing its genetic material called the nucleocapsid. The antibodies against the spike are believed to be more relevant to preventing future infections and hence a better proxy for immunity. They can also thus provide inputs for improving vaccines.  The three surveys showed that large parts of the country were unexposed to the virus and hence at risk of infection, as the second wave underlined||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/serosurvey-learnings/article34679970.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Construction work allowed till June 7||The Delhi government on Saturday issued orders allowing the resumption of construction activities and work at industrial units starting Monday. According to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), these activities will be allowed till 5 a.m. on June 7 as part of the phased ‘unlock’ process announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday. COVID-19 guidelines The order also made it clear that only asymptomatic employees and employers will be allowed at such work sites and COVID-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and social distancing have to be strictly followed. The order also directed the management of such projects to ensure that adequate testing arrangements were in place alongside thermal scanning of employees at these establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/construction-work-allowed-till-june-7/article34680271.ece
30 May 2021||Ghaziabad,||Man with yellow, black and white fungus dies||A 59-year-old COVID-19 patient, who was also detected with black, white and yellow fungus, passed away here, the doctor treating him said on Saturday. “Kunwar Singh was under treatment but passed away due to toxemia [blood poisoning by toxins] on Friday,” B.P. Tyagi, an ENT specialist at Harsh Hospital in the city’s Raj Nagar said. The doctor said Singh, a lawyer from Sanjay Nagar in the city, had approached him recently with COVID-19 conditions. “The yellow fungus, besides white and black fungus, was detected during endoscopy on May 24,” Dr. Tyagi added. Meanwhile, he said his hospital is treating another 59-year-old man from Muradnagar who has also been detected with yellow fungus infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-with-yellow-black-and-white-fungus-dies/article34680285.ece
30 May 2021||New Delhi,||Court extends Sushil’s police custody by 4 days||A Delhi court on Saturday extended by four days the police custody of Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, arrested in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium here. The court had earlier sent the accused to six days’ police custody for interrogation. Mr. Kumar was produced before the court on Saturday at the end of the remand period. “In the interest of justice, I deem it appropriate to allow the application of the police for four days only,” Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Goel said. The police had sought Mr. Kumar’s custody for seven days. Mr. Kumar and his accomplices allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later. The international wrestler was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar, on May 23 from Outer Delhi’s Mundka. He was evading arrest and had been on the run for nearly three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-extends-sushils-police-custody-by-4-days/article34680276.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Food for your mood||As you continue to work from home, it’s natural to turn to food when you’re feeling low. But don’t reach for that chocolate bar yet. On May 28, Marriott International introduced the concept of ‘Mood Diet’, a curated menu of mood-enhancing dishes that will be available via Marriott on Wheels, the hotel group’s direct food delivery service. Eat and stay calm Chef Himanshu Taneja, Culinary Director – South Asia at Marriott International says that the menu focusses on ingredients that have a longer-term effect on our mood — fermented foods that help with our digestion (more than 90% of serotonin is produced in the gut). Other foods included in the menu are fatty fish like salmon that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids (which have been shown to reduce anxiety) and nuts and seeds (which contain tryptophan, a precursor to serotonin). While Taneja has not collaborated with a nutritionist to devise this menu, he says he dipped into his vast experience as a chef and his food science studies at Harvard University.  On the plate Dishes are categorised by mood, with crowd favourites like mezze boxes, guac and chips grazing board,nasi goreng, a DIY-style poke bowl, etc. It’s a short menu with under a dozen dishes, each listing ‘mood element’ ingredients, along with a little write-up on why it’s good for you. There’s some focus on well-being, with healthy grains like quinoa making an appearance. Overall, the menu is not wildly inventive but promises comfort in these times.    The Mood Diet will initially roll out across 13 properties in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-for-your-mood/article34680252.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||From AD to Antwerp||Whether it is the talking microphones, the ‘Blame’ bottle, or the bag with a label that reads, ‘There is no explosive in this’, Shilpa Gupta’s artworks always speak to their viewer about situations that are socio-politically loaded. And the Mumbai-based artist has found the most interesting spaces to present them — from a railway station in Chemnitz, Germany, where she explored the idea of distance (social, economic or geographic) through flap boards, to her home during lockdown 2020, where a PPE suit became a model to explore pause, anticipation and anxiety (part of Architectural Digest ’s #StillCommaLife series).    Now the M HKA (Museum of Contemporary Art, Antwerp) is showcasing  her first mid-career survey exhibition, titled Today Will End.  Curated by Nav Haq, the associate director of the museum, the exhibition looks at the evolution of her work over the last two decades, foregrounding the speculative nature of her practice as well as the depth of her critical engagement with psychology, behaviour, politics and language.    Catch the exhibition   online at muhka.be   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/from-ad-to-antwerp/article34680254.ece
30 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||One dies in Saket Court Complex fire||An 83-year-old man, a father-in-law of an Additional Sessions Judge, died when a fire broke out in a house in Saket Court Residential Complex on Saturday evening, fire department said. Four persons have been rescued, they said. Delhi Fire Services official said that the call was received at 5.23 p.m. regarding fire on the fourth floor house in C-Block after which seven fire tenders were pressed into service. The police said that Station House Officer of Saket police station reached the spot. Four persons of the family were safely rescued by fire department officials and police personnel. “However, the 83-year-old was found unconscious and immediately rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. He was wheelchair-bound and it’s suspected that he died due to inhalation of smoke,” said a fire official. The matter is under inquiry, however the police suspect no foul play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-dies-in-saket-court-complex-fire/article34680272.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Cannes 2021: The poster for the 2021 Director’s Fortnight festival, which takes place alongside the Cannes main event, is up. Part of photographer Daniel Mercadante’sThe Enchanted Forestseries, where he ‘painted’ the trees using coloured lights (from flashlights), and also used long exposure techniques to explore the temporal dimension that photography shares with cinema. @danielmercadante||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34680255.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Rushdie’s new essays||Author Salman Rushdie takes on Trump, Covid-19 and more in Languages of Truth: Essays 2003-2020, a newly-collected selection of essays, criticism and texts, many of which have not been in print. Rushdie also explores what the work of authors like Shakespeare and Samuel Beckett meant to him. Rs. 2,639. amazon.in. Listen to actors Rasika Dugal and Prateik Babbar voice The Last Girl to Fall in Love,  written by Durjoy Datta. Set in a dystopian future , it is a sequel to The Last Boy to Fall in Love . Free for Audible members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rushdies-new-essays/article34680256.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||OOKIOH says Gah||With summer here, swimwear label OOKIOH has teamed up with California-based brand Lisa Says Gah. Featuring three prints, the inclusive collection comes in a one-piece and bikini, and is made of sustainable material. Rs. 8,400 onwards, ookioh.com, lisasaysgah.com. For tech and fashion, there’s True Colors Fashion: The Future is Now!, a series on tech wearables and adaptive fashion . Leading tech companies and fashion brands come together with a diverse cast of models. On the True Colors Festival YouTube channel, June 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ookioh-says-gah/article34680257.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Meals on the dot||Joining the luxury subscription meals club, Taj hotels has lunch and dinner packages (minimum seven days). Place orders 24 hours in advance via the Qmin app. Rs. 750 onwards. 18002667646. @qminapp. In Bengaluru, order the Oota Lunchbox with dry vegetable, curry, rice,rasam,etc, from the Bengaluru Oota Company. Vegetarian and non-vegetarian options are available at this Gowda speciality restaurant. Subscription plans for five/10 days.9448302628. Rs. 250 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meals-on-the-dot/article34680258.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||New IT rules: The Ministry of Electronics and IT had given Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp three months to comply with the new IT rules announced on February 25. Now, Facebook-owned WhatsApp has moved the Delhi High Court challenging the traceability provision which it says will end user privacy. The Centre is playing down these claims, assuring WhatsApp users they have nothing to fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34680259.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Pride month begins||Veteran film actor Revathy stars in 1, Madhav Baug , this month’s offering by Staged@RS. The acclaimed play by Chetan Datar, tells the story of a mother coming to terms with her son’s homosexuality. VoD, Rs. 150. Till May 30. insider.in. In part three of One and One Unlocked, nine playwrights have written about their experiences of solitude, which have been performed by actors like Seema Biswas and Rajit Kapur. Proceeds go to the TheatreDost initiative. VoD, till May 30. Rs. 299 onwards. insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pride-month-begins/article34680260.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||No ordinary hero||Actor Richa Chadha turns the spotlight on everyday heroes. Her new community-based initiative, The Kindry on Instagram, will celebrate random acts of kindness during the pandemic. The actor started the initiative with designer Krishan Jagota. @thekindry. Meanwhile, the Maxim Gorki Theater, Berlin, has invited applications from individuals working at the crossings of art and activism for the digital edition of its Young Curators Academy. Deadline is May 30. gorki.de||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-ordinary-hero/article34680262.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||All eyes on Rafa||Fans warm up as ‘King of Clay’ Rafael Nadal eyes a 14th title at Roland Garros and a record 21st major. The Spaniard beat Novak Djokovic last year to claim the title. Djokovic, on the other hand, is looking to claim his 19th Grand Slam victory. While teenager Iga Swiatek will be looking to defend her title, 23-time winner Serena Williams is aiming to equal Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slam titles. This is also the first time night matches will be held at the Philippe-Chatrier court. Main draw from May 30. Star Sports Select and Hotstar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/all-eyes-on-rafa/article34680263.ece
30 May 2021||May 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Music for wellness||Free Music Wellness Sessions by Pink Lotus Academia, a platform focussing on Indian classical arts and culture, are the new stress busters. The idea behind these one-hour sessions is to encourage well-being via music, dancing, and more. May 29 and 30, 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. thepinklotusacademia.com. Highly imaginative during the pandemic? Give shape and structure to your tales at The Three Worlds workshop, designed by theatre artiste Akhshay Gandhi. Rs. 7,500. May 29-June 27. insider.in.8971492903||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/music-for-wellness/article34680264.ece
