31 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Number of new cases across India dips further to 1.5 lakh||India recorded 1,50,527 new COVID-19 cases and 3,028 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Sunday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,80,44,137 cases and 3,29,026 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 28,864 new infections, followed by Karnataka (20,378) and Kerala (19,894). Maharashtra recorded 814 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (493) and Karnataka (381). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 20.64 lakh samples were tested in the country on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday), which is around 16,000 fewer tests than those conducted on Friday. It is also nearly 60,000 less than those conducted on the previous Saturday (May 22). Positivity rate falls India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 9.4% on May 29, compared to 13.4% recorded a week earlier. About 30.36 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is close to 27,000 doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 14.31 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/number-of-new-cases-across-india-dips-further-to-15-lakh/article34685060.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India has sent jet to fly back Choksi’||The government maintained its silence on the Mehul Choksi deportation case in the Caribbean islands, even as the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda claimed he had information that India has sent a jet to Dominica to provide documentation and take custody of the fugitive businessman. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne said India is going “all out” to ensure that Mr. Choksi, who is wanted for the Rs. 13,578 crore Punjab National Bank fraud case, is deported back, and indicated that Indian officials were in Dominica’s capital Roseau to escort him back on a Qatar Airways private jet parked now at the Douglas-Charles airport nearby. The private jet landed there on May 28. “Yes, I can confirm there is a jet there. My understanding is that the Indian government has sent certain documentation to confirm that Mr. Choksi is indeed a fugitive,” Mr. Browne said on Sunday.  He was speaking to Pointe FM radio channel, where he broadcasts his own show. “My understanding is that the documentation will be used in the court case that will be heard at the court next Wednesday,” Mr. Browne said. According to publicly available information on flight tracker sites, the jet, a Qatar Executive flight-A7CEE travelled to Dominica from Doha to Delhi to Madrid, indicating it began its journey on May 27, the day before Mr. Choksi was produced in Dominica’s Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court. The Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs declined to comment on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-has-sent-jet-to-fly-back-choksi/article34685471.ece
31 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||Govt. not ignoring Coimbatore: Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that his government was not ignoring Coimbatore with regard to COVID-19 management. The government treated all districts equally, he said, countering the charge that the western district was being overlooked for political reasons. “The allegation is politically motivated. Those levelling the allegation should look at [COVID-19] facilities we have created after assuming office,” he told journalists after reviewing the measures taken to contain the spread of the pandemic in the western districts. Mr. Stalin, who earlier visited a COVID-19 ward at a city hospital dressed in a PPE suit, pointed out that the second highest vaccinated district after Chennai was Coimbatore. “As many as 5.85 lakh people have been vaccinated in Coimbatore. Of them, 1.51 lakh were vaccinated after the DMK returned to power on May 7,” he said on a day when the hashtag, #GoBackStalin, trended on Twitter, before being overtaken by #WeStand WithStalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-not-ignoring-coimbatore-stalin/article34685297.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India has sent jet to fly back Mehul Choksi’||The government has maintained its silence on the Mehul Choksi deportation case in the Caribbean islands, even as the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda claimed he had information that India has sent a jet to Dominica to provide documentation and take custody of the fugitive businessman. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne said India is going “all out” to ensure that Mr. Choksi, wanted for the Rs. 13,578-crore Punjab National Bank fraud case, is deported to India, and indicated that Indian officials were in Dominica’s capital Roseau to escort him back on a Qatar Airways private jet parked now at the Douglas-Charles airport nearby, that landed there on May 28. “Yes, I can confirm there is a jet there. My understanding is that the Indian government has sent certain documentation to confirm that Mr. Choksi is indeed a fugitive,” Mr. Browne said on Sunday. He was speaking to Pointe FM radio channel, where he broadcasts his own show. “My understanding is that the documentation will be used in the court case that will be heard at the court next Wednesday.” According to available information on Flight tracker sites, the jet, a Qatar Executive flight-A7CEE travelled to Dominica from Doha to Delhi to Madrid, indicating it began its journey on May 27, the day before Mr. Choksi was produced in Dominica’s Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court. The Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs declined to comment on the issue. Mr. Choksi, who has been on the run from India since 2018, disappeared from Antigua last Wednesday, and was arrested by Dominican authorities on Friday bearing grievous injuries from what his lawyers claimed was a “kidnap attempt”. Although Antigua’s Prime Minister asked Dominica to hand the fugitive over to India directly, a court in Dominica stayed the proceedings and will hear Mr. Choksi’s plea against the deportation on June 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-has-sent-jet-to-fly-back-mehul-choksi/article34685200.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. does a U-turn on teachers’ home visit||In a U-turn, the government has decided that teachers need not deliver cards containing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s message directly to students who have taken admission to class 1. The message could be sent to students through post or WhatsApp or other online mechanisms, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said at the release of the ‘Pravesanotsavam’ song on Sunday. The Director of General Education, in a statement later in the day, said the message could be delivered to students on the occasion of distribution of textbooks or uniforms. A row had erupted over a circular issued on Saturday asking teachers to deliver cards containing the Chief Minister’s message to students before the ‘Pravesanotsavam.’ Opposition stand Opposition-backed teachers’ organisations and the pro-Left All Kerala School Teachers’ Union had come out against the circular. The move had been criticised as being politically motivated and illogical, especially in the wake of the Statewide lockdown. They had pointed out that instead of asking teachers to deliver the message cards, the message could be telecast on KITE Victers channel at the inauguration of ‘Pravesanotsavam’ that would be watched by students and their parents. The Chief Minister is expected to inaugurate the celebrations. Other options such as student WhatsApp groups were also available for disseminating the message. The issue was also not discussed with teachers at the Quality Improvement Programme monitoring committee meeting held recently, the Kerala Pradesh School Teachers’ Association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-does-a-u-turn-on-teachers-home-visit/article34685220.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||94.50% poll promises fulfilled in 2 years: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has expressed satisfaction that he could fulfil 94.50% of the election promises in the last two years and reiterated his commitment to doing the best for the welfare of the masses in the coming three years. Nearly 66% of the beneficiaries are women, he has observed. Releasing letters being sent in his name to the beneficiaries of various schemes and a brief report on the promises delivered after May 30, 2019, when he was sworn in as the Chief Minister, at his camp office on Sunday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government’s accomplishments would not be possible without the people’s cooperation. He asserted that out of 1,64,68,591 households in the State, 1,41,52,386 have benefited from various schemes. “A sum of Rs. 95,528 crore has been given to the people through the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme and another Rs. 37,197 crore were disbursed through various other schemes like YSR Aarogyasri, Jagananna Thodu, Gorumudda and YSR Sampoorna Poshana. The total benefits paid out amounted to over Rs. 1.30 lakh crore. The great thing about it was the transparent manner in which the payments were made at the doorstep of the beneficiaries, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9450-poll-promises-fulfilled-in-two-years-says-jagan/article34685036.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Decision on lockdown extension by weekend’||With the COVID-19 surge still not under control in many districts, the government will take a call on extension of the Statewide lockdown by next weekend. “The expert committee has not yet given the report on extension of lockdown. The government will consult with experts and Ministers and take a decision by June 6,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told reporters here on Sunday. He, however, did not indicate the nature of the lockdown post June 7. “No decision has been taken yet. It will depend on the prevailing situation. The number of cases in some districts is still higher than what we expected,” he said, adding that this will come up for discussion with experts on June 5 and 6. His statements to the media came after he distributed food kits to pourakarmikas to mark the 7th anniversary of the NDA government led by Narendra Modi. To a question on the Centre’s guidelines to continue with curbs till June 30, he said: “The Centre has allowed the Chief Ministers to decide on the nature of curbs.”  Meeting with PM Mr. Modi has convened a meeting of Chief Ministers on June 2, where he is expected to take stock of the situation and advise the States on lockdown. Health Minister K. Sudhakar said the lockdown has helped positivity rate decline from around 47% to around 14% to 15 % in a fortnight’s time. “Even in other States, the positivity rate has fallen to 8%. These matters will be discussed in the technical advisory committee. Ultimately, the Chief Minister will decide.” Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs had issued general guidelines about how to manage the situation till June 30. “There will be no change in the curbs imposed till June 7. Keeping the guidelines and prevailing conditions in mind, the Chief Minister will decide on what next after June 7.” Mr. Bommai said the number of cases and the positivity rate is yet to come down while the situation still has to come under control. “People have to cooperate. It is a matter of one week and the situation is coming under control,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-lockdown-extension-by-weekend/article34685104.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown extended in TS with more relaxation||The State government has extended the lockdown, to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, from Monday by ten more days but with three more relaxation hours. The second spell of lockdown in the State expired on Sunday. The relaxation hours from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. were extended till 1 p.m. and a grace period of one more hour was allowed till 2 p.m. to let people who went out return home. A Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao decided to enforce the lockdown utmost strictly from 2 p.m. to 6 a.m. It was also decided to permit the working days of government offices, land and property transactions in registration offices and vehicle registration in transport offices adhering to COVID and lockdown relaxation norms. A release said the Cabinet approved the decision of the government to set up medical colleges and affiliated nursing colleges at Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, Mancherial, Jagtial, Sangareddy, Mahbubabad and Kothagudem. Similar nursing colleges were also sanctioned to the already sanctioned medical colleges. A super-speciality hospital would be constructed at the present campus of Central Jail in Warangal and handed over to the Health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-in-ts-with-more-relaxation/article34685503.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC to give verdict on Central Vista work today||The Delhi High Court will on Monday pronounce its verdict on a petition seeking to halt construction activities related to the Central Vista project in view of the recent surge in COVID-19 cases in the national capital. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh reserved the verdict on May 17 after hearing both sides. The Centre opposed the plea, saying that it was a “facade” and a “disguise” in the form of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition to stall the project which they always wanted to stop. ‘Selective plea’ Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, argued the public interest question raised by the petitioner in the case was “very selective”. He said the petitioners did not seem to care about the workmen of other construction activities going on in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hc-to-give-verdict-on-central-vista-work-today/article34685062.ece
31 May 2021||Pune,||‘Corona-free village drive to check cases in rural areas’||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced a ‘Corona-free village’ drive to check the spread of COVID-19 in rural areas while noting that the surge in cases in some districts was a cause for concern and must be immediately stopped. He said the Maharashtra government had decided to extend lockdown-like restrictions in the State till June 15 and recklessly stepping out of homes was akin to giving an invitation to a third wave of the pandemic. “For some reason, there has been a gradual increase in cases in some districts in the rural parts of the State. If every citizen here resolves to keep his or her home corona-free, then their village, and ultimately the State, will be free of the scourge of the virus. Popatrao Pawar in Hiwre Bazaar, Ruturaj Deshmukh in Mohol, and Komal Karpe from Solapur have made their villages corona-free. If they have been able to manage this, why not other headmen of other villages?” he asked. Mr. Thackeray also said the Central government must come up with a uniform policy on the conduct of State board and other exams. He said despite a significant decline in cases and fatalities, the second wave was not yet fully under control and future steps on relaxation of norms must be taken carefully if Maharashtra was not to face a dire shortage of oxygen again. “The second wave has been lethal, with the State witnessing 70,000 cases per day at its peak. In the case of a third wave, we will have to plan carefully, if we are not to face oxygen shortage. As if these woes were not enough, we have been bedevilled by the spectre of mucormycosis,” he said, adding that the State had 3,000 cases of ‘black fungus’. “However, this time, it has been a ‘long Covid’ for many patients who required oxygen for a considerably longer period. We have increased the number of testing labs to 600 as well as considerably enhanced the ICU and oxygen beds. The total beds have been increased to 4.5 lakh,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corona-free-village-drive-to-check-cases-in-rural-areas/article34685543.ece
31 May 2021||Vijayawada,||94 deaths, 13,400 COVID-19 cases in State||The State reported 94 deaths due to COVID-19 and 13,400 infections in 24 hours ending on Sunday morning. The total fatalities reached 10,832 while the cumulative tally increased to 16,85,142. With 21,133 new recoveries in the past day, the count went up 15,08,515. The recovery rate also increased to 89.52%, while the number of active cases in the State was put at 1,65,795. The daily positivity rate of 84,232 samples tested in the past day was 15.91%, the lowest in the past one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/94-deaths-13400-covid-19-cases-in-state/article34685599.ece
31 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||Stalin: T.N. govt. not ignoring Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday his government was not ignoring Coimbatore in COVID-19 management. The government treated all districts equally, he said, countering the charge that the district was being overlooked for political reasons. “The allegation is politically motivated. Those levelling the allegation should look at [COVID-19] facilities we have created after assuming office,” he told journalists after reviewing the measures taken to contain the spread of the pandemic. Mr. Stalin, who earlier visited a COVID-19 ward at a city hospital dressed in a PPE suit, pointed out that the second highest vaccinated district after Chennai was Coimbatore. “As many as 5.85 lakh people have been vaccinated in Coimbatore. Of them, 1.51 lakh were vaccinated after the DMK returned to power on May 7,” Mr. Stalin said, on a day when the hashtag, #GoBackStalin, trended on Twitter, before being overtaken by #WeStand WithStalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-tn-govt-not-ignoring-coimbatore/article34685199.ece
31 May 2021||COIMBATORE,||Not ignoring Coimbatore, says Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that his government was not ignoring Coimbatore with regard to COVID-19 management. The government treated all districts equally, he said, countering the charge that the western district was being overlooked for political reasons. “The allegation is politically motivated. Those levelling the allegation should look at [COVID-19] facilities we have created after assuming office,” he told journalists. Mr. Stalin, who earlier visited a COVID-19 ward at a city hospital dressed in a PPE suit, pointed out that the second highest vaccinated district after Chennai was Coimbatore. “As many as 5.85 lakh people have been vaccinated in Coimbatore. Of them, 1.51 lakh were vaccinated after the DMK returned to power on May 7,” he said on a day when the hashtag, #GoBackStalin, trended on Twitter, before being overtaken by #WeStand WithStalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-ignoring-coimbatore-says-stalin/article34685474.ece
31 May 2021||Belagavi,||‘Black fungus medicine in two days’||“Black fungus medicine will reach all districts in two days,’’ Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday. He said that the Union government had made all arrangements to facilitate treatment of black fungus patients. The required amount of medicine has been dispatched and they will be available in all hospitals in all districts in two days, he said. He said that party cadre and sympathisers are celebrating the seventh anniversary of the BJP-led NDA government by serving the people in various ways. Some are distributing medicine and food to the needy. Others are planting trees and creating awareness about the epidemic. “This is how we are making the day memorable. This is a historic day as the BJP became the first non-Congress party to lead a government for seven years continuously,” he said. He said that the Congress leaders will do well by cooperating with the government’s efforts in vaccination and other such steps, rather than criticise the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/black-fungus-medicine-in-two-days/article34685150.ece
31 May 2021||BENGALURU,||More relief in two days||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that the second COVID-19 relief package is likely to be announced in two days. “It is getting ready and we will announce it in two days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-relief-in-two-days/article34685152.ece
31 May 2021||Lucknow,||2 held in U.P. for throwing COVID victim’s body into river||The family members of a person who died of COVID-19 were booked in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur district after they were caught in a video dumping his body into a river in broad daylight. Additional SP Balrampur Arvind Misra said two persons had been arrested in the case on charges of violation of COVID-19 protocol. The government action comes on the heels of the Uttar Pradesh government trying to fend off criticism over bodies of suspected COVID-19 victims found floating in the Ganga in several districts. The video from Balrampur, shot by someone driving on the bridge from where the body was dumped, was widely shared on social media. In the clip two men, including one in a PPE kit, are seen lifting the body, which is wrapped in a bag, to be thrown over the bridge into the Rapti river. V.B. Singh, CMO, Balrampur, said an FIR had been lodged against the family of the person whose body was thrown into the river. Dr. Singh said the body was of one Premnath Mishra of Siddharthnagar, who was admitted to hospital on May 25 and died three days later on May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-held-in-up-for-throwing-covid-victims-body-into-river/article34685057.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India has sent jet to fly back Mehul Choksi’||The government maintained its silence on the Mehul Choksi deportation case in the Caribbean islands, even as the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda claimed he had information that India has sent a jet to Dominica to provide documentation and take custody of the fugitive businessman. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne said India is going “all out” to ensure that Mr. Choksi, who is wanted for the Rs. 13,578 crore Punjab National Bank fraud case, is deported back, and indicated that Indian officials were in Dominica’s capital Roseau to escort him back on a Qatar Airways private jet parked now at the Douglas-Charles airport nearby. The private jet landed there on May 28. “Yes, I can confirm there is a jet there. My understanding is that the Indian government has sent certain documentation to confirm that Mr. Choksi is indeed a fugitive,” Mr. Browne said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-has-sent-jet-to-fly-back-mehul-choksi/article34685058.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. expands credit for oxygen units||The Centre on Sunday enlarged the scope of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to cover loans up to Rs. 2 crore for setting up on-site oxygen generation plants at healthcare facilities and brought in the ailing civil aviation sector under its ambit. Industry captains appreciated the move but expressed concerns about its efficacy as the scheme’s allocation has not been enhanced beyond the original Rs. 3 lakh crore. The ECLGS was launched last year to help businesses tide over the national lockdown’s adverse effects, and about Rs. 2.55 lakh crore has already been utilised. Public sector banks said they were ready to implement the expanded scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-expands-credit-for-oxygen-units/article34685061.ece
31 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Second relief package in 2 days||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the second COVID-19 relief package is likely to be announced in two days. The Opposition had termed the package announced last week as too little.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-relief-package-in-2-days/article34685105.ece
31 May 2021||new delhi,||Delhi reports lowest deaths in over a month||Delhi on Sunday recorded 946 fresh COVID-19 cases and 78 deaths — this is the first time since April 13 that daily deaths in the national capital have fallen below 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-lowest-deaths-in-over-a-month/article34685472.ece
31 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt. extends lockdown till June 7||The Haryana government on Sunday extended its lockdown for the fourth straight week till June 7, but eased some restrictions. Shops in marketplaces can now open for six hours from 9 a.m. onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-govt-extends-lockdown-till-june-7/article34685473.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India will prevail over COVID-19’||In his ‘Mann ki Baat’ address, which coincided with the seventh anniversary of his government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said there had been many successes, along with trials, especially the COVID-19 pandemic that had hit lives hard across the country and dealt a blow to the economy. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that India would prevail over the virus. “India now moves ahead not under the pressure of other countries but with its own convictions,” he asserted, adding that it made everyone proud. “When we witness that now India gives a befitting reply to those who conspire against us, our confidence soars. When India does not compromise on the issues of national security, when the strength of our armed forces increases, we feel that, yes, we are on the right path,” Mr. Modi said. Many old disputes had also been resolved with complete peace and harmony, and a new confidence, underpinned by peace and development, had arisen from the northeast to Kashmir, he said. Water, oxygen supply Noting that in seven decades after Independence, only 3.5 crore rural homes had water connections, he added that now 4.5 crore houses had been given clean water connections in the last 21 months alone. Of these, 15 months were during the COVID-19 period, Mr. Modi said. His address also spoke of the massive second wave of the pandemic that has hit India, and the effort and resolve it took to take the country’s oxygen production and supply from 900 metric tonnes to 9,000 metric tonnes in a matter of days. “No one had had the experience of dealing with this once in a century pandemic, but Indians across the country, on the strength of their resolve and confidence, are fighting the pandemic and we shall prevail over the virus together,” he said. Mr. Modi spoke to corona warriors, including oxygen express driver Shirsha Gajhini and Air Force pilot group captain Patnaik who had been transporting oxygen and tankers across the country and from offshore to India. Digital transactions In these seven years, India had worked to show the world a new direction in digital transactions, and it was also setting records in launching satellites and constructing roads, Mr. Modi said. India had overcome many difficult tests as well, and each time it emerged stronger, he said. “In the form of the pandemic, we are being continuously put to test. This is a crisis that has plagued the whole world. So many people have lost their loved ones. Even big countries were not spared from its devastation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-will-prevail-over-covid-19/article34684992.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to resume COVID-19 hearings||A Special Bench of the Supreme Court is scheduled to resume its marathon hearings on COVID-19 management from Monday, following a nearly month-long hiatus after the lead judge, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, caught the virus amidst a devastating second wave. The hearings were interrupted after the Bench, also comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, constituted a National Task Force to scientifically study and recommend a fool-proof mechanism for allocation of oxygen to States. The top court had constituted the 12-member team to streamline the “effective and transparent” allocation of liquid medical oxygen on a “scientific, rational and equitable basis” to States and Union Territories. The court had expressed its dissatisfaction at the Centre’s earlier “oxygen-for-bed” formula. This “rough-and-ready” arrangement, the court said, was based on calculating the allotment of oxygen based on the number of ICU/non-ICU beds. The court had also repeatedly expressed its acute dissatisfaction at the haphazard and lacklustre distribution of oxygen even as the country experienced its worst death toll. Justice Chandrachud had made it clear to the Centre that the Supreme Court would not remain a ‘mute spectator” to a national calamity. On Monday, the Bench may discuss a May 9 affidavit filed by the Centre saying that bringing COVID-19 vaccines under a statutory regime would be “counter-productive” at this stage. In fact, this position in court contradicts India’s position globally. India, along with South Africa, had initiated a proposal for the temporary waiver of certain provisions in the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) to facilitate fair, affordable and universal access to COVID-19 vaccines and medicines, especially for developing countries. The affidavit also has the Centre arguing that judiciary should keep its hands off the management of the COVID-19 crisis and its “waves/surges”. “Though it [Centre] is duty-bound to fully assist this Honourable Court ... the policy, strategy and steps taken by the Executive, based on expert medical and scientific advice, have to be appreciated in the context of the medical crisis,” the affidavit said. It said decisions were taken after “detailed deliberations at the highest Executive level”. Hence, no “interference” is called for in judicial proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-resume-covid-19-hearings/article34685007.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon onset over Kerala delayed: IMD||The arrival of the southwest monsoon over Kerala has been delayed to June 3, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The agency had last month forecast that the onset would be on May 31. “As per the latest meteorological indications, the south-westerly winds could strengthen further gradually from 01st June, resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place by 03rd June 2021,” the IMD said in a statement. However, the IMD had, until Saturday evening, maintained that the monsoon would keep its May 31 schedule. All monsoon onset forecasts have a built-in error window of four days, and so, June 3 still falls in this window. “The monsoon winds haven’t picked up. We expected that in the aftermath of the cyclone [Yaas] there would be a pickup in windspeeds but that hasn’t happened. We expect the wind flows to strengthen in the next few days,” M. Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD, told The Hindu . Weak onset: Skymet Skymet, a private weather forecast agency, however, said the monsoon had arrived. This was because two of the three criteria — as defined by the IMD — had been met, said meteorologist Mahesh Palawat. The criteria are rain-bearing westerlies being at a minimum depth and speed; at least 60% of the available 14 stations in Kerala and coastal Karnataka, namely Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore reporting rainfall of 2.5 mm or more for two consecutive days after May 10; a certain degree of clouding, indicated by a parameter called ‘outgoing longwave radiation’ (OLR), being below 200 W/square metre. Mr. Palawat said IMD’s own data indicated that except for the OLR, the other criteria were met. “This is certainly a weak onset and the OLR was actually below 200 two days ago but has now increased to 250. There is an element of subjectivity in arrival and even IMD has, on previous occasions, relied on the two out of three criteria to declare monsoon onset.” Skymet added that conditions were favourable for further advancement of the monsoon to more parts of south Peninsula and east central Bay of Bengal. Last year, the IMD announced the onset date over Kerala of June 1, whereas the monsoon actually arrived on June 5. There is no correlation between the date of onset of the monsoon and the actual quantum of rain that is received during these months. The IMD and Skymet have forecast normal monsoon from June-September this year. To herald the onset, initial rains first occur over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance across the Bay of Bengal. Since 2005, the monsoon has arrived within the error margin of the IMD’s weather models, except in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-onset-over-kerala-delayed-imd/article34685018.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. releases seven-point ‘chargesheet’ against Modi||The Congress on Sunday released a seven-point “chargesheet” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, which has now completed seven years in power. The party accused the ruling BJP of reversing all economic gains made by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, insensitive treatment of the farmers, inept handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and failing to protect the country against threats from China. ‘Weakest govt.’ Randeep Surjewala, Congress general secretary and in charge of the communication department, in a virtual press conference said the Modi government was the weakest government India had had in 73 years. When the UPA government demitted office in 2014, the GDP was 8.1%, Mr. Surjewala said. Even before the pandemic hit in 2019-20, the GDP had fallen to 4.2%. “In the first quarter of the 2020-21, the GDP was down to minus 24.1% and in the second quarter, it is now minus 7.5%. It is estimated that in 2020-21 the GDP will be close to minus 8%,” he said. The government came to power on the promise of providing two crore employment. “In seven years, they should have provided 14 crore jobs. Forget about 14 crore jobs, the unemployment rate is on a 45-year high,” he added. ‘Already volatile’ Sky-high inflation was exacerbating the already volatile situation. “Petrol is selling at Rs. 100 per litre, while mustard oil at Rs. 200 per litre. The LPG cylinders are at Rs. 809 per cylinder. The rate of pulses is also skyrocketing,” he added. The Congress leader also slammed the government for its insensitive attitude towards the farmers. He said the BJP government wanted big corporations to replace the small farmers. Mr. Surjewala also accused the government of going back on its promise of the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report. ‘Govt. is against poor’ “This government is not against poverty, they are against the poor,” he said while pointing at the World Bank report, which claimed that during the UPA years, 27 crore persons overcame extreme poverty, while the PEW Research Centre in 2020 said the middle class had shrunk in India, with nearly 3.20 crore people being pushed off the grid. Mr. Surjewala reiterated the Congress’s earlier allegation that the government had been under-reporting COVID-19 deaths. “Will the Modi government explain why there is a paucity of vaccines? And if there were no vaccines for us then, why were 6.63 crore vaccines sent to the other countries?” he asked. Despite the “chest-thumping” by the Modi government, China continued to “occupy the Indian territory with impunity in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh”, Mr. Surjewala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-releases-seven-point-chargesheet-against-modi/article34684987.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,||A veteran communist takes a last bow||CPI(M) leader and former vice-president of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) Mythily Sivaraman died in Chennai on Sunday. She was 81 and is survived by her husband Karunakaran and daughter Kalpana Karunakaran. She was not keeping well for the last 10 years and suffered from memory loss due to Alzheimer’s disease. A few days ago, she tested positive for COVID-19 and succumbed to the disease. Leaders, led by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, condoled her death. “She visited Keezhvenmani village after the [Dalit] massacre and wrote a series of articles. It was published as Hunted by Fire and stands today as a research document,” Mr. Stalin said. She also struggled for protecting the rights of tribal community (in Vachathi) in Dharmapuri district, he recalled. “If there was injustice to women anywhere, the angry voice against it would be that of Mythily Sivaraman,” Mr. Stalin said, terming her death a huge loss to Tamil Nadu and the CPI(M). “It was she who, through her writings, drew people’s attention to the massacre of 44 Dalits in Keezhvenmani in east Thanjavur. She was also instrumental in creating awareness against imperialism and the war in Vietnam,” said K. Chandru, former judge of the Madras High Court and a friend of Ms. Sivaraman for 53 years. “I still remember the first meeting she addressed at Mangolai in Mylapore against the Vietnam war. We maintained our friendship even after I was expelled from the CPI(M). She attended my swearing-in ceremony as the judge of the Madras High Court,” said Justice Chandru, who dedicated his Tamil book, Order Order , to her. Educated in Syracuse University, Ms. Sivaraman had a promising career in the United Nations. “She worked in the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonisation and secretly visited Cuba without a passport. After her return to India, she was looking for a political space and met Gandhian Vinoba Bhave. He asked her to meet Sarvodaya leaders Jagannathan and Krishnammal Jagannathan. She visited Keezhvenmani with Krishnammal,” said writer and historian V. Geetha, who compiled the essays of Ms. Sivaraman, Haunted by Fire: Essays on Caste, Class, Exploitation and Emancipation , along with Kalpana Karunakaran. She ran The Radical Review along with former Union Minister P. Chidambaram and N. Ram, former Editor-in-Chief of The Hindu . The magazine shed light on various socio-political issues. Justice Chandru said she became the editor of The Radical Review after Mr. Chidambaram quit the post. “We all joined the CPI(M) and in the beginning she worked with the CITU. She was one of the co-founders of the AIDWA,” he said. “I knew her when she was working in the U.S. and I was amazed by her deep faith in communist ideology. Throughout her life she lived a rebel,” said Mr. Chidambaram. The CPI(M) State Committee said Ms. Sivaraman collected documents about the Keezhvenmani massacre and submitted them to the Ganapathiya Pillai Commission that probed the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-veteran-communist-takes-a-last-bow/article34684990.ece
31 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID-19 cases surge in rural Odisha||In the past three days, Kailash Chandra Behera, Block Development Officer (BDO) of Ersama in Jagatsinghpur district of Odisha, has noticed distress calls about COVID-19 rising in at least four places in his administrative area. In Gadaharishpur gram panchayat of Ersama, where three villages have already been declared containment zones, 14 out of 20 rapid antigen tests conducted on Saturday turned out to be positive. “Over a 100 villagers with COVID-19 symptoms were already under medication in Gadaharishpur, Asia and Garia villages without COVID-19 tests and doctors prescriptions. We conducted 20 antigen tests and 70% of them were infected. Results of RT-PCR tests on 40 others would be known in a day or two,” said Mr. Behera. The BDO said people in the nearby Goda village and the other two habitations had similar symptoms. Based on the cry for help of the Sarpanch of Gadaharishpur, the Jagatsinghpur district administration has declared three villages as containment zones till June 4. Away from Jagatsinghpur, Barasingha village under the Hindol block in Dhenkanal has a crisis that is deepening. From this single village, 96 inhabitants have tested positive. “Villagers paid little heed to prescribed lockdown restrictions and participated in a community feast, which led to an explosion in COVID-19 cases. Since Barasingha village alone reported 96 cases, we have declared it as containment till June 4. If the situation does not improve, the containment period could be extended,” said Bhumesh Chandra Behera, Dhenkanal District Magistrate. In Dhenkanal, the test positivity rate is alarmingly high at 36.82%. In Bhangan village of Derabish block in the Kendrapara district, 36 persons were infected, forcing the administration to declare it a containment zone. There has been some improvement in the overall test positivity rate (TPR) of Odisha. Once hovering around 24%, the TPR dropped below 15%, but the situation in rural areas remained a matter of concern. Since March 15, which is considered as the cut-off date for the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic in Odisha, more than 4 lakh positive cases have been added to the tally. In total, as many as 7,47,143 people have so far tested positive in the State. Before cyclone Yaas struck the State, the Health and Family Welfare Department sources said the prevalence of COVID-19 was almost 57% in rural areas. Apart from the coastal region, in some of the less urbanised districts, such as Boudh, Mayurbhanj and Rayagada, the high TPR is a matter of concern. While the rate in Boudh was 25.09%, Mayurbhanj and Rayagada reported TPRs of 19.26% and 14.60% respectively. The situation may worsen further. About 7.10 lakh people were evacuated when Yaas hit the coast on May 25 and 26. Though the government tried to separate COVID-19 patients from the others during the evacuation, the fear of cyclone unsettled the plan. The Ersama BDO said, “We had initially set a target to evacuate 1,000 people from low-lying areas to safer places. With much persuasion, villagers shifted. However, when Cyclone Yaas came closer to the coast on May 25, hundreds of people voluntarily rushed to different cyclone shelters throwing precautions to the wind. By evening, the number of evacuated people rose to 7,000 and no distance was observed among people.” A panchayat extension officer and a Gram Rozgar Sevak have now tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-surge-in-rural-odisha/article34685002.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. cited ‘Indian double mutant strain’ in SC affidavit||The Centre used the term “Indian double mutant strain” in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court just days before it officially objected to affixing nationality to the virus variant. A May 9 affidavit referred to “Indian double mutant strain” while detailing the steps taken by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology to develop Covaxin. The affidavit was filed in the court three days prior to a Ministry of Health statement on May 12, taking exception to media reports which referred to the B.1.617 variant as an “Indian variant”. It said the World Health Organization (WHO) had not associated B.1.617 with the term “Indian variant”. Instead, it considered the virus a variant of “global concern”. The WHO had also clarified that it “does not identify viruses or variants with names of countries they are first reported from”. “We refer to them by their scientific names and request all to do the same for consistency,” it said. But the affidavit runs contrary to the WHO even in this aspect. In fact, the affidavit calls variants “UK variant, Brazil variant, South African variant” and caps the list with the “Indian double mutant strain”. The Ministry of Health was one among the many Ministries consulted before the affidavit was filed. The introductory paragraph in the affidavit filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs said the document was filed in compliance with the instructions received from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and Ministry of Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-cited-indian-double-mutant-strain-in-sc-affidavit/article34685005.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Aggressive vaccination is key to fighting COVID-19’||An aggressive, liberalised vaccination program is key to prevent another surge of COVID-19, say health experts, warning that pandemics often persist for years presenting in-surges. It is important to accept that COVID-19 is here to stay and the focus should be on long-term management of the virus, say doctors. The warning comes as India has managed to vaccinate just over 21.20 crore of its population (including those that have got the first dose and those with two shots) as of Sunday morning. The Health Ministry on Sunday announced that to hasten the vaccination drive, nearly 12 crore vaccine doses will be made available for June. Giving the break-up, the Health Ministry said that for June, 6.09 crore doses will be supplied for vaccination of priority group of Health Care Workers (HCWs), Front-Line Workers (FLWs) and persons aged above 45 years as free supply from the Centre. In addition, more than 5.86 crore doses will be available for direct procurement. Appropriate behaviour Meanwhile, doctors said that liberalised vaccination, making masks mandatory, following strict norms of social distancing are vital to prevent another surge. Sanjeev Bagai, Chairman of Nephron Clinic added that it was also important to protect the vulnerable and the immune-compromised populations, and make health insurance mandatory. Puneet Nigam, senior vice-president, medical services at Metropolis Healthcare Ltd., said creating the right infrastructure, making available equipment, consumables and drugs is key in the preparation for another surge. “Teleconsultation to the needy can reduce the load on hospitals and only moderately or severely sick should be hospitalised.” Cautioning that a third wave is likely, Monalisa Sahu, consultant, Infectious Diseases, Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad, said the virus is highly mutagenic in nature. “Elders in the family should follow strict COVID-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated at the earliest. As no vaccine in India is approved for children, it makes them more vulnerable to contracting the infection from their family members. The third wave can be prevented to a great extent by observing COVID-appropriate behaviour, even months after we get over the second wave. Achieving a good level of herd immunity by adequately vaccinating a majority of the population can serve as a game-changer,” said Dr. Sahu. On the possible vulnerability of children during the third wave, Lokesh Mahajan, HOD, Pediatrics, QRG Hospital in Faridabad, said, “In the first wave, less than 1% of the children were infected but in the second wave, the infection rate among children increased up to 10%. Hence, we have to work on keeping our children safe by following COVID appropriate behaviour and boosting their immunity. Train your children to follow good hygiene practices and don’t send them outside if they have a fever or any other illness.” “People have to accept and understand COVID 19 is here to stay in our lives,’’ added Vikas Maurya, Director, Pulmonology at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh. He said that vaccinating people, encouraging all to stay away from crowds, testing-isolating-treating, building hospital infrastructure and providing robust surveillance is the way forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aggressive-vaccination-is-key-to-fighting-covid-19/article34685000.ece
31 May 2021||Guwahati,||Commando training, more firepower for Kaziranga guards||The Assam government has approved a proposal to increase the firepower of the guards of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve and provide commando training to them. The government has also sought the notification of all animal corridors, accelerated construction of elevated road corridors through the park, and exploration of helicopter services to and from the one-horned rhino habitat. These decisions were taken at a meeting on flood preparedness, animal safety and anti-poaching headed by Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on May 27. According to the minutes of the meeting accessed by The Hindu , the number of Ghatak (Indian-made Kalashnikov series) rifles would be increased for the 1,300 sq. km. Tiger Reserve’s guards and members of the Assam Forest Protect Force (AFPF). All AFPF personnel and frontline staff using modern weapons would be trained at the Assam Police Commando Training Centre near Guwahati on a regular basis, the minutes signed by Dr. Sarma said. “There shall be zero tolerance to poaching,” the Chief Minister’s note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/commando-training-more-firepower-for-kaziranga-guards/article34685020.ece
31 May 2021||New delhi,||‘Accused denied anticipatory bail can be given protection’||A Supreme Court judgment said an accused denied anticipatory bail can, in exceptional circumstances, still be given protection from immediate arrest if his sudden incarceration by the State will plunge his personal affairs and family into crisis. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, said the black-and-white of the written text of law did not provide for all the grey spots in human life. Chief Justice Ramana, in the judgment pronounced on Friday, underscored the “reality that no law or rule can possibly account for the complexities of life, and the infinite range of circumstances that may arise in the future”. An accused, besides being an accused, may also be the primary caregiver or sole breadwinner of the family. His arrest may leave his loved ones in a state of starvation and neglect. In such “exceptional” cases, Chief Justice Ramana observed that courts had the power to allow an accused, while dismissing his anticipatory bail plea, to retain his personal liberty for “some time” — the shortest duration reasonably required — in order to make arrangements for his family before surrendering in the trial court. He urged judges to pay equal attention to the humane side of criminal law while hearing pleas for anticipatory bail. The grant or rejection of bail in such cases had a direct bearing on the fundamental right to life and liberty of an individual. The concept of anticipatory bail germinated from Article 21 of the Constitution. At times, courts may need to look beyond the strict confines of the written text to secure complete justice. The High Courts and the Supreme Court had the powers to do so. “Even when not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to an accused, there may be circumstances where the High Court is of the opinion that it is necessary to protect the person apprehending arrest for some time, due to exceptional circumstances, until they surrender before the trial court,” he wrote. However, he said courts should not use this discretion to grant “judicial largesse” to accused persons. “Therefore, such an order [to grant protection from arrest despite denying anticipatory bail] must necessarily be narrowly tailored to protect the interests of the applicant [accused] while taking into consideration the concerns of the investigating authority. Such an order must be a reasoned one.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-denied-anticipatory-bail-can-be-given-protection/article34685021.ece
31 May 2021||Chennai,||Follow your passion: chef Damu||As part of the Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu , hosted a webinar on Hotel Management: Impact of the Pandemic on the Industry and Way Forward for Students, moderated by Pankaja Srinivasan. Addressing the participants, celebrity chef Damu recalled how he quit a B.Sc. Chemistry course to pursue his passion. “I was from a Tamil-medium school, and my peers were English speakers, so it was intimidating. But I was aware that English skills were a must and, eventually, picked up the language. Once you cross such barriers, the sky is the limit.” He stressed the importance of joining an institute with excellent infrastructure and advised students to “zero-in on whichever department you think will suit you and specialise in it”. D. Antony Ashok Kumar, director, Institute of Hotel Management, SRMIST, pointed out that one of the first industries to bounce back after the pandemic was hospitality. “Students have varied opportunities,” he explained, pointing out options in tourism hotels, government jobs, cloud kitchens, and more. Chef K. Thirugnanasambantham, principal, Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration, Manipal, said while traditional jobs in the industry were aplenty, the pandemic had accelerated new opportunities. “Now, students can learn production, housekeeping, F&B, Management, and more. There are also several micro-specialisations: a wellness pastry chef or baker, chocolatier, hospitality coding, to name a few. Culinary arts and entrepreneurship are also popular. The scope for vegetarian chefs is high, as people are increasingly opting for low-cal and wellness meals,” he said. The session can be viewed at https://bit.ly/3i01tpP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/follow-your-passion-chef-damu/article34685022.ece
31 May 2021||Lucknow,||Locate absconding IPS officer, Allahabad High Court tells U.P.||Noting that an IPS officer missing for months was a “serious issue”, the Allahabad High Court directed the Uttar Pradesh government to investigate if suspended Superintendent of Police of Mahoba, Manilal Patidar, who is absconding since being accused of abetment of suicide of a businessman, was dead or alive and asked what efforts were made to apprehend him. The family of Mahoba businessman Indrakant Tripathi – who died last September after being found shot in his car days after he had accused the 2014-batch IPS officer of threatening to eliminate him — had lodged an FIR against Mr. Patidar, then district police chief, for murder and conspiracy. However, following a probe by a Special Investigation Team, the charges were downgraded to abetment to suicide. Mr. Patidar, meanwhile, continued to evade arrest and his pleas for anticipatory bail were rejected by the court. ‘Trace whereabouts’ In an order dated May 27, the High Court directed the agency investigating the cases against Mr. Patidar to file an affidavit explaining what efforts were made to arrest him after tracing his whereabouts when his anticipatory bail applications were rejected. The court also asked if any complaint or representation had been received at any level from the family members of the IPS officer of him having become untraceable, if so, what action was taken on such complaint. A Division Bench of Justices Manoj Misra and Syed Aftab Husain Rizvi was hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by advocate Mukut Nath Verma on behalf of the officer. Mr. Verma prayed that the investigation into the matter be conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The court has further asked the investigating agency if it has put on surveillance the mobile numbers used by Mr. Patidar and found his last location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/locate-absconding-ips-officer-allahabad-high-court-tells-up/article34685023.ece
31 May 2021||Pune,||Vaccine policy a major scam, charges Chavan||On the BJP’s completion of seven years in power at the Centre, former Maharashtra Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan launched a blistering attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Mr. Chavan claimed that the vaccine policy was “a major scam” and demanded a probe into it, while alleging complete mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Centre’s part. “The Centre is expected to provide free vaccines to the citizens of the country. Instead, it is shifting this responsibility to State governments. Why are different prices being quoted for the Centre, States and private hospitals? Moreover, the Centre ought to have placed an order of 200 crore vaccine doses much earlier,” the Congress leader said. He said the “splitting” of vaccine orders only ended up benefitting private manufacturers. “Last year, the MD of Bharat Biotech had claimed that Covaxin would be cheaper than the cost of a water bottle. So, going by that, a vaccine should not cost more than Rs. 150-Rs. 180. Yet, vaccines are being sold at rates as high as Rs. 1,000 to private establishments, while being sold at a reasonable rate to the Centre,” Mr. Chavan said. The Congress held protests in various parts of the State against the Modi government to mark the BJP’s seventh year of power at the Centre as a “black day”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-policy-a-major-scam-charges-chavan/article34684980.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre bars hotel vaccination ‘packages’||The Centre has written to the States and Union Territories to initiate legal or administrative action against institutions offering packages for COVID-19 vaccination in collaboration with hotels. Private hospitals could not offer packages for vaccination in collaboration with hotels, the Health Ministry said on Saturday, adding that this was in violation of prescribed guidelines. In its letter, the Central government said that it had come to the notice of the Health Ministry that some private hospitals were giving package for vaccination in collaboration with some hotels, which was against the guidelines issued for the National COVID-19 Vaccination Programme. It added that apart from government and private vaccination centres, workplaces, home COVID-19 vaccination centre for elderly and differently-abled persons to be organised at group housing societies, there were no other avenues to carry out vaccination under the national COVID-19 Vaccination Programme. So, vaccination carried out in star hotels was contrary to the guidelines and must be stopped immediately, it said. “Necessary legal and administrative actions should be initiated against such institutions. Therefore, you are also requested to monitor and ensure that National COVID-19 vaccination drive is carried out as per the prescribed guidelines,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-bars-hotel-vaccination-packages/article34685011.ece
31 May 2021||Guwahati,||Assam detention centre frees last ‘foreigner’||The last “foreigner” has walked out of one of the six detention centres in Assam, leaving about 170 more to be released from the other five. Manindra Das was tagged a ‘D-voter’ in 2015 and later declared a “foreigner” in a one-sided decision by a Foreigners’ Tribunal in 2019. He was lodged in the detention centre within Silchar Central Jail in southern Assam’s Barak Valley. A D-voter, or doubtful voter, is a category of voters in Assam disenfranchised by the government allegedly for lacking proper citizenship credentials. The barely literate 67-year-old and members of his family had no clue what the successive notices sent by the tribunal meant. “I have seen many governments come and go, voting every time since I became eligible to. Suddenly, I became a foreigner, got detained and reduced to a living corpse. I don’t blame anyone for my fate, but I hope the government lets me live a normal life, whatever is left of it,” he said after his release on Saturday. But the ordeal of the man from Siddhipur village in Cachar district is far from over. “He will have to do the rounds of the local police station and the tribunal periodically. But he got a respite because of the COVID-19 situation, which made the Supreme Court reduce the minimum detention period from three to two years and from two sureties of Rs. 1 lakh each to one of Rs. 5,000,” said Barak Valley-based activist Kamal Chakraborty, who helped get bail for 45 Indian citizens marked foreigners.    Satyendra Baishya, the in-charge of Silchar Central Jail said the detention centre inside the jail was now free of any D-voter. “The Foreigners’ Tribunals have not sent any declared foreigner for almost two years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-detention-centre-frees-last-foreigner/article34685019.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. not ignoring Coimbatore, says Stalin||He recalled his statement that the DMK government would work in such a way that people who voted for the party would be happy and those who did not vote would regret it, appreciating its work. To drive home his point, he said this was his second visit to the district. He had held a video-conference with the Collector, deputed Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian and designated a senior officer as the nodal officer to oversee the implementation of the COVID-19 control measures. If need be, he would make another visit, he said. Mr. Stalin said the State had fared better than Kerala and Karnataka, which had reported the highest daily case count of 43,000 and 50,000 as the pandemic peaked. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu had reported the highest of 36,000 cases, the Chief Minister said. The case count had come down in the last two days in the district as the administration was taking all steps to control the spread of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-not-ignoring-coimbatore-says-stalin/article34685479.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,||‘There is no need for me to apologise to Goans’||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan on Sunday said there was no need for him to apologise to Goans as demanded by Goa Transport Minister Mauvin Godinho, adding that he had only backed the State’s rights at the recent 43rd GST Council meeting. Mr. Godinho had claimed that at the virtual meeting, Mr. Thiagarajan had asked him to “shut up” after he cast his “vote”. He alleged that Mr. Thiagarajan’s case was that “since he comes from a big State, he should have a bigger vote”. Denying the allegations, the Tamil Nadu Finance Minister said he was clear in his position that the “one State-one vote” mode of the GST Council was fundamentally unfair and he believed in a federal governance model. “Every statement I made during the entire meeting was entirely consistent with these two principles,” he said. Mr. Thiagarajan alleged that the Goa Minister was vociferously and repeatedly against lowering the GST on COVID-19-related drugs and vaccines from 5% to 0% on humanitarian grounds. “In any event, I have no need to apologise to the people of Goa, for I have done you no harm. I have strongly advocated for your State government’s rights. I do not require or expect any thanks for that, as my position was dictated by my principles of strengthening the States’ rights and federalism with enhanced devolution,” he said in a ‘Statement to the People of Goa’. He said there was no agenda item in the GST Council regarding Goa’s intention to levy any cess. “So, I simply could not have voted at all on an agenda item that did not exist, let alone vote against it!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/there-is-no-need-for-me-to-apologise-to-goans/article34684975.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Opposition quarantined itself during pandemic’||Marking the seventh anniversary of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief J.P. Nadda on Sunday said while crores of his party workers were serving the public by helping them with COVID-19 relief material, the Opposition had “quarantined” itself and worked to lower the morale of the country during the pandemic. Mr. Nadda, addressing BJP workers virtually, told them to continue working to help the public during the pandemic and not get bothered by “obstructors” who absolved themselves from their responsibility. The BJP was observing the anniversary of its government at the Centre as ‘Seva Diwas’. In view of the pandemic, the party had decided not to celebrate the day. Instead, it organised relief works under the campaign ‘Sewa Hi Sangathan Hai’. As part of the campaign, Mr. Nadda said, BJP MLAs and MPs were participating in relief works in at least two villages. “In this pandemic, BJP workers, without being bothered about their well-being, are standing with the people. But the Opposition has gone into lockdown and quarantined itself. It is visible only in virtual press conferences or on Twitter,” Mr. Nadda said. “Some are sadhak [doers], while some are badhak [obstructors]... But we don’t have to get bothered by them and must continue in our endeavour to serve,” he said. Taking on the Opposition over their statements about the vaccination drive against COVID-19, the BJP chief said they were the ones who questioned the vaccines to create doubts in the minds of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-quarantined-itself-during-pandemic/article34684976.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi HC to give verdict on Central Vista today||Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Saturday allowed construction activities within their worksites outside the containment zones during the curfew period, which was extended in the city for another week. Before the High Court, the petitions by Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary film maker, argued that the Central Vista project was not an essential activity and hence, it could be put on hold for now during the pandemic. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioners, argued that his clients were only delivering a message of health and safety for the people of Delhi and if the government could not see it, then it was a “sorry reflection” of their concerns for the lives of the citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-to-give-verdict-on-central-vista-today/article34684978.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India has sent jet to fly back Mehul Choksi’||PM Browne said Mr. Choksi had not been taken forcibly from Antigua, nor had he “escaped”, but that he had travelled to Dominica “to have dinner and a good time” with his girlfriend, whom he did not name. “That would have been a monumental error because whereas in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not have deported him,” Mr. Browne said. Official sources in New Delhi said the government is in touch with both Antigua and Dominica authorities and will continue to track Mr. Choksi “no matter whether he is in Antigua, Dominica or another place”. Mr. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted by both the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation, and an Interpol Red Corner Notice was issued in the case in December 2018. Mr. Modi is in custody in the United Kingdom as he faces an extradition process. Officials said they hope that the Dominican court does grant his extradition to India directly; if it decides to send him back to Antigua the process to deport him will be more complicated by the questions over his citizenship. PM Browne said although Mr. Choksi’s Antigua citizenship will “ultimately be revoked”, he enjoys full “constitutional and legal” protection in Antigua & Barbados for now, but claimed that Mr. Choksi also “remains an Indian citizen” as he has not completed the renunciation process.  (With inputs from Devesh K. Pandey)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-has-sent-jet-to-fly-back-mehul-choksi/article34684984.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Number of new cases dips further to 1.5 lakh||There has been a significant uptick in daily vaccinations in the country. On May 29, India administered an average of 23.39 lakh doses daily, which is higher than the 13.19 lakh average daily doses administered until a week before (May 22). Until May 30, about 17.7% of India's adult population, 38% of the 45+ population and 42.9% of those aged above 60 had been vaccinated with at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/number-of-new-cases-dips-further-to-15-lakh/article34684985.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. expands credit for oxygen units||However, just about Rs. 45,000 crore remains to cope with the demand from newly included beneficiaries as well as existing ones who have been offered some marginal respite. Attributing the latest changes in the scheme to ‘disruptions caused by the second wave of COVID 19 pandemic to businesses across various sectors’, the Finance Ministry extended the scheme’s validity till September 30 from June 30 and permitted lenders to disburse credit till December 31, 2021. FICCI president Uday Shankar hoped banks would begin lending quickly to the critical healthcare sector to help ramp up the health infrastructure to prepare for any future waves of the pandemic but added that a higher allocation would have helped more. “ECLGS 4.0 (includes) 100% guarantee cover to loans upto Rs. 2 crore to hospitals, nursing homes, clinics,medical colleges for setting up on-site oxygen generation plants, interest rate capped at 7.5%,” the Ministry said in a statement. Loans for treatment State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Khara and Indian Banks’ Association chief Rajkiran Rai, in a joint briefing, said banks are ready to implement the new ECLGS features and announced three new products to help fight COVID-19. These include unsecured personal loans to individuals from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 5 lakh to meet medical treatment costs for COVID-19, and business loans to healthcare facilities upto Rs. 100 crore. With the inclusion of the capital-intensive aviation sector, the government has also dropped the Rs. 500 crore loan outstanding limit for availing emergency credit. The maximum additional assistance to each borrower has, however, been limited to 40% of the outstandingamount, or Rs. 200 crore, whichever is lower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-expands-credit-for-oxygen-units/article34684988.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Two held for throwing body into river in U.P||“The body was handed over to his family as per the COVID-19 protocol,” the CMO said. Dr. Singh said prima facie it came to light that the family had thrown the body into the river, and appropriate action would be taken. Ever since bodies were seen floating in the Ganga, the police have set up pickets and patrolling by boats to prevent such disposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-held-for-throwing-body-into-river-in-up/article34684993.ece
31 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||State extends lockdown||Odisha on Sunday extended the lockdown by 16 days in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation. Lockdown restrictions will remain in force till 5 a.m. on June 17. However, weekend shutdowns would continue. The government has also decided to increase the time given to people to buy essential items in three districts — Gajapati, Nuapada and Sundargarh — due to a drop in the TPR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-extends-lockdown/article34684998.ece
31 May 2021||Mumbai,||Introspect, Sena leader tells Centre||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said India is surviving as a nation due to the good deeds of previous governments since the time of Jawaharlal Nehru. The present Modi government needed to introspect on whether it had been able to fulfil the basic needs of the people, he said. Talking to presspersons in Mumbai, Mr. Raut said, “The country is surviving on the good deeds of the previous governments since the time of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh.”  ‘Various issues’ A lot more needed to be done, he said, adding that there were problems of inflation, unemployment and unrest due to the pandemic. “When you get a majority, it means people have handed you the power with faith and trust. The needs and demands of the people are very few. They need livelihoods — roti, kapda, makaan [food, clothing and shelter] — are important, along with health and education facilities,” Mr. Raut said. He said the Central government should “introspect” if this had been achieved in the last seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/introspect-sena-leader-tells-centre/article34684977.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||SII promises over 9 crore doses in June||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has informed the government that it will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of Covishield in June as compared to its production capacity of 6.5 crore doses in May, official sources said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-promises-over-9-crore-doses-in-june/article34684994.ece
31 May 2021||Patna,||Bihar to give monthly dole to orphans||The Bihar government on Sunday said it would provide Rs. 1,500 each month to children who lost their parents to COVID-19. The children will get the financial assistance till the age of 18 and will be housed in State child care centres. Orphaned girls will get admission in Kasturba Gandhi Balika residential schools on priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-to-give-monthly-dole-to-orphans/article34684997.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea calls for NSA against hoarding||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court to invoke the National Security Act (NSA) against hoarding, profiteering, adulteration and black-marketing of COVID-19 essentials, including drugs and equipment. The plea said, “Thousands of EWS and BPL citizens died on the streets, in vehicles, in hospital compounds and their homes due to hoarding of hospital beds, adulterated COVID medicines, black marketing of medical equipment like oxygen cylinders and huge profiteering in the sale of life-saving injections like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, etc.” The petition blamed State inaction. “In Delhi, Remdesivir injection was sold for Rs. 70,000 though its price is Rs. 899,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-calls-for-nsa-against-hoarding/article34685003.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No cracks in glaciers in Uttarakhand’||Following reports that cracks had developed in glaciers at the origin of Rishiganga in Chamoli, a team of scientists carried out an aerial survey and found nothing wrong, Uttarakhand Director-General of Police Ashok Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said the scientists conducted the heli survey on Saturday. “They did not find anything untoward,” he said. Following the Chamoli disaster in February — in which 204 persons were reported missing and more than 80 deaths have been confirmed so far — an avalanche close to the Indo-China border near Joshimath had claimed 11 lives in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-cracks-in-glaciers-in-uttarakhand/article34685012.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Centre asks private news channels to display four new helpline numbers||The Centre has asked private TV news channels to display four new helpline numbers for COVID-19 awareness. The new helpline numbers are of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (1075), child helpline of the Ministry of Women and Child Development (1098), senior citizens helpline of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (14567), and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences helpline for psychological support (08046110007).PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-asks-private-news-channels-to-display-four-new-helpline-numbers/article34685009.ece
31 May 2021||Lucknow,||In U.P., some feel it’s ‘safer and healthier’ in jail||As many as 21 inmates in nine prisons of Uttar Pradesh wrote to the authorities saying they don’t want parole as staying incarcerated is “safer and healthier” for them during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The inmates say health check-up is done regularly in the jails ... They say that once they go out, they will have to struggle to earn a living,” said Anand Kumar, Director General of Jail Administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-up-some-feel-its-safer-and-healthier-in-jail/article34685010.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||CPI(M) Bihar MLA attacked||The CPI(M) MLA from Bibhu-tipur in Bihar, Ajay Kumar, was attacked on Saturday night at the party’s Samastipur office. He escaped unhurt. The party demanded the immediate arrest of the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-bihar-mla-attacked/article34685015.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Tribunal orders liquidation of Devas Multimedia||The National Company Law Tribunal has ordered the liquidation process of Devas Multimedia by allowing a petition filed by Antrix Corporation, a commercial arm of the ISRO. The tribunal directed the liquidator to take “expeditious steps to liquidate” the company to prevent it from perpetuating its fraudulent activities.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tribunal-orders-liquidation-of-devas-multimedia/article34685024.ece
31 May 2021||Aligarh,||Aligarh hooch tragedy death toll mounts to 25||The death toll in the Aligarh spurious liquor tragedy climbed to 25 on Sunday, officials here said. BJP MP from Aligarh, Satish Gautam, however, said according to information gathered by him, the toll had crossed 35. Meanwhile, the Lodha police station in-charge has been suspended.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aligarh-hooch-tragedy-death-toll-mounts-to-25/article34685025.ece
31 May 2021||Mumbai,||Fr. Stan Swamy tests positive for COVID-19||Father Stan Swamy, 84, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. He was shifted to a private hospital from Taloja Central Jail on May 29 after being directed by the Bombay High Court. As per a call made by Fr. Swamy to his close associate, his blood pressure was dropping and he continued to feel weak. His advocate told the court on May 29 that Fr. Swamy had agreed to move to a private hospital and would bear his own expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fr-stan-swamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34685027.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fever survey case count to cross 1 lakh||The number of COVID-19 cases identified by the fever surveillance teams of the Greater Chennai Corporation is set to touch one lakh shortly. Of the 4.94 lakh people with symptoms identified during fever surveillance at households in the 15 zones of the city, more than 96,000 residents have tested positive for COVID-19, according to data compiled last week. The north region, covering areas such as Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Manali, Tiruvottiyur and Madhavaram, has reported the highest number of symptomatic people (1.97 lakh) referred for sampling so far. But the cases in the zone (31,219) were less than that of the Central region with 37,720, out of the 1.8 lakh referred for sampling, testing positive. The region consists of Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam. A total of 27,391 patients in the south region tested positive out of the 1.16 lakh referred for sampling during fever surveillance. The region includes the zones of Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Adyar, Perungudi and Sholinganallur. The Corporation has screened 19.8 lakh households every day in the three regions for fever symptoms during the pandemic. Many residents have refused to give details to fever survey workers during their visit to households. However, cumulatively, data has been generated for 55 crore visits to households by fever survey workers. Valasaravakkam zone reported the largest number of cases, with 13,971 residents identified during fever surveillance. Sholinganallur, with 1,678 cases, reported the lowest number of cases during fever surveillance. Over 12,000 workers have been deployed by the Corporation for fever surveillance in the 15 zones.  Valasaravakkam zone has reported the largest number of cases, with 13,971 residents identified during fever surveillance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fever-survey-case-count-to-cross-1-lakh/article34685312.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases dip further in Tamil Nadu||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases fell to 28,864 on Sunday, bringing down the total number of active cases in Tamil Nadu to 3,05,546. However, the State reported 493 deaths, taking the toll to 23,754. The total number of persons who tested positive stands at 20,68,580. After 32,982 people were discharged after treatment, the total number of those discharged has gone up to 17,39,280. Coimbatore district, which tops the State in fresh infections, reported a marginal drop in the number, with 3,537 people testing positive. As many as 3,275 people were discharged and 47 persons died of the infection. At present, 39,047 people are undergoing treatment. Chennai reported 2,689 fresh cases and 5,795 people were discharged, according to the daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health. The district recorded 93 deaths, taking the toll to 7,008. As many as 35,423 people are under treatment. So far, 5,01,930 people have tested positive and 4,59,499 have been discharged. In Chengalpattu, 1,194 fresh cases were identified and 37 persons died. Kancheepuram reported 664 fresh infections and 20 deaths. In Tiruvallur, 887 people were found infected and 18 persons died. Of the 493 deaths, 129 persons had no co-morbid conditions, while 364 had pre-existing conditions. An 86-year-old woman, who had no co-morbid conditions, was the oldest to die of the infection on Sunday. The Chennai woman was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough for three days and breathing difficulty on May 18. She tested positive on May 26. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia. The State had a total of 22,606 beds, including 6,823 oxygen beds, 15,256 non-oxygen beds, and 527 beds in intensive care units. Of the 59,638 earmarked beds at COVID Care Centres, 25,519 were occupied and 34,119 were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-dip-further-in-tamil-nadu/article34685453.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister deliberately kept out of GoM on GST: VCK||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi general secretary D. Ravikumar on Sunday criticised the Centre for not including Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan in the Group of Ministers (GoM) formed to consider the exemption of COVID-19 relief materials from the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Mr. Ravikumar, the MP from Villupuram, said in a statement that the Centre ensured that Mr. Rajan was not included in the GoM because at the recent GST Council meeting he had highlighted how the implementation of the GST had encroached on the States’ rights and how the promises made to the States over the implementation of the GST had all “failed to materialise”, and the issue of exemption for COVID-19 relief materials. “The strong issues he has raised would have embarrassed the Union government. At the meeting, he presented an 18-page statement. For almost 12 pages, he underlined the issues in the Centre-State relations, how the States were being discriminated against in the allocation of tax revenue... In the last few pages, he raised issue of temporary GST exemption for COVID-19 materials such as vaccines and oximeters,” he said. Mr. Ravikumar said Mr. Rajan pointed to how tax revenues due to the States had not been given since before Independence. The Centre was ignoring competent people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-deliberately-kept-out-of-gom-on-gst-vck/article34685247.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NIA files chargesheet against operative of Hizb-ul-Tahrir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet before the special court in Poonamallee against a member of fundamentalist organisation Hizb-ul-Tahrir Mohammed Iqbal N. alias Senthil Kumar, 31, of Madurai for unlawful activities. The case was registered in 2020 in Thideernagar police station, Madurai City, in connection with the uploading of denigrating posts on Facebook by the accused. The NIA had re-registered the case last month and taken up the investigation. The probe revealed that the posts on the Facebook page “Thoonga Vizhigal Rendu is in Kazimar Street” were uploaded by the accused to incite communal disharmony among religious groups, in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. The NIA also charged that he had conspired with other suspects in the name of Hizb-ut-Tahrir, a banned organisation in many countries, and had professed and preached about establishing an Islamic state and implementing Sharia globally, including in India, by overthrowing non-Islamic governments. In furtherance of the conspiracy, the NIA said he had participated in closed-door bayans (meetings) and created multiple social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Youtube, Telegram and WhatsApp to upload posts intending to disclaim and disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India and excite disaffection towards the Indian government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-files-chargesheet-against-operative-of-hizb-ul-tahrir/article34685444.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infra spending up 26% in 2020-21||Tamil Nadu’s spending on infrastructure increased by about 26.7% in the fiscal year 2020-21, compared with 2019-20, despite the challenge posed by the first wave of COVID-19. The capital expenditure, which goes into infrastructure projects, was Rs. 32,473.76 crore during 2020-21, according to the provisional unaudited figures from the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The capital expenditure was lower than the Rs. 37,734.42 crore projected in the revised estimates for 2020-21 in the interim budget presented by the AIADMK government before the Assembly election. However, it showed an increase from Rs. 25,631.58 crore spent in 2019-20. “The increase in the capital expenditure is positive and required as the government has to spend to keep the economy moving. It helps to sustain industry by providing demand and hence employment,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, CARE Ratings. “Though the capital expenditure ... is lesser than the revised estimates for 2020-21, the increased spending, compared with 2019-20, would have helped to minimise the impact on economic growth,” according to Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA Ltd. According to the interim budget, the government, acting on the recommendation of the C. Rangarajan Committee, had sanctioned capital works — irrigation, construction of buildings, roads and highways, housing, water supply and sanitation — amounting to Rs. 20,013 crore over and above the provisions made in the budget estimates for 2020-21. The committee had recommended an additional capital expenditure of at least Rs. 10,000 crore during 2020-21. As a result of these measures, Tamil Nadu was expected to register a positive growth of 2.02% during 2020-21. This is against the all-India negative growth of 7.7%, the interim budget pointed out. The State has projected a capital expenditure of Rs. 43,170.61 crore for 2021-22. However, this will depend on the impact of the second wave of the pandemic on revenue collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infra-spending-up-26-in-2020-21/article34685456.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. uploads details of retailers online||The Greater Chennai Corporation has uploaded the mobile numbers of over 2,197 local retail outlets in residential neighbourhoods on its online COVID-19 portal. The retail outlets in each neighbourhood will start doorstep delivery of groceries, using passes issued by the Corporation for two-wheelers. Residents can find the mobile numbers online at http://covid19.chennaicorporation.gov.in/covid/groceries/ The mobile number of the shopkeeper, address of the shop, zone, division and category can be found on the site. Officials called up shopkeepers using the phone numbers provided to verify details before providing clearance to upload the data online. In each of the 15 zones, officials advised shopkeepers to be polite in answering calls of residents who request deliveries. A total of 347 supermarkets and 1,850 local stores will start doorstep delivery of grocery on Monday, said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. The shopkeepers listed on the Corporation portal will start doorstep delivery of groceries from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. every day. The Corporation has not fixed any minimum amount of purchase for deliveries. Each shopkeeper has been given a service area covering one or two divisions, which will have a population of less than one lakh. The largest number of supermarkets will start doorstep delivery in Anna Nagar. At least 97 supermarkets have received passes in Anna Nagar. Madhavaram zone officials have issued passes for 352 local stores, the largest number in the city. While Manali zone has not issued any passes for supermarkets, 85 local stores have received passes. Vegetable prices On Sunday, the retail prices of 32 different vegetables were shared online on http://covid19.chennaicorporation.gov.in/covid/veg_pricelist/ For instance, the retail price of potato was fixed at Rs. 23 per kg on Sunday. The prices are fixed for areas near the Koyambedu market and may vary near the periphery of the city because of transportation charges. Residents are requested to call the Corporation helpline 1913 to report issues pertaining to exorbitant prices of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-uploads-details-of-retailers-online/article34685310.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police on alert as China gets control of Hambantota Port||The Tamil Nadu police have been put on high alert after Sri Lanka passed the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill giving complete control of the Hambantota Port to China. Sri Lanka Parliament passed the controversial Bill that declared 269 hectares of land reclaimed from the sea and annexed to the city of Colombo as the nation’s first Special Economic Zone for service-oriented industries. This would mean that the major Chinese establishment would be just 290 km away from Kanniyakumari in southern Tamil Nadu, police sources said in Chennai on Sunday. Stating that passing of the Bill was a major diplomatic and strategic concern for India as China’s footprint would increase in the neighbouring countries, the sources said the move evoked instant protests from not only Opposition parties in Sri Lanka but other organisations like the Transnational Government of Tamil Eelam. Acting on intelligence inputs, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy instructed senior police officers across Tamil Nadu to intensify vigil to thwart any attempt to stage protests in front of Sri Lankan or Chinese establishments in the State. Referring to statements of a Tamil nationalist group leader that the silence of the international community on the issues in Sri Lanka had caused “great unrest and outrage among Tamils”, the police chief said that there were possibilities that the members of the pro-Tamil organisations or sympathisers of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam may condemn the Sri Lankan government for approving the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill and attempt agitations targeting Sri Lankan and Chinese establishments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-on-alert-as-china-gets-control-of-hambantota-port/article34685440.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4,480 cases booked for lockdown violations, 2,620 vehicles seized||The police have registered a total of 4,480 cases for lockdown violations, and seized 2,620 vehicles on Saturday. Patrol teams ensured that people did not come out unnecessarily. The complete lockdown enforced in the State from May 10 has been extended till June 7. From May 18, the restrictions were made stringent by Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal. The city was divided into 348 sectors, and the public were not allowed to move between police station limits without valid reasons. In the city, there are 12 police districts and 13 checkpoints were set up on their borders. Similarly, a total of 153 checkpoints, at the borders of each police station’s jurisdiction, were set up. These points were barricaded and policemen allowed only those with valid reasons and relevant documents to move around. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the traffic police registered 3,013 cases against those who were roaming around without any reason. A total of 568 vehicles were seized, including 26 autorickshaws. The Law and Order police also registered 1,467 cases and seized 2,052 vehicles. A total of 2,852 cases were registered against people for not wearing masks and 296 for not following personal distancing. A total of seven shops were closed for violating lockdown norms and a fine of Rs. 1.76 lakh was slapped on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4480-cases-booked-for-lockdown-violations-2620-vehicles-seized/article34685318.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against martial arts instructor for sexual assault||The police have registered a case against a karate and judo instructor under various sections, including attempt to commit rape and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, based on a complaint from a 26-year-old woman, who alleged that he had sexually assaulted her seven years ago. According to the police, the complainant alleged that in 2014, she went to train under one Kebi Raj in a martial arts school. She claimed that when they were returning to Chennai after a judo tournament in Namakkal, he sexually assaulted her and also threatened her. Due to the trauma, she dropped out of the institute. Based on her complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 376, read with Section 511 (attempt to rape), Section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), Section 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. “We have summoned him for inquiry and are questioning him. We are also checking if there are other complaints against him,” a senior police officer said. According to the police, the complainant called H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner, Crime Against Women And Children (CAWC), on her number — 9444772222 — and informed her about the incident. Based on directions from City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, it was forwarded to the Anna Nagar All-Women police station. Investigation is on. “Complainants can approach the Deputy Commissioner, CAWC. It will be forwarded to the Deputy Commissioner of the respective jurisdiction for investigation,” Mr. Jiwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-against-martial-arts-instructor-for-sexual-assault/article34685313.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quit smoking, lower the risk of COVID-19||Quitting smoking has many benefits. Now, there is another very compelling reason to do so. Smokers, when compared to non-smokers, stand a higher risk of developing severe COVID-19, say doctors. This ‘World No Tobacco Day’, being observed on May 31, the emphasis is on quitting tobacco. ‘Quit tobacco to be a winner’ is this year’s theme. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO), which has launched the ‘Commit to Quit’ tobacco campaign, said, “Smokers have up to 50% higher risk of developing severe disease and death from COVID-19, so quitting is the best thing smokers can do to lower the risk of COVID-19 as well as the risk of developing cancer, heart disease and respiratory illnesses.” “The amalgamation of scientific literature and a high-level evidence study published during late 2020 shows that smokers have increased incidence of COVID-19 and higher risk of disease progression and mortality when compared to non-smokers who are infected with COVID-19,” said Arvind Krishnamurthy, professor and head, Department of Surgical Oncology, Cancer Institute, Adyar. According to WHO, millions of smokers were motivated to quit after listening to these risk factors. R. Narasimhan, senior respiratory physician, Apollo Hospitals, said the lungs get damaged in persons who smoked for fairly long periods. “When COVID-19 affects such people, the recovery process may get delayed or they are likely to develop lung-related issues such as reactive airway diseases, such as cough and breathlessness,” he said. ‘8 mn deaths a year’ In a joint press release, Barney Isaac, professor, and T. Balamugesh, professor and head, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said the harms of tobacco use were well-established. Tobacco causes eight million deaths every year. It has numerous deleterious health effects — one of which is that smokers have a greater risk of developing a severe disease and dying from COVID-19. “As we reel under the pandemic, it gives us the opportunity to consider quitting, in addition to many other health reasons,” the doctors said. Dr. Issac said smoking put persons at risk for many other diseases, such as chronic lung and heart diseases. “As a direct impact, it can impair lung function and damage the immune system. As WHO has pointed out, smoking impairs lung function, making it harder for the body to fight off COVID-19 and other diseases,” he said. The call to quit has fetched a good response. V. Surendran, associate professor and head of Psycho-Oncology and Resource Centre for Tobacco Control, Cancer Institute, said, “In the midst of the pandemic, we have people making calls to the tobacco cessation clinic, and also coming to the clinic seeking help to quit.” However, a lot more needed to be done, he said. “The Union Health Ministry announced the setting up of clinics in all regional cancer centres in 2002. While the focus has been on tobacco control, awareness and enforcement, the need to empower people to quit has been ignored. People do not know where to go for help. The government should pay close attention to this aspect. Since 2017, the State government has paid less attention to tobacco control,” he added. Dr. Krishnamurthy said nearly 60% of tobacco users around the world wanted to quit smoking. However, 70% of the world population did not have access to quality cessation services. “Quitting is science. It is recommended that every tobacco user should be seen as a patient. We need a scientific attitude towards quitting. People need to take help to quit,” he added.  Smokers have up to 50% higher risk of developing severe disease and death from COVID-19Tedros Adhanom GhebreyesusDirector-General, WHO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quit-smoking-lower-the-risk-of-covid-19/article34685447.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private vaccination centres have administered over 1.25 lakh doses||In the last 30 days, private COVID vaccination centres (PCVC) administered 1,25,200 doses of vaccines, according to the daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health. On Sunday, 28,672 people in the 18 to 44 age group were vaccinated. In 2,341 sessions held in the State, as many as 412 healthcare workers and 1,279 frontline workers were vaccinated. Among the 53,936 people who were inoculated in a day, 17,413 were in the 45 to 59 years age group and had co-morbidities and 6,160 were senior citizens. Since January 16, a total of 307,196 sessions have been held to administer Covishield and Covaxin. As many as 87,70,477 people have been provided the vaccines. They include 8,28,073 healthcare workers, 10,37,987 frontline workers, 11,97,378 people in the 18 to 44 years age group, 31,71,781 people with co-morbid conditions in the 45 to 59 years age group and a total of 25,35,268 senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-vaccination-centres-have-administered-over-125-lakh-doses/article34685455.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flight attendants go the extra mile to cheer passengers||At the time of COVID-19 pandemic, the flyers could be anxious about so many things. The flight attendants, knowing their anxieties, try their best to put the passengers at ease — from calming down a sobbing flyer to making a ‘get well soon’ card for someone sick. Karthika Hariharan Iyer, working with IndiGo for 11 years now, recounts seeing a number of migrant workers on board. “Some of them felt bad they didn’t know how to lock the washroom door. A few of them used all their money for the ticket and were really hungry on board. So I make them comfortable and buy them snacks and tea. That’s the least I can do,” she says. Chandni Pandit, a flight attendant for nine years, says a first-time flyer accidentally fell and in the rush to board a flight entered the aircraft with knees bleeding. “I tried to give her first aid and made her a ‘Get well soon’ card before she got off. She still remembers and is in touch with me. Sometimes, we have passengers who sob on board and we give them a vacant seat in front so that they can immediately leave to the hospital or a funeral they are heading to,” she adds. Neelam Rathore, a flight attendant for nine years, says, “Major barrier for everyone now is communication and many feel lonely and isolated. So, at this time, even small gestures will make a world of difference. We want to do everything in our capacity to bring a smile in their face.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-attendants-go-the-extra-mile-to-cheer-passengers/article34685316.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||C. Ramakrishna passes away||C. Ramakrishna, a senior advocate at the Madras High Court and the youngest son of the late C.Arunachalam Mudaliar, zamindar of Chunampet, died on Sunday morning. He was 92. He attended The Doon School. He studied M.A. (Eco) in Loyola College and finished his Bachelor of Law degree in Madras Law College. He graduated from Christ’s College, Cambridge, in Comparative Law, including constitutional and administrative law. His niece and Chennai-based Bharatanatyam exponent Alarmel Valli recalled that he was an eminent barrister who always sought knowledge. “He was practising until his late 80s and he always wanted to learn new things,” she said. His friend and advocate N.G.R. Prasad, who knew Mr. Ramakrishna for over five decades, said he had done a lot of work in the education space too. He uplifted the lives of many people in his village by providing them good education and healthcare, he added. Mr. Ramakrishna was the legal adviser to several corporates, including the Indian Overseas Bank, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., and Air India. He was quite active at the Madras Bar Association and completed 50 years of active practice at the bar in 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/c-ramakrishna-passes-away/article34685438.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri backs Minister’s views on voting model||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Sunday supported the Finance Minister’s view that the “one-State-one-vote” model of the GST Council was unfair. In a statement issued here on Sunday , he said treating higher revenue and lower revenue States on a par was not just. Mr. Alagiri said the Centre was taking a biased stance and politicising the views expressed by States not ruled by the BJP, which was a cause for concern. He said under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule, rights of the States were being taken away, despite his promise of cooperative federalism. Mr. Alagiri said at the recent GST Council meeting, the Centre had ignored the State’s demands for extending the GST compensation period, which ends in 2022, by another five years, zero rating for COVID-19 vaccines and drugs and settling the dues to the States . He strongly condemned the Centre for its bias in settling the dues and said such an attitude would affect the policy of cooperative federalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-backs-ministers-views-on-voting-model/article34685245.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More city hotels offer rooms to COVID-19 patients for quarantine||With many asymptomatic COVID-19 patients preferring to be under medical care, more city hotels have tied up with leading hospitals to run COVID-19 Care Centres. Around 1,500 rooms in hotels, including Ginger in Vadapalani, Taj Club House, Clarion President Hotel and Regent Central Deccan, have been converted into rooms for those needing quarantine. Hospitals provide doctors and nurses on the premises 24X7, and patients are also put on a proper diet, as prescribed by the doctors. Their medication, too, is supervised. Patients are sent from hospitals to hotels based on their condition. Clarion President Hotel, which had given an entire block for quarantining patients last year, has started extending a helping hand this year too with 150 rooms. S. Madhan Raj, manager-operations, said they were the first to get approval from the Health Department to start a facility in association with a hospital last year. “Our managing director Aboobucker felt he had to do his bit for society, since many people were not sure about home quarantine last year. Since we served around 1,500 isolated persons last year and there was a need this year as well, we started the facility from mid-April. Our staff are well-aware of the protocols to be followed and we ensure the patients’ safety with good high-protein diet and regular health checks,” he said. At Hotel Deccan Plaza, 50 rooms have been blocked for patients who require isolation. Here too, the patients come after being referred by a hospital. “They come here after the treatment is over and do not need emergency medical care. However, we do have doctors and nurses on the property and follow all safety protocols. People who prefer pure vegetarian food prefer our hotel,” said R. Gowrishankar, general manager. Another hotel in T. Nagar, which did not want to be named, has leased out its rooms to a medical care provider. “We have outsourced everything, from housekeeping to pest control, maintenance and even security. The only service that we provide is food preparation, which the medical care provider serves to the guests,” a hotel source said.  Staying afloat  Industry sources said hotels were able to stay afloat by turning into COVID-19 quarantine centres. “We are able to manage with minimum losses and we can also continue to employ our staff, since human resource is an important quotient in hotels. Since we are allowed to take in guests, we have to pay power bills and water taxes,” said a hotelier. Some hotels are also hosting doctors and other frontline workers. Those that are taking in guests are also getting people who have COVID-19 patients at home or in their apartment complex and need to stay away from them. ITC Grand Chola and Green Park Chennai have isolation packages for such non-COVID-19 patients. Last year, hotels were kept shut for a great part, and were only used to house medical personnel. When the lockdown was lifted, staycations and work-from-hotel concepts worked well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-city-hotels-offer-rooms-to-covid-19-patients-for-quarantine/article34685451.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Uncontrolled diabetics more prone to COVID-19 complications, says study||A new study has reinforced the fact that uncontrolled diabetics are more prone to complications if they contract COVID-19. The study collated data from patients admitted at five private hospitals in the city between May and November 2020 for treatment of symptomatic COVID-19. An analysis showed diabetics ran a higher risk of pneumonia, respiratory distress syndrome, heart attack and kidney failure. Researchers at A. Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals compared 422 non-diabetic patients with 423 diabetic patients and found that the rate of mortality was almost double among those with uncontrolled diabetes. “We did an outcome analysis. Double the number of people with diabetes died, compared with those without diabetes. It does not mean those with diabetes are more prone to contracting the infection,” said Dr. A. Ramachandran. “In a sub-analysis, we found that if diabetes was under good control, the risk was the same as for a non-diabetic. So the level of control of diabetes at admission decided the outcome,” he said. Likewise, the risk was higher among patients with chronic kidney disease or hypertension, the study showed. Arun Raghavan, lead author of the article,Profile and prognosis of patients hospitalized for COVID-19 virus infection with and without diabetes – An observational study from South India, published in Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews , said: “We wanted to establish how vulnerable Indian diabetic patients were. They have higher cardiovascular disease complications and more progressive course of diabetes than the Caucasian population. We wanted to understand how severe the COVID disease is in the Indian population. The percentage of death in the non-diabetic group was 5.9, whereas it was 10.2 in the diabetic group.” The data included those from patients who were hospitalised. “Since hospitalisation is for symptomatic patients, we took this up. The mean hospital stay is seven days — all of these patients had a symptomatic disease and patients with diabetes seemed to have twice the chances of mortality,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uncontrolled-diabetics-more-prone-to-covid-19-complications-says-study/article34685457.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against ex- Minister||Two days after a woman lodged a complaint against former Minister M. Manikandan, accusing him of cheating her, the Adyar All-Women Police Station has registered a case against him under various sections of the IPC including rape. He was booked under different sections of IPC including 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 417 (punishment for cheating), 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) and IT Act. A few days ago, a Malaysian Indian woman and Tamil actor complained to the city police that the former Minister had cheated her after having been in a live-in relationship with her for a few years. She alleged that he had promised to marry her and made her pregnant thrice. She also alleged that he had forced her to get an abortion and threatened her family members in Malaysia when she insisted that he marry her. She said Mr. Manikandan was introduced to her in 2017 when he was Information Technology Minister and then he developed a friendship with her on the pretext of making an investment in Malaysia. Within a few days, he proposed to marry her though he was already married. Blackmail charge She alleged that he persuaded her to have abortion by promising to marry her. He also threatened to upload her nude pictures online unless she fled to Malaysia. However, the former Minister had reportedly denied all the allegations made by her. The actor lodged a formal complaint against him with H. Jayalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Against Women and Children in Chennai on Friday and it was transferred to Adyar AWPS for investigation. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-former-minister/article34685442.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan demands assistance for teachers||Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan on Sunday urged the State government to provide financial assistance to teachers in private schools and colleges who have faced salary cuts and layoffs as the schools and colleges continue to be shut due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Haasan said in a statement that the State government must take the cue from Telangana government and ensure that teachers get financial assistance. “Teachers in private institutions have been demanding a welfare board to protect their rights for a long time. The government must satisfy this demand and fix wages according to their expertise and experience and ensure it is implemented properly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-seeks-aid-for-teachers/article34685468.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MedIndia launches obesity preventive kit||MedIndia Hospitals launched an obesity preventive kit to commemorate World Digestive Health Day, observed on May 29. The aim is to spread awareness and enable people to get their health on track, said T.S. Chandrasekar, hospital chairman and chief gastroenterologist. A person can calculate his/her body mass index, assess his/her physical activity and check the calorie intake requirement. The hospital has provided an obesity helpline — 12789 and 044-28312345 — to offer free tele-obesity counselling. To access the kit, visithttp://www.medindiahospitals.com/obesity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medindia-launches-obesity-preventive-kit/article34685314.ece
31 May 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Three flee from custody in Vyasarpadi police station||Three youngsters, who were brought to the Vyasarpadi police station for inquiry on Saturday, escaped from the station after allegedly pushing the sub-inspector who was on duty. According to the police, Ajith Kumar, who has 24 cases pending against him, Ajay Gupta, who has 20 cases against him, and Jagadeeshwaran, who has 22 cases against him, were picked up by the police for an inquiry. A sub-inspector was assigned to guard them. However, around 4 a.m., Ajith Kumar and Ajay started fighting each other and broke a mirror. When the sub-inspector approached to pacify them, they pushed him away and escaped from the station. Search under way Senior police officers rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. “We had just brought them in for inquiry but it appears they were scared, and hence fled the station. We are searching for them,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-flee-from-custody-in-vyasarpadi-police-station/article34685319.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stanley gets foldable stretchers||The GST and Central Excise Appeals-II Commissionerate, Chennai, handed over 100 heavy duty special aluminium alloy foldable stretchers and 10,000 disposable surgical gloves at a cost of Rs. 6 lakh to the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital. These were handed over by P. Anand Kumar, Commissioner, Appeals-II, under the Swachhta Action Plan to P. Balaji, Dean, said a press release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stanley-gets-foldable-stretchers/article34685437.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sundaram Finance, others give Rs. 8 cr. as relief||Sundaram Finance, Brakes India, Wheels India, Turbo Energy, Sundaram Home Finance and Royal Sundaram General Insurance have contributed Rs. 8 crore towards COVID-19 relief. On behalf of the companies managed by the T.S. Santhanam family, Srivats Ram, managing director, Wheels India Ltd., met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Saturday and handed over the cheques and equipment, including 100 flow meters, 125 10-litre and 45 5-litre oxygen concentrators and 100 CPAP machines. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu and Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi were present on the occasion. The amount presented included Rs. 2.5 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund, Rs. 2.5 crore to the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority and Rs. 3 crore for importing oxygen concentrators, oxygen flow meters and CPAP machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sundaram-finance-others-give-rs-8-cr-as-relief/article34685458.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Parties must not intervene in vaccination’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to stop parties from intervening in COVID-19 vaccination camps. In a statement, he cited media reports of an incident at a PHC in Modakkurichi, Erode district, where family members of DMK functionaries were allowed into the camp, originally meant for frontline workers. “There is information that such incidents are happening in various places. Such incidents not only affect frontline workers, but also pave the way for the spread of COVID-19. These will also affect the creative steps taken by the Chief Minister,” he said. Mr. Panneerselvam said those being prioritised should be informed in advance before camps are held in an area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-must-not-intervene-in-vaccination/article34685443.ece
31 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant interpretation centre taking shape near Mettupalayam||An elephant interpretation centre-cum-park by the Forest Department is taking shape near Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district. Once completed, the centre at the timber depot of the Forest Department on Kotagiri Road near Mettupalayam is expected to attract large number of visitors, especially students and children. According to Forest Department officials, the indoor interpretation centre has been named ‘ Vezham’, one of the many names for elephant in Tamil. Officials of Coimbatore Forest Division under the leadership of I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), conceptualised the project on April 25. Works started on April 28 and majority of the installations and paintings at the interpretation centre was completed by May 26. According to Mr. Anwardeen, a few more elements that add value to the project were being added. The installations, paintings and specimens displayed at the interpretation centre will help visitors understand types of elephants, characteristics of elephants, their role in the protection of the forest and ecology, the need to protect them and their role and references in literature and culture. The team comprising District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, Assistant Conservators of Forests C. Dinesh Kumar and M. Senthil Kumar have collected large number of photographs, specimens and fact sheets about elephants for the centre. Revenue As the interpretation centre cum park is situated on Kotagiri road, tourists can visit it on the way to the Nilgiris or while returning from the hill station. The centre can also generate revenue which the Department can use for conservation activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-interpretation-centre-taking-shape-near-mettupalayam/article34685467.ece
31 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM flags off vehicles to transport COVID-19 patients to hospitals in Coimbatore||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday flagged off 50 vehicles to be used to transport COVID-19 positive persons to hospitals. He flagged off the vehicles to be run on behalf of the Coimbatore Corporation during his visit to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The Corporation had allotted 10 vehicles for each of the five zones. At the ESI hospital, he interacted with the patients, doctors and staff. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani, Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran, Special Officer for COVID-19 management M.A. Siddique and other officials were present. Earlier in Tiruppur, the Chief Minister inaugurated a 100-bed COVID-19 ward in the Government Medical College Hospital. While inspecting the arrangements made there, a release said, he checked the quality of food supplied to COVID-19 positive persons. He then flagged off 20 vehicles to be used as car ambulance and gave appointment orders to six doctors and four nurses, who would be working on temporary basis. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan, Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj and others were present.  Erode Staff Reporter adds: In Erode, Mr. Stalin visited the Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai where 300 oxygen-supported beds have been added to the existing 550 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. He inspected the facility that was created on a war-footing after the district saw a spike in positive cases this month. Mr. Subramaniam, Mr. Muthusamy and Collector C. Kathiravan explained to the Chief Minister the steps being taken to increase the bed strength from the present 850 to 1,350 oxygen-supported beds in the hospital as patients from other districts also get treatment at the facility. Mr. Stalin also distributed appointment orders to medical officers, who were appointed on contract for six months, for managing patients at government medical college hospitals. He also met the members of Olirum Erodu Foundation and appreciated their efforts in working for environmental protection and restoration of water bodies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-flags-off-vehicles-to-transport-covid-19-patients-to-hospitals-in-coimbatore/article34685185.ece
31 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||They care for furry friends on streets during lockdown||For V. Chithran, a final year student of law from Singanallur, the lockdown is a chance to spend more time with furry friends on the streets. The 24-year-old youth is one of the volunteers in Coimbatore who feed stray dogs during the lockdown. Mr. Chithran and his friend S. Pavithran (22) start their day by cooking rice which they get as donations from people. They also add milk and meat parts like chicken liver, which they collect from restaurants that offer takeaways, to the rice. Biscuits and water are also part of their menu. “We feed 20 to 30 dogs a day in areas such as Singanallur, SIHS Colony, Ondipudur and Ramanathapuram. We cover one of these areas a day. Safety gears such as masks and gloves are worn during the service,” says Mr. Chithran who has also rescued 20 snakes including venomous ones during the lockdown and handed over to the Forest Department. Mr. Chithran and Mr. Pavithran, who works at the public relations section of a company, are among the volunteers who have obtained ‘regular dog feeder’ pass from the Department of Animal Husbandry in Coimbatore. According to Mr. Chithran, several people abandoned their dogs following hospitalisation due to COVID-19. The Pawsome People Project, in collaboration with the Humane Animal Society, feeds more than 200 stray dogs every day. Of its 200 volunteers in Coimbatore, around 20 of them feed stray dogs at Sowripalayam, New Sidhapudur, Venkitapuram, Vadavalli, G.V. Residency, Gandhinagar, Bharathi Colony, Kavundampalayam, Hope College, Ganapathy, Thiruvalluvar Nagar, Singanallur and Lakshmipuram. “One of our volunteers from Podanur feeds more than 40 stray dogs in the locality. While the volunteers who hold the pass visit the above areas and feed stray dogs, others feed dogs near their houses,” says Mary Chandy, head of operations at the Pawsome People Project. Apart from the individual volunteers and organisations, many people like S. Mani from Puliyakulam are feeding stray dogs in their locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-care-for-furry-friends-on-streets-during-lockdown/article34685182.ece
31 May 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Stalin visits COVID-19 ward to ‘instil hope’ in patients||COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in the ICU and emergency wards of the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here had a special visitor on Sunday — Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Donning personal protective equipment, Mr. Stalin walked into the emergency ward and, from a safe distance, enquired with the patients about their health and the treatment provided at the hospital. He also wished them a speedy recovery before leaving. At the ICU, he enquired with Dean M. Raveendran about the condition of the patients and the treatment given. According to an official release, Mr. Stalin was the first Chief Minister in the country to visit a COVID-19 ward. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, Secretary to the Chief Minister P. Umanath and Coimbatore Collector S. Nagarajan were among those accompanying Mr. Stalin. Fighting COVID-19 After the visit, Mr. Stalin wrote on Twitter that hope and consolation that others offered to patients, along with medicines, would help them recover from the disease. “The government of Tamil Nadu will instil hope,” he tweeted, along with photos of the visit. “Despite the caring advice not to go to the ward, I went in to instil hope in the frontline workers, including doctors who risk their lives, the patients and their families. We will defeat the pandemic,” he said. The ESI Hospital, one of the two tertiary care government facilities for COVID-19 treatment in the district, has 1,273 beds — 382 normal beds, 678 oxygen beds and 213 ICU beds.  According to an official release, Stalin is the first Chief Minister in the country to visit a COVID-19 ward||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-visits-covid-19-ward-to-instil-hope-in-patients/article34685448.ece
31 May 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TEA welcomes credit scheme||The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association has welcomed the announcement by the Central government on extension of the Emergency Credit Linked Guarantee Scheme for five years. Association president Raja M. Shanmugham said in a press release that extension of the scheme with repayment of interest only for the first two years and principal with interest in 36 months will benefit the MSMEs. Appeal to govt. Mr. Shanmugham appealed to the government to consider all MSMEs for restructuring of MSME loans, extend the interest equalisation scheme for three years, and also announce the rates for the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products immediately, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-welcomes-credit-scheme/article34685463.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Spurt in fresh cases in rural areas||There has been a significant rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases recorded in Madurai in May as compared to April. The data obtained from the district administration shows that the active cases in rural Madurai was 3,248 as on May 28. According to the data, Tirupparankundram recorded the highest COVID-19 positive cases among the 13 blocks in the district. It was followed by Madurai East and Madurai West. Among the 13 blocks, T. Kallupatti had recorded the lowest number of COVID-19 positive cases. According to officials, earlier nearly 80% of the positive cases would be recorded in urban areas and the rest in rural areas. But now the cases recorded in rural areas have increased to 40%. Among the nine town panchayats, Paravai recorded the highest number of cases. It was followed by Vadipatti and Sholavandan. Poor compliance to COVID-19 safety precautions and crowding in villages even during the intense complete lockdown were some of the major reasons for the rise in cases in rural areas, said an official from the district administration. “Awareness must be created among villagers about the importance of COVID-19 vaccination,” he added. Screening on Deputy Director of Health Services K. V. Arjun Kumar said that door-to-door screening of residents with Influenza like Illness symptoms and conducting tests was under way in villages for the past four days. “"This helps in early identification and treatment of COVID-19 positive patients. This also helps in breaking the chain of transmission of the infection,” he said. Dr. Arjun Kumar added that Mini COVID-19 Care Centres set up at 100 villages across the district would provide early treatment to patients.  Poor compliance to safety precautions and crowding can be attributed to the rise in rural areas Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spurt-in-fresh-cases-in-rural-areas/article34685238.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘GST meet left out two important demands’||Two important demands of the trade and industry were not discussed at GST Council meeting on May 28, said AgroFood Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Its president S. Rethinavelu said in a press release that there was no discussion on tax exemption for essential branded food items such as rice, wheat and pulses, as unbranded tax products were exempted from taxes. Also, simplification of GST tax rate classification by levying same tax rate for all products covered under one Chapter of The Harmonised System of Nomenclature Code (HSN Code) was not discussed. The GST council was not able to take decisions even on crucial matters such as rate revision on COVID-19 products. The GST implementation, by and large, had gone to the control of bureaucrats, which was not acceptable. In this procedural hiccup, the long-pending demands of the trade and industry had been sidelined. Finance Minister P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan gave an elaborate memorandum. But, due to want of time, most of the points were not discussed. Hence GST Council meeting should be convened every month with subjects finalised beforehand, he said. A separate GST Council of Trade should be formed comprising trade representatives from all States and Union Territories under the chairmanship of Finance Minister and they should meet prior to the GST Council meeting. The council must revive GST registrations withdrawn on account of failure to file GSTR 3B returns and extend the benefit of this Amnesty Scheme to them also, Mr. Rethinavelu said. ‘Several issues’ According to Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry here, no solution had been provided to several issues at the meeting. Its president N. Jegatheesan said that the trade and industry highly anticipated the abolition of 5% GST on COVID-19 vaccines, abolition of 12% tax on COVID-19-related equipment, tax exemption for essential food products with trademarks used daily by people, and simplification of various problems involved in implementing the classification number of goods in GST. However, none of these demands were addressed. The Amnesty Scheme announced by the Union Finance Minister in the GST meeting would be of help to some extent. “We sought extension of deadline for filing various GST returns, as the trade and industry had been affected by the lockdown, to August 31 without any penalty or late fee. It is not acceptable for the council to act on its own without any discussion with stakeholders before every meeting,” he said. Constitution of a Group of Ministers (GoM) to examine GST concessions and exemption to COVID-19 vaccines, drugs and medicines, have been represented only in Meghalaya, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Kerala, Odisha, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. Tamil Nadu’s Finance Minister was not part of this committee, which was shocking, said the release.  The GST council was not able to take decisions even on crucial matters such as rate revision on COVID-19 products Trade body||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-meet-left-out-two-important-demands/article34685252.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A humane gesture||People presume that workers of crematoriums, who handle dead bodies every day, had lost their sense of empathy. But the 12 workers of ‘Anjali,’ a crematorium maintained by Rotary Club of Madurai Midtown Trust at Moolakarai in Madurai, have proved it wrong. Despite working round the clock due to the influx of COVID-19 bodies, the crematorium workers, who do not earn a decent income, have jointly contributed Rs. 20,000 to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The workers, along with Trust chairman K. Mathan, handed over the money to Collector Aneesh Sekar and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, who conducted a sudden inspection at the crematorium. P. Vellaichamy, a machine operator at the crematorium, said that this was a small contribution by the workers in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. “Around 10 days back, the entire crematorium was filled with the mourning of families who lost their loved ones due to COVID-19. It was disheartening to witness the situation. So, we wanted to make a small contribution although it is meagre,” he said. But now there is a drop in the number of bodies attended to at the crematorium. “Only public cooperation by following the COVID-19 safety precautions can help us to overcome the pandemic,” he added. Mr. Mathan said that the workers had also contributed their one day’s salary for the Gaja cyclone relief. “Their contributions and funds from several other organisations was used to build a smart class at Vedaranyam, which was badly affected because of the cyclone,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-humane-gesture/article34685249.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment donated to hospitals||The Madurai branch of All India Insurance Employees' Association (AIIEA) has donated medical equipment needed for COVID-19 treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital and Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine. The members handed over five hot water dispensers, 500 PPE kits, and 2,000 N95 masks - all worth worth Rs. 2.50 lakh - to Collector Aneesh Sekar here on Sunday in the presence of Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. Madurai Senior Divisional Manager S. Senthoornathan, and AIIEA functionaries K. Swaminathan, G. Meenakshi Sundaram, and N.P. Ramesh Kannan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-donated-to-hospitals/article34685243.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||792 new cases in Madurai||Madurai district recorded 792 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, making it the second consecutive day when less than 1,000 new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded on a single day in Madurai, during the past few days of the second wave of the pandemic. But, 19 deaths were recorded, increasing the district’s toll to 888. A total of 992 persons were discharged and the number of active cases stands at 15,815. Virudhunagar district reported seven more deaths on Sunday, taking the death toll to 395. Among the deceased were three men and four women, including a 46-year-old woman. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases was 597 with a discharge of 549 patients. This has taken the number of active cases to 8,235. Total number of positive cases was 37,004 with 28,374 patients having been discharged till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/792-new-cases-in-madurai/article34685239.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP shocked over rejection of his proposal||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has expressed shock over the Centre’s rejection to his proposal of allocating Rs. 1 crore from his MPLAD funds to procure COVID vaccines to inoculate 30,000 youths in Madurai constituency to take up voluntary services in the fight against COVID-19. Responding to his request seeking permission to utilise the MPLAD funds, Secretary for Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Bhushan said that under Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination strategy, vaccines could be supplied to the Central and State governments and private hospitals. “Procurement of vaccine doses by individual entities is not feasible under the present strategy,” he had said. Mr. Venkatesan stressed the importance of vaccines for the volunteers who work towards care of elders in residential areas, catering to emergencies in restricted zones, arranging vehicles for medical emergencies and food delivery to patients. Demanding free vaccines for all, he wanted exemption from Patent laws for vaccines and expansion of its production through ‘compulsory licensing.’ The Centre had not acted on all demands of the opposition, including optimum use of Rs. 35,000 crore budgetary allocation and use of PM Cares funds. Stating that redtapism should not thwart such proposals, he said that the Centre had not factored in a very simple truth that MPLADS fund was also part of the Union government’s finances. He wondered as to why vaccines could not be allocated as a special case through MPLADs funds even when private players could directly procure it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-shocked-over-rejection-of-his-proposal/article34685241.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Private hospital told to refund excess fee||A private hospital in Madurai, which charged over Rs. 1 lakh for providing treatment to a COVID-19 positive patient for two days, refunded the excess sum to the family at the intervention of the Collector, whose attention to the issue was drawn by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. Mr. Rajan had retweeted a photo of the bill charged by the hospital posted by a Twitter user, and said that he had directed the Collector to take action against it. According to the receipt, Rs. 15,000 was charged as “visiting consulting charges” and room rent charges each, Rs. 13,500 as nursing charges, Rs. 25,000 as doctor fees, Rs. 13,000 as “disposable charges,” Rs. 10,856 for pharmacy, Rs. 4,500 for lab and Rs. 3,500 for food. The total bill was Rs. 1.3 lakh. The patient was admitted on May 12 and was discharged on May 14. When contacted, Collector Aneesh Sekar said that an enquiry was conducted on Sunday evening regarding the issue. He said that on May 26, the hospital had made a refund of Rs. 46,000 to the patient’s family. “However, the hospital had still charged around Rs. 20,000 in excess as per the rules laid down by the Government Order. Hence, the hospital was ordered to repay the excess money and they followed the orders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-asked-to-refund-excess-fee/article34685244.ece
31 May 2021||Madurai/Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 131.10 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 748 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.90 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 763 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,993 mcft. Periyar dam recorded a rainfall of 1.4 mm and Thekkadi 0.2 mm in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Sunday. The level in Papanasam dam was 134.40 feet (143 ft.) with an inflow of 941.27 cusecs and discharge of 344.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 90.25 ft (118 ft.) with an inflow of 296 cusecs and discharge of 75 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34685251.ece
31 May 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Trust ensures nutritious food to needy, patients in Nagapattinam||Nutrition has been the mainstay of food service being extended by Vanavil Trust, a not-for-profit organisation working in Nagapattinam, to people living near the district’s two bus stands and to those in home quarantine. The trust began providing lunch for the destitute a few weeks ago, but soon found that there were also many patients who were not eating nutritious food while in home isolation “Food is an important part of recovery, and being ill, doctors told us that they were unable to prepare it,” P. Revathi, founder, Vanavil Trust, told The Hindu . The trust approached a estaurant in Nagapattinam town, which agreed to prepare food for the patients for a fee. “We purchase meals from the restaurant and our team of volunteers deliver the food to the patient’s doorstep,” she said. A helpline — 9342318637 — set up by the trust can be contacted by those requiring food while in quarantine. Both lunch and dinner would be delivered to them for 15 days for free. “There are some who are required to extend their quarantine period and we consider their requests too,” she said. Ten volunteers have been pressed for food delivery, while around 50 are involved in fundraising. “We consult a doctor who suggests a suitable diet for the patients and we ensure that it is provided," she added. Ms. Revathi took pride in the fact that most of the funds raised for the food delivery service came from people in Nagapattinam town. “This is a service for the people of Nagapattinam by the people of Nagapattinam and it is wonderful to see people coming forward to help.” For the food distributed to the destitute, a psychologist has allowed the trust to use her home kitchen. “We purchase groceries and she helps cook food and distribute it too,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trust-ensures-nutritious-food-to-needy-patients-in-nagapattinam/article34685560.ece
31 May 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase bed strength with oxygen facilities’||Coordinator of Unified Control Centre Darez Ahmed visited the district war room here on Saturday and advised authorities to increase bed strength at government hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. He also checked the registry of calls received by the centre and measures taken to monitor health status of patients in home quarantine and allocation of beds in hospitals and COVID-19 care centres based on calls received at the centre. Dr. Darez Ahmed considering the situation in the district advised officials to set up 100 critical care beds additionally in Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital and other government hospitals and 400 beds, including oxygen support at COVID-19 care centres. Public can contact the district war room in numbers 1077, 04286-281377, 04286-299137, 04286-299139, 82204 02437, 93423 12761 and 93423 12596.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-bed-strength-with-oxygen-facilities/article34685186.ece
31 May 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry daily count drops to 930||New COVID-19 cases stayed below the 1,000 mark for the second successive day in the Union Territory as the infection rate declined to its lowest level yet in the second wave of 11% even while 21 deaths raised the cumulative fatalities to 1,518 on Sunday. Puducherry reported 15 deaths, Karaikal (three), Yanam (two) and Mahe (one). The patients, including 12 women, were in the 39-98 age group and seven of them had no co-morbidities. The region-wise cumulative deaths are Puducherry (1,232), Karaikal (166), Yanam (91) and Mahe (29). The Union Territory reported 930 new cases from 8,437 tests across Puducherry (743), Karaikal (143), Yanam (24) and Mahe (20) on Sunday. The test positivity rate was 11.02%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 86.82%. With 1,895 patients posting recovery on Sunday, the active caseload stood at 12,167. This included 1,635 patients in hospitals and 10,532 in home isolation. The total cases aggregated 1,03,826 against 90,141 patients recovered. The cumulative tests stood at 10,43,130 with 9,03,558 returning negative. Meanwhile, 100 healthcare workers, 93 frontline staff and 3,054 members of the public took the vaccines on Sunday. The total number of persons vaccinated to date aggregated 2,60,737.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-daily-count-drops-to-930/article34685441.ece
31 May 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Permission cards for mobile vendors valid till June 7||All mobile vendors selling vegetables and fruits can use the permission cards issued earlier by the authorities till June 7, said Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver here on Sunday. At a meeting held with vendors and officials from the police, horticulture and revenue departments, he said that with the government extending the curfew till June 7, the permission cards issued till May 31, would hold good for another week.  The meeting had to be convened after many vendors rushed to the offices of the Horticulture department to get their permission renewed as they feared the police may seize their vehicles. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik, who also attended the meeting, said that mobile vendors should wear masks properly. The vendors should also ensure there was no crowding at any point of sale, he added. He said that the mobile vendors can get in touch with the Horticulture department officials and also contact the special control room for any assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permission-cards-for-mobile-vendors-valid-till-june-7/article34685534.ece
31 May 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to monitor illegal liquor sale||The Salem district police have formed special teams to monitor illegal sale of liquor and prevent illicit distillation of arrack during the lockdown period. As the State government has ordered closure of Tasmac outlets during the lockdown period the police and forest departments have formed special teams to check illicit distillation of arrack and to prevent illegal sale of liquor. In Salem rural limits, Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger has formed 12 special teams. Till Friday, the police have registered 384 prohibition-related cases, including 76 cases for illicit distillation of arrack. They have seized 1,591.5 litres of arrack, 7,905 litres of fermented wash and 107.5 litres of toddy as part of the drive. R. Murugan, District Forest Officer, said special patrol teams had been formed in all forest ranges to check illicit distillation and offenders were arrested by forest personnel. Pa. Moorthy, Deputy Police Commissioner (Crime and Traffic), said though there were not any vulnerable distillation points within the city, stringent vehicle checking was being carried out on the borders and within city limits to prevent transportation of prohibited goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-monitor-illegal-liquor-sale/article34685179.ece
31 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Traders allowed to sell groceries in vehicles till 6 p.m. in Salem||District Collector S.Karmegam allowed traders to sell groceries through mobile vehicles between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. only. The Collector held discussions with senior officials and traders on Saturday. Wholesale traders, especially traders in Shevapet market have been permitted to operate shops between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. to provide goods to retailers alone and not the public. Retailers can sell the goods in vehicles with permission from respective local bodies and sale has to be conducted only between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. , Mr. Karmegam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-allowed-to-sell-groceries-in-vehicles-till-6-pm-in-salem/article34685187.ece
31 May 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A 66-year-old man was found dead near a railway over bridge near Sooramangalam here on Sunday. According to police, the deceased from Moolakadai had tested positive recently and was under home isolation. On Sunday, he stepped out of his house to get medicines and while returning home, he allegedly jumped off a railway overbridge near Sooramangalam and killed self. Government Railway police are investigating. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article34685177.ece
31 May 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Hotels closed for a week in Srivilliputtur||With more people coming out of their houses during the intensified lockdown in the guise of buying take-away food from big hotels and small eateries, the administration has closed all eateries for a week from Sunday. “Over 100 eateries are closed. Today, the crowd on the road has come down drastically,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Namasivayam. “We were really struggling to control the crowd at every eatery in the town as people wait for long hours to get their food packed,” an official from Srivilliputtur Municipality said. The town has got around 80 active positive cases and two containment zones. “The hotels have been allowed to supply food to regular customers, especially elderly people. Similarly, they can meet their orders for marriages,” said Tahsildar R. Saravanan. The officials held a meeting with hotel owners on Saturday in which it was unanimously resolved to down the shutters till June 7. “The hoteliers were neither able to contain the crowd nor regulate them in maintaining social distancing. Besides, the workers violated the mask rule,” another official said. Many of them also did not stick to the permitted timings. With no food delivery mechanism available in the town, the hoteliers did not have the manpower to deliver food at customers’ doorsteps, the DSP said. The municipality has already taken up door-to-door survey of residents having fever and suffering from comorbidities. Vaccination for people below 45 years of age was also being undertaken. Meanwhile, the district police along with different voluntary organisations have arranged distribution of food packets to around 1,000 needy people in the town. “The food packets will be distributed in the morning, afternoon and evening in different places,” the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-closed-for-a-week-in-srivilliputtur/article34685531.ece
31 May 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door survey helps many get vaccinated||In the last seven days alone, first dose of COVID-19 vaccine has been administered to 11,352 persons residing within the Corporation limits, officials said on Sunday. Following the rise in positive cases in the district, the health department in the Corporation had proposed to conduct a door-to-door survey. The objective was to find out the number of people who had not taken the first shot of the vaccine. The officials said during the check, they found many had not taken the vaccine. “After taking their names and their mobile numbers, the officials organised a camp in that area/ward the following day itself,” they added. The exercise had certainly brought in the desired results. In just seven days, the staff had inoculated 11,352 people with the first dose. Instead of organising mega camps, focusing in a ward/street helped teams to identify the beneficiaries. Field staff from the UPHCs including Mullakadu, Tharuvai Road, P and T Colony, Threspuram, Ganesh Nagar and Fatima Nagar and among others were involved in the exercise. The survey also helped the staff to refer people to the Government Hospital after they complained of mild cough or cold. After offering counselling, many residents were convinced on taking the vaccine, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-survey-helps-many-get-vaccinated/article34685540.ece
31 May 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Second Sterlite plant to commence oxygen production within a week||The second unit at the Sterlite Copper Plant here is likely to commence oxygen production within a week, officials said on Sunday. After the Supreme Court directed, the Tamil Nadu government gave its nod for production of medical oxygen from the Sterlite plant. On May 12, the production commenced. However, the following day, due to a technical snag, the production had to be suspended. After carrying out repairs, the plant commenced production from May 19. Since then, 329 metric tons of oxygen have been despatched from the plant, officials said. In the meantime, the second plant, which underwent trial for the last one week, was expected to go in full stream in the next four to five days. In all probability, when both the plants are fully operational, they can produce 70 tons daily, officials said. The Health department officials said that many Government hospitals in southern districts have received medical Oxygen produced from here. In the coming weeks, they hoped to meet the demand instantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-sterlite-plant-to-commence-oxygen-production-within-a-week/article34685538.ece
31 May 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||SFI renders yeomen service||Joining hands with doctors and nurses, 31 students affiliated to the Students Federation of India (SFI) have been rendering yeomen service to the COVID-19 patients at Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital for the last 20 days in two shifts. SFI coordinator P. Joyson said on Sunday that they wrote a letter to Collector K. Senthil Raj on May 5 offering to serve the fight against COVID-19 in some useful manner. Within about two days, the Collector called the boys over the phone and after being convinced that they were ready to serve voluntarily, the officials gave them the responsibility to work at the Government Medical College Hospital. The multi-task work included registering names of patients giving samples for COVID-19 tests, recording the results in the system, guiding patients and attendants to the isolation ward and conveying the progress to the family members of patients. About a fortnight ago, 13 among them ventured inside the COVID-19 ward and served food to the patients. “We give them breakfast and lunch wearing PPE kits. All of us underwent COVID-19 test and only after testing negative, we went to the hospital to serve. Now, we are planning to take the vaccine in a day or two,” he said. Initially, the family members were hesitant but the boys convinced them. “So far, 20 days have gone. All of us are doing good and keeping perfect health. We work in two batches: 28 of us come at 8 a.m. and remain here till 4 p.m. and three others remain here from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m”. he said. “When Ministers Geetha Jeevan, Anitha Radhakrishnan, Ma Subramanian and MP Kanimozhi visited the hospital, they appreciated us”, he said and added that many of the patients who got discharged blessed us. “This was all the more satisfying”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-renders-yeomen-service/article34685536.ece
31 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over violation of protocol in disposal of bodies||Breach of medical protocol on handling of bodies of COVID-19 victims has raised concern among residents in the city. As per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, all orifices of the body such as mouth, nose, ears and wounds should be packed with disinfectant using cotton or gauze. It should be wrapped in double layer cloth sheet soaked with disinfectant and packed in a leak-proof body bag. The body should then be transported to the crematorium or burial ground under the supervision of police and representative of the local body. The civic body should have proper records of the dead persons issued by hospitals. Similarly, at the crematorium and burial ground, all staff members should practice standard precautions including hand hygiene, use of masks and gloves. During the first wave of the pandemic, most of the guidelines were followed at morgues, ambulances and crematoriums while disposal of bodies. The stakeholders scrupulously followed the standard operating procedures aware of the risk of spread of the viral infection. Since the first week of May, however, the number of bodies of COVID-19 victims arriving at the crematorium at Oyamari on the banks of the Cauvery is on the rise. On an average, the facility receives 10 to 15 bodies. It is alleged that there is gross negligence in following protocol while handling bodies at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Several bodies are allegedly handed over to ambulances without being properly wrapped. In some cases, the orifices are not closed at all. “It is shocking to see mishandling and callous attitude of the concerned staff members of GH on packing COVID-19 victims for the funeral without following the basic guidelines. It is adding to the causes of the spread of the virus,” says N. Jamaludeen, a social activist. Moreover, there are allegations made by families of COVID-19 victims that in a number of cases the discharge slip issued by Tiruchi GH does not have information on the cause of death. There have been instances of confrontation between relatives of victims and crematorium staff on issuance of funeral receipt with mention of COVID-19 as cause of death.  Hospital denies charges However, MGMGH administration denied the charges. When contacted, K. Vanitha, Dean, told The Hindu that all standard operating procedures were being followed while handling the bodies. Pressure was mounting on doctors, nurses and other staff members of the hospital due to sharp rise in number of COVID-19 patients. In spite of it, the bodies of victims were treated with dignity. There was no compromise, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-violation-of-protocol-in-disposal-of-bodies/article34685558.ece
31 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 4,525 fresh cases for second consecutive day||The central region on Sunday recorded 4,525 fresh cases of COVID-19. A total of 47 deaths were reported in the region, with seven of the eight districts reporting at least one death caused by the viral infection. Tiruchi reported the highest number of deaths with 15 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Karur was next with nine casualties, while Ariyalur reported seven deaths. Five deaths were recorded in Pudukottai, four each in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur and three in Perambalur district. Tiruchi district reported a slight spike of around 100 cases on Sunday. As many as 1,128 patients reported COVID-19 positive. Intensive care beds were at capacity at most hospitals, including private ones, in the district. According to the bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, there were only 19 vacant ICU beds in the entire district. There were around 112 vacant oxygen-support beds after Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital scaled up its bed capacity. Meanwhile, 92 patients were discharged from Tiruchi MGMGH after recovering from COVID-19. In Thanjavur, 786 patients reported positive, reflecting a slight decline over the last few days. Thanjavur district had 30 vacant ICU beds for COVID-19. Nagapattinam reported 665 fresh cases, while similar declining trends were also reported in Tiruvarur, with 585 fresh cases. Nagapattinam had 13 ICU beds and 15 oxygen-support beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had seven ICU beds and 36 oxygen-support beds. Karur district reported a slight drop in cases with 488 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. Karur had one of the least numbers of vacancies in ICU and oxygen-support beds. Only two ICU beds and six oxygen-support beds were available. Pudukottai reported 330 fresh cases, Perambalur 275 and Ariyalur 268. Bed vacancy in these districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had only five vacant ICU beds, Perambalur had seven and Ariyalur one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-4525-fresh-cases-for-second-consecutive-day/article34685562.ece
31 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Animal ambulance attends to flurry of calls from rural areas during intense lockdown||The Animal Husbandry Department provides veterinary services at the doorstep in villages of the district through ‘1962’ animal ambulance toll-free number since imposition of lockdown on May 10. Veterinary assistance has also been brought under essential services category. According to a senior department official,.202 animals and poultry birds — 150 cattle, 18 sheep, 12 goats, 14 dogs, 8 poultry birds — have been treated through the facility. The animal ambulance has a veterinary doctor, an attender and a driver and equipment for treatment. “The animal ambulance stationed at Tiruchi responds to calls made to the toll-free phone number 1962. The veterinary doctor and other staff on board the vehicle adhere to safety protocols such as wearing masks while attending to cases at different locations,” the official said. In somes cases, medical advice is given over phone. Apart from animal ambulance, veterinary services are also being rendered through dispensaries, veterinary hospitals, polyclinics and sub-centres functioning across the district, the official added. Tiruchi district accounts for 106 dispensaries, two mobile units stationed at Manapparai and Musiri, eight veterinary hospitals at Thuvarankurichi, Manapparai, Thuraiyur, Vaiyampatti, Tiruverambur, Lalgudi, Pullambadi and Kattuputhur and 33 sub-centres. A veterinary polyclinic functions at Palakkarai in Tiruchi city. The sub-centres provide services such as first aid and artificial insemination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-ambulance-attends-to-flurry-of-calls-from-rural-areas-during-intense-lockdown/article34685564.ece
31 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Unfinished portions leave NEET aspirants to fend for themselves||The cut-back in Plus Two syllabus, which was by and large welcomed by a large section of the teaching community and parents alike in view of the lesser number of working days during COVID-19 lockdown mid-way through the academic year, has seemingly not augured well for students now. While a sense of seriousness has set in among students after the State government spelt its decision to conduct Plus Two examination in off-line mode, students preparing for NEET and JEE Main are able to sense rather strongly their incomplete preparation for these exams conducted by the National Testing Agency. “The government announced 30% reduction in syllabus earlier this year, and so did the Central Board of Secondary Education. Overcoming the limitatons of online classes, we were able to do justice only to the assigned 70% portion,” a senior teacher of a private higher secondary school said. School heads say the teachers are also in a dilemma whether or not to delve deep into the left out portions. “Due to the uncertainty over the date of Plus Two exams, the teachers will be able to revise only the portions they have completed so far. The plain reality is that the onus is on the students to study the untouched portions by themselves,” said a headmaster of a government higher secondary school in the region. With the Ministry of Education making it clear that that both NEET-UG and JEE-Main will cover complete portions as was done last year, some of the coaching institutions have stepped in with a claim that the left out portions could be covered through ‘selective interactive revision’. On its part, NTA has roped in professors/subject experts for clarifying concepts in the subject. This year, however, there is a litttle cause for relief for a large number of students who will find the going tough to gain entry for medical courses. For, the Ministry of Education has suggested that NEET scores could be the basis for admitting students to B.Sc Nursing and Life Sciences programmes. Till 2020, NEET scores were used to determine entry to MBBS, BDS, AYUSH, and Veterinary programmes. During March, the National Testing Agency issued a public notice stating that “the result of NEET (UG) - 2021 may be utilised by other entities of Central/State governments (including Indian Nursing Council/ Nursing Colleges/ Schools, JIPMER) for counsellng and admission to relevant courses (including B.Sc. Nursing and B.Sc. Life Sciences) in accordance with their rules/norms/guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfinished-portions-leave-neet-aspirants-to-fend-for-themselves/article34685569.ece
31 May 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A. Raja’s wife buried at Velur||The last rites of R. Parameshwari, wife of DMK MP and former Union Telecom Minister A. Raja, were conducted at Velur village in Perambalur district on Sunday. The body was brought from Chennai to Mr. Raja’s residence in Perambalur. DMK MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin and State Ministers, including K.N. Nehru, Mahesh Poyyamozhi and K. Ponmudi, paid homage to the body. The mortal remains were thereafter taken to Velur, the native village of Mr. Raja, and buried in the afternoon, said police sources. Ms. Parameshwari, who was suffering from cancer, died at a private hospital in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-rajas-wife-buried-at-velur/article34685566.ece
31 May 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Aavin all set to export milk again: Minister||Dairy Development Minister S. M. Nazar on Sunday said that the government had already initiated steps to enhance Aavin’s earnings and milk production. He was here to inspect Aavin outlets in Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts. Senior officials from Aavin, Collectors, MLAs and others were present. Speaking to reporters, he said that from 36 lakh litres per day, the Aavin had increased production to 39 lakh litres. “Over a period of time, we will slowly, but steadily, increase procurement levels also,” he added. He said that after Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had lowered the sale price of Aavin milk by Rs. 3 per litre, a large population had benefited. Plans were being made to set off the loss due to the lowering of price. There would be a loss of about Rs. 270 crore due to the reduction in price and Aavin has plans to export milk, which was being done 10 years ago, and also the other by-products. This would help earn more revenue, the Minister said. He said that there were 362 Aavin depots across the State. Recently, after complaints came in that some agents had been charging more, officials conducted checks and found 11 agents in Chennai and two in Thanjavur had indulged in malpractice. After inquiry, the agents were removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-to-export-milk-and-by-products-says-nazar/article34685529.ece
31 May 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||One volunteer for every 100 houses for surveillance||For proper containment and gathering of information of persons who develop COVID-19 symptoms, one volunteer each has been appointed for every 100 houses in Tiruppur district, said Monitoring Officer for the district C. Samayamoorthy on Sunday. He said that fever and vaccination camps are being conducted within the limits of Tiruppur Municipal Corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats in the district regularly. For effective surveillance, volunteers have been tasked to collect details from every houses, he said. As of Sunday, the district had 121 containment zones where disinfection works done. These places were kept under continuous surveillance. Mr. Samayamoorthy, who held a COVID-19 review meeting with Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and senior officials, also appealed to the public to follow safety measures to prevent further spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-volunteer-for-every-100-houses-for-surveillance/article34685176.ece
31 May 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rare species, victims of speeding vehicles in the Nilgiris, says study||While deaths of large mammals such as elephants, leopards and tigers due to vehicular traffic are widely documented, a recent study has sought to bring attention to the rare species of amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals in the Nilgiris that are also being lost to speeding traffic. In their paper, ‘Road Kill of Animals by Highway Traffic from Udhagamandalam to Mettupalayam’, published recently in the International Journal of Pure and Applied Zoology, authors R. Deepan, B. Vickram, A. Samson, S. Dilip Clinton and J. Leona Princy, recorded the number of animals killed by vehicles between Coonoor and Mettupalayam, a 55 km stretch, during a one-year period between August 2017 and August 2018. The route, popularly known as the Kotagiri Road, cuts through 32 kilometers of reserve forest, known to host a large variety of native and endemic flora and fauna. Motorists love smooth roads that are relatively free of traffic and have few speed breakers. Many use such roads to exceed speed limits. The assessment was performed thrice a month for a year. At the end of the year, the authors noted that they had recorded 383 road kills, on 36 sampling days, including seven species of mammals, 17 species of birds, 12 species of reptiles and four species of amphibians. Worryingly, the researchers noted that among the wildlife, the most affected along the stretch were those classified as being ‘endangered’ or ‘vulnerable’ by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). These include the Gray slender loris ( Loris Iydekkerianus) , as well as endemic frogs and toads such as Raorchestes signatus (Nilgiri bush frog) ,    Duttaphrynus microtympanum (Southern hill toad)  and Uperodon triangularis (Narrow-mouthed frog). Of the 383 road kills recorded by the team, 155 of them, or 40% were amphibians, with endemic frog species being greatly impacted. Reptiles such as chameleons, spectacled cobras, Indian sand boas, Russell’s vipers and Bengal monitors were also among species of wildlife killed along the stretch. There was also a correlation between an increase in the number of road kills of a certain species, and taxa, with the time of day and season in which they were recorded. These correlations are behavior-specific, the authors note. Speaking to The Hindu , Samson Arockianathan, one of the authors of the paper, said the point of the study was to assess the impact that roads have on wildlife. “We wanted to look at the impact of major, high-traffic roads not only on the movement of large mammals, but to also ascertain the number of smaller, less well-known species that are killed along the stretch,” he said. The paper also noted the number of vehicles passing through the 55-km stretch during each assessment. On an average, 652 vehicles passed through the stretch. The number shot up to 1,044 during the peak summer season in April. “As the Nilgiris-Kotagiri ghat is an extremely important bio-diverse region, it is important that we reduce the number of road kills. While it is impractical to advocate building speed breakers regularly along the entire stretch, it would be a huge benefit for the safety of wildlife if speed breakers are to be built along sections where cars build up speed, such as relatively long, unbroken straight roads and flat sections of the ghat,” said Mr. Arockianathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-species-victims-of-speeding-vehicles-in-the-nilgiris-says-study/article34685470.ece
31 May 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New COVID care centre opens at Veeracholan||Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu has appealed to village elders and elected representatives to create awareness of the importance of giving samples for COVID-19 testing and administering vaccines among the rural populace. After inaugurating a new COVID care centre (CCC) at Veeracholan with 100 beds on Sunday, Mr. Thennarasu said that health officials can go to villages and administer vaccines in the presence of local elected representatives in order to contain spread of the viral infection. Positive persons with mild infection would be put in CCC and others with moderate and high infection would be sent to Government hospitals for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-care-centre-opens-at-veeracholan/article34685533.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Screening centres of CMCH, ESI hospital to function from schools||In a move to reduce congestion at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, the COVID-19 screening centres at these hospitals will function from nearby schools from Monday. The COVID-19 screening centre of CMCH has been shifted to nearby St. Francis School. Similarly, the screening centre of ESI Hospital has been moved to Corporation High School at Varadharajapuram, said a statement issued by the district administration. Patients who do not have serious symptoms of COVID-19 can visit these centres directly and get x-ray and blood tests done. Depending on the severity of cases, the doctors will refer them to Covid Care Centres or advise them to remain in home quarantine. Patients who require oxygen support will be shifted immediately to government hospitals or Covid Oxygen Centres, said the release. The district administration also said that the CMCH has set up an additional Covid Casualty facility which functions round-the-clock at the Government Arts College. The facility is equipped with 100 oxygen supported beds to attend to emergency cases and to stabilize the condition of patients. A liquid medical oxygen tank of two kilo litre capacity and 50 oxygen cylinders are available at the facility. Patients who require advanced care will be shifted to CMCH immediately. The district administration said that efforts were being taken to add 100 more beds for patients with low oxygen requirement at the Arts College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/screening-centres-of-cmch-esi-hospital-to-function-from-schools/article34685189.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. not ignoring Coimbatore, says CM||He recalled his statement that the DMK government would work in such a way that people who voted for the party would be happy and those who did not vote would regret it, appreciating its work. To drive home his point, he said this was his second visit to the district. He had held a video-conference with the Collector, deputed Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian and designated a senior officer as the nodal officer to oversee the implementation of the COVID-19 control measures. If need be, he would make another visit, he said. Mr. Stalin said the State had fared better than Kerala and Karnataka, which had reported the highest daily case count of 43,000 and 50,000 as the pandemic peaked. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu had reported the highest of 36,000 cases, the Chief Minister said. The case count had come down in the last two days in the district as the administration was taking all steps to control the spread of the infection. The Coimbatore Corporation had 631 areas under quarantine in the city and the district administration had 302 localities in rural areas. The administration had vaccinated three lakh people in the last couple of weeks and lifted samples for RT-PCR testing from 1.7 lakh persons. In response to a question on the State’s move to take on lease the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu, Mr. Stalin said he was awaiting a response from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-not-ignoring-coimbatore-says-cm/article34685450.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore registers decline in new cases||Coimbatore district on Sunday registered a further decline in the number of new infections of COVID-19 though it topped Tamil Nadu in terms of the daily caseload for the fifth consecutive day. The district on Sunday reported 3,537 new cases of COVID-19, registering a decline from 3,692 cases on Saturday. The Health Department said that 3,275 persons from the district recovered from the disease on Sunday and active case stood at 39,047. The district’s death toll rose to 1,235 after 47 more persons died of COVID-19, said the department. Tiruppur district had 18,035 active cases of COVID-19 on Sunday while 1,085 persons recovered from the disease. It reported 1,496 fresh cases of the disease on Sunday. A total of 17 more persons from Tiruppur district died of COVID-19, taking the death toll to 463. Erode district reported 1,784 new cases, taking the tally to 54,914. While 941 persons were discharged after recovery, 15,207 continue to be under treatment. Twenty-two persons died, raising the death toll to 340. A total of 1,295 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 390 cases were reported in corporation limits. As per bulletin, 17 deaths were reported in Salem, including five women patients. In Namakkal, 877 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Six patients succumbed to the disease on Sunday, including two women patients. In Dharmapuri, 311 indigenous cases were reported and in Krishnagiri, 486 cases were reported. Six patients died in Krishnagiri. Three patients succumbed to the disease in private and government facilities in Dharmapuri. In the Nilgiris, 538 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 18,491. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district increased from 82 to 88 on Sunday while 3,626 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-registers-decline-in-new-cases/article34685175.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||41-year-old man ends life at COVID-19 care centre||A 41-year-old man who tested positive for COVID-19 allegedly ended his life by jumping out from a COVID Care Centre set up on National Institute of Technology campus near here. Police sources said the victim from Ariyamangalam was accommodated at the COVID Care Centre a few days ago. He was said to be an alcoholic and was reportedly under mental stress. He allegedly jumped out from the second floor of the care centre on Saturday night and was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where he died on Sunday morning, according to the sources. His wife had also tested positive. Thuvakudi Police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-year-old-man-ends-life-at-covid-19-care-centre/article34685565.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||mail||When any arrangement or relief measure is made during lockdown period, the administrators pay attention to Madurai city first and only after some days they turn their focus to the outskirts of the city. They should plan for the city and suburbs as a whole. R. Sundar  Madurai   In view of Assembly elections, processing of applications seeking new family cards was kept in abeyance. Now that they are over, it would be appropriate if pending applications are disposed of expeditiously. It is learnt that applications of those who do not ‘yield to monetary demand’ are summarily rejected. The authorities concerned must scrutinise such applications. Asmabagh Anvardeen  Ramanathapuram   100 Feet Road and College Road witness a heavy flow of vehicles as a large number of commercial establishments, university, engineering college and CECRI are located on these roads. But, in the absence of proper street lights on these roads, darkness prevails at nights. I request the authorities to install LED street lights on these roads for the safety of people. Hari Ramesh Babu  Karaikudi   One is happy to note that the Vaigai dam level has crossed the 66-feet mark. Ramanathapuram lies in the tail-end area of the Vaigai river. It is also a drought-prone area with drinking water problem in rural areas. The groundwater level is also depleting. So I request the authorities to release Vaigai water to Ramanathapuram district immediately. V. Rajendran    The PWD started constructing Periya Madai water regulator in Tiruppachethi Kanmoi last year but suspended the work with the onset of monsoon. So I request the PWD to resume the work before this monsoon. S. Saravanakumar  Tiruppachethi   As and when the intensified lockdown is lifted, all sales outlets will be opened. Since people will throng the stores, local bodies should ensure that the shops are sanitised and do not become hotspots for spreading the coronavirus. Entry should be limited as before. Wearing of masks in the correct manner and social distancing should be made mandatory again. Food safety officials should inspect grocery and food items and dairy products and seize expired products and destroy them on the spot. S. Nallasivan  Tirunelveli   Shortage of medical oxygen persists in all hospitals even as the virus has spread its wings to rural areas in southern districts where oxygen facilities are very much needed. Another sorry state is the want of vaccines at a time when the 18-44 age group evinces interest in taking the jab. An awareness must be created and inoculation must be done in right earnest in villages too. Many of those aged above 45 could not get the second dose. All these shortcomings must be sorted out. Rajakumar Arulanandham  Palayamkottai   This is with reference to the news report in The Hindu dated 29.5.2021 that the civic body of Chennai has initiated vaccinating people at their doorstep in collaboration with corporates, voluntary organisations and residents’ welfare associations to achieve a target and to prevent crowding at vaccination centres. As there are many corporates and social service organisations in Thoothukudi, this initiative could be replicated in urban and rural areas of the district with priority for elderly people and physically challenged adults. R. Donjeba Nazareth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mail/article34685537.ece
31 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa responds to MLAs, tells them he will visit Belagavi||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced that he will visit Belagavi to inspect how officers are handling the epidemic. This is in reaction to complaints from MLAs from Belagavi that the epidemic is being mismanaged. He told the MLAs in a video conference call on Saturday that he will go to Belagavi and settle all issues. MLA Abhay Patil complained that officers are not cooperating with legislators in the battle against the epidemic. He said that though the State government has sanctioned funds for an additional oxygen plant at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, officers have not accorded it necessary exemptions to start the work and complete it quickly. He urged the Chief Minister to permit engineers to call a short-term local tender and start work. Mr. Patil objected strongly to intervention by Deputy Chief Minister and district in+charge Minister Govind Karjol. He said that he was recording his observations and did not expect answers from the Deputy Chief Minister. MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar complained to the Chief Minister that doctors in government hospitals are not taking care of patients properly. She said that private hospitals are charging exorbitant fees and forcing patients to buy oxygen and drugs from outside. She also complained that the State government has not responded to her pleas to upgrade hospitals in rural areas by providing better equipment and a higher number of qualified doctors. Responding to this, MLA Satish Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Sunday that there is no need for district in-charge Ministers, if the Chief Minister were to rush to every district and manage government affairs. “We have always been demanding that a local leader be appointed as district in-charge Minister. An outsider will not be able to function effectively,” he said. Reacting to rumours of a change in leadership in the State BJP unit, he said that such questions will be answered in May 2023. He criticised some BJP leaders performing agnihotra and other rituals to ward off the virus. Such things have never been proved to fight the virus. “If the leaders prove it, we will felicitate them in public. If rituals and other unscientific measures are enough to fight the virus, where is the need for hospitals and doctors?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-responds-to-mlas-tells-them-he-will-visit-belagavi/article34685158.ece
31 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Scholarship||Bhalki Hiremath Samsthan Vidyapeetha Trust has set aside a scholarship amount of Rs. 1 crore for poor and meritorious students. Online classes for various courses have already started at the Sri Channabasaveshwar Gurukul PU College run by the trust in Karadyal village in Bidar district. An online test will select beneficiaries from among SSLC students. The test will be held at 10 a.m. on June 6. Students of State syllabus, CBSE, ICSE and IGCSE can apply. Interested should register themselves on https://test.edofox.com/registration/bid- ar.php or http://cbgurukul.in/. Details can be had from the college office on Ph: 7353304503, 7353304502, 8147740402, said a release from principal Basavaraj Molkeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scholarship/article34685166.ece
31 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tests triple in Belagavi||The number of COVID-19 tests has more than tripled in Belagavi district after the government allowed Rapid Antigen Test. On Sunday, officers conducted 7,764 tests against the 2,200 tests conducted till Thursday, on an average. Sunday’s figures include RT-PCR and RATs, officers said. On Sunday, the district registered 1,027 new cases, pushing the number of active cases to 16,455. This is a reduction from last week, when total number crossed 22,000. There were 1,734 discharged patients and five deaths. As many as 536 persons have died of COVID-19-related complications heretill now. The positivity rate dropped to 22.8% and recovery rate shot up to 100% in the last 10 days. Details can be had fromhttps://belagavi covid19.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tests-triple-in-belagavi/article34685167.ece
31 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Masks, sanitisers for Police Department||Hubballi-based Swarnaa Group has donated masks and sanitisers to the Police Department. Group managing director V.S.V. Prasad handed over 2,000 masks and 1,000 bottles of sanitisers to the Superintendent of Police in Dharwad on Sunday. This is in recognition of the tireless service by the police towards society that is affected by the epidemic, said a release from group administrator C. Aruna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/masks-sanitisers-for-police-department/article34685159.ece
31 May 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Material donated for COVID-19 relief||NGOs have donated material for COVID-19 relief in Belagavi district. Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Trust donated five oxygen concentrators to the district administration in Belagavi on Sunday. MP Mangala Angadi, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and others were present. D.r Ramannanavar Charitable Trust transferred medical kits to inmates of Channamma Hiremath Old Age Home run by Naganur Sri Shivabasaveshwar Trust. Sri Gurusiddha Swami of Karanji Mutt handed over the kits. Mahantesh Ramannanavar, founder of the trust, and other donors were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/material-donated-for-covid-19-relief/article34685161.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey for elephant corridor begins||Almost a decade after it was first mooted, a survey of over 1,000 acres near the Bannerghatta National Park (BNP) — meant to be developed into an elephant corridor — has begun. This is following a direction to the Anekal taluk authorities by Bengaluru Urban DC J. Manjunath. Mr. Manjunath told The Hindu that the Forest Department was seeking this land [survey 69 in Shivanahalli spread over 1,129 acres of gomala land] to enhance the width of the elephant corridor. “Recently, when I visited the area, we heard what the villagers and environmentalists had to say. Some people complained that resorts have encroached land,” he said. The land, which adjoins the Bannerghatta National Park, has several habitations. “Some have been granted land in the 1970s for cultivation. There are applicants to the government [by owners] to grant them land for livelihood. A survey is needed to assess the extent of land, lands granted, how genuine the claims are, etc.,” Mr. Manjunath added. By providing a secure area for the Asiatic elephant, the corridor will be instrumental in reducing man-animal conflict. “But it needs to be secured without affecting livelihoods,” the DC added. Though the final decision rests at the government level, the survey will offer a sketch of the terrain, habitations, and if they need to be relocated or left undisturbed, he said. “It is a huge area, so it will take time. It needs aerial and ground surveys. The first report should be ready in a fortnight or so for the aerial survey,” he said. Dinesh P., tahsildar, Anekal taluk, said the corridor will extend all the way to Nagarahole. “The survey is under progress. After ascertaining any encroachment, lands granted and habitat checks, we will see what can be done. If everything goes well, it will be handed over to the forest department after the survey,” he said. According to B.N.N. Murthy, Conservator of Forest (DCF), Bannerghatta National Park, the joint survey by the revenue and forest departments is crucial for the corridor for BNP. “The land in question is on par with the notified land in BNP. It will help in the expansion of the existing corridor, so animals will get more space to move around. It will also help farmers by resolving problems like crop raiding,” he said. The Bannerghatta Nature Conservation Trust is keeping its fingers crossed. “The land in question belongs to the elephant corridor. It is revenue land, and according to a lok adalat verdict, it was handed over to the Forest Department  in 2011. then DC M.K. Aiyappa wrote to the DFO, Revenue Department, and tahsildar, quoting the lok adalat verdict stating that it is part of the crucial elephant corridor land. But no action was taken. Miscreants who did not belong to the village came with fudged papers with land granted, but there has been no cultivation whatsoever,” said members of the Trust. They also cited pressure from the quarry mafia. “Since quarrying is closed and a prohibited activity, the quarry mafia is trying to pressurise and move out the trust,” members of the Trust alleged, adding that one of the encroachers even cleared the habitat, despite court orders to maintain status quo.  Environmentalist Vijay Nishanth urged the administration to finish the survey as possible as it will help solve human-animal conflict too. “Overall, it’s a win-win situation for humans and animals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-for-elephant-corridor-begins/article34685117.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20,378 new cases, 382 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 20,378 new cases, taking the total number of people to have contracted COVID-19 to 25,87,827. Of these, 4,734 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. The district with the second highest caseload was Hassan with 2,227 cases. With 382 deaths reported on Sunday, the toll rose to 28,679. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Once again, Bengaluru Urban accounted for the most number of fatalities – 213. As many as 28,053 were discharged on Sunday. With this, the total number of recoveries currently stands at 22,17,117. Karnataka reported 3,42,010 active cases. The positivity rate for the day stood at 14.68%, while the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) dropped to 1.87%. As many as 1,38,809 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,06,599 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,96,14,631.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20378-new-cases-382-deaths/article34685122.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PM praises city loco pilot Sireesha Gajini||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ interacted with South Western Railway (SWR) loco pilot Sireesha Gajini on Sunday. She was recently in the news for steering an oxygen express train from Jolarpettai Junction to Inland Container Depot in Whitefield. The Prime Minister said her work during the pandemic is an example of ‘Naari Shakti’ (women empowerment). During the interaction, the loco pilot told the PM that she was inspired by her parents who supported her and other two sisters to study and do well. While sharing her experience of operating an oxygen express train, she said, “I was very happy. All safety parameters were checked while running the train. The Indian Railways provided a green corridor to operate the train. We covered a distance of 125 km in one-and-a-half hour.” Ms. Gajini, who has been working with the Railways since 2013, was assisted by assistant loco pilot Aparna N.P. Both are BTech graduates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-praises-city-loco-pilot-sireesha-gajini/article34685115.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Black fungus medicines will reach in two days’||While COVID-19 cases appear to be on the decline, the number of mucormycosis or black fungus cases remains a serious health concern. Across Karnataka, 1,250 people including children have contracted the potentially fatal fungal infection. So far, 39 patients have succumbed to the disease. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday said black fungus medicines will reach all districts in two days. “The Centre has made all arrangements to facilitate treatment of black fungus patients. The required amount of medicines have been dispatched and they will be available in all hospitals in all districts in two days,” he said.  With 521 patients, Bengaluru Urban recorded more than half of the total cases, followed by Dharwad district where 119 cases have been reported so far. Data provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare stated that out of the 1,250 cases, 1,193 patients are currently undergoing treatment. The department has said that all the 39 deaths that have been reported will undergo a detailed medical expert audit and further information will be provided on the cause of death. Anti-fungal medicine Meanwhile, a press release from Minister for Medical Education and Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar’s office also addressed the issue of procuring anti-fungal medicine. The release stated that the Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers D. V. Sadananda Gowda was in talks with more than eight companies to procure medicines for black fungus infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-fungus-medicines-will-reach-in-two-days/article34685120.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. wants to vaccinate people on residential premises and workplaces||Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said that once the vaccine supply improves further, the government will carry out vaccination drives on residential premises and at workplaces across Karnataka. During a virtual interaction organised by Namma Bengaluru Foundation (NBF), the Minister said it would take one month to 45 days for a surge in the supply chain. “We are in contact with suppliers, especially Bharat Biotech, which is manufacturing Covaxin. Their facility is coming up in Malur, Kolar, by July or August with a capacity to produce 5 crore doses in a month. They told me that Karnataka will be their priority. We will cover the entire population as and when the supply chain improves.” According to the Minister, to date, 1.3 crore people have been vaccinated of which 1.05 lakh have got their first dose. “By December-end, the entire population will be covered with two doses of vaccine,” he stated. When asked about how the State government was preparing for a likely third wave, the Minister said that they will augment infrastructure based on the recommendations of the expert committee headed by Devi Shetty. The Minister said that his department has already appointed 200 paediatricians and is in the process of appointing 1,800 MBBS doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-wants-to-vaccinate-people-on-residential-premises-and-workplaces/article34685112.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Helping hand from DKS||The appeal of a woman from Mandya who had lost her husband at a private hospital in Hyderabad and was struggling to pay the bill received a positive response from Telangana Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who intervened to get the body released to the family following a plea from KPCC president D. K. Shivakumar. It all started when the woman, Shashikala Manjunath, tweeted about her plight tagging the KPCC president seeking help to get the body of her husband released. The deceased, Manjunath, breathed his last on Sunday. While the hospital bill had run up to Rs. 7.5. lakh, Ms. Shashikala had been able to pay only Rs. 2 lakh. The hospital refused to release the body. Mr. Shivakumar appealed for intervention by Mr. Rao on Twitter. Within half an hour, Mr. Rao tweeted back seeking details of the family. Once the details were provided, he got the body released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helping-hand-from-dks/article34685142.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police stop marriage of 16-year-old girl||The RR Nagar police and a Child Development Project officer (CDPO) stopped the marriage of a 16-year-old girl at a temple in HV Halli recently. “We have booked the groom, Ram Kumar, 23, along with his parents and the parents of the girl under the Child Marriage Restraint Act. We took an undertaking from the accused that he would not marry the girl until she reached legal age,” said a police officer. The police are preparing a detailed report that will be submitted to the Child Welfare Committee. Theft at ATM The Sheshadripuram police have booked a case against two unidentified people who hacked an ATM, opened it, and walked away with Rs. 8.6 lakh in cash recently. “The robbery was caught on the CCTV cameras in the ATM. We are also verifying footage from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the duo,” said an officer. The police have registered a FIR against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-stop-marriage-of-16-year-old-girl/article34685116.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gang assaults, robs Irish national||The Puttenahalli police are on the lookout for a gang who assaulted and robbed a 41-year-old man from Ireland while he was walking on Bannerghatta Road, on Saturday morning around 2 a.m. The victim, Karl Luke Nicholson, resides in BTM Layout II Stage. A gang of five to six men on bikes confronted him, assaulted him with beer bottles and snatched his wallet and sped away. Mr. Nicholson sustained minor injuries but managed to reach home before he called the police and reported the incident. The Puttenahalli police have taken up a case of robbery and are scanning CCTV footage in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-assaults-robs-irish-national/article34685126.ece
31 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Customers to get extra milk||Customers of Shivamogga Cooperative Milk Federation will get an additional quantity of milk in June in all 500 ml and 1,000 ml packets they purchase. Customers in Shivamogga, Davangere and Chitradurga districts will benefit from this move between June 1 and June 30. In a press release issued in Shivamogga, the federation said that an extra 20 ml of milk will be added to 500 ml packets and 40 ml to 1,000 ml packets. “This is to encourage customers to drink more milk in the time of a pandemic. The programme will be launched on June 1 to mark the World Milk Day,” the press release said. The federation took this initiative as the consumption of quality milk will help people get their immunity boosted, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customers-to-get-extra-milk/article34685168.ece
31 May 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient found dead||A 35-year-old COVID-19 patient is said to have died by suicide at the taluk hospital in Arsikere on Sunday. Prakash Naik of Karehalli was under treatment for eight days. He was found dead in the washroom of the hospital. He is survived by his parents, wife and two children. Earlier, the doctors had said that he was recovering and could be discharged soon. However, he did not believe them. He had escaped from the hospital on Sunday morning and his family took him back. Later, in the afternoon, he was found dead.  ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-found-dead/article34685169.ece
31 May 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Case surge: Soon, centralised real-time dashboard for data on bed allotment||The Karnataka government is all set to bring all COVID-19 war rooms in the districts on the same platform in order to facilitate real time dashboard which can give data on bed availability and to ensure a more transparent bed allotment system. This is apart from the existing CHBMS (COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System) in Bengaluru. At present, the districts have set up their own systems for bed allotment and disbursement of the COVID-19 drugs. Now all these platforms or control rooms, particularly related to allotment, would be synchronised using single software.  More transparency Once commissioned, this new system will ensure that any person can see the availability of beds in various districts on the real-time dashboard. “This is will ensure more transparency and also quick booking for needy patients. However, the allotment will be done by respective district administrations, where the patient is registered,” Secretary to DPAR (e-governance) V. Ponnuraj who is also the Nodal Officer for State COVID-19 War Room, told The Hindu . He said that already the project on real-time bed allotment system was implemented on a pilot basis in Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada districts and now it was being rolled out to the entire State with modifications. He clarified that it was not the same software used for CHBMS in Bengaluru. “The State War Room team with the assistance of a private vendor has developed this software to suit all districts, rectifying a few of the lacunae in CHBMS,” he said. District administrations had been asked to take steps for synchronisation immediately and formal commissioning of the new system would be decided in consultation with the Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali, who is in charge of the war room. At a meeting in Hubballi, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had emphasised the need for having a real-time dashboard on bed allotment to make the system more transparent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-surge-soon-centralised-real-time-dashboard-for-data-on-bed-allotment/article34685125.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Post offices start free slot booking for vaccination||The Department of Posts has started registration for COVID vaccination as a measure of social service and to ensure protection to people against the infectious virus. The process of slot booking has been taken up to assist in registration for vaccination so that a large number of people, particularly in rural areas, are not left out of the massive vaccination drive being carried out by the government. “The service has already been taken up in 36 Head Post Offices, 643 Sub Post Offices and 10 Branch Post Offices in Hyderabad Headquarters Region and Hyderabad Region in Telangana Circle,” Assistant Director in office of the Post Master General Hyderabad K. Venkatarami Reddy said. In the next phase, another 800 Branch Post Offices would be included. People have to reach the post office with their photo IDs such as Aadhaar and mobile phone to enable the post office staff complete the process through one time password generated and sent to their mobile phones. “In view of the problems being faced by a large number of people in rural areas in getting themselves registered for vaccination owing to lack of smartphones and connectivity issues, the Department of Posts has started assisting in registration of appointment for vaccination,” Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said. The postal department staff would use the Co-WIN application from the Branch Offices-Common Service Centres (BO-CSC) through a mobile app, for which no service charges are collected. People could avail the vaccine slot booking facility in the post offices free of cost, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-offices-start-free-slot-booking-for-vaccination/article34685127.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Drop in COVID distress calls to govt. hospitals||The marginal drop in COVID patient load at government hospitals has brought down distress calls and work load on doctors, nurses, and other Health Care Workers (HCW). While ICU beds in hospitals continue to be full, hundreds of oxygen beds are available at hospitals for the last few days. Earlier, doctors, nurses and other Health Care Workers (HCW) were completely occupied in the 8-12 hour shifts. Now, the work load has dropped marginally. Nodal officers at major government hospitals said that distress calls at late nights too, have come down. COVID-19 nodal officer at District Hospital in King Koti Dr. M. Mallikarjun said that they used to receive around 150 to 200 calls everyday seeking beds. “Now, it has dropped to around 20 to 30 calls. Over 150 non-ICU beds were available on Sunday. So, we can admit if 15 patients (with oxygen requirement or shortness of breath) want admission at a time,” he said. COVID nodal officer at Government General and Chest Hospital Dr. M. Narender said that it used to take them around five to ten minutes to sort out one call. Back and forth calls were made to inquire patients’ details such as severity of the infection, and oxygen saturation levels. Earlier, on many occasions, attendants were told that beds were full at the Chest Hospital. “Now, we ask people to bring patients if someone in non-severe condition is in need of an oxygen bed,” said Dr. Narender. Director of Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences Dr. Vimala Thomas said that work related stress has dropped marginally. “We used to pace from one patient to another without a break in 8-12 hours’ shift. Now, the work load has dropped a little,” said Dr. M. Naresh, president of the Telangana Senior Resident Doctors’ Association (TSRDA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drop-in-covid-distress-calls-to-govt-hospitals/article34685128.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Lockdown opposed||Hours ahead of the State Cabinet’s decision on the lockdown on Sunday, Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi opposed its extension, saying universal vaccination was the solution. Mr Owaisi stated that a lockdown may appear as an aggressive strategy on the pandemic, but it actually destroys the lives of the poor. He further stated that COVID cases were coming down before the lockdown. “The only long-term solution is universal vaccination. Lockdowns give a cruel choice to the poor: poverty, police atrocities or pandemic. They make a public health crisis into a law and order problem. They are neither a scientific nor a humanitarian strategy,” he tweeted. COVID-19 can be fought by educating people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-opposed/article34685129.ece
31 May 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Online exam for II PU opposed||Taking note of media reports on the government’s proposal to hold the II PU examination in online mode, All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) opposed the proposal saying that not more than 25% of students have proper facilities and resources for online education. In a media release, office-bearers of AIDSO units in Bidar, Kalaburagi and Ballari said that the proposal will only create distress among young students who are already reeling under financial crisis induced by lockdown and the inequality in the education system that has made higher education a daydream for a majority of them. “Several survey reports from reputed organisations show that merely 25% of students in the State have facilities or resources to avail themselves of online education,” Hanamant S.H., convenor of the Bidar unit of AIDSO, said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-exam-for-ii-pu-opposed/article34685154.ece
31 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||There is no question of MPs, MLAs procuring vaccine, says Kateel||Denying allegations that Bengaluru South MP Tejaswi Surya and his uncle and Basavangudi MLA Ravi Subramanya were collecting cash for vaccination at private hospitals in Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Sunday said that free vaccines are procured and distributed by the State government and there is no question of either MLAs or MPs directly procuring vaccine. Talking to reporters after taking part in a function to celebrate the second year of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Kateel said, “(Free) vaccines are being procured by the Drug Control Department.” Mr. Kateel said that there is nothing wrong in MPs and MLAs telling people who need vaccine at the earliest to approach private hospitals. Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda was closely monitoring the process of procurement and distribution of vaccines, he added. Mr. Kateel said that while there is no dearth of leaders in the BJP, B.S. Yediyurappa continues to be the consensus leader to steer the State through these tough times. “It is the Congress that is finding it hard to have leaders in the State and this is the reason why the Congress high command chose to support H.D. Kumaraswamy as Chief Minister instead of Siddaramaiah in 2018,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-question-of-mps-mlas-procuring-vaccine-says-kateel/article34685164.ece
31 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Multiple choice questions for II PU exam suggested||The Dakshina Kannada District Pre University Principals Association has urged Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar to hold II Pre University examination by providing multiple choice questions of 50 marks for each subject and make students answer it in OMR (optical mark recognition) sheets. Association president Umesh Karkera said that multiple choice questions will lessen the burden on students, whose preparations have been affected because of improper online and offline classes due to the pandemic. The examinations can be held by using OMR sheets, at the gram panchayat level for students and this will help prevent students and invigilators from travelling long distances to reach examination centres. These sheets can be evaluated by scanning and also prevent teachers from travel long distances for evaluation. The letter said that students should be given a bank of 100 multiple choice questions each for each one of the subjects in Science, Arts and Commerce streams of the course. The 50 questions for each one of the subjects in the examination should be based on questions in the question bank. Practical examination should be cancelled and questions related to it should be part of the theory paper. Each question can be of 2 marks and each paper can be of 90 minutes duration. The examination at the hobli and village level can be held using classrooms and teachers at the local schools. The OMR sheets can be uploaded from each one of the district centres to the PU Department, which can give results in about 10 days. There will be sufficient time for students to prepare for this new format of examination, Mr. Karkera said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/multiple-choice-questions-for-ii-pu-exam-suggested/article34685156.ece
31 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||40 anganwadi workers, health activists felicitated||As many as 40 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), anganwadi workers and other staff at the Urban Primary Health Centre, Lady Hill, were felicitated during the function organised by the Mangaluru South Assembly BJP unit to mark celebration of the second year of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the party has directed the workers to celebrate the occasion by devoting themselves in work that helps needy people. Felicitation of health workers on Sunday was among the programmes held as part of “Seva hi Sanghatan”. Such programmes are being held in 10,000 villages across the State, he said. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath said that the party workers have involved in works to address the needs of people in terms of treatment, providing grain, food and meeting other necessities during this pandemic. He lauded councillor Ganesh from Derebail (South West ward), who has performed the last rites of 90 persons, and other BJP workers involved in performing such rites. The State government has taken steps to increase the number of ventilators at the Government Wenlock Hospital to 100. More ventilators will installed shortly at the hospital and a few private hospitals, he said. In Bantwal, Mr. Kateel launched the “Bantwal BJP Kshema Nidhi” created to fund education and other needs of students from poor families. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik said that this fund is primarily created to fund expenses of children who have lost their parents due to the pandemic. As the Union and State governments have come out with their own schemes for such children, the Bantwal BJP unit decided to use the fund for students from poor families, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-anganwadi-workers-health-activists-felicitated/article34685172.ece
31 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More funds promised for panchayats keeping villages free of pandemic||Minister for Muzrai and Backward Classes Development Kota Srinivas Poojari on Saturday said that he will arrange to get additional funds released to those gram panchayats that completely free villages from COVID-19. This will be done after discussions with the Chief Minister. Mr. Poojari was interacting with members of village-level task forces from Hebri and Karkala taluks through video conference from the office of the Udupi Deputy Commissioner at Rajatadri, Manipal. He urged the task force members from 36 gram panchayats of the two taluks to work effectively to contain the pandemic and asked ASHAs and anganwadi workers to visit households of the infected everyday to check their health condition. Task force members should get those having severe symptoms of the infection admitted to hospitals immediately. The Minister said that task forces are capable of containing the spread of the infection as desired by the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister. The gram panchayats that could completely contain the spread of the pandemic by taking strict measures will get additional funds for development works, after discussion with the Chief Minister. He asked the task force members to stamp the palms of infected persons so as to discourage their movement outside the containment area. Joining the meeting from his Bengaluru office, Karkala MLA Sunil Kumar said that every gram panchayat is being given medical kits and pulse oximeters from his MLA LAD funds and these should be used appropriately. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the Miyar Gram Panchayat has become a model to others by taking effective steps to contain the infection. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat asked the task force members to ensure no crowding takes place at vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-funds-promised-for-panchayats-keeping-villages-free-of-pandemic/article34685155.ece
31 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Artiste dead||Senior Yakshagana artiste Mangalpady Mahabhala Shetty (76) passed away on Sunday. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Mr. Shetty, a resident of Mangalpady in Kasaragod district of Kerala, was associated with Yakshagana for over 35 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artiste-dead/article34685165.ece
31 May 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stolen gold retrieved||The Sullia Police subjected an accused to a medical procedure to make him naturally eject 35 grams of gold he had swallowed. In a press release, the Sullia Police said that Shibu (48) of Thrissur district and Tangachha (50) from Kannur district of Kerala were arrested on Saturday in two cases of theft reported in Sullia and Puttur Town police limits. They recovered 147 grams of gold worth Rs. 6.61 lakh from them. Soon after the arrest, the police said, Shibu reported abdominal pain. Scanning revealed jewellery in his intestine. He was taken to a local hospital where a procedure was carried out for him to naturally eject 35 grams of gold he had swallowed. He had swallowed the gold ornaments to hide them from the police, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stolen-gold-retrieved/article34685170.ece
31 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Growth rate higher in rest of Karnataka than Bengaluru||Though daily COVID-19 infections across the State have seen a decline, the growth rate of total confirmed cases between May 19 and 26 is higher in the rest of Karnataka than Bengaluru Urban. A study by Project Jeevan Raksha confirms the fears of a surge in infection in rural areas. According to the analysis, the seven-day MGR for Bengaluru Urban reduced to 5% between May 19 and May 26, from the 9% during the previous week [May 12 to 19]. But, for the rest of Karnataka, the MGR went up from 6 to 11% during the corresponding period. The districts reporting a high MGR were Uttara Kannada (18%), Chitradurga (17%), Chikkamagaluru (16%) and Mysuru, Gadag, Belagavi, and Hassan (14%). Those with a low seven-day MGR were Bidar (2%), Kalaburagi (3%), and Bagalkot and Vijayapura (7%). According to Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Project Jeevan Raksha, a higher MGR indicates a shorter doubling period, which also leads to an increased demand for medical infrastructure and resources to reduce mortality. A lower MGR indicates a longer doubling period and a “sign of recovery”, he added. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sanjeev feared that the MGR in the rest of Karnataka could also lead to a higher mortality in June. The week [ending May 26] saw the average daily deaths in the State increase to 518 from 420 the previous week. The average deaths in Bengaluru Urban rose to 273 from 182 during the same period and in the rest of Karnataka, it went up from 238 to 245. With the lockdown in force till 6 a.m. of June 7, Mr. Sanjeev suggested that a partial easing of norms can be considered in districts that showed an MGR between 2 and 9% for two consecutive weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growth-rate-higher-in-rest-of-karnataka-than-bengaluru/article34685110.ece
31 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Lockdown might hit nutrition of tribal communities: NGO||Tribals and forest-dwelling communities, who receive nutrition supplement from the Centre under the Tribal Sub-Plan for six months a year, have sought extension of the same for one year on account of the pandemic. This is necessary since they are not getting any employment during the lockdown, argue NGOs. The supplement is released through the Integrated Tribal Development Plan (ITDP) and was originally conceived to distribute nutritious food during the rainy season. This is because forest-dwelling tribes tend to go without work during monsoon. S. Sreekanth of Development Through Education (DEED), an NGO working on tribal development issues, said the government had released the nutritional component in advance due to the lockdown induced by the pandemic. But whatever has been released is till May 31, 2021, after which the nutritional supplement for the year will cease. This could result in malnutrition among tribals due to the lack of work in view of the lockdown, said Mr. Sreekanth. DEED has urged the ITDP to seek government clearance to extend the nutritional supplement till the end of the year. He said it would also be ideal in case the policy is tweaked to ensure that the food supplement is released throughout the year, instead of restricting it to six months, in future as well. In all, 11,000 Adivasi families benefit from the scheme in Mysuru district alone, and the scheme is applicable to tribals across the State. The nutritional supplement provided by the government includes 30 eggs, half a kg of ghee, 2 kg of jaggery, 8 kg of rice, ragi or wheat, 2 kg of green gram, 1 kg of groundnut or horse gram, and 2 litres of vegetable oil per family. This is in addition to the monthly ration under Anna Bhagya and other schemes released to tribals throughout the year, he added. But out of the 11,000 families in Mysuru district, about 3,000 do not have proper documents, including BPL card or ration card, and hence they are are deprived of the ration. Meanwhile, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also raised the issue and said that in the absence of work and depleted income due to the lockdown, tribal communities could face severe malnutrition. M.L. Parushuram, a member of the commission, said the government should extend the nutritional supplement for the entire year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-might-hit-nutrition-of-tribal-communities-ngo/article34685133.ece
31 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sindhuri questioned on fund utilization||Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri came under attack by MP Pratap Simha who sought ‘accountability and explanation’ for funds spent on COVID-19 management in the district besides accusing her of spending money on constructing a swimming pool at her official quarters. Mr. Simha said here on Sunday the DC was ‘thwarting’ efforts to procure medicines or increase facilities for COVID-19 care by citing rules and procedures. “But were rules and procedures followed while constructing the swimming pool and were the works referred to the heritage committee as Mysuru is a heritage city,” questioned Mr. Simha. “The district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar ensured the release of Rs. 41 crore but officials in the review meeting say that they are handicapped due to lack of funds. We want an explanation on how the money was spent,” said Mr. Simha. The MP referred to 16 step-down hospitals which were shut down recently and wondered who issued permission for them in the first place. “An expert committee has to ascertain the facilities available in a hospital and submit a report to the DC before any decision can be taken. But neither was a committee constituted nor was there any report,” said the MP. Mr. Simha’s questions are the latest in the series of such outbursts against Ms. Sindhuri by elected representatives drawn first from JD(S) and now the BJP. However, the Congress had stated that Ms. Sindhuri was being targeted for closing the 16 step-down hospitals backed by the BJP leaders for financial considerations. Ms. Sindhuri however refuted the allegations, said her focus was entirely on combating the pandemic and the charges against her were both false and misleading. She said every paise spent on COVID-19 care and management was accounted for and her integrity was unimpeachable. “I have been the target of non-stop motivated and personal attacks from the day I joined Mysuru as Deputy Commissioner. I have ignored them as, during the pandemic, I shall devote each ounce of my energy to COVID-19 control,” she reiterated. “When personal attacks were unable to detract the district administration from its work, now false and irresponsible statements with respect to COVID-19 management have started,” said Ms. Sindhuri. The whole purpose is to scandalize and make allegations without basis, she added. Claiming that the COVID-19 management in the district was exemplary, Ms. Sindhuri said vaccination coverage in Mysuru was 72% and the highest in the State; that testing in Mysuru was 150% of the target given by the State and the case fatality rate was one of the lowest in the State. She also issued a note highlighting the amount spend on COVID-19 medicines, purchase of consumables, payment of staff, etc., and said each and every expenditure has been as per financial norms and would be subjected to audit by CAG in due course and present issues are being raised due to extraneous considerations. Meanwhile, Mr. Simha has written to the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa reiterating his allegations and sought an inquiry into the COVID-19 management in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sindhuri-questioned-on-fund-utilization/article34685119.ece
31 May 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kangana Ranaut’s bodyguard arrested in Mandya||Actor Kangana Ranaut’s bodyguard has been arrested from his native village of Heggadahalli in Mandya district in connection with a cheating case. Superintendent of Police of Mandya M. Ashwini told The Hindu that Kumar Hegde was arrested by a team of police personnel from Mumbai, where a cheating case has been registered against him. The team, who took the assistance of the local police, produced the accused before the court in K.R. Pet before taking him away. Hegde is believed to have had a relationship with a woman in Mumbai and promised marriage. It is learnt that after Hegde returned to his native village, the woman lodged a police complaint accusing him of cheating her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kangana-ranauts-bodyguard-arrested-in-mandya/article34685143.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 has underlined the importance of ease of breathing||Amid the second wave of COVID-19, it is now widely recognised that tobacco use is associated with a greater risk to the infection, more complications, and a greater chance of death as a consequence. COVID-19 has laid bare to us the importance of healthy lungs and easy breathing. However, even before COVID-19, smoking was the most important causative factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a condition in which every breath can be a huge effort. Tobacco does not only kill, it also causes a plethora of diseases, leading to years of suffering for some moments of pleasure or relief. India is the second largest consumer of tobacco and the third largest producer of tobacco in the world. More than one in 10 of the world’s smokers lives in India, and one in 10 deaths annually — roughly 10 million — are attributable to tobacco. India also accounts for 70% of the world’s deaths due to smokeless tobacco (SLT) use. In large numbers Despite a 7% reduction in the use of tobacco in India, as reflected inthe Global Adult Tobacco Survey 2 (GATS 2) in 2016-2017 from GATS 1 (2009-2010), 43% of males and 14% of females — translating to nearly 267 million adults — still use tobacco. India has the dual burden of both smoking and smokeless forms of tobacco. Studies suggest a downward trend in the age of initiation of tobacco use and a rising prevalence among girls. It is estimated that more than half the regular tobacco users want to quit, but very few try, either because they think their tobacco use is not too much of a problem or because they are apprehensive of withdrawal symptoms. There is also a concern about the perceived fear of losing their tobacco-using friends. But the benefits of quitting tobacco are apparent fairly soon after quitting. Apart from better breath and improved oral hygiene, oxygen levels in the blood improve in a few hours, smell and taste improve, and blood circulation and lung function improve in a few weeks to months. While the risks of lung cancer, coronary heart disease, and stroke take many years to be comparable to the general population, these risks are halved in about one to five years of stopping. Seeking help To help those who wish to quit, tobacco cessation clinics have been set up at many health care settings. It is heartening that tobacco users are now reaching out, particularly during the pandemic, expressing a desire to quit and requesting support. Fortuitously, even before the pandemic, digital technology was in use to reach out to lakhs of tobacco users, particularly those who could not access to tobacco cessation facilities. This includes the mCessation programme, available through the National Health Portal, where users can register by giving a missed call on 011-22901701 or register through the portal. There are also a spate of devices and apps to support quitting smoking. For people who like to get help from a ‘real person’, the Tobacco Quitline, presently run regionally from NIMHANS, VP Chest Institute, Tata Memorial Hospital, and the Borooah Cancer Institute offer this service. On calling 1800112356, the calls are routed to the regional centres based on the caller’s language and trained counsellors support in the quit attempt. Since it is common for tobacco users to relapse, the counsellors ‘handhold’ the caller through proactive calls to deal with a relapse and ensure follow-up for a year. A silver lining during COVID-19 is the increased commitment of users to quit as reflected in higher short-term quit rates of registered callers.  (The author is professor and head of the Department of Psychiatry, NIMHANS, Bengaluru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-has-underlined-the-importance-of-ease-of-breathing/article34685140.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||An evening in Bengaluru||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/an-evening-in-bengaluru/article34685108.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to decide on lockdown extension by weekend||Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs had issued general guidelines about how to manage the COVID-19 situation till June 30. “There will be no change in the curbs imposed till June 7. Keeping the guidelines and prevailing conditions in mind, the Chief Minister will decide on what next after June 7,” he said. Mr. Bommai said the number of cases and the positivity rate is yet to come down while the situation still has to come under control. “People have to cooperate. It is a matter of one week and the situation is coming under control,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension-by-weekend/article34685145.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Readers’ Mail||Sir, — It is heartening that food outlets have been opened in many areas for people from the poorer sections. But, unfortunately, there are long queues. If the organisers can have more volunteers to distribute the packets, people, especially the senior citizens and the physically challenged, needn’t wait for long in the queues. P.C. Keshava,  Bengaluru   Sir, — Food delivery workers, who toil day and night risking their health, definitely need a financial package from the government. Hopefully, the Chief Minister will include them in the package that he has promised to announce soon. Considering they come in contact with many people, they also need to be provided protective equipment. V.N. Subramanyam,  Bengaluru      Readers can email to letters.bangalore   @thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/readers-mail/article34685106.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of power||The desire for political control over bureaucratic authority is all too glaring in Mysuru where support or opposition to the Deputy Commissioner tends to pit one party against another. When S.R. Mahesh of the JD(S) and H.P. Manjunath of the Congress accused the DC, Rohini Sindhuri(in picture), of “high-handedness” and “imperious attitude” a while ago, BJP representatives closed ranks and backed her. But there has been a sudden shift in equations recently, with BJP legislator Pratap Simha lashing out at the “bureaucratic failure” to control the surge in the pandemic in the district indirectly alluding to Ms. Sindhuri. But the latter received some unlikely support from the Congress as its spokesperson, M. Lakshman, questioned Mr. Simha’s shift in attitude towards the Deputy Commissioner. Mr. Lakshman attributed this to Ms. Sindhuri’s decision to close down a few COVID Care Centres run by private hospitals — a decision which, according to the Congress spokesperson, left the BJP bereft of a “source of revenue”. Now, Chamundeshwari MLA G.T. Deve Gowda, who is technically with the JD(S) but is otherwise perceived to be in the BJP camp, challenged Mr. Simha to get the DC transferred if he had “any political mettle”. But Mr. Simha pressed the pause button to say that shunting out officials did not prove his mettle and he believed in working with the bureaucracy.   The Belagavi police are enforcing a strict lockdown aimed at breaking the COVID-19 infection chain. They have filed over 36,300 cases, levied fines of over Rs. 45 lakh, and seized around 7,300 vehicles. However, it seems the long arm of the law only reaches up to the common man. Politicians and VIPs have violated the lockdown norms openly, only to go scot-free. There have been at least three instances of VIPs organising public events with large crowds gathering. Last week, Mahadevappa Yadwad, MLA, celebrated his birthday in a temple in Ramdurg with his friends and family. Religious rituals were organised in the presence of police officers. Annasaheb Jolle, MP, held a public meeting to discuss the COVID-19 situation at Chikkodi and many officials, police personnel, and BJP leaders attended. Abhay Patil, MLA, held an ‘Agnihotra’ procession(in picture)in Belagavi. He was joined by followers in pushing a cart in which a homa was performed. Elected representatives argue that their activities do not violate the COVID-19 guidelines. Though Belagavi Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that all events were taken seriously and promised appropriate legal action, no cases were filed till Saturday.   Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar’s alleged plot to replace Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seems to have earned him more enemies than ever before. BJP leaders, from former MLAs and MLAs to Ministers, have railed against the Minister for his alleged plans to hasten a change of guard in the State. MLA for Holalkere M. Chandrappa claimed that Mr. Yogeeshwar had “become unstable” after the party made him an MLC and gave him a ministry. The Chief Minister’s political secretary, M.P. Renukacharya, called Mr. Yogeshwar(in picture)“corrupt” and demanded his removal from the Cabinet. Minister S.T. Somashekar, himself a migrant to the BJP from the Congress, said, “Only a person who has changed three parties will speak about this government being a coalition of three parties.” Mr. Yogeshwar had alleged that the CM was indulging in “adjustment politics” and compromising with the Opposition. Mr. Yogeshwar, apparently irked by Mr. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra “interfering” in the affairs his ministry, tried to downplay his failed plan, saying that the BJP had given him “everything” despite his defeat in the Assembly elections. R. Krishna Kumar Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article34685137.ece
31 May 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,530 cases reported in Alappuzha||The district reported 1,530 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded 22 COVID-19-related deaths. While 1,522 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, the source of the infection of the rest eight remains unknown. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 14.78. Meanwhile, 2,333 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 19,205. On Sunday, the police registered 37 cases and arrested 10 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 809 people for not wearing face masks, 440 people for violating physical distancing norms, and 11 people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 227 vehicles. Kottayam The number of fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Kottayam continued to decline steadily with 834 persons testing positive for the virus on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, all but two persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day was 15.52%. With 116 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panchikkad panchayat with 66 cases. As many as 1,278 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 9,349. As many as 40,711 others are under surveillance for suspected infection. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 517 persons tested positive for the disease on Sunday. Of this, 511 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day was 17.3%. With 29 cases, Thiruvalla municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Mallapuzhassery panchayat with 25 cases. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 deaths continued soar with the pandemic claiming three more lives. With 1,101 recoveries, the district currently has 9,347 active cases. Official sources said the number of critical patients remained on the higher side even as the total active cases began falling.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1530-cases-reported-in-alappuzha/article34685548.ece
31 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||The paths corruption took in Ayyappankovil||A board attached to a goat shed that stands near-empty at Samimedu in Ayyappankovil grama panchayat says it was constructed at a cost of Rs. 59,771. But Pavithran, the beneficiary, says he only got Rs. 23,600 as part of a panchayat scheme and that too after many requests. An 180-metre ‘kayyala’ (stone mount) allotted to another beneficiary has a dimension of 856 metres in the records. The work was done under MGNREGP ( Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme ). Manipulations  Joyichan, the beneficiary, says he was told then that only two metres work will be considered on a single day. The entire work seems to be manipulated in a systematic way. Similar manipulations have been seen in the amounts allocated to the houses constructed for the flood victims of 2018. A shed in a cardamom farm was destroyed in the winds but in the records, it was entered as a house and a huge amount was transferred to the account of a beneficiary to build a house. Similarly, unused houses were pulled down and were enetered in records as those damaged in the rain and winds and money transferred for a fresh house in their place. All these are tips of the iceberg, according to some officials. There are major slips seen in the MGNREGP official records. The chairperson of the Kudumbashree mission was paid for many days’ works when she had not attended any work. A bridge was constructed for the private needs of an individual near Arekkar under the panchayat scheme. An ‘edathavalam’ (rest place) was constructed for Sabarimala pilgrims at a cost of Rs. 18 lakh when nothing but a shed remains there now. Many cases These and many other cases of manipulation, diversion of funds, and tampering with records came to light at Ayyappankovil grama panchayat during the term of the last council after District Collector H. Dinesan ordered an internal inquiry into the malpractices. It is suspected that nearly Rs. 1 crore were ‘diverted’ after manipulating official data on funds allocated for house construction for 2018 flood victims, work under MGNREGP, the expenses of Kudumbashree Mission, and other welfare programmes. A racket involved in the malpractices consisting of panchayat staff, ward members, overseers, and those close to them had been active in diverting the funds through systematic manipulation of the officials records, as per the initial inquiry, say officials. District Collector H. Dinesan told The Hindu that initial inquiry revealed malpractices and irregularities of lakhs of rupees. However, he said the corruption was widespread and ran deep, there were attempts to save the culprits. He said that an internal vigilance inquiry had been ordered now. The grass-root level inquiry would reveal the gravity of the fund diversion and irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-paths-corruption-took-in-ayyappankovil/article34685546.ece
31 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Review held in area where vaccination was slow||A review meeting was chaired by District Collector H. Dinesan on Sunday at Vattavada, where it was found that the local communities were reluctant in taking the COVID-19 tests and vaccines. The meeting attended by people’s representatives, health officials, and the staff of the grama panchayat evolved a few measures to be adopted to make COVID-related works more effective. The total number of positive cases so far in the grama panchayat was 201. As many as 155 persons were under treatment now. There are five Domiciliary care centres (DCC) in the panchayat limit. The meeting also decided to intensify the field level works to provide vaccines and conduct the tests. It will also be considered to extend the vaccination at the field level. The meeting decided to accommodate the positive cases in the DCCs instead of home isolation. Devikulam sub-collector S. Premkrishnan, and officials of police, also attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/review-held-in-area-where-vaccination-was-slow/article34685549.ece
31 May 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||SSK bid to bring online classes to remote areas||Sarva Siksha Kerala (SSK) is evolving a plan to provide online classes by transferring lessons on pen drive to the settlements in remote forest areas. D. Bindumol, district project coordinator, on Sunday said that in the wake of the COVID restrictions on the entry of outsiders to the tribal settlements, a volunteer from there would move the pen drive containing the classes to the community study centres there every week. She said that this was worked out in Edamalakkudy during the last academic year. However, she said that there were some problems when the only road were blocked in the floods. The Pettimudy landslips had impacted the movement of the volunteers affecting the classes and other alternatives would be explored to continue the classes this year, she said. Already, 2,015 students from Class 1 to Plus-Two in the district faced difficulties in attending the online classes. There would be a common centre for giving classes to them, she added. Munnar, Marayur, Kanthallur and Vattavada had more problems in arranging online classes. Special facility would be arranged for online classes to the Tamil medium students, she said, adding that SSK was compiling the data on students who faced some kind of problems for attending the online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ssk-bid-to-bring-online-classes-to-remote-areas/article34685550.ece
31 May 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Catfish endangering native species of WWS||The rampant spread of catfish, known locally as African Mushi, in the waterbodies of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) is posing danger to the native aquatic species of the sanctuary, which is already facing threat from the wild growth of alien species of plants, including Senna spectabilis. Though the sighting of catfish had been reported in waterbodies of the district, including major rivers, this was the first time that it was reported in the sanctuary. “When we planned to organise a survey to make a checklist on the presence of indigenous fish species in the waterbodies of the sanctuary as part of the World Biodiversity Day observance, some tribespeople informed me about the presence of the invasive species of fish inside the ponds of the sanctuary,” warden S. Narendra Babu told The Hindu . In a sample survey conducted in two waterbodies in the Muthanga forest range, the front-line staff collected 73 catfishes, weighing 50.5 kg, said Mr. Babu. 217 waterholes “There are 217 waterholes inside the sanctuary, including check dams, spread over four forest ranges, and we are planning to conduct a survey in all the waterholes in the coming days,” he added. It was suspected that the unprecedented floods over the past two years in the district might have facilitated the introduction of the aquatic invasive alien species into the new habitats, said Mr. Babu. The phenomenon endangered ecosystems, habitats and native aquatic species of the sanctuary, which was already facing threat from the rampant growth of invasive plants such as Mikania micrantha, Lantana, and Eupatorium, he added. Researchers said during floods, invasive alien fish which were illegally farmed in fragile systems, including domestic aquarium tanks, ponds, lakes, and abandoned quarries, escaped from captivity and entered nearby wetlands. They slowly began to wipe out local varieties by altering the functions of the ecosystem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catfish-endangering-native-species-of-wws/article34685257.ece
31 May 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Create forests to stop global warming, says Minister||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has called for a conscious effort to create forests to meet the challenges of global warming. He was opening the Little Forest Challenge launched by the district panchayat as part of its Carbon Neutral Project. The project aims to create small forests in 100 places through the Little Forest Challenge. As part of the initiative, up to 1,000 fruit-bearing trees will be planted. The Little Forest Challenge is being organised as a competition. Awards will be given to those who create model forests. Individuals, institutions, and places of worship can join the competition. The district panchayat will provide saplings for the Little Forest Challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/create-forests-to-stop-global-warming-says-minister/article34685263.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Helping identify secondary infections in COVID patients||The microbiology lab at the Ernakulam General Hospital has been working to help diagnose secondary infections in COVID patients, and determine patterns of drug-resistance. Out of a total of 438 samples collected from COVID hospitals, 39 samples were found to be carbapenem (a class of antibiotics) resistant, which means that these infections were sensitive only to antibiotics used as a last resort, such as colistin. A total of 11 fungal infections were also diagnosed in the samples sent to the lab from September 2020 till April this year. The lab has been receiving samples from patients at COVID care centres to diagnose infections, said Dr. Sivaprasad P.S., district nodal officer for the antimicrobial resistance (AMR) programme. From PVS Hospital, a tertiary care facility for COVID patients, 186 blood cultures were received at the lab. Of these, 33 blood cultures were found to be positive. A positive blood culture indicates an infection. Samples were also collected from the Palluruthy and Fort Kochi taluk hospitals, and the District Hospital at Aluva. Cultures of blood, pus, urine, sputum, or cerebrospinal fluid are sent to the lab. Depending on the sensitivity pattern of the culture, precise antibiotics can be prescribed, since unwarranted use can lead to resistance, Dr. Sivaprasad said. Sepsis management and AMR surveillance in the district function on a unique ‘hub-and-spoke’ model, with the GH lab being the ‘hub’ that collects and tests samples from 15 government hospitals that are the ‘spokes’, thus avoiding the need for separate, expensive laboratories at each of these hospitals. The lab receives 40 to 50 samples daily, and COVID hospitals have also begun sending suspected mucormycosis samples, Dr. Sivaprasad said. COVID patients can develop secondary infections and early identification of these is crucial, he said. Severe COVID patients admitted in ICUs could be on immunosuppressants that make them vulnerable to bacterial super-infections, said Dr. Aravind R., head of the Infectious Disease Department, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. Infection control measures are likely to have taken a hit since there has been a surge in cases, and there are chances of bacterial infections. “High-end antibiotics might be prescribed to cover for lapses in infection control. This could drive up drug-resistant infections. This is what is happening across the world, and Kerala might not be any exception to this,” he said. The use of antibiotics should be culture-guided, Dr. Aravind said. But in the COVID scenario, labs are overwhelmed, and antibiotics are administered without taking a culture. Broad-spectrum antibiotics could kill useful bacteria that keep fungal growth in check. Misuse of antibiotics could then lead to invasive fungal infections, he said. The District Medical Officer had issued an order in April indicating that the district microbiology lab for the AMR programme at the General Hospital may receive samples from COVID treatment centres and work round-the-clock for “better results in COVID treatment outcome.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-identify-secondary-infections-in-covid-patients/article34685273.ece
31 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 3 cr. more aid for Christian students||Christian students will earn an additional benefit of around Rs. 3 crore when the minority scholarships are redistributed among them and the Muslims based on their population. The redistribution following the Kerala High Court order would see the total allocation for Muslims going down to Rs. 9.27 crore from the earlier Rs. 12.68 crore and that of all the Christian communities together going up to Rs. 6.41 crore from the earlier Rs. 3.16 crore, said A.B. Moideen Kutty, Director, Directorate of Minority Welfare The disbursal of the minority merit-cum-means scholarship scheme, which was rechristened C.H. Muhammad Koya Scholarship, and the one for professional courses like Chartered Accountancy and ICWA, would have to be restructured with the court striking down the 80:20 ratio followed for the beneficiaries — Muslims, Latin Catholics, and Converted Christians. The court also ordered that it shall be redistributed among all the minority communities on the basis of their population. Each year, the State government spends Rs. 15.81 crore on six scholarships covering 14,398 students belonging to the six minority communities, Mr. Kutty said. Highest allocation The CH scholarships has the highest annual budgetary allocation of Rs. 8 crore and maximum number of beneficiaries, 7,000 girl students. It supports girls from Muslim, Latin Catholic, and Converted Christian communities in graduate, postgraduate and professional courses by offering an annual aid of Rs. 5,000, Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 7,000 each and Rs. 13,000 each for hosteliers. The scholarship amount, launched with an annual outlay of Rs. 10 crore in 2008, was slashed to Rs. 8 crore since there were few applicants initially, he said. The scholarship for Chartered Accountancy has an outlay of Rs. 45 lakh and a beneficiary base of 300 students. The Rs. 3.30-crore Prof. Joseph Mundassery Scholarship for 2,835 students who score full A Plus in SSLC and Plus Two courses, and distinction for UG and PG courses, the Rs. 60-lakh APJ Abdul Kalam Scholarship for 990 students of technical courses, and the Rs. 50-lakh Mother Teresa scholarship for 333 students of paramedical and nursing courses are the other schemes, the official said. The court order would see the scholarship share of Muslims shrinking to 58.67% from the earlier 80%. All Christian communities together would get nearly 40.6%, against the earlier 20%. The other minority communities including Sikhs, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains, will be eligible for 0.73% of the benefits. While most Muslim community organisations wanted the State government to appeal against the court order, most Christian organisations hailed it. The government is treading a fine line in the socially sensitive issue and has maintained that appropriate decision would be taken after looking into the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-3-cr-more-aid-for-christian-students/article34685282.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||COVID cases fall to 1,977||The number of new COVID cases in Ernakulam fell below the 2,000-mark on Sunday, when 1,977 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A test positivity rate of 17.1% was recorded when 11,561 tests were done. The active caseload has fallen to 34,715, and 3,439 people were considered to have recovered on the day. Eleven health workers have tested positive. Thrikkakara recorded 115 new cases, Kalamassery 73, Palluruthy 65, Kumbalangi 52, and Edathala, Njarakkal and Fort Kochi 46 each. Keezhmad saw 39 new cases, while Kizhakkambalam and Thripunithura recorded 38 each. A total of 83,812 people remain in quarantine. As many as 477 people were admitted to treatment centres, and 497 were discharged. While 28,037 people are recovering from the infection at home, 1,906 are at private hospitals, 551 are at first-line treatment centres, 401 are at second-line treatment centres, and 1,154 are at domiciliary care centres. At INHS Sanjivani, 41 patients are recovering, while 644 people are recuperating at government hospitals. Three people are under treatment for mucormycosis in the district. Vaccination A vaccination drive for people over 45 years in the Chellanam panchayat area is set to begin on Monday. Health officials are hoping to administer the first dose to over 10,000 people over 45 years within 10 days. Four vaccination sites have been readied in the area for the sessions on Monday, and it will be increased to 10 sites soon, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for immunisation in the district. A vaccination drive is also being organised from Monday onwards for differently abled persons and bedridden persons in collaboration with the Muvattupuzha block panchayat. A total of 3,000 people living in the area comprising the block panchayat will be vaccinated. “We are hoping to extend this drive to other parts of the district as well,” Dr. Sivadas said. 13 arrested The Ernakulam Rural police registered cases against 13 people from Varapuzha and Kunnathunad, who were COVID positive, on the charge of violating quarantine norms. They were nabbed by a mobile COVID testing team. They had managed to procure COVID negative certificates from private labs. The police warned of action against labs issuing fake COVID negative certificate. They also registered 252 cases, arrested 67 people and seized 525 vehicles on the charge of violating lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-cases-fall-to-1977/article34685277.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSINC struggles to stay afloat as its vessels lie idle in backwaters||The plight of the State-run Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) is a microcosm of the crisis that is staring at Kerala’s tourism sector which brought in revenue worth Rs. 40,000 crore each year to the State till the pandemic derailed the sector. The ambitious plans rolled out by KSINC to make it big in the field of tourism, including constructing and operating tourist vessels, have been derailed by the COVID second wave that hit the State in early April. This despite the agency staying afloat amid the lull in revenue caused by the first wave of the pandemic. Flagship vessel idling The reigning stalemate is most evident in the form of its Egyptian-themed flagship vessel Nefertiti — the first luxury cruise vessel that is based in Kerala and the only one which can take guests 20 nautical miles (38 km) into the sea, remaining berthed in the placid backwaters off Bolghatty Island. It was built at a cost of Rs. 16.42 crore and was commissioned in 2018. KSINC’s two other high-in-demand vessels — Sagara Rani I and II — which are among the handful of tourist vessels that are permitted to take guests up to the seamouth, idle at KSINC’s jetty on the city side of the placid backwaters, a little away from dozens of private tourist boats which were rendered sans patronage during the past year. The Kochi-based public sector undertaking which focuses on inland water transport, coastal shipping, and tourism had recorded a profit of nearly Rs. 1 crore in 2019-20 and crossed business of Rs. 20 crore by the third quarter of the financial year 2020-21, despite setbacks caused by COVID-19 in Kerala’s socio-economic conditions. Similarly, the revenue from Nefertiti went up from Rs. 69.84 lakh in 2019-20 to Rs. 2.4 crore in the last fiscal, despite lockdown restrictions that were in vogue for many months. “We are working on plans to revive the fortunes of Nefertiti and other vessels once the second wave subsides. Especially so since around Rs. 1 crore would have to be set apart when Nefertiti is sent for dry-docking in 2022. Over Rs. 2 crore ought to be spent each year for its upkeep, annual survey by Mercantile Marine Department (MMD) and salary of crew members, irrespective of whether the vessel operates. This is apart from its annual depreciation in value by over Rs. 1 crore,” said Prasanth Nair, MD of the agency. Cruise plans Our plans to lease cruise vessels to operate in different routes, including to Lakshadweep and Maldives, too have gone awry due to the prevailing situation. The agency, which gets little funding from the government, is in a catch-22 situation over the pandemic-induced decline in revenue from these tourist vessels and also from its newly-launched boats Michelle and Cleopatra . The daily income from the pair of roll-on roll-off vessels it operates on the Fort Kochi-Vypeen route has in turn fallen from Rs. 1.50 lakh during pre-COVID days, he added. “The pandemic has also ushered in a lull in the construction of tourist vessels and barges that we undertook, based on orders from within and outside Kerala. It also caused setback in efforts to arrive at tie-ups with French and Singapore firms. We were also unable to venture into arenas like construction of boat jetties and consultancy in areas like obtaining CRZ certification,” Mr. Nair said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksinc-struggles-to-stay-afloat-as-its-vessels-lie-idle-in-backwaters/article34685275.ece
31 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic curbs prove death knell for auditoriums||For nearly four decades, AJ Hall has remained a landmark for the busy Kaloor Junction. A much sought-after facility during normal times for as diverse functions as weddings to conventions, it is now facing an unprecedented crisis since its inception in 1984, thanks to the pandemic-induced restrictions and lockdowns. From clocking an average of 10 functions a month and employing eight staffers, the numbers have now dropped mostly to zero since the pandemic erupted last year to three salaried employees. While the monthly operational expenses might have halved from the previous Rs. 80,000, even that has to be borne out of pocket leaving the situation untenable. “During the first lockdown, we were approached for taking the hall on lease, which we turned down hoping things would improve. Now, we rue it, and any such offer may have to be readily accepted considering the way things are,” said Narayanan Namboodiri, manager of the hall. With the organisation of events involving large-scale assembly of people remains a distant possibility as life alternates between lockdowns, auditorium operators are toying with conversion, lease, or even a permanent shutdown as possible alternatives. Khadeeja, a small auditorium at Aluva, is now being run meeting the annual maintenance expense of Rs. 1.50 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh out of pocket. “There had been countless cancellations since last year. Until vaccination is intensified making normal life possible, business is unlikely to improve. Eventually, we may have to convert it into lodgings or godowns,” said M.D. Koyakutty, owner of the hall. It was two years ago that the Kaliman Vyavasaya Sahakarana Sangham gave a facelift to a part of its over 50-year-old dilapidated building at Thripunithura and converted it into a medium-size hall for holding functions at a reasonable rate. “That it entailed no massive investments and the maintenance cost is also relatively less is what keeps us going though the loss of income is a definite concern,” said Reghu P.V. of the Sangham. Then there are the likes of Pranavam Hall at Vennala, which had a narrow escape leasing out the space to an educational institution just in the nick of time. “We took the decision for want of parking space. But in hindsight, that proved prophetic, as we would have been forced into that decision anyway considering how things panned out since then,” said Haridas K., manager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-curbs-prove-death-knell-for-auditoriums/article34685268.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Missing ASI returns||An ASI attached with the Harbour Police Station who was reported missing on Friday, returned to his house in Palluruthy on Sunday. The ASI, Uthamkumar, reportedly claimed that he went to Guruvayur. Soon after he went missing, his wife had submitted a petition before the Palluruthy police, alleging that he was frequently harassed by a superior officer of the Harbour Station, and that he had recently been served a show-cause notice for turning up late for duty. Sources in the Palluruthy station said that they refused to believe his claim that he went to Guruvayur. He could well have replied to the show-cause notice, rather than remain untraced. His statement was recorded on Sunday. He returned home after being produced before the court, they said. A senior officer with the Palluruthy police said that he had gone to Guruvayur and returned on Sunday. His statements were collected as a case was registered regarding his missing, he said. Mr. Uthamkumar said that he left Kochi due to mental pressure and that he has conveyed his situation to senior officials in the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-asi-returns/article34685278.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hard and soft structures mooted for Chellanam||Experts participating in a consultative meeting on bringing comprehensive development to the coastal village of Chellanam through scientific intervention under the aegis of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos) mooted a variety of options on Sunday. The meet was held in the wake of widespread flooding of homes triggered by cyclone Tauktae. N. Chandra Mohan Kumar of Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, former registrar of the Cochin University of Science and Technology and professor of chemical oceanography, suggested a combination of hard and soft engineering options to protect the shoreline. He said that coastal erosion was a natural process, and the problem of erosion occurred when people built structures on the coastal zone, and any shoreline construction caused changes and that once constructed, coastal structures produced a trend in coastal development that was difficult, if not impossible, to reverse. A combination of hard and soft structures is most suited to protecting the coast. Hard structures include sea walls, groynes, breakwaters or artificial headlands. Sea walls, built parallel to the coast, protect the coast from wave action but creates wave reflection and transportation of sediments offshore. Seawalls do not ensure beach stability, said Dr. Mohan Kumar. He said that geotextile tubes were now being widely used, and they can help control erosion as these tubes protect soil surfaces from the forces of moving water or wind and rainfall erosion. The soft engineering options are meant to dissipate wave energy by mirroring natural forces and maintaining the natural topography of the coast. These include beach nourishment/feeding, dune building, revegetation, and other non-structural management options. He said studies had shown that the presence of vegetation in coastal areas improved slope stability, consolidated sediments and reduced wave energy and protected the shore from erosion. He said that wave size decreased considerably through denser mangrove areas. K.K. Raghuraj of Kufos, an expert in mangroves, said that Chellanam suffered extensive loss of the shoreline and bioshielding the coast was an option. However, the coastal line between Fort Kochi and Chellanam did not have substantial beach formation for allowing mangroves or mangrove associates to grow and that beach restoration was needed for bioshielding the coast.  Beach restoration is needed for bioshielding the Chellanam coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-and-soft-structures-mooted-for-chellanam/article34685269.ece
31 May 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New norms sought for schemes||Functioning of the J.B. Koshy Commission to study the issues faced by Christians in the State should be put on hold considering the recent Kerala High Court verdict in the minority scholarship case, the Muslim Employees Cultural Association (MECA) has said. The Kerala High Court had directed that the minority communities should be considered as a single unit and scholarships distributed. The State government should come out with new guidelines for the distribution of scholarships and implementation of the welfare schemes taking into account the communal amity and social balances, said a statement issued by N.K. Ali, general secretary of the organisation. A meeting of leaders of various Muslim organisations will be held shortly to come up with suggestions and proposals in the wake of the court order, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-norms-sought-for-schemes/article34685283.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New treatment centre to start functioning today||A 102-bed COVID treatment facility set up by the Kochi Corporation is set to begin functioning at Samudrika Hall on Willingdon Island from Monday onwards. The beds are equipped with oxygen supply. The facility had been readied last month, but was awaiting final arrangements to be made by the district administration for oxygen supply, said a note from Mayor M. Anilkumar. With oxygen supply being made available recently, the treatment centre will be inaugurated on Monday. The Cochin Port Trust had earlier agreed to hand the hall over to the corporation to set up the COVID care facility. It will begin functioning with a few beds initially, and will gradually be scaled up, Mr. Anilkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-treatment-centre-to-start-functioning-today/article34685272.ece
31 May 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KCBC meet from June 1||The monsoon meeting of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) will be held here at the Pastoral Orientation Centre between June 1 and 3. KCBC president Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese, will preside the online meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-meet-from-june-1/article34685281.ece
31 May 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Knanaya church secures stay on court ruling||Days after an additional sub-court in Kottayam issued a prohibitory injunction to the Knanaya Arceparchy of Kottayam against terminating the membership of those marrying a Catholic from any other dioceses, the church said that it had secured a stay on the court ruling. In a statement, George Karukapparambil, Public Relations Officer of the arceparchy, said the church had obtained the stay from the district court after moving a petition against the sub court’s ruling. ‘Unfortunate’ Terming the sub-court’s judgement unfortunate, it said that the petitioners had indeed challenged a 1670 year-long tradition of the church through the case. “The general sentiment within the Knanaya community is that a member of the Church should establish marital relationship within the same community. Those who want to marry from outside generally pursue their interest after seeking permission to join some other diocese under the Syro Malabar church,” noted the statement from the church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/knanaya-church-secures-stay-on-court-ruling/article34685553.ece
31 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sea wall fortification work in full swing||The reconstruction of damaged sea walls along the vulnerable coastal areas of Kozhikode district ahead of the monsoon is in full swing. The fortification of the existing walls on some dangerous coastal stretches is also likely to be completed soon. The Azhithala-Kuriyadi stretch of the Vadakara coastline was the worst-hit in the recent sea erosion. Revenue officials said reconstruction work as proposed by local administrators was under way in several locations near Vadakara. More than 100 houses on the coastline had been hit by sea erosion, which damaged the 4-km-long sea wall in many locations. It also forced the Disaster Management Authority to shift over 300 persons to safer locations.  Fishermen’s organisation leaders from Vadakara taluk said huge quantity of granite blocks had already been unloaded in most of the affected areas to complete the emergency reconstruction work within a week. Beaches near Mukhacheri and Kallintavida near Madappally were the worst affected where coastal roads too were damaged, they said. The damaged sea walls along the most vulnerable beach stretches near Koyilandy were repaired to meet the monsoon challenge. However, a few fishermen’s organisation leaders from the area said they were unhappy with the “temporary repairing solution” and claimed that it would not survive the monsoon season. “Temporary filling using granite blocks will never be a proper solution, as it has proved to be a futile exercise and waste of money. Scientific use of high-quality tetrapod alone will work to fight the situation,” said N.P. Radhakrishnan, State vice president of the Bharatiya Matsya Pravarthaka Sanghom. He also pointed out that the views of expert engineers and fishers should be sought to prepare a better seawall fortification plan for the State. Road renovation Along with the sea wall fortification work, the Tourism Department is making all efforts to complete the renovation of damaged coastal roads leading to major beach tourism destinations. Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Sunday visited the Kappad beach to take stock of the situation. He said the renovation of the damaged road between Poyilkavu and Kappad stretch would be completed at the earliest. Mr. Riyas also made it clear that no emergency road renovation work would be delayed in the name of fund shortage. “Contractors who fail to complete projects in time will be excluded from awarding new projects,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-wall-fortification-work-in-full-swing/article34685262.ece
31 May 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Active caseload drops below 20,000 in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 caseload in Kozhikode district dropped to 19,983 on Sunday when 2,669 more people recovered from the infection. As many as 1,306 new cases were reported. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily test positivity rate is 13.78% when 9,762 samples were tested. Of the fresh cases, 1,287 were due to local transmission of the infection, and the source of 17 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 322 cases of locally acquired infections, Olavanna 61, and Chathamangalam 38. Hospital opened Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas opened a new COVID hospital in Kadalundi grama panchayat that falls in his Assembly constituency, Beypore. It was set up as part of the ‘Nammude Beypore’ initiative in view of the increasing number of fresh cases being reported from there. A building belonging to a palliative care society has been converted into the hospital, which has 20 beds with oxygen support. It has a lab and an oxygen plant as well. Sources said some of those undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, could be shifted here. Donation The Kozhikode district higher secondary career guidance and adolescent counselling cell donated ventilators to the MCH as part of the ‘Jeevadhara’ initiative. Cell district coordinator P.K. Shaji said that over Rs. 12 lakh was collected from teachers, non-teachers and other staff in schools in just six days. Since the teachers had set a collection target of Rs. 9 lakh, the rest of the amount would be utilised to buy syringe pumps and non-invasive ventilation (NIV) masks, he added. In Thrissur As many as 2,034 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday while 2,403 patients recovered from the infection. The test positivity rate is 21.71%. There are 12,481 active cases in Thrissur and 78 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. According to official figures, 2,013 people, including 11 health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. (With inputs from Thrissur bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-drops-below-20000-in-kozhikode/article34685259.ece
31 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concept of Mahila Mall inspiring: councillor||Welfare standing committee chairman of the Kozhikode Corporation, P. Divakaran, has termed the concept of the Mahila Mall “inspiring” and said that it could be tried elsewhere. “Management failure was the reason for the Mahila Mall debacle. But it is a good concept. The Corporation is checking if the model could be improvised and implemented once again,” he said while answering a query posed by Congress councillor K.C. Shobhita in the Corporation Council meeting on Friday. The Mahila Mall, claimed to be Asia’s first mall with an all-women crew, is shutting down on Monday. The mall, managed by the Unity Group of the Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree, was launched in November 2018 with about 75 women entrepreneurs. It had caused a lot of problems for the Corporation after entrepreneurs began complaining about mismanagement and lack of efforts on the part of the management to attract customers. A majority of entrepreneurs moved out of the mall by the end of 2019. The COVID-19 lockdown added to the troubles of the remaining entrepreneurs who approached the Corporation for a settlement, considering the huge amounts they had invested. After several rounds of discussions, Unity Group decided to pull out of the project. Ms. Shobhita said several entrepreneurs had not received any compensation for the losses they suffered. Howeever, Mr. Divakaran said the compensation had mostly been settled. The issue of only five entrepreneurs remained, and it would be settled soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concept-of-mahila-mall-inspiring-councillor/article34685260.ece
31 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Price cap on COVID care items remains on paper||The price cap recently fixed by the State government for essential items such as face masks, sanitisers, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, and pulse oximeters is yet to be followed by many wholesalers and retailers in Kozhikode district. Though there is a noticeable rise in the number of confidential complaints from individuals, many are still buying the items from traders without even seeking an explanation on the latest government instructions. Quality of products The propaganda by some wholesale distributors in the medical field that only cheap quality products will be available at the price fixed by the government has also silenced a number of isolated protests. Branded products with fixed price are still leading the show by cashing in on the customers’ hesitation to purchase fair-priced items projected to be of “low quality”. Attempts to sell poor quality products at higher prices by tampering with the original price tag have also come to the notice of various checking squads during flash inspections. The usual trickery is to cover the original price tag with other labels to mislead customers. Names of manufacturers have also been found missing on some products commonly used for monitoring the health of COVID-19 patients. “Like traders, most hospitals in the city are also encouraging overpriced masks, PPE kits, and other items for COVID-19 care. They evade the government directive with a claim that these products are used for better safety,” says N. Azeez, an ambulance driver helping COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode city. He claims that there are patients and bystanders who purchase only overpriced products because such products offer a false sense of security. Meanwhile, officials with the Legal Metrology Department point out that their squads are on the field tracking all the shops engaged in unfair trade. They say that the taluk-level squads in Kozhikode have already exposed 13 such traders after checking over 100 suspected shops. Tampering of tag Incidents of tampering with the original price tag and sale without revealing manufacturer’s details have been exposed during inspections, say officials. Such incidents were noticed mainly in the case of pulse oximeters. They have urged the public to promote and make use of the ‘Sutharyam’ mobile application or any other public helpline to report suspected incidents for spot legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/price-cap-on-covid-care-items-remains-on-paper/article34685254.ece
31 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity decides against online exams||The Calicut University will not hold online exams for sixth semester undergraduate students and fourth semester postgraduate students in its affiliated colleges and distance education centres. The exams will begin in colleges from June 15 and the results will be announced by July 31. This was decided by a standing committee of the Syndicate on Sunday. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj has called a meeting of college teachers’ associations on Monday to discuss the conduct of exams in colleges. Members of the Syndicate committee will be present at the meeting. However, according to sources, online exams will be held for students in engineering colleges on the lines of what was done by the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. A final decision is yet to be taken on holding online exams for students in various departments on the Calicut University campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-decides-against-online-exams/article34685258.ece
31 May 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode’s COVID-19 Jagratha portal draws national attention||COVID-19 Jagratha portal, a website developed by the Kozhikode district administration for pandemic management, has drawn national attention as State governments have now emulated the model. Over three crore people have so far visited the site launched on March 19 last year. The portal, proposed by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, was launched in association with the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and the Kerala State IT Mission. States such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Puducherry have now evinced interest in a module in the portal on the management and supply of oxygen for hospitals. Official sources said the Uttarakhand government had launched a similar system with the help of the NIC. The sources said the portal also had details about the production of oxygen in Keralaand the availability for the next 24 hours. Hospitals and other health facilities can directly seek oxygen supply through the website using separate login IDs and passwords. It will be followed up by the State and district-level oxygen war rooms set up by the government. The website was launched in the initial weeks of the pandemic. It was reportedly the first of its kind in the country. Later, the State government launched similar websites for all other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikodes-covid-19-jagratha-portal-draws-national-attention/article34685547.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,423 test positive in capital, 2,983 recover||As many as 96 deaths were attributed to the COVID-19 during the last two days in Thiruvananthapuram. While the death toll recorded its largest single-day spike of 50 on Saturday, the tally rose by 46 on Sunday. The deaths were recorded between May 7 and 27. The toll currently stands at 1,704. The case fatality ratio continued its upward trend as it reached 0.68. The district recorded 2,423 fresh COVID-19 cases during the last 24 hours, while 2,983 people recovered from the illness. With this, the number of active cases stands at 15,805. The test positivity rate was recorded at 19.62% when 12,344 people were subjected to tests. Among the fresh cases, the source of infection is unknown in 189 cases. Two health workers were among those who tested positive. The district authorities placed 3,539 people in quarantine.District Collector Navjot Khosa said that two more domiciliary care centres (DCC) have been established in Chirayinkeezhu and Kattakada taluks. Both facilities had a capacity of 100 beds each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2423-test-positive-in-capital-2983-recover/article34685227.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Give digital equipment to SC/ST students: study||Availability of digital equipment and participation in digital classes among students belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes community has to increase further to come on a par with that of students belonging to other sections, a study by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and the Psychological Research Centre of the Government College for Women, Vazhuthacaud, here has found. The study report, submitted to the government, looks at learning during the first wave of COVID-19 and the mental health of students and their families. Data collected The study was conducted from September to December last year. Data was collected from 85 government and aided schools across the 14 districts. As many as 2,832 students, 2,466 parents, 412 teachers, 176 school counsellors, and 53 Souhruda Club coordinators were part of the study. It found that 97.38% of primary school students and 94.18% of high school and higher secondary students attended the classes telecast on KITE Victers channel. Significantly, availability of smart phones exceeded that of televisions. While 84.62% students reported that they had good television in their houses, 95.33% said smartphones were available for studies. As many as 96.68% watched the classes in their homes, nearly 2% in the houses of their relatives, and below 1% at study centres. While 95.62% of high school and higher secondary students received follow-up classes from their teachers, in primary classes, it was 89.4%. Problems reported Students reported problems such as headache and tired eyes after the digital classes kicked off. Adolescents also reported substantial drop in exercise in the absence of regular classes. Besides physical problems, 4.39% of the students were susceptible to internet addiction, 23.44% students showed symptoms of depression. As many as 11.16 % of them had serious anxiety problems. The study also investigated the socio-economic impact of the pandemic. Incomes of 78.35% of the parents had fallen, while 51.18% had reduced to half or less. As many as 36.05% had lost their jobs. The maximum impact of job loss or fall in income was felt by parents of students from the Scheduled Caste community. Recommendations Digital education had helped ensure there was no disruption in learning during the pandemic. However, if digital education were to continue in the new academic year, individual attention should be paid to marginalised sections, those who were academically backward, tribal students, and the differently abled, the study report recommended. As it was important to sustain student interest in digital education the longer it continued, the classes should adopt ways to ensure their interest did not falter. It was important to pay attention to students’ physical health to ensure they did not develop lifestyle diseases. While students’ mental health had not been affected on a large scale, parents, teachers, and counsellors should pay attention to ensure it remained so, the study said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/give-digital-equipment-to-scst-students-study/article34685222.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||On a mission to propagate magic||In the early 1990s, magician Gopinath Muthukad used to travel from his native Kavalamukkatta village near Nilambur to magic shows across the State. In one of those trips to Thiruvananthapuram, he met writer Malayattoor Ramakrishnan, who advised him to shift base to the capital and use magic to create awareness about various issues among the public. Thus was born the Academy of Magical Sciences, or Magic Academy, which is set to complete its silver jubilee on Monday. In Poojappura “Malayattoor told me that magic should not just remain in the streets, but should become an academic discipline. His idea was that people should be made aware that it is a science, to expose those who use magic tricks to spread superstitions in the society. He took the initiative to purchase eight cents of land in Poojappura to set up the academy, got it registered as a charitable society and made arrangements for the inauguration ceremony too,” Mr.Muthukad reminisces. The inaugural event, attended by the then Culture Minister T.K.Ramakrishnan, was noted back then following a magic trick involving the high profile guests. When CPI leader Kaniyapuram Ramachandran finished his speech, he noticed that his ring was missing. As the frantic search was progressing on the stage, playwright and actor Thikkurissy Sukumaran Nair revealed himself as the ‘thief,’ who had got it through a magic trick. Muthukad reveals that this was a drama scripted by Malayattoor so that the event would be noticed. In the early days, Muthukad himself used to cycle early morning to Thampanoor to distribute notices on the academy along with the newspaper bundles. Over the years, students who completed the courses from here have taken up magic as a profession both within the country and outside. A few celebrities, including actors Mohanlal and Jayaram, and politician M.K. Muneer have also learned magic from here. In recent years, the Academy has spread its wings further, to the four-acre Magic Planet campus near Kazhakuttom, where a Different Art Centre (DAC) has been set up in collaboration with the Kerala Social Security Mission to teach magic to differently abled children. Studies conducted by various agencies, including the Government's Child Development Centre, have noted the improvement in daily living skills among the students who have taken up the course. A batch of 23 students from the academy became ambassadors of the State Government’s Anuyathra programme to make the State disabled-friendly. The differently abled who are completing the course are being equipped to earn a living through magic. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the classes in the academy as well as the DAC had to be shifted online. The work on a Universal Magic Centre to provide permanent employment to the differently abled students, is nearing completion. This will have different sections featuring magic performances by visually challenged, aurally challenged and other differently abled people. The Magic Planet campus currently has rehabilitation facilities for street performers. ‘Bharat yatras’ The academy has also organised four ‘Bharat yatras’ from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, spreading various social messages through magic, drawing appreciation from the Prime Minister and President of that time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-a-mission-to-propagate-magic/article34685230.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||An uphill task for excise as hooch dens mushroom||‘Perumpambu’, which translates into English as python, has of late assumed criminal connotations of illicit distillation and bootlegging for the Kerala Excise Department. T. Anikumar, head of the State Excise Enforcement Squad (SEES), says the term, is a lockdown era enforcement phraseology. It refers to the relatively new method of concealing huge reservoirs of wash underground in cylindrical lengths of thick-walled plastic balloons. “When wrenched out from their underground burrows, the lengthy wash-filled receptacle resembles the distended belly of a python that had just swallowed a large prey. Hence, the nickname,” he says. The government had banned the sale of legal alcohol since May 8. Illicit distillers operating out of remote localities have stepped in to fulfil the demand, Mr. Anikumar says. G. Mohankumar, Excise Inspector, Vamanapuram Range, who had recently led a raid on a hooch den in a forested locality, says the subterranean sumps are almost impossible to detect from ground. “The sumps are designed to allow illicit distillers to draw fermented wash like farmers drawing water from a wellspring. The scale of brewing is industrial,” Mr. Mohankumar says.  The bootleggers are increasingly targeting daily drinkers who patronise low-priced brands. Since May 10, the Excise Department has destroyed nearly 10,000 litres of wash and dismantled several stills. Excise Commissioner S. Ananthakrishnan is heading the continuing operations. The smuggling of illicit spirit into Kerala has dwindled to a trickle owing to lockdown restrictions. Excise officials say many persons who lost their jobs due to the closure of bars, beer and wine parlours and toddy shops have taken to unlawful brewing. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday announced joint raids by the police and excise to prevent illicit brewing. Withdrawal issues G. Mohan Roy, resident medical officer, department of psychiatry, Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, says the number of persons struggling with alcohol withdrawal issues is rising during the lockdown. A government official says they are unlikely to allow bars to open for indoor service any time soon. The Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) had toyed with the idea of home delivery of liquor via e-commerce platforms. However, Excise Minister M. V. Govindan told a news channel recently that the government is averse to the idea. A government official says any move on permitting the sale of alcohol would hinge on a reduction in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-uphill-task-for-excise-as-hooch-dens-mushroom/article34685295.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest Dept. issues SOP for handling wild elephants||The Forest Department has prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) to deal with wild elephants that stray into human dominated landscapes. The document, which includes steps to be adopted at the field level while dealing with human-elephant conflicts, delineates responsibilities to be undertaken by forest officers. It places responsibility of such operations upon the Chief Conservator of Forest or Conservator of Forest of the forest circle and the Divisional Forest Officer (or Wildlife Warden) under whose jurisdiction such incidents occurred. The guidelines included the constitution of forest range-level teams that will come into action in places where such conflicts were severe. Led by the Range Forest Officer, the team will comprise seven or eight forest officers and a group of experienced watchers. Additional resources can be mobilised during severe conflicts. Besides the district administration, forest officials can also seek the assistance of the police, fire force and the Health Department, depending upon the magnitude of the situation. The SOP also acts as a guide for managing crop-raiding elephants. While tasking forest personnel to identify the routes of elephants in such instances, it also mandates close observation of their behaviour before attempting to drive them back. As part of long-term actions, the department recommends maintaining data base of regular crop raiders by deploying camera traps. Setting up early warning systems, collaring regular crop raiders, and empowering Jana Jagratha Samitis are other directives. The use of Kumki elephants also finds place in the SOP. Pointing out that the document was largely a consolidation of several orders that had been issued over the years, Chief Wildlife Warden D.K. Verma said the SOP also served to put a full-fledged protocol in place. Under fire The State has often come under fire for lacking a uniform set of guidelines that often led to incoherent responses among stakeholders while dealing with conflicts. The absence of a SOP had also come up for scrutiny when the Supreme Court had considered a petition filed in the aftermath of the death of a pregnant wild elephant after consuming a pineapple filled with firecrackers in Silent Valley Forest in Palakkad last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-issues-sop-for-handling-wild-elephants/article34685226.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Safe Kerala helps reduce road accidents||A slew of measures by the Motor Vehicle Department coupled with focus on enforcement and road safety awareness under the Safe Kerala project have helped bring down accidents, fatalities and serious injuries on roads in the State. “As many as 1,488 lives could be saved. Road accidents could be brought down by 13,149 and injuries by 15,484 in 2020. There was an overall reduction of 32% in road accidents, 33.5% in fatalities and 33.6% in injuries in 2020 when compared to 2019. The Safe Kerala project played a big role in it,” Joint Transport Commissioner Rajeev Puthalath said. The downward trend started in November 2019 before the pandemic outbreak. Road accidents dropped from 41,111 in 2019 to 27,962 in 2020, fatalities from 4,440 to 2,952 and injuries sustained from 46,055 to 30,571. Safe Kerala, which has 14 Enforcement Regional Transport Officers, 99 Motor Vehicle Inspectors (MVI), and 187 assistant MVIs concentrated on enforcement and creating safety to achieve a record 35% reduction in fatalities. As many as 60 electric vehicles were made available for the Safe Kerala team. In addition to the 37 vehicles procured using Plan fund, fully equipped 17 interceptor vehicles too were utilised. Thirty-nine speed detection cameras installed on the Walayar-Vadakkanchery corridor and Kowdiar-Vellayambalam stretch in the capital helped curb speeding among motorists. Control rooms Installation of 14 hi-tech control rooms with 700 Artificial Intelligence and ANPR-based cameras for monitoring vehicle movement is in the final stages, Mr. Puthalath said. The e-challan module made enforcement transparent, thereby avoiding arguments with motorists. Virtual courts have been introduced in the State for disposing challans and e-PoS machines have come in handy for field officers for spot collection of compounding fee from erring motorists. Gadgets like lux meters (light), decibel meters (sound), breathalyser, tint meters for ensuring transparency of wind screen glasses also helped in better enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-kerala-helps-reduce-road-accidents/article34685223.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to ensure safety of plantation workers||With the southwest monsoon at the doorstep, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has outlined a number of measures for ensuring the safety of plantation workers living in high range locales prone to natural calamities such as landslides. The safety measures have been newly added to the ‘Orange Book of Disaster Management 2: Monsoon Preparedness and Response Guidelines’ updated by the authority ahead of the onset of the rainy season. The District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) and the Labour Department are responsible for their implementation, say the guidelines. Landslips Devastating landslips, triggered by heavy rainfall, had ravaged the State’s high ranges in recent southwest monsoon seasons, notably at Puthumala in Wayanad and Kavalappara in Malappuram in August 2019 and Pettimudi in Idukki district in August 2020. The casualties included scores of plantation workers and their kin. The updated Orange Book guidelines require DDMAs to identify communities living in isolated locations in the plantations and ensure that they have connectivity and access to power supply. DDMAs and the Labour Department should ensure that maps of the residential locations of plantation workers and, wherever needed, evacuation plans, are ready. The ‘vulnerability’ mapping of such locations and evacuation plans for families deemed vulnerable to natural calamities should be completed. The ‘fitness’ of the ‘layams’ (labour lines) in the plantations should be assessed with the help of the engineers of the local bodies. Buildings should be identified for opening relief camps close to isolated ‘layams,’ read the guidelines. DDMAs are also required to stock medicines and equipment that would come in handy during rescue operations such as excavators, electric cutters, ropes and emergency lighting systems. The 2021 edition of the Monsoon Preparedness and Response Guidelines' also feature measures for streamlining rescue/relief operations involving helicopters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-ensure-safety-of-plantation-workers/article34685554.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||At last, SCERT rectifies photograph error||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has taken steps to replace the photograph of poet A. Ayyappan that accompanies a lesson on anthropologist and former Vice Chancellor of the University of Kerala A. Aiyyappan in the English version of the Plus Two higher secondary anthropology textbook. The textbook was printed in 2015. The portion on Aiyappan is included in the 10th unit ‘Luminaries of Indian Anthropology’ of the text. However, the photograph that went with it was that of poet Ayyappan.As per his life sketch in the lesson, Ayinapalli Aiyyappan was born at Pavaratty, near Thrissur, in 1905. He did his Master’s from Madras University and was awarded PhD in Social Anthropology from London University. He was a founder of the Centre for Development Studies here, professor in Indian universities, and visiting professor at Cornell University, New York. He died in 1988. SCERT Director J. Prasad said the error had been corrected and steps taken to send the rectified version of the textbook for printing. It had also been corrected in the PDF of the textbook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-last-scert-rectifies-photograph-error/article34685221.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dip in cases, caseload||New COVID-19 cases and the active case pool continue to dip in Kerala, even as there has been no change in the graph of hospitalisations, ICU occupancy and deaths over the past several weeks. The trend in hospitalisations and deaths is expected to remain the same for at least two to three weeks before it shows a decline. On Sunday, Kerala reported 19,894 new cases, when 1,24,537 samples were tested in 24 hours. TPR at 15.97% The test positivity rate (TPR), which had stabilised around 16% for the past three days, registered 15.97 % on the day. The State’s active case pool showed a significant dip, from 2,33,034 patients on Saturday to 2,23,727 on Sunday. The number of recoveries reported on Sunday was 29,013. The State added 186 recent deaths to the official list on Sunday, taking the cumulative COVID-19 fatalities to 8,641. On Sunday, with 33,664 persons newly admitted to hospitals, the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals stands at 38,575. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients stands at 3,851, with 1,496 patients requiring ventilator support. The active case pool is declining in all districts rapidly. In Thiruvananthapuram, it declined to 15,805. Yet with 38% of active cases in hospitals, the district has the highest number of hospitalisations with 6,070 patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The cumulative case burden of the State stands at 25,14,279 cases. District-wise Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 3,015, Thiruvananthapuram, 2,423, Thrissur 2,034, Ernakulam 1,977, Palakkad 1,970, Kollam 1,841, Alappuzha 1,530, Kozhikode 1,306, Kannur 991, Idukki 675, Kasaragod 532, Pathanamthitta 517 and Wayanad 249 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-cases-caseload/article34685287.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination of students of special schools||Vaccination of students in the 18-44 age group who attend special schools and BUDS schools will get under way in the district on Monday. Nearly 120 students from two institutions – St. Peter’s Special School, Pongumoodu, and Mariam Play Home, Nalanchira - will be vaccinated on the first day under the umbrella of the Social Justice Department.Students of 52 special schools for mentally challenged children have been registered by the department and arrangements made to vaccinate them through a special portal. The vaccination would be administered at the institutions in the form of camp through the local primary or community health centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-of-students-of-special-schools/article34685224.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||World No Smoking Day to be observed today||Health Minister Veena George will on Monday inaugurate ‘Quit Line,’ a tele consultation service to help smokers to quit the habit, marking the State-level observance of the World No Smoking Day. The slogan for the day this year is ‘Commit to quit.’ The ‘Quit Line’ will function as part of the Disha's 1056 and 104 numbers. Those who want to quit smoking can avail the services of doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists and counsellors. Pharmacotherapy will also be provided for those in need. The Health Department aims to help at least 1,000 people to quit smoking within one year, through constant follow up and support programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/world-no-smoking-day-to-be-observed-today/article34685231.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister flags need for upgrading varsity laws||Collegiate Education Minister R. Bindu has set her sights on upgrading the ‘outdated’ university laws to facilitate application-orientated education and boost skill development in Kerala’s higher education sector. A week into assuming the position, the Minister has also initiated an assessment of the effectiveness of online learning in the State. Dr. Bindu, who stepped down as principal in-charge at Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, to contest the Assembly polls, has her task cut out as she embarks on a mission to lead the State’s much-touted transformation into a knowledge society. Despite being part of the academic fraternity, she does not hide her dismay at the State’s inability to carry forward the progress attained in general education to the higher education sector. Upgrading “Our universities have been functioning under laws that were framed decades ago. While these Acts and statutes were evolved by educators after thorough planning, the lack of efforts to upgrade them in tune with the changing times has rendered our system stagnant. The government hopes to reform such laws and revise curriculum in a manner befitting the 21st century,” she said. Ushering in a knowledge society did not merely entail cosmetic changes, Dr. Bindu said. The State could reach such lofty goals only through specialised and applied learning. This was especially vital as a link between knowledge dissemination and employability. Each graduate must be equipped with diversified skills necessary for today’s world. While conceding that private institutions could play significant roles in this regard, the Minister said the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre has been entrusted with monitoring the quality of self-financing colleges. Autonomous colleges Despite the functional freedom granted by the University Grants Commission, autonomous colleges too will come under scanner for actions that deviated from the State’s public education policy. Dr. Bindu said the department would identify students who lacked devices to access online learning. Such educational tools would be provided at the institutional level through various schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-flags-need-for-upgrading-varsity-laws/article34685280.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder of youth: four arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police nabbed four people in connection with the murder of a youth in Chirayinkeezhu late on May 27. The Chirayinkeezhu police on Sunday recorded the arrests of Abhijith alias Sreekuttan, 21, of Sinesh alias Jithu, 22, both hailing from Kochalummoodu; Sudheesh alias GK, 21, and Snehan, 21, both hailing from Chathannur. They were caught for allegedly murdering Anil Kumar, 26, of Manjadimoodu, in Thengumvila in Mudapuram. According to the police, the incident is linked to a long-time feud among Anil Kumar and Abhijith, both habitual offenders, borne out of gang rivalry. Anil, who was stabbed and hacked, was allegedly left to die in the abandoned area by the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-of-youth-four-arrested/article34685228.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Song released||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Sunday released the song for the Pravesanotsavam that will mark the start of the 2021-22 academic year. The song has been penned by poet and Public Education Rejuvenation Mission academic coordinator Murukan Kattakada. Hindustani musician Ramesh Narayan has scored the music. It has been sung by Madhusree Narayan and some students. Orchestration is by Stephen Devassy. On Tuesday, an array of actors such as Mammootty, Mohanlal, Prithviraj, Suraj Venjaramoodu and Manju Warrier will address students at the Pravesanotsavam, to be telecast on KITE Victers channel from 8 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/song-released/article34685288.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Clarify stand, BJP tells CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should clarify the State government's stand on the High Court order quashing the 80:20 ratio for minority scholarship allotment, BJP State president K. Surendran said on Sunday. The government was adopting double standards in the implementation of the order, he said. The High Court order required the government to treat notified minority communities equally when providing scholarships. The government was duty-bound to implement the order, Mr. Surendran said. On the Lakshadweep issue, Mr. Surendran said the CPI(M) and the Chief Minister were using the issue for political gains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clarify-stand-bjp-tells-cm/article34685290.ece
31 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur markets to open from tomorrow||Markets in Thrissur city will remain open from Tuesday. Shops in the main markets, including Sakthan Market, Jaihind Market, Ariyangadi, and Nayarangadi, will function in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, Revenue Minster K. Rajan said. A decision in this regard was taken following talks between representatives of traders’ organisations and elected representatives. The traders agreed to abide by the guidelines issued by the district administration. Accordingly, wholesale shops will function from 1 a.m. to 8 a.m. and retail outlets from 8.30 a.m. to 12 noon. Fish and meat markets will function only three days a week. They will be open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday. Fish and meat shops in containment zones, which were given permission to open on Wednesdays and Saturdays, can now function on Mondays too. However, street vendors will not be allowed to do business. Drivers of trucks transporting goods from other States as well as headload workers should take adequate safety measures. While small shops can have just two workers, big ones can engage three, including the owner. COVID-19 screening will be held in markets. Antigen tests will be done on 500 people on Monday. Ministers K. Radhakrishnan and R. Bindu, P. Balachandran, MLA, Mayor M.K. Varghese, District Collector S. Shanavas, District Police Chief (Thrissur City) R. Aditya, and District Medical Officer K.J. Reena attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-markets-to-open-from-tomorrow/article34685265.ece
31 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Black-money case: one BJP worker stabbed||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was stabbed after two groups of the party clashed with each other at Thrithallur, near Vadanappally, on Sunday. The workers clashed allegedly following an argument over a Facebook post on the Kodakara black money heist case. An argument between the two groups broke out at a vaccination centre at the Primary Health Centre, Thrithallur. The furious argument led to the stabbing and Kiran, 27, was injured in the attack. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Thrissur. Internal feud has been severe in the BJP over the Kodakara black money case. However, party sources said the attack had nothing to do with the case and it was over personal grudge. To be questioned Meanwhile, BJP’s Thrissur district office secretary Satheesh will be questioned in the black money case her on Monday. The police found that it was Satheesh who had arranged room for Dharmarajan who sent the money, his driver Shamjeer and helper Rasheed at a lodge here. BJP State organisation secretary M. Ganeshan and State Office Secretary G. Gireesh were questioned earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/black-money-case-one-bjp-worker-stabbed/article34685284.ece
31 May 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Oncologists launch free cancer care helpline||A group of 15 oncologists and nurses have launched a helpline to support cancer patients, who face difficulty accessing healthcare owing to the lockdown and travel restrictions. Launched by Karkinos Healthcare Private Limited, the helpline can be accessed by anyone at no cost between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. from Monday to Saturday. “Cancer care delivery has been one of the worst hit during the pandemic. People find it difficult to access reliable and quality information. As most institutions providing cancer treatment are in cities, rural people are facing difficulty accessing treatment. The cancer care helpline provides a platform that enables people to seek guidelines and advice from specialists,” said Dr. Moni Abraham Kuriakose, medical director, Karkinos Healthcare, Ernakulam. Cancer Care Helpline Number: 9321350770||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oncologists-launch-free-cancer-care-helpline/article34685266.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flood prediction in Meenachil goes hi-tech||With just a few days for the monsoon to set in over Kerala, a group of conservationists have joined hands to come up with a unique, hi-tech flood alert system for the Meenachil — a river that has ploughed past its banks every rainy season since 2018. Thanks to the Meenachil River Protection Council (MRPC), a mobile app that will update the public on the real-time water level, rain fall data and flood risk predictions will become operational on June 5. Team The app, developed by a team of technical experts led by Jubilant Job, an engineering college teacher, will start off by providing real-time reports of the water level in the water body and move to an Artificial Intelligence-based model to show where flooding may occur over a range of water levels and the extend of the predicted flood. “To begin with, we have developed algorithms by combining the data sets on rainfall and water level recorded across the Meenachil basin in different periods over the past one year. The accuracy of the predictions , however, can be improved overtime with more data'', noted Mr Job. As part of the initiative, the MRPC has already installed rain gauges in 40 different locations across the river basin from Vagamon to Kumarakom, besides scales to measure the depth of the river at Bharananganam, Erattupetta, and Kidangoor. The volunteer group is now awaiting the State-wide lockdown to ease for installing another set of 42 rainfall gauges and a few more river-depth scales to improve the data collection process. The MRPC has also engaged a three-tier system of citizen reporters for collecting the real-time data. “The first is a group of 27 rain gauge-monitors, who operate from specific sub-water sheds and enter the data from their respective rain gauges directly to an online form. They are assisted by a second group of citizen reporters who provide real-time reports on the rainfall and flood level at different locations while the third group of volunteers are those who have joined us through an online invitation'', said Eby Immanuel, General Secretary of the organisation, Data and reports The data and reports collected from different locations are currently collated and analysed by a core-committee of experts comprising scientists, environmentalists and government officials and then released to the public through the social media. Meanwhile, the scientists with the Central Water Resources Development and Management have now expressed their interest in collaborating with the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-prediction-in-meenachil-goes-hi-tech/article34685552.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Before the heavens open||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/before-the-heavens-open/article34685271.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-concerns/article34685527.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homage/article34685523.ece
31 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||200-bed isolation centre opened in Singanamala||A 200-bed isolation centre for COVID-19 patients was opened at Korrapadu Social Welfare Hostel in Singanamala (SC) Assembly constituency in the district on Sunday. The centre, an initiative of the Aluru Foundation, was inaugurated by Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah and Singanamala MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathi. Chief Executive Officer of AP School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Aluru Sambasiva Reddy told The Hindu that meals would be provided free-of-cost to all patients. “This facility will be of immense help to patients with mild symptoms in the surrounding mandals. Services here are free,” he said. Three doctors from Korrapadu PHC and Bukkarayasamudram have been deputed to monitor the health condition of the patients. The doctors, deputed in three different shifts, will visit the centre at three different times in a day, said District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad. In addition to them, 12 Asha workers, nurses and ANMs have been roped in to look after the needs of the patients. Sixty oxygen cylinders have been procured for the facility that has 50 oxygen-supported beds. Oxygen masks, stretchers, wheelchairs, backrests and other equipment have been procured for use at the isolation centre. MLC Pamidi Samanthakamani and Mr. Rangaiah planted saplings on the hostel premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-bed-isolation-centre-opened-in-singanamala/article34685068.ece
31 May 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notices to five medical officers in Anantapur||Five medical officers of different Primary Health Centres(PHCs) involved in fever survey duties were issued show-cause notices on Sunday for their alleged dereliction of duties. “Any wilful delay in getting tests done will be viewed seriously,” he said and issued notices on doctors at Gummagatta, Kondapuram, Gudibanda, Gorantla and Avuladatla PHCs. Tests for all people found to be symptomatic during the survey should be completed immediately, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notices-to-five-medical-officers-in-anantapur/article34685069.ece
31 May 2021||BAPATLA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bapatla govt. medical college to have 500 beds||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay the foundation stone for the Government Medical College at Bapatla in virtual mode on Monday. The district administration has made arrangements for the virtual launch in which Home Minister M. Sucharita, MP Nandigam Suresh, Deputy Speaker and local MLA Kona Raghupati and District Collector Vivek Yadav would participate. The medical college/teaching hospital, with 500 beds, is being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 500 crore. It is one of the medical colleges sanctioned by the Central Government. Mr. Raghupati said that it was a dream come true for the people of the town. “Bapatla may be declared a district soon and the laying of foundation stone for a medical college augurs well for the region,” he said, adding that they have acquired 50 acres for the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bapatla-govt-medical-college-to-have-500-beds/article34685072.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yediyurappa loyalists want Tourism Minister sacked||The rumblings within the ruling BJP continued on Sunday as a number of legislators loyal to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa are learnt to have sought the dismissal of Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar from the Cabinet for publicly speaking against the Chief Minister and his son recently. In what is being seen as a show of strength by the Chief Minister’s camp in political circles, about 20 loyalist-legislators, including the Chief Minister's Political Secretary M.P. Renukacharya, turned up at Mr. Yediyurappa’s residence here on the pretext of discussing COVID-related matters. However, it is learnt that they sought action against Mr. Yogeshwar for his public outbursts against the Chief Minister and his son B.Y. Vijayendra over his style of functioning. “This is not a pure BJP government. It a government of three parties,” Mr. Yogeshwar had remarked while stating that he would not allow his own son to interfere in administration — an indirect reference to Mr. Vijayendra’s alleged interference in governance. Mr. Yogeshwar’s public outbursts came in the midst of thick speculation about a leadership change, which has now come to arest. Mr. Yogeshwar, who had approached the party leaders in Delhi, has been asked not to rake up the leadership issue as the State is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic now. Sources close to the Chief Minister said that the legislators asked for the sacking of Mr. Yogeshwar since he had unnecessarily attacked the Chief Minister and his son, causing public embarrassment to the government. “The legislators tried to impress upon the Chief Minister that a message had to be sent by taking action so that such things did not recur,” a source said. The Chief Minister, it is learnt, asked the legislators to first concentrate on pandemic-related work at the moment. He, however, promised to review the situation later. “He told the legislators that the issue could be discussed after the lockdown. The Chief Minister felt that it was better not to drag the situation in the midst of the pandemic. Otherwise, the public perception of the government could turn negative,” the source said. Sources also said that more legislators are expected to come in the coming days to show solidarity with the Chief Minister, who has come under the attack from his Cabinet colleague. “Several legislators have called the Chief Minister by phone and expressed solidarity with him,” the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yediyurappa-loyalists-want-tourism-minister-sacked/article34685029.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop in demand for COVID-19 beds in Bengaluru||Over the last 10 days, as Bengaluru recorded a fall in new COVID-19 cases, there appears to be a corresponding drop in the demand for beds. As of May 29, only 42% of the total beds available in public hospitals and government quota beds in private hospitals were occupied. Barely 10 days earlier, 64% were occupied. According to data by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), of the 13,507 beds available, 7,706 were vacant. Only 5,801 were occupied. This includes beds in government hospitals and medical colleges, and government quota in beds in private healthcare institutes. It is primarily general and high-dependency unit (HDU) beds that are seeing a drop in demand. The need for ICU and ICU beds with ventilators continues to remain high. But volunteers and organisations that The Hindu spoke to said that the hunt for ICU beds has also eased over the last 10 days. Where earlier it was practically impossible to find a vacant ICU bed, now it isn’t so bad, they said. Meanwhile as of May 29, 21 out of 603 ICU beds were available in the city. Only nine of the 643 ICU beds with ventilators were available. “We have ICU beds available at the moment,” said B. R. Venkateshaiah, Superintendent, K.C. General Hospital. “About 10 days ago, we were flooded with calls for ICU beds. But they were always full. Now, however, we are able to treat all patients without any hassle. We are hoping the same trend continues in the coming days,” he said. Around 20-30% of its beds in all categories are currently vacant. During the peak of the pandemic, Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute (BMRCI) had increased its bed count from 550 to 750. Now, around 350-400 beds, including ICUs, are occupied. Smitha Segu, nodal officer for COVID-19, BMRCI, said that though the number of requests for ICU beds has eased, all the units in the hospital are occupied. While hospital authorities attribute the drop in occupancy to the decline in cases, they also acknowledged that it could be owing to BBMP streamlining its bed allocation system. Ravindra R., Medical Director, Suguna Hospital, said that a significant percentage of the beds were vacant in the last fortnight. “We reserve 50% of our beds for COVID-19 patients under the government quota, of which 45% are unoccupied. In the coming week, the government should release these beds to us so that we can at least allot and treat non-COVID 19 patients,” he said. Anoop Amarnath, member of the Critical Care Support Unit and head of the Department of Geriatric Medicine at Manipal Hospitals, also observed that demand has eased over the past six days. Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner, BBMP, attributed the trend to decline in cases and better isolation facilities. “Demand for ICU beds and ICU with ventilator beds is high, but that for general and HDU beds is lower. We will discuss with the Department of Health and Family Welfare the possibility of releasing the beds and also what needs to be done with the COVID care centres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-in-demand-for-covid-19-beds-in-bengaluru/article34685041.ece
31 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor markets crowded as lockdown gets extended||Heavy crowds were witnessed at markets in Chittoor district on Sunday in the wake of the announcement that the lockdown would be extended till June 15, with commercial activities allowed only from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. The Chittoor Municipal Corporation, and municipalities of Madanapalle, Palamaner, Punganur, Puttur and Nagari, witnessed heavy crowds at meat shops and wine shops. There was confusion among the public that the revised timings would come into force from Sunday. This led to crowds thinning out at market places earlier than the usual deadline of noon. Many people were found buying onions and tomatoes rather than vegetables. The meat shops did brisk business as many owners had readied limited stocks expecting a moderate turnout. A big demand prevailed for fish all over, as it can be kept preserved for more days than meat. In view of the huge crowds, municipal staff were posted at markets to control the crowds, but it had little impact. A municipal corporation official in Chittoor said that it was a welcome sign that almost every person on the streets was seen wearing a mask. A fish vendor felt that the demand for meat and fish had quadrupled in recent times due to people wanting to boost their immunity. “It is a win-win for both vendors and customers, but the need of the hour is to observe COVID protocols,” he said. As Chittoor district continues to record a record number of daily positive cases and casualties in spite of the lockdown for the last one month, many shopkeepers said that the curtailing of timings for commercial activity from June 1 might result in even more crowding and violation of social distancing norms. Police and civic staff should focus more on enforcing social distancing norms rather than wearing of masks, vendors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-markets-crowded-as-lockdown-gets-extended/article34685573.ece
31 May 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenders to widen HNSS canal: Minister||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said that the Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanti (HNSS) canal between Anantapur and Chittoor district would be widened and tenders for the project would be issued soon to benefit the western mandals. The Minister was speaking to reporters at Punganur after garlanding the statue of Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy to mark the completion of two years of the YSRCP government in the State. The Minister said that widening of the HNSS canal would be a boon to the people of the western mandals, particularly Punganur, Palamaner, Madanapalle and Kuppam. He said that the linking of the HNSS and the GNSS (Galeru-Nagari project) through the Gandikota reservoir would be taken up on a priority basis and tenders for the works worth Rs. 4,400 crore would be issued soon. The twin projects would put an end to the drought conditions of Rayalaseema districts, he said. The works on the three sanctioned reservoirs at Mudivedu in Kurabalakota mandal, Sugalimitta near Madanapalle and Avulapalle in Somala mandal would be completed in a span of one year, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenders-to-widen-hnss-canal-minister/article34685577.ece
31 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Over Rs. 1.3 lakh cr. spent on various schemes’||As the YSRCP begins its third year of governance, the central party office has witnessed modest celebrations amid COVID-19 restrictions. Adviser (Public Affairs) and party State general secretary Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy hoisted the party flag, cut the cake, and paid floral tributes to former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at the party office at Tadepalli on Sunday. Taking to the Twitter, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “The government has been fulfilling all promises made in the manifesto by the grace of God and blessings of the people.” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that Rs. 95,528 crore was directly given to the beneficiaries through the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and another Rs. 37,197 crore through various schemes, totalling to Rs. 1.31 lakh crore. “Our government will stand by the people in their difficulties, and I will continue to be even more passionate as your child, your Chief Minister, your family member to do even better. With the authority given by the people, I will run the administration for the welfare of the people and the development of the State,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy tweeted. Later, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told reporters that the Chief Minister had fulfilled the expectations of the people to bring about revolutionary changes in the State. “The Chief Minister has fulfilled many promises in the last two years. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has overcome the financial constraints due to bifurcation and COVID-19 pandemic,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. He said the Chief Minister had set up village secretariats to provide all welfare schemes within the stipulated time to all those who eligible. “Now, the whole country is looking at this system,” he said. Welfare schemes The YSRCP government had implemented schemes such as rythu bharosa, crop insurance, input subsidy, interest-free loans to farmers, besides financially helping women self-help groups, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-rs-13-lakh-cr-spent-on-various-schemes/article34685591.ece
31 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu reduced manifesto to a fake document: Kodali||People are of the opinion that the YSRCP should have come to power in 2014 itself, Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Venkatswara Rao has said. “No other Chief Minister has implemented welfare schemes and development activities like Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. That is why he has become a role model in the country,” Mr. Venkateswara Rao told reporters at the party central office on Sunday. “While TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has reduced his party manifesto to a fake document, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy considers it as a holy book. That is why he fulfilled 95% of the promises mentioned in it in the last two years,” the Minister said. The government had brought COVID-19 treatment under Aarogyasri, and was also reaching out to children orphaned by COVID-19, the Minister said, and asserted that people want Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to be the Chief Minister for 30 years. Social justice Addressing the media separately, Home Minister M. Sucharitha said that the Chief Minister had given utmost importance to SCs, STs, Backward Classes, Minorities and women in the last two years. “Social justice to downtrodden people has become a reality only because of the Chief Minister. Welfare and development are the two eyes of the Chief Minister,” she said, adding that many schemes were introduced for the welfare of women, through which they benefited to the tune of Rs. 88,000 crore in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-reduced-manifesto-to-a-fake-document-kodali/article34685589.ece
31 May 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||79 held for ‘gambling’, Rs. 48.75 lakh recovered||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Guntur Rural Police raided a gambling den at Chintaravu village in Nizampatnam mandal on Friday late night and arrested 21 persons. They seized Rs. 42.58 lakhin cash, a money counting machine, 27 boxes of cards, 153 plastic coins, 32 cellphones , 22 cars, eight motorcycles, and a power generator. Gambling was going on at a fish tank owned by one Bhusankara Rao when the joint teams of SEB and the Repalle police raided the place. In another raid, the Bapatla Rural police raided a gambling den belonging to Mopidevi Nagaraju at Mundredu village and arrested 58 persons, besides seizing Rs. 6.17 lakh in cash, 20 cars, 16 motorcycles and two power generators. In all, the police arrested 79 persons and seized Rs. 48.75 lakh. The SEB was constituted to crack a whip on the illegal mining, sale of liquor and gambling has been busting major smuggling rackets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/79-held-for-gambling-rs-4875-lakh-recovered/article34685070.ece
31 May 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Vitamin D levels reduce COVID infection: NIMS study||Do high Vitamin D levels reduce the risk of coronavirus infection, and administration of the vitamin in the infected patients considerably reduce mortality? Yes, says a study done by the doctors of Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) on the COVID-affected patients of Gandhi Hospital, Secunderabad. The report published in ‘www.nature.com’ says that Vitamin D is a potential immuno-modulator and its adjunctive role in the treatment of COVID-19 is established through the study. Maheshwar Lakkireddy, an orthopaedician at NIMS and one of the authors of the study, says that improvement of Serum Vitamin D level to 80 to 100 Nanograms per MilliLitre (ng/ml) has significantly reduced the inflammatory markers of COVID 19 (N/L ratio, CRP, LDH, IL6, Ferritin) without any side effects. The authors who defined this administration of Vitamin D study as ‘Pulse D Therapy’ reveal that the study was done on 130 patients. The patients were randomised into Vitamin D (VD) and Non-Vitamin D (NVD) groups. The VD group received Pulse D therapy (targeted daily supplementation of 60,000 IUs of vitamin D for 8 or 10 days depending upon their BMI) in addition to the standard treatment. The NVD group received standard treatment alone. When the differences in the variables between the two groups were analysed for statistical significance it was found that Vitamin D level had increased from 16 ng/ml to 89 ng/ml in VD group and a highly significant reduction of all the measured inflammatory markers was noted. However, reduction of markers in NVD group was insignificant. Sub-groups within the selected VD and NVD patients, who have not received the drugs like Remdesivir, Favipiravir, Ivermectin or Dexamethasone, were also formed to study the impact of Vitamin D on them. Similar results of the impact of Vitamin D was noticed in these sub-groups as well. Dr. Maheshwar reveals that Vitamin D is known to enhance the production of various anti-microbial peptides by the immune cells and it also modulates the immune system apart from reducing the dysregulated production of self-damaging pro-inflammatory cytokines. The dynamic role of Vitamin D can be of immense value in the context of immune dysfunction observed in COVID-19 patients with cytokine storm and acute respiratory distress syndrome, he says. Lacking Vitamin D levels Interestingly, 90% of Indians suffer from lack of sufficient Vitamin D in their bodies with the average presence being 13 to 15 ng/ml. Moreover, it is not sufficiently present in majority foods and the only source is sunlight between 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., and that too with constraints in absorption like pollution and age of the people. Dr. Maheshwar also observed that less than 5% of people contracted the COVID-19 if the Vitamin D level was more than 55 ng/ml in them. The mortality of COVID patients is almost zero if Vitamin D level was 60 ng/ml and it is very high if the levels are less than 30 ng/ml. The other doctors who were part of this study included Srikanth Goud Gadiga, R.D. Malathi, Madhu Latha Karra, S.S.V. Prasad Murthy Raju, Ragini, Sangeetha Chinapaka, K.S.S. Sai Baba and Manohar Kandakatla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-vitamin-d-levels-reduce-covid-infection-nims-study/article34685131.ece
31 May 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 14,000 crore will be spent on agriculture infra, says Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday stated that the State government would spend Rs. 14,000 crore on agriculture marketing system and godown space in the next three years. Mr. Kannababu was speaking to reporters on the completion of two years of the YSRCP government’s rule in the State. “The amount will be spent on village godowns, cold storages and bulk milk centres by the end of the CM’s tenure,” he said. "The State government has set a record by disbursing Rs. 83,000 crore of aid under various farmers’ welfare programmes in the field of agriculture over the past two years. Such a huge disbursement will have an impact on the farm sector in coming years,” said Mr. Kannababu. He claimed that developmental works worth Rs. 146 crore have been taken up in the Kakinada Rural Assembly segment since 2019. Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha Viswanath and other senior YSRCP leaders celebrated the completion of two years of the YSRCP assuming power, at the residence of Mr. Kannababu here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-14000-crore-to-be-spent-on-agriculture-infra-minister/article34685578.ece
31 May 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smoking can be injurious to your wedding plans||If you are a man of marriageable age and are addicted to tobacco, take note. You may struggle to find a bride in Kannur. Several college-going women in the district have decided to take an oath not to marry a tobacco user. The programme will be launched by the Malabar Cancer Care Society (MCCS) on World No Tobacco Day on Monday to help women spread word on the harmful impact of tobacco use. Around 300 women are expected to take part in the programme. “My grandfather was diagnosed with a lung disease. Had my grandmother not helped him quit smoking, he would not have survived so long,” said Nischitha Das, a student of Sree Narayana Guru College, who plans to join the drive. Cancer patients “Many families crumble when their tobacco-addicted breadwinners fall victim to diseases,” said Arunima, a student of Payyanur College, who also has registered for the programme. “The addiction is rampant. But if women send across a strong message, they might make a difference.” D. Krishnanadha Pai, president, MCCS, said 30% of cancer patients the centre reached out to were found using tobacco products. This was nearly 40% last year. “Men consume tobacco more, but women suffer the most when its impact hits the family. Through such an oath, we are sending a reminder to tobacco consumers that a lot more is at stake,” he said. Online event Mr. Pai said that because of the lockdown, the oath would be taken online. People who have agreed to quit the habit, and those who have already done so, too would be part of the programme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smoking-can-be-injurious-to-your-wedding-plans/article34685293.ece
31 May 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 Telangana hospitals can’t treat COVID-19 cases||After detecting blatant violations of rules pertaining to the admission and treatment of COVID-19 patients, health authorities in Telangana’s Khammam district have cancelled the permission granted to as many as 11 private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients. The action follows a surprise inspection of private hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment by the district-level task force team here on Saturday night.  In all, 46 private hospitals were issued permission to treat patients in the district following the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19. ‘Exorbitant charges’ After a string of complaints from aggrieved patients and relatives, mainly on “exorbitant charges”, the task force team swung into action and conducted surprise checks in around 11 private hospitals on Saturday night. During the inspections, multiple violations such as failure to display the treatment tariff details on hospital notice boards, non-compliance with COVID-19 safety norms, were detected by the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-telangana-hospitals-cant-treat-covid-19-cases/article34685039.ece
31 May 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s ‘Bell of Faith’ for rural elders||After its successful implementation in a number of urban households in Kerala, the ‘Bell of Faith’ scheme is finally to reach senior citizens staying alone in villages. The safety project conceived under Kerala’s Community Policing Scheme will help elderly citizens attract the attention of their neighbours using a loud, remote-controlled alarm in emergencies. According to officials, the project, which has been under implementation in Kerala since 2018, sets an example for community participation to ensure the well-being and safety of the elderly. Project coordinators believe that it can be of great support for the aged during the COVID-19 pandemic as many live in fear for their health. The remote-controlled alarms are now being gifted as a friendly gesture from the police welfare fund. The alarms make a high-decibel sound to capture local attention. With minimal service requirements and function keys, the wireless electronic bells can be managed even by very old people. In the first phase of its roll-out in rural areas, preference will be given to senior citizens above 70 years of age. District Police Chief (Kozhikode rural) A. Sreenivas, who launched the project last week at Vadakara, said a comprehensive list of elderly persons who stay alone without the support of any other healthy family members is readily available with the community police stations in rural areas. According to him, nearly 500 persons may benefit in rural areas. Officials heading community policing schemes in the district say the ‘Bell of Faith’ arrives at a time when attacks against senior citizens and those staying alone are on the rise. The simple alarm will definitely be a first step in training such vulnerable groups to meet unexpected situations in life, they point out. One of the scheme’s biggest advantages is that it can be easily used in case of any medical emergency or household accident. In Kozhikode city, the project is expected to cover 250 households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-bell-of-faith-for-rural-elders/article34685031.ece
31 May 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||35 gm of ornaments recovered from thief's stomach||A man arrested in connection with a theft case in Karnataka was on Sunday found to have swallowed gold ornaments he had allegedly stolen from jewellery shops. The incident happened at Sullia in Dakshina Kannada district. Police sources said the accused developed severe abdominal pain on Saturday. An X-ray showed the jewels in his intestine. The ornaments, mostly rings and ear-studs weighing 35 gm, were recovered through a surgical procedure, sources said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/35-gm-of-ornaments-recovered-from-thiefs-stomach/article34685040.ece
31 May 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maneka questions delay in releasing elephant Kusha||More than a month after wild tusker Kusha was ordered to be released back into the forests from the Dubare elephant camp, he continues to be in the custody of the Forest Department, much to the chagrin of activists. Kusha’s release from the camp was ordered by Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali in the last week of April, but a month later the elephant remains in Dubare. This has irked animal rights activists, and BJP MP Maneka Gandhi has lashed out at the department for refusing to follow the directives of the Minister. She released a statement on Sunday and said that it was “surprising that the Chief Wildlife Warden and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests had refused to obey the orders of their own Minister”. “I have spoken to them several times and each time they have given some excuse or the other,” she said. “They say efforts are on to look for herds or that it is COVID time and they are busy, or that the farmers might object. But they want to keep the harmless animal in chains for no reason except to show the Minister who is the authority.” Kusha was captured from the wild near Chettahalli in Madikeri forest division five years ago and put in a kraal in Dubare, but the exercise to tame him did not crush his spirit. He escaped into the wild. After repeated attempts, he was captured once again a few months ago and brought back to the camp, which led to a hue and cry among animal rights groups. Ms. Gandhi also sought the elephant’s release and Mr. Limbavali directed that the elephant be freed. When contacted, sources in the Forest Department confirmed that Kusha was yet to be released. They said it entailed clearance from various expert groups, including officials from Project Elephant, and the process was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maneka-questions-delay-in-releasing-elephant-kusha/article34685038.ece
31 May 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana locks down for 10 more days||The third phase of Kerala’s lockdown for COVID-19 will start on Monday and be in force till June 9 midnight. The restrictions will be uniform in all 14 districts as the stringent measures in Malappuram district are also being eased, the Chief Secretary, V.P. Joy, said in his order. Adding to existing exemptions, additional relaxations from Monday include banks and other financial institutions being allowed to function on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays up to 5 p.m. However, June 1, 3, 5 and 8 will be holidays for banks and financial institutions under the Negotiable Instruments Act-1881. Clearing houses of member banks can function on all days. Textiles, footwear shops and jewellery shops can function from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays with minimum staff. Shops selling students’ study materials, including books, can function from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays with minimum staff. Industrial establishments and production centres, including cashew, coir and printing, can have up to 50% staff. Establishments and shops selling raw materials for industries can function up to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation can operate minimum services in industrial areas. The Telangana Cabinet on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown by 10 days with relaxations from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m., an official statement said. Unfair, says Owaisi Before the Cabinet met, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, in a tweet, urged the Chief Minister not to extend the lockdown, as it was not a strategy to combat COVID-19. The only long-term solution was universal vaccination. “If goal is to reduce crowding, then we may consider evening curfews (6 p.m. onwards) or mini-lockdowns for COVID clusters. But expecting ~3.5 cr people to live for weeks with just a 4- hour lockdown relaxation is not fair at all,” Mr. Owaisi said in a series of tweets. The Karnataka government will decide on extending the lockdown by the weekend. “The expert committee has not yet given the report. The government will consult experts and Ministers and decide by June 6,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Sunday. “The number of cases in some districts is still higher than what we expected,” he said. To a question on the Centre’s guidelines to continue with curbs till June 30, he said: “The Centre has allowed the Chief Ministers to take decisions on the nature of curbs.” Mr. Modi had convened a meeting of Chief Ministers on June 2. Health Minister K. Sudhakar said the lockdown had shown how the positivity rate declined from about 47% to about 14 to 15%. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Union Home Ministry had issued general guidelines on managing the situation till June 30.  (With inputs from Bengaluru bureau and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-locks-down-for-10-more-days/article34685043.ece
31 May 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MLAs take up social activities to mark anniversary||Many legislators from the ruling party took up social activities to mark the second anniversary of the YSR Congress Party forming the government in the State. In Srikalahasti, MLA Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy distributed push-carts to a hundred street vendors. “The move is expected to provide a means of livelihood to them in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. This will encourage small traders to move away from the market and reach the customers in residential colonies directly. This will achieve the twin benefits of ensuring social distancing in the main bazaar as well as improving revenue sources of the small-time street vendors,” Mr. Reddy explained. While the move was appreciated by many, the colour of the push-carts — painted blue, white and green — raised eyebrows as they looked similar to the YSRCP’s colours. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy, however, said he found nothing wrong with the choice of colours. “The government has offered Rs. 10 lakh to the children of those who died of COVID-19, in order to give them courage and hope,” he said. Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, who performed final rites for those who died of COVID twice in the past, did the same on the second anniversary of the party’s coming to power. This time, he conducted the funeral for COVID victims across several faiths. Wearing a PPE kit, Mr. Karunakar Reddy, who had already been infected by COVID-19 twice, disposed of each body in accordance with the person’s faith. Chandragiri MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy gave away aid worth Rs. 5 lakh to frontline warriors working at COVID Care Centres. He gave cheques worth Rs. 2,500 per head per month from his own pocket for the medical staff, nursing personnel, sanitation workers, security staff, ANMs, lab technicians, ASHA workers and others working at the Chandragiri area hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mlas-take-up-social-activities-to-mark-anniversary/article34685575.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 94 COVID deaths, 13,400 new infections in a day||The State reported 94 deaths due to coronavirus and 13,400 infections in 24 hours ending on Sunday morning. The total fatalities reached 10,832 while the cumulative tally increased to 16,85,142. With 21,133 new recoveries in the past day, the count went up 15,08,515. The recovery rate also increased to 89.52%, while the number of active cases in the State was put at 1,65,795. The daily positivity rate of 84,232 samples tested in the past day was 15.91%, the lowest in the past one month. The gradual decline in the daily positivity rate is indicating a drop in the incidence of infections in the State. The overall positivity rate of the 1.91 crore samples tested so far remained at 8.79%.  No respite for Chittoor Meanwhile, Chittoor reported 14 more deaths, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Prakasam and West Godavari which reported nine fatalities each, while Anantapur, East Godavari, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported eight deaths each. Krishna and Vizianagaram districts reported six deaths each and Kurnool and Nellore reported five deaths each. Similarly, Guntur and Kadapa reported four deaths each. East Godavari reported 2,598 new infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (1,971), Anantapur (1,215) and Visakhapatnam (1,054). All the other districts reported less than a thousand new infections. They include West Godavari (968), Krishna (858), Guntur (848), Prakasam (838), Kurnool (712), Kadapa (701), Nellore (652), Srikakulam (623) and Vizianagaram (362). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,23,713), Chittoor (1,89,806), Guntur (1,49,130), West Godavari (1,40,511), Anantapur (1,37,754), Visakhapatnam (1,36,621), Nellore (1,17,679), Kurnool (1,14,716), Srikakulam (1,08,753), Prakasam (1,06,761), Kadapa (94,410), Krishna (88,331) and Vizianagaram (74,062).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-94-covid-deaths-13400-new-infections-in-a-day/article34685587.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSSDC to offer free skill courses online||In an attempt to create more job opportunities for unemployed youth during the COVID pandemic, the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) will offer free online training programmes, beginning June 2. Krishna District Skill Development Officer E. Thammaji Rao said that training would be imparted in three programmes —National Stock Exchange Financial Markets, Customer Care Executives and Entrepreneurship Development. Registration Candidates need to have completed degree education as a basic qualification for the three programmes. They need to apply before June 2 for the financial markets programme. The last date for submission of application for the customercare programme is June 5 and for the other programme, it is June 7. Mr. Rao said upon completion of these courses that impart additional skills, the candidates can find jobs easily. Interested candidates can visit the website www.apssdc.in or call 18004252422, 8978524022 for registration. He said more programmes in e-commerce, digital marketing, Amazon web services, Python and MS Office will be offered soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apssdc-to-offer-free-skill-courses-online/article34685588.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of one lakh houses to begin tomorrow||The State government has decided to start construction of one lakh houses and fast-track the programme from June 1. The houses will be constructed under the ‘Navaratnalu - Pedalandarik Illlu’ scheme, which is a part of the government’s ambitious plan to build 15.60 lakh houses under Phase-1 of the programme in one year. The government had given sanction proceedings for the construction of 14.89 lakh houses. However, work commenced only in respect of 1.21 lakh houses as of May 27. Ministers, MLAs, MPs, municipal chairmen, mayors, and sarpanches will be involved in the special drive. Housing Minister Ch. Sri Ranganadha Raju says that the Project Directors of the Andhra Pradesh State Housing Corporation Limited (APSHCL) have been asked to take steps in this regard. Ambitious target “The government targets to complete 10.50 lakh houses by the end of the 2021-22 financial year. It aims at completing 15.60 lakh houses by June 2022,” he says. The government has set district-wise targets for the APSHCL officials. East and West Godavari, Krishna, and Chittoor districts have to start work on 10,000 houses each. The target for Guntur and Anantapur districts is 8,000 houses each. Kurnool, Kadapa, Srikakulam, and Vizianagaram districts have been tasked with 7,000 houses each. While Prakasam district has a target of 6,000 houses, Nellore and Visakhapatnam have targets of 5,000 houses each. At least one layout will be identified in every Assembly constituency to commence work on June 1 and each layout will have a minimum of 100 units. Maximum number of layouts will be identified in every district during the first week of June.Work will begin in respect of all the beneficiaries having own sites / possession certificates and sanctioned houses. The Project Directors have been asked to motivate the beneficiaries in this regard through the ward / village volunteers. Engineering assistants / ward amenities secretaries and other relevant functionaries will be involved in the programme. COVID-19 protocol “Utmost care will be taken to organise the programme in adherence to the COVID-19 protocols,” says Mr. Raju. Fifteen lakh houses will be built in each phase. Facilities such as drinking water supply, electricity, approach roads, internal roads and drains, and other infrastructure will be provided in the colonies. The government will spend Rs. 2,540 crore on drinking water supply and Rs. 3,200 crore on electricity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-one-lakh-houses-to-begin-tomorrow/article34685593.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agricultural feeders upgraded at Rs. 1,700 cr.||In tune with its priority of supplying power free of cost to the farm sector for nine hours during the daytime, the State government has upgraded the agriculture feeders at a cost of Rs. 1,700 crore. Of the 6,663 feeders, only 3,854 were conducive for supplying power for nine hours in two spells, hence there was a need to augment their capacity, an official release said. The intention is to make the feeder network robust in order to implement the scheme for the next 30 years without any hitch. The agricultural feeders consume around 15,700 million units of energy per annum which is almost 24% of the total energy demand (66,000 MU per annum) of the State. The government has sanctioned more than 1.30 lakh new agricultural connections in the last two years. ‘Navaratnalu’ The power utilities in the State have created a record of sorts by supplying free power to more than 18 lakh agricultural services during the daytime under the government’s flagship ‘Navaratnalu’ scheme. Prior to June 2019, power used to be supplied for seven hours in two spells including the nights. The power utilities completed the upgradation of the feeders and other infrastructure development works in a year from 2019 and were able to supply free power to all the dedicated agriculture feeders during the rabi season. The utilities already supplied free power to around 90% feeders in the kharif season in 2020. Subsidy amount According to the press release, the subsidy given by the government to the agricultural sector in 2020-21 financial year was Rs. 8,559 crore as against Rs. 6,030 crore in 2018-19 fiscal. In order to keep up the free power scheme to the farm sector for the next three decades, the government has undertaken the establishment of a 10,000-MW solar power plant exclusively for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-govt-upgrades-feeders-for-free-power-supply-to-farmers/article34685034.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polytechnic lecturer aspirants denounce delay in releasing results||Delay on the part of the A.P. Public Service Commission (APPSC) in announcing the results of the examination conducted in March last year to fill vacant posts of lecturer in polytechnic colleges in the State, is causing anxiety and stress among 400 aspirants. “There has been an inordinate delay. The notification for the examination was issued in December 2018. The examination was conducted in March 2020 and interviews were conducted in March this year. But the final list of selected candidates has not yet been declared,” says Tirumanadham Raviteja, one of the aspirants. Pointing to the fact that the second wave of COVID-19 had cut down on the existing jobs in the private sector and people, especially those from the middle class, were facing severe financial crisis in the absence of a source of income, Mr. Raviteja said the commission should take note of the plight of the candidates and announce the results without further delay. The candidates point out that the results of the examination conducted for the posts of degree college lecturer, which were simultaneously conducted by the commission, had already been declared. “The commission should at least release the marks memo of the candidates based on which many of them can decide on their future course of action,” said Mr. Raviteja. The candidates urged the commission Chairman to issue a status note, explaining the reason for the delay and the tentative date of the announcement of the result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polytechnic-lecturer-aspirants-denounce-delay-in-releasing-results/article34685075.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools to remain closed till June 30||In adherence to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and in view of the prevailing pandemic situation in the State, the summer vacation for teachers and students of Classes 1 to X for all schools under all managements has been extended till June 30. In a circular released on Sunday, Director, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, pointed out that the government had postponed the SSC Public Examination-2021 due to the intensity of the second wave of COVID-19. He requested the Director, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), to prepare a detailed academic calendar and the activities to be taken up through means such as Doordarshan, radio, social media channels such as YouTube, personal contact through WhatsApp groups, for online education for all classes from June 12. In the case of SSC students, the headmasters should extend academic support to the students from June 1, he clarified. Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu further said that the headmasters and staff of all the government schools should comply with the instructions issued by the State Project Director, Samagra Shiksha, Director of Mid-Day-Meal and Adviser, School Infra, with regard to implementation of Mana Badi - Nadu-Nedu and Jagananna Vidya Kanuka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/article34685032.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||181 officers promoted as Inspectors in State||For the first time, 181 police officers were promoted to the post of Inspector of Police in the State on Saturday. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said that it was a historic milestone for the police department as such a large number of police officers were never promoted at once in its history. Mr. Sawang said that the issue of pending promotions for the past seven years was taken to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and following his instructions, a Departmental Promotion Committee was constituted six months ago. The committee, headed by Mr. Sawang, took up the process of identifying vacancies in all ranges and Sub-Inspectors waiting for promotion, and review of Annual Confidential Report (ACR), and promoted 181 SIs as Inspectors to fill 181 posts in Visakhapatnam Eluru, Guntur and Kurnool Ranges in one go. This will serve as a permanent solution to the several issues surrounding the seniority of officers when it comes to promotions, he said. Mr. Sawang said that the department has been implementing Automated Police Online System (APOLIS) to ensure proper management of personnel transparently and effectively. It is also implementing the Human Capital Management project as a pilot in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/181-officers-promoted-as-inspectors-in-state/article34685063.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM student gets copyright for eco-friendly face shield design||P. Mohan Aditya, a student of SRM University-AP, has been granted a copyright for the design of a biodegradable face shield for humans. The third year mechanical engineering student has developed a useful face shield made from bio-degradable substances and named it ‘Facial Shield 2.0’ as it is an improved version of the ordinary face shields. The innovative features added to it helped him earn the copyright. Last year on May 16, Aditya filed an application on the face shield design under the IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) with Indian Patent Office in Kolkata. This year a copyright was granted with a design application number 329364– 001. The face shield 2.0 serves as the outer defence to the mucous membranes (nose, eyes and mouth), comes with a transparent visor made of a thin layer of 175-micron reusable plastic and a highly durable headband made from 3 ply corrugated cardboard. The cardboard’s bursting strength is 16 kg/sq.cm, which is quite durable yet lightweight. At an affordable cost of Rs. 15, it comes with an elastic band adjustable for all head sizes. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, who met the student at the Secretariat, appreciated his efforts. “Keeping in mind the environmental degradation factor, I chose reusable plastic and cardboard that are easily degradable,” he said. SRM University-AP president P. Satyanarayana, Vice-Chancellor V.S. Rao and Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao congratulated him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-student-gets-copyright-for-eco-friendly-face-shield-design/article34685065.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice-President urged to refer dispute on Hindu Deity Rights to Attorney General||Temples Protection Movement (TPM) convener M.V. Sundararajan has written a letter to Vice- President M. Venkaiah Naidu, urging him to refer the dispute pertaining to the Hindu Deity Rights to Attorney General K.K. Venugopal under Article 76 (2) of the Constitution for a suitable advice to President Ram Nath Kovind. In the letter, Mr. Sundararajan said it had come in public domain that there was an explicit warning recorded in the Kerala High Court judgment of 1991 against “adharmic approach of not recognising the right of a deity to follow His dharma.” Surprisingly, it was ignored by the Supreme Court while overriding the judgment of 1991, he said. “The Supreme Court, in its Sabarimala judgment of September 28, 2018, violated the fundamental rights of devotees under Article 21, read with Article 25, Article 26 & Article 29 (1). They have a right to judgment as per principles of dharma in matters impacting rights of Hindu deities as it impacts their well-being, as held by Justice Chitambaresh,” he said. “When such violation is not corrected by the Supreme Court even after it has been pointed, it is the constitutional duty of the President to do so to ensure the well-being of the nation, as held by Justice B. Siva Sankara Rao. Hence, the matter needs to be referred to the Attorney General for a suitable advice to the President,” Mr. Sundararajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-president-urged-to-refer-dispute-on-hindu-deity-rights-to-attorney-general/article34685073.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘India became a global power under Modi’s leadership’||India has emerged as a global power under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said. Addressing the media on Sunday after participating in the service activities undertaken to mark the completion of seven years as Prime Minister by Mr. Modi, the BJP leader said that the ‘Make-in-India’ campaign enabled the country to manufacture advanced weapons at affordable prices. The country had also become the world’s vaccine hub, Mr. Veerraju said. Mr. Modi’s record had been impeccable over the last seven years. The Congress party’s more than 40-year rule pales in comparison, he observed. Mr. Veerraju said India was now in a position to supply weapons to buyers abroad and, on the vaccine front, it acquired the capability to export to other countries. Referring to the performance of the YSRCP government in the last two years, Mr. Veerraju said it was an utter failure, particularly in containing the COVID-19 pandemic as there was no advanced plan to check its spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/india-became-a-global-power-under-modis-leadership/article34685596.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII-Yi begins RT-PCR testing camp in city||The Amaravati chapter of the CII-Young Indians, in association with Thyro Care, has started an RT-PCR testing camp at The Venue Convention Centre at Veterinary Colony in city, to facilitate swift, low cost testing at Rs. 500. The objective of the initiative is to ease the pressure on testing labs in the city. Around 100 patients are expected to utilise the service for the day. Yi’s Amaravati chapter has taken up many COVID relief initiatives, such as helping the poor with dry ration and facilitating oxygen concentrators to the needy besides arranging emergency beds for COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-yi-begins-rt-pcr-testing-camp-in-city/article34685074.ece
31 May 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to focus on public health||There is a need to build a people’s movement to make the governments recognise and implement Public Health as a Fundamental Right of the people, said Prof K. Nageswar. Addressing the United Teachers’ Federation activist Appari Venkata Swamy’s 21st memorial webinar on “Public Health-Fundamental Right”, Prof. Nageswar said the Constitution and the courts of law have been repeatedly saying that the Right to Health is a part and parcel of Right to Life and therefore, Right to Health is a fundamental right guaranteed to every citizen of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-focus-on-public-health/article34685076.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister inaugurates COVID Care Facility at steel plant||Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gases and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated the Jumbo COVID Care Facility with 300 beds (phase-1), out of the planned 1,000-bed facility for treatment of COVID-19 patients, at Gurajada Kalakshetram and Hostel-1 at RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant through virtual mode on Sunday. In his keynote address, Mr. Pradhan applauded the efforts of RINL-Vizag Steel for raising to the occasion in the national interest by relentlessly working and becoming the saviour of many lives across the country during this pandemic time. He praised the RINL for making swift and dedicated efforts in sending the first oxygen express to Maharashtra. He also thanked the State government for extending all support required to start the facility on the premises of RINL-Vizag Steel. Union Minister of State for Steel Faggan Singh Kulaste complimented the RINL team for providing timely relief to the COVID patients by supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen(LMO) and now in establishing the new facility with the support of the State government and the Ministry of Steel. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Minister of Mines and Geology P. Ramachandra Reddy, Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and Anakapalle MP B. Venkata Satyavathi attended the inauguration ceremony in virtual mode. Earlier in his welcome address, RINL CMD P.K. Rath thanked the State government and the Ministry of Steel for all the support they provided in starting the phase-1 of 1,000-bed facilities. He informed that till date 15,000 persons have been vaccinated among the RINL fraternity. He said that around 6,700 tonnes of LMO was supplied till date by RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant to Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka during the second wave of COVID-19. Director (Personnel) K.C. Das proposed a vote of thanks.  ‘Reconsider decision’ Mr. Vijaya Sai and Mr. Goutham Reddy recalled the contribution of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in meeting the oxygen requirements of COVID-19 patients in various parts of the country. Mr. Vijaya Sai said the VSP had sent the first oxygen train on April 19 this year to Maharashtra. He wondered whether it would have been possible, if the plant was privatised. He reiterated his appeal to the Centre to reconsider its decision to privatise the VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-minister-unveils-covid-care-facility-at-vizag-steel-plant/article34685580.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma therapy not advisable for COVID-19 patients, say experts||A couple of days back, Vijay (name changed), an employee of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, had to run from pillar to post to acquire two units of plasma, as doctors in a private hospital treating his father with COVID-19, had asked him to get them on an emergency basis. With great difficulty, he could manage by paying Rs. 35,000 for two units in the grey market. This is the case in the city, when world over the use of Convalescent Plasma for treating COVID-19 patients has already been called off. “There is enough data to suggest that CPT has no role in treating COVID-19 patients,” said Dr. Laxmi Narayana R. Buddharaju from University of Nebraska Medical Centre. “We have already stopped the use of CPT in the western world and even ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has also done enough evidence-based study to suggest the same,” he added. According to Dr. Sudhakar, the Principal of Andhra Medical College and District COVID special officer, ICMR had already issued an advisory stating that indiscriminate use of CPT in coronavirus-infected patients was not advisable. As per ICMR, a potential donor for convalescent plasma should have sufficient concentration of antibodies working against COVID-19, he added. Initial theories negated There was a time when it was recommended, but those were in the initial phase of the pandemic. “Now we have enough data that negates that understanding,” said Dr. Ram Kairam, paediatric neurologist, Texas, U.S.A. “In the initial days, treatment of COVID-19 was on an experimental basis and we at KGH have bought a machine for Rs. 40 lakh for extraction of plasma. We even conducted press meets to motivate people cured of COVID-19 to donate plasma. But now those theories have proved to be unfounded and we have enough evidence to suggest that it is not effective,” explained Dr. Sudhakar. According to Dr. Premkumar, chest specialist from Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases, CPT in the initial days was recommended for critical patients, then it was told that it suited best when administered just before a patients entered the ventilator stage and finally it was told that it was best suited when given in the initial days of the COVID-19 time cycle. But evolution of science and research in the last one year suggested that CPT is history now, and people could now question its use, if recommended, he said. Global perspective The experts were speaking at the 60th webinar organised by Dr. Sudhakar for AMC, in association with Dr. Ram and Dr. Sridhar Chilimuri, chairman, Bronx Care, New York, U.S.A. “We have been holding these webinars for the past one year, ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. The disease is new to us and the webinar helps us in understanding the pandemic from a global perspective. Sharing and learning the best practices is the basic idea,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Some of the webinars were lecture-demonstrations and eye-openers for many doctors engaged in COVID-19 treatment. “These sessions will continue as various aspects from critical treatment procedures to basics such as how to use oxygen and masks are discussed,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plasma-therapy-not-advisable-for-covid-19-patients-say-experts/article34685066.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP has nothing to boast of in two-year rule: Atchannaidu||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has alleged that there is nothing for the State government to boast of in its two-year rule, except the welfare schemes of the TDP government, which are given new names. Addressing the media here on Sunday, he alleged that the YSR Congress Party government began its rule with the destruction of the ‘Praja Vedika’, built by the previous government, in the name of irregularities in construction. Subsequently, a number of buildings of Opposition leaders, who did not join the YSRCP were demolished but the illegal constructions of the ruling party leaders were not touched, Mr. Atchannaidu alleged. He alleged that Amaravati was killed as the former Chief Minister would get the credit if it was built. He questioned what had happened to the three-capital ‘decentralisation’ plan of the YSRCP government. He said that the State could have got a revenue of Rs. 2 lakh crore if Amaravati was completed. Mr. Atchannaidu said that while the TDP government had obtained the approval of the Centre for the sanction of Rs. 52,000 crore for the Polavaram project, the YSRCP government had reduced the project cost to Rs. 22,000 crore. He said that the TDP government had completed 74% of the works, pertaining to Polavaram project, while the YSRCP government had done only 2% of the work in two years. He alleged that the changes in the sand policy, brought out by the YSRCP government, had led to sand scarcity and loss of jobs for construction workers. The cost of a tractor load of sand, which was Rs. 1,500 during the previous government, has now increased to Rs. 6,000, he alleged. He alleged that instead of implementing total prohibition, as announced in its election manifesto, the YSRCP government had hiked prices of liquor and introduced new brands. Mr. Jagan, who had criticised Mr. Naidu day in and day out over its failure to achieve Special Category Status (SCS) to the State, had failed to take it up with the Centre in the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-has-nothing-to-boast-of-in-two-year-rule-atchannaidu/article34685598.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties levelling baseless allegations against Vijaya Sai: YSRCP||YSR Congress Party city president Vamsikrishna Srinivas Yadav has said that Opposition parties were levelling baseless allegations regarding party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy's visit to Mudasarlova Park. The park was neglected by the previous government, but it is the YSRCP which came forward to develop it on the lines of Brindavan Gardens of Mysore. But now the members of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Jana Sena Party (JSP) are objecting to it, he said. Similarly, keeping in view the annual Giri Pradakshana, in which a large number of devotees circumambulate the Simhachalam hills, Mr. Vijaya Sai has proposed to develop the walking paths. However the leaders of Opposition parties were politicising it, he alleged. Mr. Vamsikrishna Srinivas said that Mr. Vijaya Sai has been striving to develop North Andhra region, which was totally neglected by the previous government. The 300-bed COVID-19 Care Centre set up by the YSRCP MP has been serving hundreds of people during the pandemic, he said. Mr. Vamsikrishna Srinivas said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has fulfilled almost all the assurances that were made to the people during his padayatra in the two years of the government. He said that welfare schemes being implemented as part of Navaratnalu, have been benefiting all sections of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-parties-levelling-baseless-allegations-against-vijaya-sai-ysrcp/article34685606.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1,054 new infections, eight deaths||The Visakhapatnam district reported 1,054 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending on Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,37,133. As many as 1,924 persons have recovered from the coronavirus during the same time period. The death toll breached the 900-mark and stands at 902 after eight more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The total number of deaths reported this May till date was 291. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,21,141 and the active cases have reduced to 15,090 by Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1054-new-infections-eight-deaths/article34685605.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATM robbery case solved in eight hours, one held||The city police on Sunday arrested a 37-year-old man for allegedly stealing about Rs. 58,000 from an ATM on the VIP Road here on May 29. The arrested was identified as P. Siva, a painter from New Resapuvanipalem area in the city. At around 3 a.m. on Sunday, a Senior Manager of a bank G. Srinivasa Sarma approached the III Town police and informed that on May 29 at about 3.15 p.m., an unidentified person entered the ATM and stole Rs. 58,200 after forcibly opening the outer door of the chest. The police formed special teams and solved the case within eight hours. Acting on a tip-off, the accused was arrested at Siddardha Nagar and Rs. 57,000 was recovered from him. Police said that investigation revealed it was a chance offence. On May 29, the accused came to the ATM and tried to withdraw money. When the transaction failed, he pulled open the ATM door. The cash fillers might have forgotten to lock the ATM door after filling the cash on the previous day and the door opened, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-atm-robbery-case-solved-in-8-hours-1-held/article34685582.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancellation of special trains extended||Due to the second wave of COVID-19 infection and poor patronage, the East Coast Railway (ECoR) has decided to extend the cancellation of the following special trains. The cancelled trains are, 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur daily special train leaving Visakhapatnam from June 1 to 10, 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam daily special train, leaving Raipur from June 2 to 11, 08445 Bhubaneswar-Jagdalpur special train, leaving Bhubaneswar from June 1 to 10, and 08446 Jagdalpur-Visakhapatnam special train, leaving Jagdalpur June 2 to 11. Train no. 08516 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special train, leaving Visakhapatnam from June 1 to 10, 08515 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam special train, leaving Kirandul from June 2 to 11, 08561 Visakhapatnam-Kacheguda special train, leaving Visakhapatnam from June 1 to 10, 08562 Kacheguda-Visakhapatnam special train, leaving Kacheguda from June 2 to 11, are cancelled. Train no. 07488 Visakhapatnam-Kadapa special train, leaving Visakhapatnam from June 1 to 10, 07487 Kadapa-Visakhapatnam special train, leaving Kadapa from June 2 to 11, 02831 Visakhapatnam- Lingampalli special train, leaving Visakhapatnam from June 1 to 10, and 02832 Lingampalli- Visakhapatnam special train, leaving Lingampalli from June 2 to 11, will be cancelled, according to Senior Deputy Commercial Manager of Waltair Division A.K. Tripathi. Similarly, 02882 Bhubaneswar-Pune special train, leaving Bhubaneswar on Tuesdays i.e., on June 1 and 8, is cancelled and 02881 Pune-Bhubaneswar special train, leaving Pune on Thursdays i.e., June 3 and 10, is cancelled. Train no. 08301 Sambalpur- Rayagada special train, leaving Sambalpur on June 5 and 6, and 08302 Rayagada-Sambalpur special train, leaving Rayagada on June 5 and 6, are cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancellation-of-special-trains-extended-further/article34685581.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three youth go missing in waterfalls||A jolly trip of a group of friends turned tragic, after three of them allegedly went missing in Guddugummi waterfalls at Teegalavalasa village under Hukumpeta police station limits in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. According to sources, around 10 youths from Sanyasampalem village went to the waterfalls. The youth were allegedly playing when M. Niranjan (18) had allegedly fell in the waterfalls while trying to take pictures. Noticing him, two of his friends, B Vinod Kumar (20)and T Nagendra (19), allegedly jumped into the water to save him. But they also went missing. Based on the information from the local people, the Hukumpeta police reached the spot and started search operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-youth-go-missing-in-waterfalls/article34685609.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to organise competition on recycling of material||In connection with World Environment Day, to be held on June 5, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park is organising a unique competition. Curator Nandani Salaria said that the programme aims at encouraging people to reuse unwanted items in their homes. The theme of the competition is reduce, reuse and recycle. “Families can join this activity and make an art craft from waste material and should demonstrate its usage. The best ones will be given a surprise gift. Participants should make a video of the process of not more than one minute and send it to IGZP through Google Drive link to events. igzp@gmail.com,” she said. The entries should be submitted by 5 p.m. on June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-to-organise-competition-on-recycling-of-material/article34685607.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dr. Mallavarapu Sriram passes away||Dr. Mallavarapu Sriram, a retired Superintendent of KGH, and son of late Dr. M.V. Krishna Rao, freedom fighter and former Minister of Health, died at his residence, here, on Sunday. Dr. Sriram (82) is survived by his wife Dr. Leela Sriram, son Dr. Ravindra and daughter Anuradha. Dr. Sriram was head of Anesthesia, Andhra Medical College. He was a recipient of Prof. A.P. Singhal Lifetime Achievement Award of the Indian Society of Anaesthesiologists for his contribution to the promotion of research and education in anaesthesia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dr-mallavarapu-sriram-passes-away/article34685601.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decentralisation will spur development of north Andhra, says K.K. Raju||The decentralised development plan of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will spur the growth of north Andhra, YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) North Convener K.K. Raju has said. In its two years of rule, the YSRCP government has done justice to the victims of AgriGold and helped ever mother to realise her dream of owning a house by sanctioning funds to the tune of Rs. 27,000 crore, Mr. Raju said at a media conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decentralisation-will-spur-development-of-north-andhra-says-kk-raju/article34685603.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||violators fined||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials conducted raids at several places in the city and imposed fines to the tune of Rs. 44,200 on shopkeepers, who sold meat, fish and seafood in violation of the orders against their sale, here on Sunday. According to GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, special teams were formed to check the violations. Apart from this, 180 kg meat, 215 kg fish, 30 kg prawns and 240 kg chicken were seized from the shopkeepers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/violators-fined/article34685608.ece
31 May 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCI takes up inoculation||Dredging Corporation of India(DCI) Limited has organised a free COVID vaccination drive in association with district administration for the benefits of its employees, security and maintenance staff at its head office in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. Thedrive was carried out as per the guidance of DCI MD and CEO of DCI G.Y.V. Victor. About 110 employees, were given the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dci-takes-up-inoculation/article34685612.ece
31 May 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||150 O2 concentrators donated by U.S.-based Vasavi foundation||The Vasavi Seva Foundation of the United States has provided 50 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 35 lakh for COVID-19 patients in the town after observing that refilling of oxygen cylinders has become an expensive and time-taking process. NCS Charitable Trust member Narayanam Srinivas, who coordinated the distribution of oxygen concentrators, thanked the Vasavi Seva Foundation representatives Kanumury Nagesh and Chakrapani for extending timely help to needy patients. “Doctors advised many discharged patients to have oxygen facility for a couple of weeks since post-COVID-19 care is important. As many patients may not be in a position to afford the cost of oxygen supply, the foundation has decided to provide it free of cost,” said Mr. Srinivas. As many as 150 concentrators were provided in 15 towns apart from Vizianagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/150-o2-concentrators-donated-by-us-based-vasavi-foundation/article34685579.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Summer duet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/summer-duet/article34685584.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘94.50% poll promises fulfilled in two years’||Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the village and ward volunteers have been an important cog in the wheel, whose dedication made it all possible. The services rendered by the District Collectors and a whole lot of government functionaries were commendable. A letter containing the details of schemes availed by each beneficiary and a snapshot of the promises delivered by the government, would be handed over by the volunteers, he said. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, M. Sucharitha, Dharmana Krishnadas, Amzath Basha, Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and M. Sankar Narayana, government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, MLA Jogi Ramesh and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9450-poll-promises-fulfilled-in-two-years/article34685585.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to lay stone for 14 new medical colleges today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay the foundation stone for 14 new medical colleges on Monday (May 31) in virtual mode as part of the government’s endeavour to provide better healthcare services in the State. The new colleges are coming up at Vizianagaram, Anakapalle, Rajamahendravaram, Palakollu, Amalapuram, Eluru, Machilipatnam, Bapatla, Markapuram, Piduguralla, Madanapalli, Penukonda, Adoni and Nandyal. The construction of the colleges at Paderu and Pulivendula has begun. Now, the State has 11 medical colleges. The intake of the colleges at Vizianagaram, Anakapalle, Rajamahendravaram, Eluru and Machilipatnam will be 150 each while the others will have 100 seats each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-lay-stone-for-14-new-medical-colleges-today/article34685594.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard hit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-hit/article34685611.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No sparing!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-sparing/article34685080.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The final salute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-final-salute/article34685045.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attili Padmavathi passes away||Attili Padmavathi (80), a former Librarian of St. Joseph’s College for Women, passed away in Chennai on Sunday. Her husband Attili Krishna Rao was former Head of the Department of Theatre Arts, Andhra University. She is survived by her son Attili Sudhakar Rao, Additional DGP of Sikkim, and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attili-padmavathi-passes-away/article34685602.ece
31 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BCR Trust helps out patient with black fungus symptoms||The prompt response and timely intervention of volunteers of the Bhadrachalam-based Bandaru Chandar Rao (BCR) Trust helped a COVID-19 patient with symptoms of “Mucormycosis” (black fungus) avail himself of the 108 ambulance service to travel to Hyderabad, located more than 300 km away from the temple town, for treatment. Sources said the 39-year-old petty vendor of Rajupeta Colony in Bhadrachalam had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Area Hospital in the temple town for one week. He reportedly developed swelling in the eye and facial pain with suspected symptoms of black fungus on Saturday night. Family members of the patient called the BCR helpline on Sunday morning seeking their help to ensure prompt treatment for him in Hyderabad.. The volunteers of the trust led by CPI (M) State committee member A J Ramesh and town committee secretary Gaddam Swamy rushed to the hospital. They inquired about the health condition of the COVID-19 patient and sent the patient to the Gandhi hospital in the State capital in an 108 ambulance on Sunday afternoon. The BCR Trust members performed the last rites of three COVID-19 victims, including two from the temple town and one from Chodavaram in AP. They are providing free food to needy COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bcr-trust-helps-out-patient-with-black-fungus-symptoms/article34685521.ece
31 May 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Young advocate dies of COVID-19||The sudden death of a Kothagudem-based young advocate Lakkineni Gopinath due to post-COVID-19 complications at a hospital in Hyderabad in the wee hours of Sunday sent shockwaves through the legal fraternity in the district. Gopinath, son of senior advocate and Kothagudem Bar Association president Lakkineni Satyanarayana, had been practising in the High Court for the past several years. He is survived by wife, a daughter and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/young-advocate-dies-of-covid-19/article34685507.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala leaves for New Delhi||Expelled TRS minister Eatala Rajender left for New Delhi on Sunday evening to meet the BJP leadership, setting at rest strong speculation of his joining the party. He is expected to meet BJP general secretaries Bhupender Yadav and Tarun Chugg, the latter being the party in-charge of the State. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, who is in Hyderabad, will join the negotiations in the evening. Mr. Rajender was accompanied on his tour by former TRS MLA of Yellareddy E. Ravinder Reddy, who had identified himself with the former since the State government began probing the land deals of the ex-minister. The government has so far initiated inquiries into land holdings of Mr. Rajender and his family at Masaipet in Medak district, Devarayamjal in Shamirpet mandal and Medchal. Sources in the BJP said Mr. Rajender was invited to New Delhi to discuss the safeguards that he expected from the party in view of suppression that he faced by the government and his political future. Three options His visit was a culmination of three options that he had weighed since he was axed from the Cabinet, they said. Initially, he wanted the support of other parties to stand up to the suppression as an independent after resigning from TRS and the Assembly. Then, he dropped the idea of resignation as MLA and looked towards both Congress and BJP for cover to carry on his struggle. He finally tilted towards the BJP, seeking to further his political career and also ensure safeguards in a ruling dispensation at the Centre. His decision to join the BJP was an offshoot of the developments that had taken place in the last one week and only he was privy to them, sources added. The date of his formal joining the BJP was likely to emerge only after Mr. Rajender firmed up his plans at New Delhi. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rajender’s wife Jamuna held a press conference to challenge the government to prove if the family held even a single acre more than what it had by purhase. She said the family had spent its income from poultry business on the programmes of the TRS in separate Telangana movement. The family had also sold six acres of land to raise money for a newspaper backed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Ms. Jamuna also said her husband had never been happy since the formation of TRS government. He had been humiliated at every stage. Thrice, he had been sent back by security personnel near the entrance of CM’s camp office, saying he did not have appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-leaves-for-new-delhi/article34685514.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government to sell lands to raise funds||In view of its depleting financial position on account of COVID, the State government has decided to sell its lands and houses under the control of Housing Development Corporation to raise funds. A meeting of the Cabinet presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to initiate immediate steps for sale. The Cabinet expressed satisfaction at procurement of 87% of paddy cultivated in rabi and directed the Civil Supplies department to complete the process in four or five days. It suggested that the Agriculture department promote red gram cultivation as the crop had high demand in market. Since the demand for boiled rice was declining in neighbouring States, it was assessed that cotton would fetch higher profits in future. At the same time, the Cabinet discussed the possibility of higher demand for fine varieties of rice. It was noted that the two crop seasons last year resulted in a production of three crore tonnes of foodgrains. A release said the meeting wanted steps to promote setting up of more rice mills in the State as paddy production went up considerably. The farmers’ committees appointed by the government under the Rytu Bandhu programme should be activated and continuous training programmes held for them. The premises constructed for the committees should become platforms for continuous interaction between farmers and agriculture officers. The Cabinet sanctioned two posts of Additional Director in the Agriculture department in view of the expansion of agriculture in the State. Nine to ten clusters should be identified for food processing units. Land should be earmarked for food processing zones, it was decided. Vaccination to students By other decisions, the Cabinet recommended priority in vaccination to students going abroad for higher education on the basis of their admission letters. The 5.5-km-long Necklace Road in Hyderabad was renamed P.V. Narasimhar Rao Marg to mark the culmination of the centenary celebrations of the former Prime Minister. The State formation day celebrations on June 2 should be gone through with minimal attendance in view of COVID. The Principal Health Secretary and other health officials were asked to tour high-prevalence areas of COVID to take up remedial steps. They included Khammam, Madhira, Sattupalli, Alampur, Gadwal, Narayanpet, Makthal, Nagarjunasagar, Kodad and Huzurnagar. The health department should be vigilant to the threat of third wave of COVID. A review of health care in hospitals should be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-to-sell-lands-to-raise-funds/article34685516.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mass vaccination drives draw remarkable response||Corporate hospitals have started to conduct mass vaccination drives at gated communities, and work spaces in and around Hyderabad. And there is a high demand for these jab drives as booking slots in CoWin has become tough despite several days of try. The slots are getting filled in a few minutes from their availability in the website. Such is the demand for the mass vaccination drives that corporate hospitals have pegged the potential beneficiaries through this form of immunization to around 10 lakh. The drives conducted by a few hospitals are booked for the next two to three weeks at least. It may be noted that the second dose of vaccination for people above 45 years is offered at government COVID-19 vaccination centres. Costs for the mass vaccination varies from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500 per beneficiary depending on number of beneficiaries, hospital, type of vaccine, and other aspects. Apart from the vaccine vials, a doctor, a nurse, and an ambulance would be made available at the mass vaccination drives. Aster Prime Hospitals is one of the private health facilities that has initiated this form of vaccination at gated communities. They gave the jabs to 1,000 people at a drive held at PEBL City on Saturday, which continued on Sunday too. CEO of the hospital K.T. Devanand said that volunteers from the gated community’s COVID Task Force managed responsibilities such as registration, and crowd management. CARE Hospitals in Hyderabad is conducting such drives at work spaces. HCOO of the hospital in Banjara Hills Dr. Rahul Medakkar said that a critical care specialist or emergency doctor, and nurses are part of the vaccination team. Around 35 firms have contacted Continental Hospital management to conduct the mass vaccination drives at their work spaces. “We have signed MoUs with some of them and started to conduct the drives at a few work spaces,” said CEO of the hospital Dr. Riyaz Khan. Meanwhile, TSRTC on Sunday vaccinated many as 475 staff at the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS). Of these, 95 persons were above 45 years of age. The drive was also conducted at several other depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mass-vaccination-drives-draw-remarkable-response/article34685300.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Property registrations to resume in TS today||The prospects of revenue increase through Registration and Stamps department brightened after the State Cabinet’s decision to extend relaxation of lockdown time by three hours from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Registration and Stamps Department officials are making arrangements for restarting the process for registration of agriculture and non-agricultural properties from Monday as the government has decided to open the offices till 1 p.m. every day. The process was brought to a grinding halt after the government stalled registration process since imposition of the lockdown from May 12. The department which saw a significant rise in revenues since December last had registered revenue to the tune of Rs. 717 crore in April and this was followed by revenue collection of around Rs. 250 crore before the lockdown was imposed since May 12. Activities of the department were brought to a standstill ever since, but the department is confident of making up for the deficiency after the government allowed it to function with necessary protocols. Senior officials said the slot booking process for both agriculture and non-agriculture properties will start in the right earnest. The sub-registrar offices are capable of generating six slots every hour and the presence of necessary people including buyers, sellers and two witnesses will be allowed in the SROs following the relaxation given by the government, of course with all COVID-19 protocols. This would amount to 24 slots in six hours for the SROs and the number would be higher in the district registration offices where booking of 12 slots would be possible taking the total number of registrations to 48. Officials are hopeful that the relaxations given by the government would help them achieve the targeted revenue of close to Rs. 1,000 crore a month going by the demand that had seen an increasing trend in the past four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-registrations-to-resume-in-ts-today/article34685506.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Govt. resorting to political blame game’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy charged the TRS government with resorting to political blame game during the pandemic in targeting the Central government for the vaccine shortage and distribution on Sunday. “The Centre has responded to the second wave crises decisively by ensuring oxygen supplies are met and key medicines like Remdesivir, drugs to treat black fungus are sufficiently supplied along with sufficient supply of ventilators. It is unfortunate that some responsible leaders have been blaming the Union government although 50% of vaccines is being supplied free to States. By December, we are sure to vaccinate the entire population,” he claimed. Participating in a series of programmes including distribution of rations, inaugurating blood donation camps, COVID isolation facilities in the twin cities to commemorate seven years of NDA Government, Mr. Reddy also accused the TS Government of not distributing five kg free rations for April and May to the poor hit hard by the pandemic despite supplies being made available. Meanwhile, BJP leaders across the State took part in various events to mark the day with senior leader G. Narayana Reddy distributing 23 oxygen concentrators in Bhongir Assembly constituency. These were provided by daughter of his friend, a sixth standard student Atluri Uma, studying in United States, with her savings. Eight oxygen concentrators are of 10-litre capacity and 15 are of 7-litre capacity. One 10-litre capacity oxygen concentrator was handed over to Area Hospital of Bhongir, three would be distributed in each of the four mandals and two towns in the constituency. Remaining OCs would be given to revenue staff of Bhongir collectorate, police and public health centre. In a separate event, former MLC P. Sudhakar Reddy participated in the COVID precautions-related material distribution kuje face masks and food material at Manchirevulakokapeta village. He claimed that the “timely actions” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ensured abatement of the second wave of CtOVID in he country which had spread like a wildfire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-resorting-to-political-blame-game/article34685510.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 1,801 new cases, 16 deaths||A total of 1,801 new COVID cases and 16 deaths were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday in Telangana as tests were down to 61,053 during the day. The tests done on Saturday were 1,00,677. With another 3,660 infected persons being declared recovered on Sunday, the total recoveries in the State have gone up to 5,37,522. The cumulative total positive cases and deaths in the State have gone up to 5,75,827 and 3,263, respectively, so far. According to the Health bulletin, the active cases were 35,042, including nearly 18,300 undergoing treatment in private and government hospitals and the remaining staying in home and institutional isolation. Based on the active infection cases in a particular locality, there were 81 active micro containment zones as on Sunday evening, including a highest of 19 in Warangal Rural district followed by 13 in Hyderabad. The number was in single digits in another 13 districts. According to the Health department website on availability of hospital beds for COVID treatment, a total of 37,162 beds were available in government and private hospitals, including 668 and 5,322 ICU/ventilator beds and 3,514 and 9,089 oxygen beds, respectively. Regarding vaccination, a total of 1,10,562 doses were administered till 10 p.m. on Saturday, including 63,364 doses given to the 18-44 age group in private vaccination centres. The total vaccine doses administered in the State till Saturday night were 59,16,037.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-1801-new-cases-16-deaths/article34685298.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||EPTRI, NITHM sign pact||Director of National Institute of Tourism & Hospitality Management ( NITHM) S Chinnam Reddy and Director-General of Environment, Protection & Training Institute (EPTRI) Adhar Sinha signed an MoU for training, research and technological cooperation in the area of environmental management in the context of tourism and hospitality and its allied sectors, on Saturday. Mr. Sinha said tourism provided various benefits while leading to negative impacts, if not managed properly. In this regard, NITHM and EPTRI can make a joint effort to make tourism more sustainable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eptri-nithm-sign-pact/article34685508.ece
31 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for impregnating niece||A 45-year-old man was booked by Jagadgirigutta police of Cyberabad for allegedly sexually exploiting his 13-year-old niece and impregnating her. Balanagar ACP K. Purushotham said that recently when the girl complained of stomach ache, she was taken to a nearby hospital. After performing tests, doctors informed her parents that she was six months pregnant. She told her parents that Ramulu was sexually assaulting her for last six months and threatened her with dire consequences, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-impregnating-niece/article34685305.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Metro timings revised||Hyderabad Metro Rail services have been rescheduled following the revised lockdown timings announced by the government on Sunday. Till June 10, the first train will start from respective terminal stations at 7 a.m. and the last train will start at 11:45 a.m. and end at the respective terminating stations by 12:45 p.m. For their own safety, passengers are also advised to strictly follow the Covid-19 safety guidelines including social distancing, wearing of face masks, regular hand sanitisation and thermal screening, among others. Passengers are requested to cooperate with security personnel and staff in their efforts towards keeping their journey safe, said L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad MD & CEO K.V.B. Reddy in a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/metro-timings-revised/article34685505.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bids invited to develop railway land||Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has invited online bids for the commercial development of a railway land parcel in Nizamabad. Spanning 2204.96 sq. m., the site is surrounded by commercial and semi-commercial spaces, accessible from the railway station and the main bus stand. The reference built-up area of the site is 6173.89 sq. m., and its reserve price is Rs. 3.95 crore and the land will be leased out for 45 years. Online pre-bid meeting will be held on June 3 and the deadline for the bid submission is July 26. “Nizamabad is a fast-developing urban agglomeration in Telangana and our site is located in the heart of the city so any planned commercial development will boost real estate, tourism and investment potential of the region,”said VC RLDA Ved Parkash Dudeja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bids-invited-to-develop-railway-land/article34685512.ece
31 May 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy felicitated||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy was felicitated by former mayor of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Cororation (GHMC) Banda Karthika Reddy and other leaders of BJP Secunderabad constituency on completion of two years as a Minister in the Central government. Mr. Reddy was felicitated at a programme organised in Lalapet where he also distributed saris to poor people marking the seven-year rule of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-reddy-felicitated/article34685518.ece
31 May 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 11-year-old raped by neighbour||An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a realtor at Saidabad on Saturday night. The victim told her parents that their neighbour Janardhan (55) called her to his house and forced himself on her. He also threatened her with dire consequences. Based on the girl’s statement and the complaint lodged by her parents, a case was filed under relevant sections of IPC, POCSO Act and SC and ST Act against Janardhan and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-11-year-old-raped-by-neighbour/article34685306.ece
31 May 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Turning to poetry to express pain of losing his home||“Ooru kanneru pedutunnadi. Vagulu cheruvulu sariponundaga, pantalu pande panta bhoomulani neetana munche Mallannaagarani ooranta kaneeru pedutunnadi (The entire village is weeping as our lands are being submerged with water which are cultivable and there are tanks and streams which can provide us irrigation)”. S. Yadaiah is no poet, but life’s unexpected twists and turns have certainly turned him into one. The 65-year-old farmer owned about five acres in his village, Etigaddakishtapur, in Toguta mandal, but lost his precious land to the State government’s ambitious Mallannasagar reservoir project. It was in 2016 that the residents of Kondapaka and Toguta mandals, where the reservoir is coming up, were informed that their villages would be submerged by the redesigned Mallannasagar and that they have to vacate what they had always known to be ‘home’. That came as a severe jolt to Yadaiah, who has since then been penning songs on the plight of the land oustees. Forget reading literature, he is not even educated, but the lines come naturally to him. “Mullelu moottalu nettinettukuni, chanti pilallu chankanettukuni illu idichi bayalellabattiri – Maa Kishtapuram, Maa Lakshmipuramu (with their belongings on their heads and children in their arms, the women of our Kishtapuram and Lakshmipuram are leaving their homes and embarking on a new journey)”... ...“Ooru poye ellannaro maa palle poye mallannaro. Illu talambulistamnannru. Ellu ellumani police bhatulu ellagodithe ellu ledue ellamante lathi debba tappadayye. Ooru poye ellannaro maa palle poye mallannaro (Our village was lost. They have promised us houses with handing over the lock of the new houses. Even police forced us to leave the village. When we said that the houses were not ready, we were caned)”. The beauty of Yadaiah’s poems are that they are simple yet powerful. Asked to elaborate on his poetry prowess, he hesitated to speak with this reporter, fearing that his poems might invite problems for him. “Yadaiah has been writing and singing songs since 2016 when there was news about the submergence of his village in Mallannsagar. They are just an outlet for his emotions and that of every oustee who has been forced to leave the village. He represents the entire community of oustees and his songs our true feelings,” said S. Ashok, an oustee of Etigaddakishtapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/turning-to-poetry-to-express-pain-of-losing-his-home/article34685520.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Travails of getting vaccinated||As the supply of COVID-19 vaccine is just trickling to the government-run COVID vaccination centres (CVCs), the vaccine seekers – both those who are awaiting their second dose and those seeking the first dose — are thronging the G-CVCs (government corona vaccination centres) both in urban and rural areas alike. However, in rural areas the shortage is much higher forcing people in the age group above 45 years resort to primitive practices. Instead of bearing the scorching sun by standing in the long queues for hours, the vaccine seekers at many G-CVCs are seen keeping stones, their footwear, copies of Aadhaar cards and others and staying in shade. Such scenes were normal in the past at fair price shops, fertilizer shops and at bus stops in villages. COVID norms including social distancing are being given the go-by when vaccine seekers are in the queue physically. The situation is arising as most of the rural people are not in a position to pre-book the slots due to lack of access to connectivity and required tools such as smart phones.     When the going gets tough the tough get going and for that they turn to different methods, including seeking divine intervention. Rebel TRS MLA Eatala Rajender, who has been facing the heat of investigation over his family members’ land deals, has been keeping himself engaged in meetings with leaders of different parties to chalk out his political course. In the meantime he is also learnt to be seeking divine intervention to bail him out of the situation by conducting special ‘pujas and yagnas’ at his Shamirpet residence. Only the time has the answer whether his efforts seeking divine intervention have proved fruitful or not as for the present the court has refused to stay the survey of his family’s lands proposed by the government.   The Government’s decision to increase the relaxation period of the ongoing lockdown by three hours has come as big respite to petty vendors and small traders. These businesses suffered losses in spite of the 4-hour relaxation as it was during odd hours – 6 am to 10 am – making it difficult for businesses and customers to shift timings. Fresh relaxation announced till 1 pm with another one hour extension to enable people reach their destinations will enhance business transactions and result in convenience to people. Another important factor that will come into play is the scope for marked improvement in government revenues. Staring at a revenue deficit of around 20% in the first two months, the government can now hope for more tax collection.  (B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/travails-of-getting-vaccinated/article34685515.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Correction||With regard to the story - “Eatala likely to join BJP next week” published in page 4 of the Hyderabad/Telangana edition on May 29 (Saturday), in the para the correct sentence is - “Everything is confirmed, and he will be our party candidate for the Huzurabad by-election....” and not Huzurnagar as was published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article34685511.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Vaccine - Response||Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao has claimed there are no beneficiaries after a time interval between two doses of Covishield was increased to 12-16 weeks and in which case why not complete the first dose of the age group of 45+ who could not take it earlier for some reasons or the other? Thereafter, it should also be opened for first dose for the age group of 18+ instead of keeping it unused in stock. Those who may have taken their first shot of Covishield on April 1, the second dose interval of 12 weeks starts on June 24 and 16 weeks would end on July 22, therefore, this wide gap has to be properly utilised for those who are in the age group of 45+ and could not take the vaccine early and 18+ waiting to take their first dose. It is important that the government to widely publish the chart of the second dose window period for them book slot as per their convenience. N. Nagarajan Hyderabad   After a letter was published in this column on April 30 regarding delay in giving Covaxin second dose due to non-availability of the vaccine, it appears the TS Health Department had initiated steps and supplied Covaxin vials to the Public Health Centre at Old Alwal, where exclusively, persons requiring the second dose were allowed. Senior citizens like us took the second shots comfortably on May 5. Thanks to The Hindu . N. Ramalakshmi Bolarum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-response/article34685302.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao, responding to citizens’ requests through Twitter, is highly appreciable in this unprecedented crisis when people are helpless with all routes exhausted. Since, he too has recovered recently from COVID, we appeal to him not to strain much and allot work to ministers of districts concerned as well as local MLAs to follow up the requests from people. It is better for every Minister to be available on Twitter to receive any call from their respective districts for any help. J.P. Reddy Nalgonda   GHMC had distributed two bins to denizens of the city for garbage disposal long time ago. But, these have worn out because of cheap material. Now, GHMC should supply a bigger drum like a bin, which is more sturdy with quality material having a lid and proper handle, to each household to meet the present exigency of excessive waste. The bins given earlier were too lousy and could not withstand the onslaught of the growing household’s daily waste. Thomas K.E. Red Hills   The existing system of supplying study material in Telugu for certain PG courses in B.R. Ambedkar Open University and allowing interested students to write in English is not correct. Many written appeals were made to BRAOU and Education Ministers in the past. However, this was not taken seriously as in charge vice-chancellors never showed any interest. Since a regular VC has been appointed now, it is requested to supply study material in English also to enable more number of students take admission. N.S.R. Murthy Secunderabad   A rigorous awareness campaign is required through mobile vans on COVID prevention in the most high risk crowded areas such as markets, wine shops, theatres, bus stands and railway stations. Hoardings on COVID appropriate behaviour should be displayed in crowded places and posters too, can be pasted on RTC buses, autos and taxis. Prevention campaigns and the unlock process should go together to break the chain of the coronavirus. T. Kailash Ditya Barkatpura   The presentation of dip in coronavirus deaths and positivity rate in the State of Telangana cannot be totally relied upon as they are ‘prorata’ representation only. Unless targeted tests are conducted as directed by the Telangana High Court, we cannot get the correct picture of the extent of virus transmission. I.V. Prabhakara Rao Vanasthalipuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article34685303.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||I wish to sell the following items: Nikon DSLR D5300 Body (Aug. 14) - Rs. 20,000, Nikkor 16-80mm lens Rs. 40,000, Nikkor 18-300mm lens Rs. 50,000. All are single handed use and are in excellent condition. Total price Rs. 1,10,000. Contact Rohit - Phone: 7470654777 (between 2-6 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article34685304.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||MCOCA likely to be invoked against Sushil Kumar||The Delhi police are considering invoking the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar for his involvement with dreaded gangsters of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan, said a senior police officer on Sunday. The officer said Sushil Kumar was allegedly getting monetary gains from the activities of these gangsters. He was involved with them since 2018 but that time there was not enough evidence against him. After the arrest of Sushil Kumar, the Delhi police special cell has brought gangsters Lawrence Bishnoi, Sampat Nehra and two others from other jails on remand to find out their connections with him. “We have enough evidence that proves Sushil was in constant touch with gangster Kala Jathedi. But there relationship turned bitter after the Chhatrasal Stadium incident where Sushil along with his men thrashed Jathedi’s nephew along with Sagar, who died during treatment,” said the officer. In 2016, the Delhi police had arrested former Mundka MLA Rambir Shokeen under the MCOCA charges for his alleged involvement in an organised crime syndicate headed by his nephew and gangster Neeraj Bawana. The Delhi police have already begun the process of invoking MCOCA against Jathedi. It has been found that Sushil Kumar used to take the help of Jathedi, Neeraj Bawana and other gangsters to grab properties and get contracts and the profit was shared, said the officer. “We have also initiated the process of cancelling the arms licence of Sushil. In 2012, he had bought one pistol which is yet to be recovered.” On Wednesday, the police arrested four members of the Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang from Kanjhawala area. They were allegedly involved in the murder of wrestler Sagar and they were called by Sushil to reach the stadium. On Saturday, a city court extended Sushil’s police custody to four more days. The police said during investigation, they have also come across a complaint from a person who used to supply ration at the stadium. He was allegedly thrashed by Sushil Kumar when he demanded his dues of Rs. 4 lakh for the ration he supplied during the lockdown. Satish Goyal, owner of the ration shop, claimed that he supplied the ration when Bijendra was the coach. But he was transferred before his bills could be cleared. He later contacted many people in the administration department and one day got a call that Sushil Kumar wanted to meet him. “I begged Sushil to clear my dues otherwise I will ‘die’ as I was in huge debt. I was shocked when Sushil replied ‘go and die’. He thrashed me and asked me never to come again,” said Mr. Goyal. A senior police officer said they are trying to find out why no FIR was registered even after the complaint was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mcoca-likely-to-be-invoked-against-sushil-kumar/article34685494.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Services of resident doctors crucial for hospital functioning||The Delhi High Court has said the services of resident doctors are imperative for functioning of hospitals due to the COVID-19 pandemic while noting that the decision of the authorities to extend their training beyond schedule cannot be arbitrary or unreasonable. Doctors contend The High Court’s remark came while hearing a plea by several doctors who are in DNB Super Speciality courses, challenging a May 4, 2021 notification by which the National Board of Examination (NBE) has extended their training beyond the scheduled date of its completion. The doctors contended that the DNB course is of three years and a mandatory extension of three months is permissible, which they have already served, and claimed that the authorities are not empowered to extend the course beyond this period. Justice Prateek Jalan, however, remarked, “Having regard to the circumstances arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need for continuation of residents as mentioned in the National Medical Commission (NMC) advisory dated April 27, 2021 — which has not been challenged in the writ petition — I am unable to accede to [advocate Sidharth] Yadav’s request for an interim order”. The court agreed with the submission of the NMC and the NBE that the availability of resident doctors is imperative for the functioning of hospitals. The High Court said it was unable to accept the contention of the doctors’ counsel that even in the circumstances arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, the deferment of the practical examinations of the petitioners is on account of a deliberate stratagem adopted by the respondents.  The High Court has issued notices to the Centre, DNB and the NBE on the petition and listed the matter for further hearing on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/services-of-resident-doctors-crucial-for-hospital-functioning/article34685487.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||3 held for duping on pretext of redeeming credit card points||Three men were arrested for allegedly duping people of several States on the pretext of redemption of credit card points, the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Vikas Jha (31), a resident of Tilak Nagar, Vicky (27), a resident of Mathura, and Avinash Kumar (36), a resident of Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh. The police received a complaint from a man where he alleged that Rs. 37,000 were deducted from his credit card without sharing one time password (OTP). Online gift vouchers During enquiry, it was found that the complainant received a bulk message with a link to redeem his credit card points. He shared his card and email ID details on the website, the police said. His email ID was also logged in from a new IP address. The money was used to purchase online gift vouchers. The police analysed the details and found that mobile phones worth lakh of rupees were purchased using gift cards and were sold on an application using bill and fake ID, they said. After technically analysing over 100 mobile numbers and similar number of wallet details, the suspects were identified. The accused were earlier involved in several criminal cases registered in Delhi, Faridabad and Gurugram, a senior officer said. Jha and Kumar were granted bail during COVID-19, however, they didn’t surrender, whereas non-bailable warrant was issued against accused Vicky by Gurgaon court, the officer said. “The police conducted raids and apprehended Jha and Vicky from Kurukshetra while they were travelling from Chandigarh to Agra. On their instance, their accomplice Kumar was also arrested,” DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said. Vicky and Kumar provided fake SIM cards of different States and bank accounts to Jha. One laptop, 15 mobile phones, 39 SIM cards, Rs. 85,000 etc. were recovered from their possession, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-held-for-duping-on-pretext-of-redeeming-credit-card-points/article34685492.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neighbour strangles septuagenarian to death during burglary attempt||A 72-year-old building contractor was allegedly strangled to death at his home in south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur during a burglary attempt by his neighbour, who was released from Tihar jail two months ago, the police said on Sunday. The police said they have arrested the accused along with his accomplice who received the stolen articles to further sell them. The incident took place on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The accused have been identified as Sunny and Bhanu. The police reached the spot where one Sunil Saigal was found in an unconscious state. He was declared dead at the hospital. The victim’s daughter Mukta Saigal alleged that a few articles were missing from their house, a senior police officer said. The police analysed CCTV footage and arrested Sunny. Later, Bhanu was also arrested, the officer said. Two cheque books, an ATM card, a mobile phone and one golden chain and ring were recovered from their possession, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/neighbour-strangles-septuagenarian-to-death-during-burglary-attempt/article34685491.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi/Gurugram/Noida,||The corridor of uncertainty||The efforts of governments across the National Capital Region (NCR) to contain the second wave of COVID-19 have only ended up in compounding the misery of daily wagers and migrant workers, the most ravaged and vulnerable group during the pandemic. To leave or not to leave was the question as the government kept extending the lockdown. No matter what they chose, another significant question arose inevitably. What then? For some, making the long journey back home meant exhausting their little savings accumulated during the incremental ‘unlock’ phases after last year’s national lockdown. Others either didn’t have enough for a ticket to home or little prospects at home. “I went back home to Allahabad [Prayagraj] for a week after the lockdown was reimposed for the third time this month but didn’t feel like staying. I’m the eldest son of the family and if I didn’t come back, how would the kitchen run?” asked Sunil Kumar Gupta, who operates a cigarette vend in Greater Noida. “Weekly earnings are less than half of what they used to be but at least there’s something I can send back home, no matter how little. I could have stayed on. My family didn’t ask me to come back but there was nothing to stay for,” he added. Shutting shop Since the Uttar Pradesh government’s lockdown orders and their extensions, daily wagers – their belongings stuffed into backpacks – have been gathering near the ‘Zero Point’ on the Yamuna Expressway, from where they could reach Agra, before scattering to locations spread across U.P. and Bihar. “When I came back after last year’s lockdown, there was less work. But there was work nonetheless. We would take a few hundred rupees less but able to afford more than one meal a day. Now everything is shut,” said Pardeep Kumar, a carpenter, from U.P.’s Faizabad. “I have just about enough money to manage a week here or go back home. I would rather go back; that way I won’t have to borrow money to pay my rent,” said Kumar, as he waited for a bus on the Yamuna Expressway, hoping to shelter himself from the sun on Friday afternoon. The past three weeks have been tough on Umesh and his family. The 34-year-old runs an “open saloon” under a tree near a park in Sector 15 Part-II Gurugram. He would earn a meager sum of Rs. 200-300 a day, just adequate to make both ends meet. But the three-week-long lockdown in Gurugram this month stopped his income. “It is not easy to survive without work for so long. After the lockdown was announced, I tried to return to my home in Bihar with my family. But it would cost me around Rs. 8,000 by bus in a sleeper class. I, therefore, decided to stay back,” said Umesh. Though the government has allowed standalone shops to open from May 24, Umesh said it might take months before a semblance of normalcy returns. Most of his regular clients too have returned to their hometowns and they might not return even weeks after the lockdown is completely lifted, feared Umesh. For Sheikh Ariful Ali, an embroidery artist, every lockdown extension multiplied the hurdles he has to leap over. While several colleagues have returned to their villages, Ali, a resident of West Bengal, said he had continued living in the Capital with the hope of it “unlocking” soon. “Every time the lockdown was extended, it was for a week only. So I kept hoping that things will improve and establishments will start reopening. However, it’s been more than a month and it has become increasingly difficult to sustain. Most of our people have left and the remaining few are also planning to leave in a couple of days,” he said. According to the Migrant Workers Solidarity Network (MWSN), a volunteer group started last year in response to migrants’ crisis, workers in NCR have continued to reach out for basic help like food during the lockdown. Distress calls Shreya Ghosh, a member of MWSN, said the distress calls that started in April continued throughout May. Many, who called the helpline, wanted to know when there would be national lockdown since State governments were announcing staggered lockdowns as opposed to a countrywide one last year, she told The Hindu . In a letter to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 24, she said the Supreme Court’s order on May 13 to State governments to provide dry rations and transport to migrant workers had not reached the people in need. “Since the order, different State governments made announcements, but they have not reached the people on ground. The government of Delhi, in an announcement six days ago, assured that ration will be provided to migrant workers in the State, as per procedures set in place during the last year’s lockdown. But no implementation has happened,” she wrote. Ms. Ghosh said the MWSN had received over 4,600 requests from workers and their families in urgent need of ration. The calls had primarily been from workers in Nangloi-Rajdhani Park-Mundka area (410), Dwarka (846), Patparganj (854), Khanpur-Sangam Vihar area (535), Vasant Kunj JJ Clusters (2,156) and Gandhi Nagar (116), she said. She added that workers had reported difficulty in procuring ration after getting e-coupons, so there was a need to increase the number of distribution centres. “Another pressing concern is the burden of rent, which needs immediate attention. From our distress calls and survey, we have gathered that with job loss, paying rent has become a major financial burden. Urgent intervention is required to ensure that migrant workers’ right to housing is protected. We appeal to you that steps must be taken for rent waiver for workers or provision of a rent allowance for the period of the lockdown to all migrant workers,” she wrote Sanjay, an autorickshaw driver, now sells tender coconut on a pavement outside a group housing society for his livelihood. Like cab drivers, the autorickshaw drivers too have been hit hard. “I have a family of six to support and could not afford to sit at home for long without an income,” said 39-year-old Sanjay. He brings his teenage son along for help. “He too has nothing to do with the school being shut for over a year now,” said Sanjay, pointing to his son Surya. Like auto drivers, domestic helps have been affected. Paro, a domestic help, is yet to get back to work though the Haryana government has allowed some relaxation in the lockdown. “The government has relaxed the lockdown, but the group housing society where I work has not allowed the house helps and car cleaners to return to work. My husband, a rickshaw puller, too is out of job. Though we have been living hand-to-mouth for the last one year the meagre savings too got exhausted. Unlike previous years, there has been no help from the social organisations and the individuals,” rued Paro. Less support Kuldeep Singh, founder president, Buland Awaaz Welfare Society, said a large number of daily wagers had left before the lockdown this year and the companies were mostly running. Therefore, fewer social organisations have come forward to support the poor unlike the lockdown previous year. Small groups of workers were also seen at the Nizamuddin railway station, returning to their hometowns. On the Yamuna Expressway, migrant workers were willing to pay any amount to board private buses. Waiting at the station, Chaman Kumar of Mathura said: “This year I thought that things will not be as bad as last time. So I had not returned in the initial days of the lockdown. However, the extensions have now lasted for over a month. How are daily wagers like me supposed to manage under these circumstances? I have no option but to return to my village now. Will take a call later about whether to return or not.” Parimal Jha from Madhubani has been postponing his trip home for the last four weeks. “I should have left two weeks ago but thought the lockdown would be lifted next week, and then the week after that. Now the ticket is almost double of what it was at the beginning of this month,” he complained “People like me have no faith left in governments – any government. They should have told us that the lockdown would be in place for the entire month. We would have faced it, made our arrangements. At least, we would not have had to die little by little every week wondering where the next meal will come from or if it will at all,” Jha added.  (With inputs from Jatin Anand, Ashok Kumar, Damini Nath and Shinjini Ghosh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-corridor-of-uncertainty/article34685490.ece
31 May 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Padmanabha Swamy Temple jumbo gifted by erstwhile king dead||An elephant, gifted by the erstwhile Travancore king Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma to the famed Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple here in Kerala, died following prolonged illness. The female jumbo, named Mathilakam Darshini, was believed to be aged around 58. A favourite of the devotees and the local people, the elephant had been a constant presence at various temple rituals.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/padmanabha-swamy-temple-jumbo-gifted-by-erstwhile-king-dead/article34685445.ece
31 May 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli opposition closing in on deal to unseat Netanyahu||Israeli far-right politician Naftali Bennett will deliver a statement on Sunday, in which he is widely expected to throw his crucial support behind a “government of change” to unseat Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Opposition chief Yair Lapid, who has until Wednesday to put together a coalition after the fourth inconclusive election in two years, was closing in on an alliance of right-wing, centrist and leftist parties, Israeli media reported. Mr. Lapid’s chances of success rest with Mr. Bennett, a 49-year-old former defence chief whose Yamina party’s six seats in the 120-member Parliament are enough to give him the status of kingmaker. Under the prospective power-sharing deal, Mr. Bennett would replace Mr. Netanyahu, 71, as Prime Minister and later give way to Mr. Lapid in a rotation agreement. The new coalition’s diverse members would have little in common apart from a plan to end the 12-year-run of Mr. Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving leader. Mr. Bennett is widely expected to announce that he will team up with Mr. Lapid, whose centrist Yesh Atid party was placed second to Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud in a March 23 election. Meeting Yamina’s legislators on Sunday, Mr. Bennett received their support for his coalition moves, a Yamina statement said. Israel’s YNet website said Mr. Bennett told the lawmakers that he was “marching towards a government of change”. An anti-Netanyahu coalition would be fragile and require outside backing by Arab members of Parliament, who oppose much of Mr. Bennett’s agenda, which includes more settlement building in the occupied West Bank and its partial annexation. It would be expected to focus on the economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, while setting aside issues on which members disagree, such as the role of religion in society and Palestinian aspirations for statehood. Counter-offer Trying to scupper an opposition deal, Mr. Netanyahu made a three-way counter-offer on Sunday to stand aside in favour of another right-wing politician, Gideon Saar. Under that blueprint, Mr. Saar would serve as Prime Minister for 15 months, Mr. Netanyahu would return for two years, and Mr. Bennett would then take over for the rest of the government’s term. “We are at a fateful moment for Israel’s security, character and future, when you put aside any personal considerations and take far-reaching and even unprecedented steps,” Mr. Netanyahu said in a video statement about the proposal. However, Mr. Saar swiftly rejected the offer, writing on Twitter: “Our position and commitment are unchanged — to end Netanyahu’s rule.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-opposition-closing-in-on-deal-to-unseat-netanyahu/article34684961.ece
31 May 2021||Accra,||West African leaders meet to discuss Mali||West African leaders were due to meet in Ghana on Sunday to discuss a response to Mali’s second coup in nine months, which has sparked warnings of fresh sanctions and deep concerns over stability in the volatile Sahel region. Mali’s new President Colonel Assimi Goita arrived in Accra on Saturday for preliminary talks ahead of the extraordinary summit of regional bloc ECOWAS, which was due to start at 1400 GMT. Presidents Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria, Alassane Ouattara of Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso’s Marc Christian Kabore were among those attending the summit, which came as another deadly jihadist attack underscored Mali’s chronic instability. Col. Goita led the young Army officers who overthrew Mali’s elected President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita last August over perceived corruption and his failure to quell a bloody jihadist insurgency. After the takeover, the military agreed to appoint civilians as interim President and Prime Minister under pressure from ECOWAS, which has served as a mediator. Broken promises But on Monday, soldiers detained transitional President Bah Ndaw and Prime Minister Moctar Ouane, releasing them on Thursday while saying that they had resigned. The twin arrests triggered a diplomatic uproar and marked Mali’s second apparent coup within a year. Mali’s constitutional court completed Col. Goita’s rise to full power on Friday by naming him transitional president. With the junta going back on its previous commitment to civilian political leaders, doubts have been raised about its other pledges, including holding elections in early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/west-african-leaders-meet-to-discuss-mali/article34684973.ece
31 May 2021||Negombo,||Sri Lanka to sue Singapore vessel owners over pollution||Sri Lankan authorities on Sunday said they will sue the owners of a Singapore-registered cargo carrier, which has burned for 11 straight days off the island’s west coast and caused some of its worst-ever marine pollution. Police said a criminal investigation was also launched into the blaze aboard the MV X-Press Pearl , which was carrying 25 tonnes of nitric acid and plastic raw materials. The fire, still burning, has destroyed much of the cargo, some of which also fell into the Indian Ocean. Tonnes of microplastic granules have inundated the beaches, forcing a fishing ban and sparking fears of ecological devastation. Authorities are planning legal action against the owners of the vessel, its crew, as well as insurers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-sue-singapore-vessel-owners-over-pollution/article34684972.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s space station plans gather pace with cargo docking||China took another step towards completing the construction of its first space station by the end of next year following the launch and docking of a cargo spacecraft early on Sunday. The Tianzhou-2 cargo spacecraft, described by China’s state media as “the delivery guy for China’s space station”, was launched late on Saturday on a Long March-7 rocket from the island of Hainan, and docked eight hours later with the space station’s first core module called Tianhe, or “heavenly harmony”. The launch was a third landmark for China’s space programme in recent weeks. China landed a spacecraft in Mars on May 15 carrying its first Mars rover, Zhurong. The Tianhe module, which the cargo spacecraft docked with on Sunday, was launched on April 29. The Tianzhou-2 spacecraft carried a range of supplies, the China Manned Space Agency (CMSA) said, and will be followed by the launch of another cargo spacecraft, Tianzhou-3, and two manned missions, Shenzhou-12 and Shenzhou-13, this year, each carrying three astronauts who will spend several months in orbit. The Shenzhou-12 launch is slated for mid-June. The six missions to follow this year, including for the space station’s second and third modules, Wentian and Mengtian, will close to complete the construction of China’s first space station, expected to be finished in 2022. The CMSA said Tianzhou-2, with a maximum takeoff weight of 13.5 tons and 6.9 ton-payload capacity, is the largest cargo spacecraft in service. The spacecraft is carrying cargo and propellant that will replenish the supplies of the Tianhe module, the agency said. Official broadcaster China Global Television Network said its supplies include food for the crew that will follow in the Shenzhou-12 and Shenzhou-13 missions, including “famous stir-fried Chinese dishes like shredded pork with garlic sauce and Kung Pao chicken.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-space-station-plans-gather-pace-with-cargo-docking/article34684963.ece
31 May 2021||London,||Johnson weds fiancee in ‘secret’ ceremony||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, 56, and his fiancee Carrie Symonds, 33, married over the weekend, his office confirmed on Sunday, in what media reports have described as a “secret ceremony”. He is only the second British Prime Minister to marry while in power, and the first in nearly two centuries. The last was Robert Jenkinson in 1822. “The couple will celebrate their wedding with family and friends next summer,” a Downing Street spokesman said. The weekend nuptials were a surprise development, after reports earlier said the couple had sent out “save the date” cards for a wedding on July 30 next year. The pair got engaged in December 2019, and have a one-year-old son, Wilfred. He had four children with his previous wife, lawyer Marina Wheeler, before they split in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-weds-fiancee-in-secret-ceremony/article34684964.ece
31 May 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazilians stage more protests against Bolsonaro||Tens of thousands of people in Brazil staged another day of protest against President Jair Bolsonaro, in particular for his chaotic handling of the pandemic, which has claimed more than 461,000 lives here. In downtown Rio de Janeiro, some 10,000 people wearing masks marched through the streets, with some chanting “Bolsonaro genocide” or “Go away Bolsovirus.” Similar rallies were held in other major cities, the latest in a wave of anger against Mr. Bolsonaro that began months ago. After the U.S., Brazil has the world’s second highest coronavirus death toll. At the outset of the pandemic, the far right Mr. Bolsonaro dismissed COVID-19 as “a little flu”. As the death toll has risen steadily, he has gone on to infuriate people in other ways, opposing stay-at-home measures and masks, touting ineffective medications, refusing offers of vaccines, and failing to anticipate oxygen shortages that left patients to suffocate. One of the themes of the rally on Saturday was how many lives might have been saved if the Bolsonaro government had started Brazil’s vaccination drive earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazilians-stage-more-protests-against-bolsonaro/article34684965.ece
31 May 2021||Bogota,||Colombian Army tightens grip on Cali||The Colombian Army on Saturday tightened its control over Cali, the country’s third largest city, after the latest anti-government protests left at least 13 people dead. The city’s streets were largely deserted after clashes late on Friday pitted police against armed civilians. The country is in the second month of protests against the government of President Ivan Duque. In Cali, a city of 2.2 million, the smoking remains of barricades and rubble heaps testified to the chaotic night. There, as across the country, poverty and the pandemic have sparked widespread anger and resentment. The month of protests has left at least 59 people dead, officials say, including the 13 who died in Cali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/colombian-army-tightens-grip-on-cali/article34684968.ece
31 May 2021||Miami,||Two killed in shooting at U.S. concert||Two people were killed and at least 20 injured on Sunday when three shooters fired indiscriminately into a crowd outside a concert in Miami, Florida, local police said. Gunfire erupted during the early hours outside a billiards hall in a row of businesses near Miami Gardens, northwest of the coastal city’s downtown. People crowded the venue, which was “hosting a scheduled event and several patrons were standing outside,” Miami-Dade Police Department said in a statement. When an SUV approached the scene, it added, “three subjects exited the vehicle and began shooting indiscriminately into the crowd.” The trio then got back in the car and fled the scene. Two people died and at least 20 people were hospitalised, with at least one in critical condition. Police were seeking help from the community to identify and arrest the shooters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-killed-in-shooting-at-us-concert/article34684969.ece
31 May 2021||Montreal,||Canada extends shelf life of AstraZeneca jab by 1 month||Canadian health authorities announced on Saturday they were pushing back the expiration date on nearly 50,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine by one month. Health Canada said the approval to extend the shelf life of two lots of vaccine from May 31 to July 1 was supported by “scientific evidence”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/canada-extends-shelf-life-of-astrazeneca-jab-by-1-month/article34684967.ece
31 May 2021||Kabul,||Six dead as Taliban-fired shell hits Afghan wedding: officials||A mortar bomb fired by the Taliban struck a wedding ceremony in a province north of the Afghan capital, killing at least six people including women and children, officials said on Sunday. The incident happened late on Saturday in Kapisa when a shell aimed at an Army checkpoint hit a house, where a crowd had gathered for a wedding.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/six-dead-as-taliban-fired-shell-hits-afghan-wedding-officials/article34684970.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Only a global effort can tame COVID-19||India has been witnessing an unprecedented surge in COVID-19 cases, largely due to the new variants. The variant found initially in the United Kingdom (B.1.1.7) was found in parts of north India earlier this year and began to spread across the country. The World Health Organization (WHO) recently declared the variant first found in India (B.1.617) as a variant of global concern as it has already spread to more than 40 countries. This underscores the fact that no one is safe until everyone is safe. It calls for globally coordinated efforts to build herd immunity through mass vaccination and to develop new vaccines or tweak the existing ones to become effective against the new variants. Experts have been doubtful about the effectiveness of some of the COVID-19 vaccines against the new variants of the virus. Vaccine nationalism An immediate outcome of the second wave in India is that many people are no longer hesitant to take the vaccine. However, vaccine shortages have been reported in many parts of the country. Several people have criticised the government’s Vaccine Maitri policy. The government has already imposed temporary restrictions on the export of COVID-19 vaccines from India. Although there is a need for these temporary restrictions to meet domestic demand, any definite move towards vaccine nationalism will be detrimental to global efforts to contain the virus. The pandemic needs to be checked globally in a coordinated manner. If this is not done, the virus will keep mutating and no country will remain isolated. From May 1, all those aged 18 and above became eligible in India to receive the COVID-19 vaccines. This means that 595 million people who require 1,190 million doses were added to the 344 million people in the 45 and above age group requiring 688 million doses. Inoculating this huge population calls for massive production capacities. Only a little over 12% of the population has received one dose and 3.2% has received both the doses in India so far. The current production capacity of Covishield and Covaxin is just over 70 million doses per month. The government has allocated Rs. 45 billion as an advance commitment to Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for enhancing their production capacity. By June-July, in the best-case scenario, the combined production capacity of the two companies is expected to rise to 158 million doses per month. The 50 million imported Sputnik doses will add to this. This vaccine will be available only in major private hospitals for now. It is reported that the Sputnik vaccine will be produced in India from July with an annual capacity of 156 million doses, which, according to the Russian Ambassador to India, will be gradually increased to 850 million doses. Even if all the three vaccines are exclusively used for domestic supply, the anticipated production in the near future will not be sufficient to meet the enormous vaccine demand. Pharmacy of the world Being the pharmacy of the world, India needs to rise to the occasion and cater to the demand for vaccines in the country as well as facilitate inoculation of the global population, especially in poorer countries. In the first week of May, the Indian Council of Medical Research said it was willing to share the know-how to produce Covaxin with any company interested in production. Allowing multiple producers will lead to more competition and a reduction in prices. The government can easily task the public sector vaccine manufacturers with the production of Covaxin by providing support to them. In its attempt to enhance the production of Covaxin from 12.5 million doses to 58 million doses a month, the Government of India has involved three public sector enterprises — Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation, Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Corporation Limited, and Indian Immunologicals Limited. While raising an alarm on the spread of infectious diseases, a 2020 report of the WHO on the urgent health challenges for the next decade expressed concern on the lack of access to medical products, including medicines and vaccines. As infectious diseases are expected to increase in the coming years, India needs to frame a long-term strategy to enhance supply at the domestic and international level. Public sector enterprises should be an integral part of that strategy. Unfortunately, the Public Sector Enterprise Policy, released in February, has not identified public sector enterprises in the pharmaceuticals sector as strategically important, and therefore, all central public sector enterprises will subsequently be privatised. What we need now is the mass production of COVID-19 vaccines for the mass vaccination of the global population in order for us to develop herd immunity against the virus. India still has options left for scaling up production. The National Health Profile 2019, published by the Central Bureau of Health Intelligence, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, shows that India has an installed capacity of 8,151.7 million doses of vaccines annually, in the private and public sectors. A few of these facilities can be re-purposed for the production of COVID-19 vaccines. International co-operation Scaling up production of existing vaccines and producing new vaccines is not easy. Unavailability of raw materials, complexities in the transfer of technology, and intellectual property barriers all hinder production. Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have faced constraints in continuing production due to the lack of raw materials. Intellectual property rights act as a major barrier in scaling up production. About 1,800 patents cover the single-use plastic reactors which are used in the production of some of the COVID-19 vaccines. Similarly, other equipment and materials used in the production of vaccines are patent-protected and therefore supplied by only a few players. India and South Africa had led an initiative at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for the waiver of intellectual property rights over products required for treating COVID-19. Recently, after coming under pressure, the U.S. extended support to this proposal covering only vaccines. However, Germany said it is opposed to it. Therefore, it is unclear how this IP waiver proposal will help enhance the global production of vaccines. Besides, the U.S. support, which is limited to vaccines, may also limit the benefits deriving from the intellectual property waiver, if the proposal comes through the WTO. An article published in Nature points out the benefits of mRNA vaccine technology compared to conventional vaccine technologies. The key advantage of this technology is easy scalability in production. At present, the WHO has approved two mRNA COVID-19 vaccines produced by Pfizer-BioNtech and Moderna, and those vaccines have proven to be more effective than other vaccines. Global cooperation is needed to create an environment where those companies interested in producing the mRNA vaccines get open licence from the innovators. Global cooperation is also required for the sequencing of the viral genome to track and control the multiple variants. Only if we tame the virus together and quickly will the world benefit both in terms of health and economy. Reji Joseph is an Associate Professor at Institute for Studies in Industrial Development, New Delhi; Thankom Arun is a Professor of Global Development and Accountability at the University of Essex, U.K. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/only-a-global-effort-can-tame-covid-19/article34684958.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A ‘reform wave’ Lakshadweep could do without||Praful Khoda Patel, a former Gujarat Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Minister who took additional charge as Administrator, Lakshadweep, in December last year, is in the news for having introduced a slew of draft legislation that will have a wide-ranging impact on the islands: the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, 2021; the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (PASA); the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 and Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation 2021. Addressing the media in the face of widespread criticism of these measures, Mr. Patel says he intends to develop Lakshadweep like neighbouring Maldives, “a renowned international tourist destination”. Adding to this, the Collector of Lakshadweep, S. Asker Ali (a young IAS officer from Manipur) says, “It was only in 2017 that the Centre constituted the Island Development Agency under the Home Minister for the development of the islands. Since then, we have been working on developing town and country planning norms.” The IDA framework Mr. Ali should be aware that a specially constituted Island Development Authority (IDA) for the island territories of India, chaired by no less than the former Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, had, in Kavaratti in 1988, approved a framework for the development of India’s island territories. It held the view that “an environmentally sound strategy for both island groups hinges on better exploitation of marine resources coupled with much greater care in the use of land resources”. Published in 1989, the report carried six recommendations for Lakshadweep (Cecil J. Saldanha, Andaman, Nicobar and Lakshadweep: An Environmental Impact Assessment ) . At this point, I must highlight that Lakshadweep was an assignment that I consider to be the most enriching in my career — I was Administrator, Lakshadweep, 1987-90. Upon the conclusion of my term, the Union Territory had its own decentralised political entity from the adoption of panchayati raj much before the constitutional amendments of 1993, in which the Island Development Council, at the apex of the local government, was mandated to advise the Administrator on development; its own airport, and a flourishing tourist industry, with an international tourist resort in Bangaram. According to its first franchisee, Jose Dominic, this facilitated ecotourism in Kerala. A paradise set in the Arabian Sea, the archipelago of Lakshadweep also gives India a vast and exclusive economic zone with three distinct ecosystems: land, lagoon and ocean. Fishery is a primary occupation here. The language, except in Minicoy, is Malayalam; in Minicoy, Mahl is spoken, a language akin to the 17th century Divehi of the Maldives. The society in all islands is matriarchal. The religion is Islam of the pristine Shafi school of law. When Islam came to the islands is debated. According to Prof. Lotika Varadarajan, “The thesis... that Islam was introduced not from Malabar but from Yemen and Hadramaut may be accepted in relation to the Maldives but not Lakshadweep... On the other hand, social conventions, dress and the position accorded to Thangals within the community all point to the Mappilas of Malabar as progenitors of present-day Islam in Lakshadweep.” Vatteluttu was the earliest script used with its heavy Sanskrit component and this system of autography is in evidence in the sailing manuals of local pilots ( malmis ), on inscriptions on tombstones and those in some mosques/ pallis . With the introduction of Islam, Arabi-Malayalam, with Malayalam in Arabic script and associated with the literature of the Mappilas that developed on the mainland, also came into use on the islands. I was a part of the team accompanying Rajiv Gandhi while on his first visit to Lakshadweep in 1985. Together with his visit to the Andaman and Nicobar islands, Rajiv Gandhi was concerned about the development agenda for these ecologically fragile territories — an agenda hitherto dictated by a faraway government to a design set by the Union Planning Commission, and without so much as a reference to the people most concerned, the residents of the islands. A ‘no’ to the Maldives model Deliberations of the IDA wanted that Lakshadweep, with its land ownership constitutionally protected, be opened to international tourism not as a means of generating wealth for investors from the mainland but to bring prosperity to the islanders. Specifically rejecting the Maldives model, the plan for Lakshadweep required that the industry had to be people-centric and enrich the fragile coral ecology. Lakshadweep today has rainwater harvesting facilities, first introduced in government buildings on every island and now accessible in every home. Solar power, which covers 10% of lighting needs, makes Lakshadweep a pioneer in India’s present flagship initiative. All islands have been connected by helicopter service since 1986, and high-speed passenger boats were purchased in the 1990s by an international tender. A study by the National Institute  of Oceanography found practical applications, helping a redesign of the tripods reinforcing the beaches against sea erosion, and ensuring piped water supply especially designed to draw from the fresh water lens that, in every coral island, floats on the saline underground seawater at the core of every coral island, so as not to disturb the slim lens. The islands boast total literacy. Minicoy had among the country’s first Navodaya Vidyalayas. Kadmat has a degree college that was designed by K.T. Ravindran, an authority on vernacular building traditions, who was to become dean and professor and head of the department of urban design at New Delhi’s School of Planning and Architecture. Vernacular building traditions are the theme of all government housing projects undertaken in the islands in the 1980s, with leading architects providing the designs. Kavaratti has a desalination wind-powered plant gifted by the Danish government. And although the poverty line in terms of GDP is only slightly higher than the World Bank’s poverty threshold, Lakshadweep today has no poor people; they have a high calorific consumption from plentiful foods harvested from the lagoons and islands. The office of the Administrator, Lakshadweep was also among the first in India to be computerised with a mainframe and fax machine; every island in Lakshadweep had a computer by 1990. Endorsed with outlays by the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Finance Commissions (1984-2005), this established, in the words of the last of these Commissions “speedy and accurate generation of accounting information that might be needed for purposes of better planning, budgeting and monitoring”. Admittedly, there is much room for improvement. Today, long lines and refrigeration have aided the expansion of the fishing sector but income disparities have grown. Indiscriminate trawling endangers the coral, as experienced in the Maldives and now banned there. The Government recognises the need to develop policies for enhancing employment opportunities, environment-friendly management of fisheries, sanitation, waste disposal and widening access to drinking water, with the youth, having acquired a modern education, preferring salaried jobs over pursuing traditional occupations. None of this requires any of the measures announced by Administrator Patel. Revenue from tourism has declined with the closure of resorts (including at Bangaram) from litigation. A clear policy must include conservation and natural resource management arrived at after wide consultation, eminently possible within the existing infrastructure of the Union Territory, and also taking into account climatic compulsions. Maldives is hardly a suitable model. Water bungalows — an expensive concept and also hazardous to the coral — favoured by the NITI Aayog, would collapse in Lakshadweep’s turbulent monsoon. It should be noted that a wooden jetty installed at the diving school in Kadmat needs to be dismantled every monsoon. Obtuse plans But, ostensibly, in the pursuit of ‘holistic development’, using the ‘claim’ that there has been no development in Lakshadweep for the past 70 years, Mr. Praful Patel has proposed a cow slaughter ban in a territory where there are no cows (except in government-owned dairy farms), a preventive detention law where there is no crime, and also steps to undermine tribal land ownership, with judicial remedy denied, with also plans for road widening on the islands where the maximum road length is 11 km. More insidious is the provision to allow the mining and exploitation of mineral resources which could convert the islands into a hub for cement manufacture. Other initiatives by Mr. Praful Patel include panchayat rules designed to restrict the population growth in a territory where, according to the National Health and Family Survey-5 (2019-20), the total fertility rate is 1.4 (which is far behind the national average of 2.2) and relaxing prohibition, extant in the Union Territory because of public demand. Worse still is the relaxation of quarantine restrictions for travel which have introduced the novel coronavirus into a pandemic-free archipelago. The developments only lead one to suspect that there is something sinister being planned. Is the game plan to altogether supplant Lakshadweep’s human habitation with cement factories? Wajahat Habibullah, a former IAS officer, was India’s first Chief Information Commissioner, and thereafter Chair, National Commission for Minorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-reform-wave-lakshadweep-could-do-without/article34684946.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Evidence of how little the judiciary has learnt||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Goa has rightly filed an appeal in the High Court against the judgment of the Additional Sessions Judge acquitting a former editor of a news magazine, Tarun Tejpal, of charges of the rape of an employee in November 2013. He was tried under sections introduced into the law after the Nirbhaya case, including one denoting that he was in a position of power, authority and trust over the young woman concerned. We should not let ourselves be distracted either by the argument that this is a case of “ political vendetta” since Mr. Tejpal was known as a BJP critic or by the utter hypocrisy of the BJP when it comes to its double standards in dealing with cases of rape. The survivor’s battle The young woman survivor is no pawn of those who may have political motives. Throughout these years she has fought a very tough battle. In the 527-page judgment (https://bit.ly/3p5Ag6I), in spite of all the efforts to suppress it, it is her voice we hear, a voice which speaks with honesty and courage, a voice of a young woman conflicted and torn — sexually assaulted by a man, her boss whom she considered a father figure, the father in fact of her very close friend; confused as to what her course of action should be since so many relationships were at stake; angry, sad, and yet trying to act “ normally” to fulfil her responsibilities at work — a voice which perhaps unintentionally also reveals the horrendous nature of the sexualisation of women made possible at a workplace by not just the accused boss but by women too in positions of authority and the normalisation of such a process by them. The judgment transforms the accused into the victim and it is the young woman who becomes the accused. It says “(Prosecutrix) neither demonstrates any kind of normative behaviour on her own part – that as a prosecutrix of sexual assault might plausibly show” (p.457). This pushes us back to 1979 when a rape survivor had to prove through physical marks on her body that she had not consented. In this 2021 judgment, in a similar approach, since the survivor did not fit into the court’s preconceived ideas of a rape survivor’s behaviour, she is considered a liar. It would appear that four decades of women’s struggles which forced changes in law, in case law, and in approaches to victims of rape, have no relevance for this judgment. Case law gives weightage to the statement of a victim of rape with the proviso of it being “credible and sterling”. The judgment gives a new and dangerous interpretation to this. It poses the question, “who is a sterling witness?” And then accepts every highly objectionable charge of the defence to prove the witness (prosecutrix) is not “sterling”. Violation of laws, of privacy To this end, in total violation of various laws, the full personal details of the survivor, her name and that of her family, her WhatsApp messages, her personal mails, her photographs and her relationships are laid out bare in the judgment in the most ferocious aggression on her right to privacy and which have no relevance to the charge of rape. In sharp contrast, there is a blanket of protection given by the court to the accused. Not a mention of his back story. Even his telling WhatsApp message referring to “fingertips”, a clear reference of what he had done to the survivor, is brushed aside. She on the other hand is subjected to a barbaric and cruel cross-examination recorded in the judgment on intimate details of her life and her friendships. Even while upholding the objections of the prosecution on some issues under Section 53A in the Indian Evidence Act, which rules out reference to past sexual history, the judgment defends this stating “some of the messages shown were not for purpose of proving immoral character or consent but to prove suppressing of relevant facts by the prosecutrix”. This is nothing but a licence for the character assassin’s knife. The most telling evidence against the accused is his own “personal apology”, the draft of an “official apology” and the conversations recorded by the survivor with the senior woman officer negotiating on behalf of the accused clearly showing that there was no ulterior motive behind the complaint. The judgment records the accused as stating in his apology, “Yes, you did say at one point that I was your boss and I did reply ‘that makes it easier’... again ‘I had no idea that I had been even remotely non-consensual’ and then ‘anything furtive with my daughter’s best friend’”, are words that match what the survivor had said in her accusation — that she asked him to stop but he continued. Sympathy towards accused But in an extraordinary and unprecedented interpretation, the judgment holds that the apology and the statements made by the accused were “not sent voluntarily but that it was due... to the pressure and intimidation by prosecutrix to act swiftly and also the inducement that the matter would be closed.” In this way, the boss accused of rape is converted into a victim by “manipulation and calculating nature” of the prosecutrix and his statement is taken as being “not voluntary and against his wishes”. The sympathy towards the accused leaps out in paragraph after paragraph of the judgment. Sample this: “Accused was absolutely repulsed with the accusation made by the prosecutrix”; “accused asserted his claim that it was only drunken banter”; “accused consistently claiming to be a bunch of lies”, In contrast, the comment against the survivor: “she twists and manipulates the truth”. Every witness who gave evidence that the survivor shared her traumatic experience with them within hours of the incident — proving that it was no afterthought — is brushed aside on grounds that they are her friends, and therefore biased while the statements of the accused’s own sister and another female colleague known to be close to him, are accepted as being true. Even the right of a survivor to approach activists and lawyers for their help — the most natural course of action for any rape survivor — is criminalised in this judgment. Senior members of the Bar such as Indira Jaisingh are put in the dock as probable advisers for “doctoring” and also “of adding to incidents”. The judge in this case was a woman which once again underlines that it is not biology but ideology which determines one’s view of social reality. This judgment will find its place in history as an example of the worst kind of victim blaming and shaming to benefit the accused, a man old enough to be her father, powerful as her boss. The sooner it is overturned the better. Otherwise if this becomes the precedent, no working woman will dare to speak out against sexual abuse and violence at the workplace. Brinda Karat is a member of the CPI(M) Polit Bureau and a former Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/evidence-of-how-little-the-judiciary-has-learnt/article34684948.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The binding law||I have been critical of whataboutery for both ethical and practical reasons. Ethically, it creates a false hierarchy among the issues confronting us and arranges them in neat political silos. Practically, it diverts our attention from the pressing issue. When I get complaints from the readers of this newspaper, I tend to use accepted journalistic yardsticks to evaluate them and hardly indulge in the comparison of differing standards between news organisations. Best practices in journalism I draw from documented best practices for journalism. While many scholars believe that the history of modern journalism begins with the anti-colonial struggle in the United States in the mid-18th century, the finer nuances emerged in the first half of the 20th century. We can distil these principles into five actionable points to understand what constitute the best practices in journalism. They are: 1) differentiate facts from conjecture and opinion, 2) maintain a standard of accuracy, 3) do not easily resort to anonymous sources, 4) do not promote hate and bigotry, and 5) defer to the rule of law, including those dealing with privacy. Early this week, Chennai was rocked by allegations of sexual misconduct by a teacher in a reputed school. Social media platforms carried all sorts of information. Most of them were violative of the guidelines spelt out in two important laws: the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (the POCSO Act) and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (the JJ Act). Some readers expected this newspaper to follow the norms set by social media. A report on May 25, “Teacher accused of sexual misconduct suspended”, was seen by this section of readers as incomplete reporting as it did not name the school in which the said offence took place. S. Kathiresan, a reader from Saligramam in Chennai, wrote: “ The Hindu has published the name of the accused teacher but not the name of the school. Why are you protecting the school?” I received a number of letters and direct messages on my Twitter account about the failure of the newspaper in naming the school. The report that the newspaper published was in compliance with the POCSO Act, which clearly states that any form of reporting that may result in identifying the survivor would violate the privacy of the individual. People who express themselves on social media platforms are not necessarily familiar with the laws that govern the reporting of sexual violence against children. It is true that with the proliferation of social media platforms, many rules are broken. At times, even the survivors have been named. But this is a clear violation of the prescribed law. Pointing out lacunae in the law At the same time, the newspaper has pointed out the lacunae in the POCSO Act. While reporting within the legal framework is a primary requisite, it is also important to flag the loopholes in the governing law. The newspaper carried a comment article by lawyer Manuraj Shunmugasundaram titled “Expanding the scope of POCSO” (May 25). He argued that necessary changes should be made in the law to account for the reporting of historical child sexual abuse. The newspaper has been looking at this law closely. For instance, when a single bench of the Madras High Court allowed a petition seeking to quash a case of kidnap in March, a lecturer, Shraddha Chaudhary, wrote a comment article titled “The limits of POCSO” (March 16, 2021). She dealt with the more sensitive area of adolescent sexuality. In her earlier article, “Putting victims on trial” (July 16, 2020), she documented the deeply entrenched patriarchal biases in our justice system. Like society, journalism too does not condone child sexual violence. But the reporting on this particularly distressing story has to navigate a binding legal regime. For instance, when complaints started emerging against various schools in the city, the newspaper stuck to the legally sanctioned method of reporting. Its report on May 30, “Schools mull child protection measures”, also refrained from naming the other schools which are in the investigative dragnet. Not naming the schools that failed to protect the students from predatory behaviour does not mean that the newspaper is not worried about accountability and the necessary follow-up action. It has been reporting the police investigation and the observations of the School Education Minister extensively. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-binding-law/article34684953.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Holding leaders to account||From the first COVID-19 wave to the second, certain things have remained predictably consistent in India. First, the governments at the Centre and in different States have displayed their incapacities. Second, the party in power has constantly asked everyone to ‘refrain from playing politics’ while we are in the midst of a pandemic. While this sounds good in the first instance, repeated requests to ‘refrain from playing politics’ nudges us to examine the reasons behind such posturing. Meaning of politics And that takes us to the question, what is politics all about? Unlike the popular myth, politics is not only about what happens in Assemblies and Parliament. It should also not to be perceived as a dirty word signifying the lust for power or the route to meeting personal ambitions. An important element of politics is government formation, but more significant in a democratic set up is to keep creating avenues for civic engagement. It is through such avenues that informed citizens are able to fulfil their duty as well as right to question the very government they elected. Successful government formation or peaceful transition of power from one political outfit to another is not the end of politics. Vigilant citizens should be able speak directly on a platform or through an association or the existing Opposition about their concerns. During an unprecedented crisis such as the one we are facing now, sharing fears, trauma and anxieties through a medium also occupies a space in the approved hamper of politics and political activities. Any government which begins denigrating or demonising such critical voices against it is actually doing a great disservice to the very idea of politics. It forgets that it is the electors who occupy the central rostrum in a democracy and not the elected. History has taught us that whenever regimes have felt that they are no longer in control of the mess they created, their first approach is to shift the goalposts. Thus, ‘please don’t play politics’ is the only weapon in their hands. In the last eight weeks, an overwhelming number of people have needed hospital beds, oxygen support or basic life-saving drugs, but only thousands have been lucky to have them. Thousands of families have lost their loved ones due to the unavailability of a live-saving instrument or drug. They have suffered the agony of being unable to attend burials or cremations of their near and dear ones. Hundreds of bodies have been found floating in different river streams in north India. Dismissing concerns Members of the Opposition, civil society groups and hundreds of doctors and healthcare professionals flagged concerns about the huge lacunae in health infrastructure much before the second wave began. Their concerns were ridiculed and dismissed. A government which was not able to deal with its own inferiority complex was quick to parade ministers and spokespersons to label all those voices as ‘political’. The regime must remember that pain and grief are two enduring emotions. The mismanagement of the pandemic has resulted in lakhs of grieving families in India. Though important, routine press conferences informing people that the recovery rate is high or that the positivity rate is going down are no soothing balm to the families who have lost their loved ones not just to the virus but to the lack of facilities which could have saved them. When grieving families are interviewed, they don’t blame the virus for their irreparable loss but the apathy and callousness of the government. The French sociologist Alain Touraine once said that the political class is becoming increasingly alien to the people. This is true of the government of the day. Our constitutional arrangement is such that the government is accountable to the people. The government’s disdain for people raising critical issues about the mismanagement of the crisis makes it clear that the leader of the regime does not think of “We the people...” but instead thinks, “I am the people”. Manoj Kumar Jha is Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/holding-leaders-to-account/article34684954.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Storm and strife||The conflicting versions of the BJP and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee regarding a meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday to review the situation after Cyclone Yaas cannot be glossed over as miscommunication. BJP leaders, including Union Ministers, went to great lengths to show Ms. Banerjee in a bad light over the meeting. They said she made the PM wait for 30 minutes at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district in south Bengal; and once she arrived, she handed over certain papers and left without attending the meeting. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar accused the CM publicly of being confrontational. In an unprecedented act, the Centre unilaterally placed the West Bengal Chief Secretary under central deputation. Considering the fact that no concurrence of the official in question or the State government was sought, this can be seen only as a vindictive move. Ms. Banerjee has said that she had sought the PM’s permission before going about her schedule to oversee relief operations in other parts of the State. While offering to even touch the PM’s feet if that was required to secure the support of the Centre for the State’s welfare, she has questioned the BJP version and pleaded that the CS be allowed to stay in the post. Ms. Banerjee said she was delayed for the meeting with the PM only because of air traffic regulations for the landing of the PM’s aircraft. That there is such acrimony between the State and the Centre at a time when both must be working hand in hand is extremely disheartening for the people of West Bengal. But there can be no equal apportioning of blame in this. By calling Mr. Dhankhar and Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari to the meeting, the Centre had already betrayed its plans to belittle the CM, who has won a resounding third term recently by trouncing the BJP. In Odisha on the same day, and in Gujarat earlier, the PM reviewed the situation with the CMs, and not Opposition leaders. It is apparent that the BJP has not been able to stomach the popular verdict in Bengal. The defeat could have been an occasion for the BJP to introspect and mend its strategy for West Bengal. Far from it, the Centre unleashed the CBI against the newly elected Trinamool Congress Ministers. Mr. Adhikari, the PM’s interlocutor on Friday, remains untouched by the CBI though he is an accused in the same case. Now, by dragging a senior IAS officer who has just been cleared for a three month extension after retirement on May 31, into a nasty political tussle, the Centre has crossed yet another red line. The BJP must wake up to the tradition of Centre and States constantly negotiating their relations in good faith. It must also get used to the reality of losing elections in a democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/storm-and-strife/article34684940.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweating the small stuff||The GST Council, which met last Friday, could not live up to the expectations of some meaningful relief from the disastrous second wave of the pandemic. The measures unveiled were insipid, be it for the common man hoping to survive while keeping fingers crossed for a vaccination slot or a hospital bed, or businesses hurting from lockdowns, and States grappling with a cash crunch amid a scramble to purchase vaccines. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an elaborate amnesty scheme for small firms pending GST returns, lowered the interest levied on late payments for recent months, and extended several compliance timelines. But there is little respite for businesses with turnover of over Rs. 5 crore, and industry is underwhelmed. No discussion occurred on bringing fuels under GST, despite the Centre’s noises to that effect amid runaway petrol prices. Taxes on COVID essentials remain unchanged, despite States and industry pressing for waivers. Ms. Sitharaman said the subject dominated deliberations but ‘varying viewpoints’ compelled her to let a Group of Ministers pore over possibilities of rate cuts. The GoM has to report back by June 8, but the Council, constitutionally empowered to recommend special rates during a disaster, would still have to concur. Thus, no immediate relief can be expected. Opposition States allege that NDA-ruled States’ representatives in the Council vociferously opposed waiving the GST on COVID vaccines and drugs. Tax mavens have mooted ways to implement such cuts, so it is unfortunate that the Centre, usually so conscious of optics, came to the table with little to offer. GST breaks offered on free COVID-related imports from abroad for donation to State-approved entities, were extended to material imported on a payment basis as well. It is not clear why this had to wait for the Council — BJP-ruled Gujarat and Haryana have already offered GST refunds on such imports. A Rs. 1.58-lakh crore borrowing plan may quell States’ concerns about immediate compensation dues, but larger schisms are apparent that could fray the Council’s functioning further after recent acrimonious parleys. Sikkim, for instance, has demanded that it be allowed to levy its own cess to cope with falling revenues, a demand that has been backed by others, including Tamil Nadu and Arunachal Pradesh. This could virtually derail the very edifice of GST subsuming all local levies, even as States now want to be recompensed beyond next year. The Centre, facing flak for its handling of the second wave, could do with a more responsive approach. Winning an intellectual or ideological battle over taxes on COVID essentials is meaningless at this precarious time, when each day’s delay in providing relief hurts thousands. Small gestures with limited revenue implications would give the Centre more room to strike common ground with States on the challenges that loom over the GST regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sweating-the-small-stuff/article34684941.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Mrs. Besant and the Press Act||The Puritans according to Macaulay condemned bull-baiting not because it gave pain to the bull but because it gave pleasure to the spectator. Mrs. Besant apparently shares this mental characteristic for her main reason for urging the repeal of the Press Act is not that papers are unjustly harassed but that it proves ineffective against offenders like Mr. Gandhi. The following passage from her memorandum, quoted by the Simla correspondent of the Times of India, will enable our readers to form a clearer conception of the nature of Mrs. Besant’s fight for freedom of speech and writing. “Repeal of the Press Act is expedient just now, partly as a reasonable concession to Indian sentiment and partly because the law is now inoperative against big offenders, while it is still used against little known publicists who inflame but a small circle. The discrimination shown in the second case has become a public scandal. Mr. Gandhi in Young India is allowed every week to excite hatred and contempt against Government in language compared with which criticisms of Government which have ruined many papers are harmless; he is even allowed to approach perilously near to high treason by saying that he would ‘in a sense’ assist an Afghan invasion of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mrs-besant-and-the-press-act/article34684949.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Telangana talks continue in Delhi||The Union Planning Minister, Mr. C. Subramaniam, and the Telangana Praja Samithi leader, Dr. M. Chenna Reddy, discussed for an hour this morning [New Delhi, May 30] the proposals for a settlement of the Telangana problem. Dr. Reddy met the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, yesterday and it was decided then that he should meet Mr. Subramaniam today. Neither Dr. Reddy nor Mr. Subramaniam would, at the end of the talks, indicate either the contents of the proposals or the progress they have made. Dr. Reddy will resume his dialogue with Mr. Subramaniam to-morrow. Any further meeting with the Prime Minister would depend on the outcome of that dialogue. Our correspondent writes from Hyderabad: Mr. D. Sanjivayya, Ruling Congress President, arrived in Hyderabad to-day from New Delhi on a four-day visit to Andhra Pradesh. When pressmen referred to the talks being held at New Delhi by Mrs. Indira Gandhi, and Mr. C. Subramaniam with Dr. Chenna Reddy, Mr. Sanjivayya said, “Let us hope some solution to the Telangana problem will emerge from these talks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/telangana-talks-continue-in-delhi/article34684950.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Weigh your investment options||Recurring deposits (RDs) and Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) are both popular investment options among retail investors to meet financial goals. While one can open RDs with banks, SIP is a mode of investing in mutual funds. Both of them have a major similarity in the sense that these allow investors to invest a pre-determined amount at regular intervals, thereby ensuring regular investment and financial discipline. However, before committing to either channel of investment, it is important for the investor to understand the returns possible as well as the risk of capital erosion. Capital protection RDs opened with the scheduled banks are covered under the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation, an RBI subsidiary. This insurance programme covers every scheduled bank depositor’s cumulative deposits, including RD, savings, current and FD accounts, of up to Rs. 5 lakh in the event of bank failure. Note that insurance covers both interest and principal components. This makes RD one of the safest investment options. For those having deposits in multiple scheduled banks, the Rs. 5 lakh cover would apply separately to deposits with each banks. One can use SIPs to invest in equity funds, debt funds, hybrid funds and gold mutual funds. Hence, the scope of capital protection in an SIP would depend on the mutual fund category and sub-category you invest in. Debt funds usually offer higher capital protection than equity funds. Among debt mutual funds, the risk of capital erosion would be lowest and almost negligible in liquid and overnight funds. Returns expectation Interest rate applicable at the time of opening an RD stays fixed until its maturity, irrespective of the changes in the RD card rate during the FD tenure. For instance, if one opens the RD of two-year tenure at 6% p.a., the interest rate will stay the same till the end of two years. This offers a high level of income certainty in RDs, even higher than what many small savings schemes offer. Remember that the interest rates of most small savings schemes are reviewed by the Finance Ministry in every financial quarter. Returns from SIPs depend on the performance of the selected fund. However, regular and automated investing through SIPs allows rupee cost averaging during market downturns and corrections. As a predetermined amount is automatically deducted irrespective of the market level or NAV, SIP investors of equity-oriented mutual funds automatically end up getting more units at lower net asset values (NAVs) during bearish markets. Question of liquidity Most banks charge a premature withdrawal penalty of up to 1% for premature closure of RD. In case of SIPs, liquidity would depend on the liquidity features of the mutual fund invested in. Those investing in equity-linked savings schemes (ELSS) funds through SIPs can only withdraw the units bought at least three years ago. While other mutual fund categories do not restrict redemption, most funds levy exit loads of up to 2-3% on redemption before a preset time. However, no exit load is levied in case of short-term debt funds such as the ultra-short duration, liquid, overnight and most low and short-duration debt funds. Hence, short-term debt funds beat RDs in terms of cost incurred on unplanned redemptions. Similarly, equity mutual funds also outscore RDs in terms of unplanned redemption cost flexibility as most equity mutual funds do not charge exit load after one year of investment. Tax implications The interest income generated by your RD returns is clubbed with your annual income and taxed as per your income tax slab. In case of SIPs, taxation would depend on the type of mutual fund and the holding period. Gains — short-term vs long-term In case of equity-oriented funds, gains booked from redeeming investments within one year attract short-term capital gains (STCG) Tax of 15%. Gains booked from redeeming units in equity-oriented funds after one year of investment are considered Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG) and attract 10% tax on gains exceeding Rs. 1 lakh in a financial year. Moreover, SIPs in ELSS funds also qualify for tax deduction of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh per financial year under Section 80C. In case of debt mutual funds, capital gains booked on redeeming debt fund after three years of investment are considered as LTCG and are taxed at 20% along with indexation benefits. Returns booked on debt funds redemption within three years are considered as STCG and are taxed as per the investors income tax slab.  (The writer is Director, Paisabazaar.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/weigh-your-investment-options/article34684936.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Third party cover, a golden shock absorber||Meeting with a road accident is traumatic. On the first day of my new job, I was heading to an insurance company office for a meeting. Right in front of the building I was knocked off my bike. All I remember is scrambling to escape a bus hurtling behind me. Many are not that lucky. In a moment they would stare at damage, injuries, death… The owner of the vehicle responsible for these bears the liability. No vehicle driver would hurt somebody intentionally, least of all themselves. Yet, 17 people are said to be dying every hour in India due to traffic related accidents. India forms only 1% of the global vehicle population, but 6% of motor accidents. Law enforcement is lax, and so is our compliance. Even those who comply are put at risk by those who don’t. Compulsory motor third-party liability insurance was introduced in British India and a majority of Indian States from July 1, 1946. This socially-oriented legislation continues today and protects both the insured owner of the vehicle as well as the third party who sustained the loss. Claims under this policy have to be made by the third party or his legal heirs (the claimant/s) and this can be under one or more of three categories of loss namely property damage, personal injury or death. The claimant has to obtain a first information report (FIR) from the police station which has jurisdiction over the accident location and collect a charge sheet. For this, the registration number of the offending vehicle and the insurance policy details, if possible, and an identity proof of the claimant are needed. Claims tribunal A petition has to be filed with a special court for motor accident claims called the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (MACT). For the petition, other documents may be required depending on the type of claim. For property damage claims, a survey report and documents to establish the cost of damages are needed. For personal injury claims, original treatment bills and medical records, disability certificate, if applicable, proof of age and income of the injured person/s will be necessary. For death claims, the documents required are identity proof of the deceased and of the claimants, documents establishing the latter’s legal heirship, and documents establishing the educational qualifications, income and the age of the deceased. The MACT registers a case and summons the parties concerned, including the insurance company of the vehicle that caused the accident. Before we get to the other details of procedures, here is an outline of the compensation matrix under the TP cover. For third-party (TP) property damage, the compensation determined by the MACT will be paid by the insurance company up to Rs. 7.5 lakh. Any compensation beyond is the responsibility of the insured. For injury and death claims, the liability of the policy is unlimited, and that means the insurance company will pay the entire award given by MACT. The awards can be very large and are a factor of the age and earning capacity of the deceased accident victim. This unlimited liability clause protects the victim and his family from any inability or unwillingness to compensate on the part of the vehicle owner. For the insured vehicle owner, the TP policy represents a huge burden off his shoulders and this is not a trivial thing. Moreover, the entire legal work and costs are borne by the insurance company. The TP policy is worth its weight in gold.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/third-party-cover-a-golden-shock-absorber/article34684934.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No I-T rebate on EMI for under-construction building’||Q.I have taken housing loan of Rs. 29.60 lakh from SBI in FY21 for purchase of a flat. Construction of the flat is on. My EMI has already started. I am a government employee. Can I get any income tax rebate for the EMIs of housing loan I am paying? Jatinder Bhat  N. Sree Kanth answers  A.With respect to principal component in EMI, the amount of principal repaid in the assessment year cannot be claimed as deduction under Section 80C as only amounts repaid towards the capital borrowed for the purpose of purchase or construction of a residential property, whose income is chargeable under ‘Income from house property’, can be claimed as deduction. In your case, the building is still under construction and the apartment has not been handed over, whereby residential income accruing from the property cannot be charged under ‘Income from House Property’. With respect to interest component in EMI, the interest paid on housing loan until the date of completion cannot be claimed as deduction in the year of payment of such interest. The interest paid until such completion is to be divided into 5 equal parts and each part can be claimed as deduction in the form of pre-construction interest from the year of completion of construction. It is to be noted that the maximum deduction under this provision cannot exceed Rs. 2 lakh per year (including the interest paid for that assessment year). Q.As per recent Budget proposals, pensioners aged 75 and above need not file I-T returns if the bank is deducting I-T on pension, and income on interest. I am 79, drawing pension from the Defence Pension Disbursement Officer, who deducts I-T due on my pension before crediting the same to the designated bank. He sends me Form 16 which I attach while filing returns, where I include income on account of interest from bank. How does the concession of not filing I-T returns apply in my case? Second, kindly explain the pre-filling of details of capital gains, dividend income, and interest from banks and post offices in I-T returns as mentioned in the Budget proposals. K. Natarajan A.A new Section 194P has been inserted via Budget 2021, whereby senior citizens aged above 75 years, receiving income only in the form of pension and interest from any account maintained in the same specified bank in which the pension is being received, can submit to the specified bank a declaration which contains applicable chapter VIA deductions, relevant rebate and statement that the assessee does not earn any other income except the pension and the interest income of the same bank. On receipt of the same, the bank will deduct the requisite TDS on the said income, thereby relieving the assessee the obligation to file the return. The ITR’s utilities will be pre-filled based on your PAN with income in the nature of capital gains, dividend income, interest from banks and post office based on the TDS returns filed by the respective deductor and other sources such as depositaries/R&T agents/banks/financial institutions/companies paying dividends among others. However, the same is to cross-verified prior to filing of ITR. Q.At the age of 79, I am unable to manage my rented out house, and decided to transfer it to my son by settlement. But he does not want the rent to be credited to his account. Please let me know if there is a procedure to credit the rent in either my name or my wife’s name and show it in our I-T returns. V. Srikrishnan A.Income from house property is accrued and taxed in the hands of the owner of the property. Once the settlement is done in your son’s favour, the rent received will be taxable in his hands only. Q.My father, aged 56, had booked a flat in 2011, but as the builder did not hand over the flat, my father has now received principal and interest accrued as per the decree passed by the court. Please help clarify whether he is liable to pay any tax on the amount received and where the money received should be utilised? Aakanksha Arora A.The amount received as return of principal is treated as return of advance monies paid; hence there is no tax implication. Whereas, the amount received in the form of interest is to be treated as ‘Income from Other Sources’ and included in the total income accordingly. There are no restrictions on the utilisation of money received.  (N. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)  Q.There are multiple IRDAI regulations for consumers’ benefit. Many insurance companies have modified their plans to accommodate these rules and/or raised premiums for the renewal of existing policies. Can you please summarise which health insurance policies/companies are cheap and best in the current landscape? NAVEEN CHANDAR  K. Nitya Kalyani replies  A.Recent IRDAI regulations have been focussed on increasing coverage and removing some of the exclusions found in most health policies. It goes without saying that this will result in an increase in premium rates. Almost hand in hand, IRDAI has designed a standard hospitalisation policy called Arogya Sanjeevani. Every company selling health insurance has to offer this standard policy mandatorily. This is a model policy in the sense that you can take it as the reference point to learn about coverage and pricing. In this scenario, I suggest you opt for this policy if the coverage, the sum assured, and the terms and benefits suit you. Your next step in that case would be to see what your target insurer charges for the policy. Here you are likely to encounter a significant range of prices. If the Arogya Sanjeevani terms are not suited to you, do some online shopping for the policy that has the benefits you seek. Now, if you compare the pricing, you will start getting a feel of the pricing matrix. There is no one-size-fits-all in health insurance, or for that matter, in any kind of insurance. Neither is there much transparency or clarity on the reasoning behind benefits and pricing. Hence, you have to go through this process to get an understanding of what is on offer and what you would like to pick.  (K. Nitya Kalyani is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-i-t-rebate-on-emi-for-under-construction-building/article34684930.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34684933.ece
31 May 2021||KOCHI,||Chopra gets visa to compete in Europe||With Germany’s Johannes Vetter unleashing some of the biggest throws in history in the last few weeks, Asian Games champion Neeraj Chopra had been a very anxious man. Javelin thrower Chopra, the man just behind Vetter in the World list this year with his National record of 88.07m in March, has not competed in quality international meets for nearly three years. Rising coronavirus caseloads in the country meant plans for his international travel had to be frequently changed or cancelled. However there is hope now that Chopra, who trains in Patiala, could be competing with some of the world’s best soon to fine-tune himself for this July’s Tokyo Olympics. Multi-ministry effort The 23-year-old, the best bet to win the country’s first-ever Olympic medal in athletics, has got his visa approved to fly to France through the efforts of the Sports Authority of India, Sports Ministry, Ministry of External Affairs and the Prime Minister’s Office. That should see him competing in European meets soon. “He may be leaving for France on Tuesday or Wednesday,” National chief coach Radhakrishnan Nair told The Hindu from Patiala on Sunday. Biomechanical expert Dr. Klaus Bartonietz and physio Ishaan Marwah will be travelling with Chopra. However, Chopra will have to undergo a 10-day quarantine on arrival in France and that will be a worry. It is not clear whether the Commonwealth Games champion would be allowed to train during quarantine. Chopra is happy that he is going abroad after a long break. Have to deliver “I really needed to take part in competitions before the Olympics. I had approached TOPS (Target Olympic Podium scheme) to help me get the visa and I feel lucky that so much effort has been taken to make this happen,” he said. “The government has done its bit, now it is my turn to give my best at the Olympics.” “Chopra had earlier applied for a Swedish visa which did not come through because of the travel restrictions but when the possibility of travelling to France came up, we decided to approach the French authorities through the MEA,” said Kiren Rijiju, the Union Sports Minister. “With their help and intervention of the PMO, the French visa has come through.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chopra-gets-visa-to-compete-in-europe/article34685082.ece
31 May 2021||Porto,||Chelsea paints Europe royal blue||Chelsea won the Champions League for the second time on Saturday, beating Manchester City 1-0 thanks to Kai Havertz’s first-half goal as Pep Guardiola’s overthinking proved costly again in the all-English final. Havertz ran onto Mason Mount’s perfectly weighted through-ball and skipped by City goalkeeper Ederson Moraes before slotting the ball into an empty net in the 42nd minute. Chelsea added to the first European Cup it won in 2012 and become the 13th multiple winner of world soccer’s biggest club competition. Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel got his hands on the trophy a year after losing in the 2020 final with Paris Saint Germain. Incomplete City’s long, often-painful and lavishly funded journey to the summit of European soccer remains incomplete and Guardiola might regret tinkering with his settled team that had swept City to its first Champions League final and to the verge of another trophy treble.  Starting without a striker was expected — Guardiola has preferred that in the Champions League knockout matches — but going without a specialist holding midfielder in Fernandinho or Rodri was a major surprise and seemed to destabilise City. It meant Ilkay Gundogan, City’s top scorer this season and a revelation in his attacking-midfield role, dropped in as the anchorman in midfield and struggled to protect City’s defence.  Indeed, for Chelsea’s goal, Mount had time and space to thread a superb pass from inside his own half through the centre of City’s defence — which was opened up by Timo Werner’s decoy run — for Havertz to run onto. Ederson came flying out of his area and got the slightest of touches to the ball with his hand, but Havertz regained his balance and applied the easy finish. City never had the control Guardiola so craves and, in that respect, Tuchel — another tactically astute manager — was the winner in his coaching duel with a rival he describes as “the benchmark.”   The result: Manchester City 0 lost to Chelsea 1 (Havertz 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-paints-europe-royal-blue/article34685051.ece
31 May 2021||Paris,||Thiem sent tumbling out by Andujar||Fourth seed Dominic Thiem blew a two-set lead to be dumped out of Roland Garros in the first round by Spanish veteran Pablo Andujar on Sunday. The 35-year-old Andujar staged a remarkable comeback to defeat the two-time Roland Garros runner-up 4-6, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 after almost four and a half hours on Court Philippe Chatrier. It is the first time in his 17-year career that Andujar has come from two sets behind to win. ‘Hard to believe’ “It’s a very special moment because I’m 35 and I don’t know how long I’m going to play,” said Andujar. “I had to believe to be able to get this result. “It was very difficult, in the third set he wasn’t quite as strong.” It is Thiem’s first opening-round exit at Roland Garros and the first time he has failed to reach at least the quarterfinals of the tournament since 2015. The Austrian lost both the 2018 and 2019 finals to 13-time champion Rafael Nadal, but did win his maiden Grand Slam title last year at the US Open.  Andujar, the World No. 68, had not beaten a top-10 player since 2015 until a win over Roger Federer in Geneva last week. “Probably that win helped today,” he said. “I didn’t think I was in my best shape, but the belief was the key to the win today.” Bitter blow It will be an especially bitter blow for Thiem, though, after the 27-year-old had been placed in the opposite half of the draw to Nadal, World No. 1 Novak Djokovic and Federer. Meanwhile, 16th seed Grigor Dimitrov retired in the fourth set against Marcos Giron. Dimitrov had won the first two sets 6-2, 6-4 and was up 5-1 in the third, holding three match points on the Giron serve. But he lost that set 5-7 and fell 0-3 behind in the fourth before withdrawing. Three-time Grand Slam champion and former No. 1 Angelique Kerber also exited the tournament with a third consecutive first-round loss. Clay struggle The 26th-seeded Kerber was beaten 6-2, 6-4 to Anhelina Kalinina, a qualifier from Ukraine ranked 139th and making her tournament debut. Roland Garros is the only Grand Slam title that Kerber has not won, and she has frequently struggled on its red clay. Her defeat on Court 14 on the opening Sunday was the eighth time in 14 appearances in Paris that she has exited in the first round. World No. 2 Naomi Osaka let her racquet do the talking, beating Romanian World No. 63 Patricia Maria Tig 6-4, 7-6(4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiem-sent-tumbling-out-by-andujar/article34685048.ece
31 May 2021||Chennai,||TNCA first division league scrapped||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association has, in an unprecedented move forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, scrapped the TNCA first division league for the season 2020-21. The TNCA takes great pride in conducting, arguably, the best-run city league in the country, but the pandemic has come as a huge barrier. Conclusion arrived at TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy told The Hindu on Sunday, “We looked at all the possibilities and scenarios and came to the conclusion that it was impossible to hold the first division league this season.”  He added, the focus will be on completing the 2019-20 season — the semifinals and the final remain to be played — and then concentrate on getting the 2021-22 tournament underway. Ramasaamy said, “We are confident we would be able to stage the three matches and conclude the season 2019-20. That is on our priority list.” He said, “And we expect the COVID numbers to come down by the end of June paving the way for the 2021-22 league to get underway.” Television window Asked about TNPL, the TNCA first announced the dates and then had to postpone the tournament following the brutal second wave, Ramasaamy said, “It depends on the improvement in the COVID situation and the slot available in Star Sports.” He noted, “We can do without any crowd but the tournament will have to be telecast by Star Sports. If the pandemic situation improves, we can find the television window.” Talking about the Tamil Nadu team, Ramasaamy observed this season too could feature only the shorter versions of the game — the Syed Mushtaq Ali and the Vijay Hazare tournaments. “I think, this year too, like the last season, we might not have the Ranji Trophy,” he said. Ramasaamy elaborated, “It is very difficult to create a bubble for the longer duration matches with so many teams and matches involved. It’s sad but we don’t have a choice under the circumstances.” He said right now the TNCA and its offices are shut down. “We only have a group of four to six groundsmen who take turns to water the pitch and trim the grass at Chepauk. Otherwise, nothing else is happening.” In times of pandemic, cricket takes a back-seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnca-first-division-league-scrapped/article34685149.ece
31 May 2021||PARIS,||Osaka fined, threatened with default over media boycott at French Open||Japanese superstar Naomi Osaka was on Sunday threatened with disqualification from the French Open if she persists with her controversial media boycott, officials said. “We have advised Naomi Osaka that should she continue to ignore her media obligations, she would be exposing herself to possible further code of conduct infringement consequences,” said a statement from the four Grand Slam tournaments after handing the World No. 2 a $15,000 fine. “As might be expected, repeat violations attract tougher sanctions, including default from the tournament.” Osaka, a four-time Grand Slam title winner and sport's highest-earning female athlete, was fined for refusing to hold a press conference after her opening 6-4, 7-6(4) victory over World No. 63 Patricia Maria Tig of Romania. The 23-year-old had said on the eve of the tournament that she would refuse to carry out any media obligations, claiming news conferences are detrimental to her mental health. She believes traditional post-match inquests are akin to “kicking people when they’re down”. However, the four Grand Slam events — Wimbledon, the French, Australian and US Opens — issued a joint statement, saying they had written to Osaka “to check on her well-being and offer support”. “She was also reminded of her obligations, the consequences of not meeting them and that rules should equally apply to all players. Osaka today chose not to honour her contractual media obligations. The Roland Garros referee has therefore issued her a $15,000 fine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-fined-threatened-with-default-over-media-boycott-at-french-open/article34685050.ece
31 May 2021||DUBAI,||Pooja Rani punches her way to glory||Pooja Rani Bohra collected her second continental title to bring cheers to the Indian camp after Mary Kom and Lalbuatsaihi lost their respective summit clashes at the Asian boxing championships here on Sunday. The Olympic-bound Pooja, who had a walkover in the semifinal, practically fought her first bout in the 75kg final and won convincingly with a 5-0 margin over Mavluda Movlonova of Uzbekistan. The Indian, the 81kg champion in 2019, showcased her solid blows to score points and bobbed and weaved nicely to stay safe and take the crown. Six-time World champion Mary lost 3-2 to Nazym Kyzaibay in a tightly-fought 51kg final. The five-time Asian gold medallist began well by landing some scoring shots from a distance. However, the taller Nazym, a two-time World champion, dominated the next two rounds by unleashing power-packed punches on Mary’s head and body. It was Mary's second silver medal after 2008. Lalbuatsaihi went down fighting against former Asian bronze medallist Milana Safronova of Kazakhstan with a 3-2 verdict in the 64kg title clash. The Kazakh, who enjoyed the height advantage, was more accurate against Lalbuatsaihi. Lalbuatsaihi relied on her power but the experienced Milana found a way to stay ahead. Later, in the +81kg final, Anupama went down to Kazakhstan’s Lazzat Kungeibayeva 3-2.  The results (finals): Women: 51kg: M.C. Mary Kom lost to Nazym Kyzaibay (Kaz) 3-2; 64kg: Lalbuatsaihi lost to Milana Saronova (Kaz) 3-2.   75kg: Pooja Rani Bohra bt Mavluda Movlonova (Uzb) 5-0; +81kg: Anupama lost to Lazzat Kungeibayeva (Kaz) 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pooja-rani-punches-her-way-to-glory/article34685086.ece
31 May 2021||HYDERABAD,||Age is on my side, says Nikhat||At 24, Nikhat Zareen has to be content watching the more illustrious contemporary and six-time world champion Mary Kom compete in the circuit. By her own confession, it is not an easy proposition as the Hyderabad boxer would have been the automatic choice in the international events in the 51kg category if not for the fact that the seasoned Mary Kom is still around. No issues “I have no issues in this regard. Age is on my side and I am sure I will get my chances at the highest level soon. Since the BFI is keen to host the Asian championship before the Olympics to give the right kind of exposure to India hopefuls, it is ok,” Nikhat said in a chat with The Hindu . She keeps herself motivated reading the biographies of the legendary Mohammad Ali, watching bouts of great boxers and her own fights to make a critical assessment. “The fact that I could win a bronze medal in the Istanbul international event this March after a year’s gap because of the pandemic is proof of my ability to come good,” said Nikhat, who had beaten two-time world champion Nazym Kyzaibay of Kazakhstan to enter the semifinals. Forced to train at home back in the city here, since the SAI centres across India have been closed, Nikhat is gunning for glory in the Commonwealth Games next year. “My job is to give 100% every time I enter the ring. Definitely, missing the competitive edge of a national camp,” Nikhat said. “I believe my hunger to win is my biggest strength,” said Nikhat who got a job as Junior Manager in Bank of India even as she is still waiting for the cash incentive of Rs. 60 lakh announced by the State government for winning international medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/age-is-on-my-side-says-nikhat/article34685147.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Iniyan triumphs, qualifies for World Cup||Grandmaster P. Iniyan kept his tryst with destiny and sealed the lone qualifying berth available by winning the penultimate round of the AICF World Cup qualifier on Sunday. Seeded seven, Iniyan won the first two rounds on Sunday to reach an unsurpassable tally of 12.5 points from 16 rounds. In the final round, he could not focus enough and lost to Deep Sengupta. But the result did not harm Iniyan even after D. Gukesh won his final round to match the winning tally. Since Iniyan had scored over Gukesh in their 14th round encounter on Saturday, he was awarded the title, worth a spot in the World Cup beginning in Sochi Russia on July 10. It was important for Iniyan to win against overnight third-placed Raja Rithvik in the day’s first round. S.L. Narayanan did Iniyan a favour by holding Gukesh to a draw. Leading by a point with two rounds remaining, Iniyan defeated Saravana Krishna to ensure that he could not be overtaken by Gukesh who stayed close by beating Soumya Swaminathan. “I didn’t expect to win the title. I came here well prepared and the idea was not to lose games,” said Iniyan who won 12 games, most by any player.  Final standings: 1-2. P. Iniyan, D. Gukesh (12.5 points); 3. S.P. Sethuraman (10.5); 4-7. Surya Shekhar Ganguly. S.L. Narayanan, S. Nitin, Raja Rithvik (10 each); 8. Rahul Srivatshav (9); 9. B. Adhiban (8.5); 10. Deep Sengupta (8); 11. Aditya Mittal (7.5); 12. Vishnu Prasanna (6.5); 13. C.R.G. Krishna (6), 14. Soumya Swaminathan (5); 15-16. M. Vinay Kumar, Krishnan Saravana (4 each); 17. Vatsal Singhania (2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iniyan-triumphs-qualifies-for-world-cup/article34685090.ece
31 May 2021||BENGALURU,||Fouaad Mirza seals Tokyo berth||Equestrian Fouaad Mirza sealed his spot in the Tokyo Olympics with a fine show at an event in Poland over the weekend. Mirza achieved the necessary Minimum Eligibility Requirement (MER) on both his horses, Seigneur Medicott and Dajara, in the CCI44*-Long eventing competition in Baborowko (Poland). Mirza, backed by Embassy International Riding School Bangalore (EIRS), finished second with Seigneur Medicott and third with Dajara. Overcoming odds The Bengaluru lad’s route to Olympic qualification was filled with hurdles. The 29-year-old had to overcome lockdowns in his training base of Germany, cancelled events and an injury to Seigneur Medicott. Mirza will be especially pleased that Seigneur Medicott — his much-loved horse was laid low by an injury two years ago — recovered in time to come good in Baborowko. Mirza had earlier earned an Olympic quota berth for India. His exploits at Baborowko helped secure his individual Tokyo berth. Mirza will become the third Indian Olympic equestrian, after Indrajit Lamba (1996) and Imtiaz Anees (2000).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fouaad-mirza-seals-tokyo-berth/article34685094.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bopanna seeks clarity on Olympics entry||There will be 31 teams entering the men’s doubles draw for the Tokyo Olympics tennis event, apart from one reserved for Japan as host. Can Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan, ranked 40 and 73 at the moment, get into the Games? The cut off ranking will be on June 14, after Roland Garros. While Asian Games singles gold medallist Denis Istomin, ranked 337, is assured of a singles entry, there is no such provision for the doubles champions Bopanna and Divij. “Nobody knows about the entry status. There are people already saying that Divij & I can’t get an entry. If they are able to tell me how, I would rather go home and spend time with my family.  “I missed my daughter’s second birthday recently. My physio Gaurang Shukla has not been able to join me for five weeks, as it is hard to get visa. Every country has different rules and regulations,” said Bopanna from Paris. The top 10 players, both in singles and doubles, have the option to nominate a partner and get entry to the doubles draw of the Games. “The thing is nobody knows who all are willing to go to Tokyo for the Olympics. “Asia has not hosted any tennis tournament since 2019, except Singapore. Many don’t want to go. Also, even if one is ranked No. 11 or 12, one can’t get in without a good ranked partner. “A country like France, may send four singles players rather than two doubles teams. There are many factors involved,” said the 41-year-old Bopanna, who had missed the mixed doubles medal with Sania Mirza very narrowly in the last Games in Rio in 2016. Time for nominations The suspense of Olympic entry for Bopanna and Divij will linger till June 16, when the ITF will tell National Olympic committees and national federations about eligible players. National federations will have time till June 22 to submit their nominations for men’s and women’s doubles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-seeks-clarity-on-olympics-entry/article34685101.ece
31 May 2021||Mugello (Italy),||Moto3 crash victim Dupasquier passes away||Swiss Moto3 rider Jason Dupasquier has died aged 19 from injuries sustained in a crash in qualifying at the Italian Grand Prix, organisers MotoGP announced on Sunday. "We're deeply saddened to report the loss of Jason Dupasquier," MotoGP said on Twitter. "On behalf of the entire MotoGP family, we send our love to his team, his family and loved ones. You will be sorely missed, Jason. Ride in peace," the statement added. The Careggi hospital in Florence treating Dupasquier confirmed to AFP that the teenager had suffered brain injuries "incompatible with life" in the multi-bike accident at Mugello on Saturday. Dupasquier, in his second season in Moto3, fell and was struck by at least one bike, before sliding along the track, during qualifying. Doctors rushed to the scene and after attending to him for 40 minutes on the circuit had him airlifted to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moto3-crash-victim-dupasquier-passes-away/article34685088.ece
31 May 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Milkha Singh discharged||Milkha Singh was on Sunday discharged from a private hospital where he was being treated for COVID-19, even as he continued to be on oxygen support. While the 91-year-old Milkha was discharged on the request of his family, his 82-year-old wife Nirmal Kaur had to be shifted to the ICU on Saturday night due to increasing oxygen requirement. “On the request of the family, Mr. Milkha Singh was discharged from the hospital today in a stable condition. He is on oxygen and nutritional support,” Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said in its update. “Mrs. Milkha Singh had to be shifted to the ICU last night due to increasing oxygen requirements. She continues to be stable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-singh-discharged/article34685098.ece
31 May 2021||Bengaluru,||Cleiton Silva bags a treble||Brazilian striker Cleiton Silva claimed three awards in the Bengaluru FC (BFC) annual awards on Sunday.  The award winners:   Top scorer: Sunil Chhetri, Cleiton Silva (9 goals); Players’ Player of the Season: Cleiton Silva; JSW Fans’ Player of the Season: Suresh Singh Wangjam; Goal of the Season: Cleiton Silva vs SC East Bengal, Tilak Maidan (Feb. 2, 2021).   Upcoming Player of the Season: Damaitphang Lyngdoh (midfielder); U-15 Academy Player of the Season: Lalmingchhuanga (midfielder); U-13 Academy Player of the Season: Newton Singh (midfielder); U-12 Academy Player of the Season: Saathvik Subharkar (defender); U-10 Academy Player of the Season: Liam Fernandes (defender); U-8 Academy Player of the Season: Devansh Chintan (defender).   BFC Soccer Schools U-10 Elite Player of the Season: Hemand Murthy (striker); BFC Soccer Schools U-12 Elite Player of the Season: Aryan Vora (defender); BFC Soccer Schools U-14 Elite Player of the Season: Kevin Kurien (midfielder) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cleiton-silva-bags-a-treble/article34685084.ece
31 May 2021||Graz (Austria),||Malvika loses in quarters||Top seed Clara Azurmendi of Spain defeated India’s Malvika Bansod 21-17, 15-21, 21-19 in the quarterfinals of the Austrian Open International Series badminton here on Saturday. Malvika had earlier defeated seventh seed Leonice Huet of France 21-9, 21-6 in the pre-quarterfinals after notching up a 21-13, 21-15 win over Czech Republic’s Tereza Svabíkova in the opening round. Mugdha Agrey and Anjana Kumari faltered in the women’s opening round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malvika-loses-in-quarters/article34685083.ece
31 May 2021||CHENNAI,||Vaishali wins qualifier-2||India’s R. Vaishali won the women's Speed chess online championship qualifier-2, beating Polina Shuvalova of Russia in the final on Sunday. The 20-year-old from Chennai, a woman Grandmaster, became the second Indian after D. Harika to qualify for the main event of the 2021 women’s Speed championship. “I am very happy with my performance as it has come in a very strong field. I played some very good games,” said Vaishali. In the semifinals, Vaishali defeated Bibisara Assaubayeva 2-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaishali-wins-qualifier-2/article34685092.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Diya, Swastika confirm doubles medal||Young Indian paddlers Diya Chitale and Swastika Ghosh put up solid performances at the 2021 WTT Youth Star Contender in Tunisia as they confirmed a medal in the U-19 girls’ doubles besides advancing to the knockout stage of the singles category. Diya and Swastika, who received a bye in the opening round, registered a convincing 11-5, 6-11, 11-9, 11-8 win against local favourites Fadwa Garci and Maram Zoghlami in the last-eight match and secured at least a bronze medal with an entry into the semifinals. Diya and Swastika also progressed into the U-19 singles last-16 stage after topping their respective groups with an all-win record. Diya was dominant during her identical 3-0 victories against Belarusian Darya Vasilenka (11-7, 11-7, 11-7), Linda Zaderova (11-4, 10-12, 11-1, 11-8) and Algeria’s Narimene-Hind Siddeki (11-3, 11-4, 11-7) in Group VI. Swastika defeated Greece's Malamatenia Papadimitriou and Portuguese Ines Matos 3-0 (11-6, 11-6, 11-9) and 3-2 (8-11, 11-6, 11-5, 8-11, 11-7) respectively in the Group I matches. Earlier in the boys' event, Preyesh Raj Suresh bowed out in the U-15 singles quarterfinals while Payas Jain and Deepit Patil exited in the pre-quarters and group stage of U-19 category, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diya-swastika-ensure-doubles-medal/article34685102.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Roland Garros to shine under lights||The first-ever official night session match at Roland Garros will see 23-time Major champion Serena Williams take on Romania’s Irina-Camelia Begu on Monday. Court Philippe-Chatrier, where the match will be held, added a roof last year, and the French Open has now joined the Australian and US Opens in having night sessions. Over the next 10 days, the organisers have scheduled 10 matches under lights but only the last match will see fans. Paris has a COVID-19 related curfew in place until June 8 which restricts movement after 9 p.m. local time (12.30 a.m. IST), the time the night session begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roland-garros-to-shine-under-lights/article34685046.ece
31 May 2021||PORTO,||De Bruyne in race to be fit for Euros||Kevin De Bruyne is a major doubt for Belgium’s Euro 2020 campaign after suffering two facial fractures in Manchester City’s Champions League final defeat against Chelsea on Saturday. De Bruyne was helped off the field in tears after colliding with Antonio Rudiger on the hour mark in Porto. The midfielder’s left eye immediately appeared swollen. “Just got back from the hospital,” De Bruyne posted on his Twitter account.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-bruyne-in-race-to-be-fit-for-euros/article34685053.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Relief from distress||Adi Sankara’s commentaries on the Prastanatraya texts, the Upanishads, the Brahma Sutra and the Bhagavad Gita have been the basis for the development of various systems of belief and philosophy dealing with the ultimate goal, the salvation of the jivatma. At the same time, having the jivatma’s basic predicament which is samsara, with its attendant evils such as disease, old age, etc, in focus, the acharya shows how faith in the Lord’s infinite power to protect and save the world is the greatest asset for every one, pointed out Sri Sriramana Sarma in a discourse. In the four yugas, Krita, Treta, Dwapara and Kali, there is natural decline in the way people uphold moral standards and practise their nitya and naimittika dharmas. So too, the benefits derived in Krita Yuga through meditation, sacrifices in Treta Yuga and worship in Dwapara yuga, are attainable in Kali yuga through chanting the Lord’s sacred Nama. Adi Sankara alludes to the famous verse that proclaims the efficacy of meditating on Lord Narayana. ‘After a detailed research and analysis of the word of the sastras, sages, rishis, and thinkers of philosophy have come to the conclusion that meditation on the Supreme Deity Narayana is a sure antidote for all sorrows.’ In his bashya to the Vishnu Sahasranama, the acharya draws attention to the time and context in which this hymn is taught by Bhishma. It is at the transition of Dwapara and Kali Yugas, when the Mahabharata war that was fought to establish dharma and quell adharma is just over. Still many doubts on dharma continue to trouble Yudhishtira. Bhishma, the great warrior and realised soul, then imparts this hymn that continues to provide the greatest mental strength to each individual in search of dharma, peace of mind and salvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/relief-from-distress/article34685016.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 08:05 IST,||Sudoku — May 31, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-31-2021/article34685657.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A camera in the kitchen||Recently released film Bloom has a scene that is reflective of the times we live in. A doorbell rings and a girl rushes to see who it is. “Aye, mask potutu po ,” her aunt says. As she pulls it on and opens the door, a surprise awaits: the boy she has been secretly texting is standing outside. Masked. Though they live in the same street, this is the first time they are seeing each other, after communicating virtually every day, all through lockdown. There’s romance in how they lock eyes. This 35-minute Tamil-English short film based in Chennai gives an insight into the minds of the two leads, showcasing how romance plays out among millennials in the times we live in. Even as we brace to survive the relentless second wave of COVID-19, and yet another lockdown, theatres are shut and big film releases have paused. However, in this space, an encouraging new trend is emerging: a spate of realistic and sensitive, hence powerful, short films set in these unnerving times. And though escapism will always be popular in times like this, it is also cathartic to watch these stories unfold. Since March 2020, directors have started thinking up projects that are easy to execute, keeping in mind pandemic-appropriate behaviour and protocol. Leading Tamil director Sudha Kongara did not just ensure the release of her Suriya-starrer feature film Soorarai Potru on an OTT platform but also did two short films: Ilamai Idho Ido (part of Amazon Prime’s Putham Pudhu Kaalai ) and Thangam (part of Netflix’ Paava Kadhaigal ). “As filmmakers, we have started thinking of more contained, smaller, location-safe subjects,” she says. These are usually between a few minutes to half an hour, have just a few characters and are mostly shot within an apartment space or a street. Established filmmakers including Gautham Menon, Karthik Subbaraj, Venkat Prabhu and Vijay tried their hands in the short film format. Gautham’s Karthik Dial Seytha Enn featuring Simbu and Trisha released in May, kickstarting a bunch of shorts. With Kutty Story , released earlier this year, Tamil cinema acknowledged the short film storytelling format on the big screen. Sometimes, these shorts are also bunched together with a common theme, like Paava Kadhaigal . “It was most exciting as it meant four different voices saying the same kind of story,” says Sudha, who collaborated with Vetri Maaran, Vignesh Shivan and Gautham Menon on the project. The new wave Now young, amateur filmmakers are also riding the wave. Bloom , released on the Madras Talkies YouTube channel last week, is the latest. A love story set during the 2020 pandemic in Chennai, this short attempts to explore two young minds. “There are a lot of things about the phase that were unsettling, but I wanted to document the little joys that life threw at us. I felt that the structure in the love story was similar to what I felt about the pandemic,” says its director Richard Anthony, who has earlier assisted Mani Ratnam in Katru Veliyidai and Chekka Chivantha Vaanam . This 35-minute short features just two actors, Mitra Visvesh and Ashwin Raam, and was shot with limited crew in two apartments. “Most films that represented lockdown felt very claustrophobic. So, my DOP (Niketh Bommi) and I used lenses specifically to show the spaces inside the small house as an expanse, to represent the liberation that the characters felt.” This current spurt in short films for YouTube and other OTT platforms is similar to a wave a decade ago in Tamil cinema; back then, TV show ‘Nalaiya Iyakkunar’ was in the forefront of change. If TV helped showcase them to the world then, it is Internet doing the trick now. And it is a more democratic medium, which means we are likely to see a wider gamut of stories and fresh talent. Many of these short films are released on YouTube channels, so the world is their audience, with feedback being instant. “It was like releasing in a theatre, because we get to reach a wide range of audiences who have free access,” says Bloom creative producer Vivek Ramanujam, “There’s also healthy conversation happening in the comment sections. As a team getting into the industry, it encourages us to create an expanded world with bigger budgets.” With YouTube channels like Madboys, Awesome Machi and Certified Rascals too showcasing strong short films in romance and comedy, the future looks bright. A good start In Kerala, Varsha Vasudev, wrote, directed and produced Malayalam short film Ente Narayanikku . “Making the short was the best decision I took in 2020,” says the 29-year-old, who gave up her career as an engineer to become a filmmaker.  Ente Narayanikku revolves around two characters, Ann and Aravind, quarantined in adjacent flats in an apartment complex during the pandemic. They communicate without seeing each other, calling each other by the names Narayani and Basheer, characters from Vaikom Mohammed Basheer’s Mathilukal , which was made into a classic of the same name by auteur Adoor Gopalakrishnan. Sooraj Tom, who had already directed two Malayalam features, Pa.Va and Ente Mezhuthiri Athaazangal , [before lockdown] chose to produce his short film, Sarbath , on his own. He spent about Rs. 1 lakh on it. “It was dubbed in five Indian languages as well,” says Sooraj about his short that revolves around a non-resident Malayali, who is on quarantine following a COVID-19 diagnosis. Lockdown shorts captured the essence of what many people were going through. Bangalore-based Harish Gowda’s recent Kannada short Lockdown Phoenix deals with what filmmakers themselves undergo: his protagonist is a filmmaker who gets a big break but has to cancel shoot due to lockdown. “We need to look within ourselves and draw strength,” says Harish, who joined hands with cinematographer Shivakumar to release the film on YouTube channel Signature Studio. When we look at these films two decades from now, they will surely serve as a reminder for the times we lived in.  (With inputs fromAthira M, Shilpa Nair AnandandShilpa Anandraj)   Making the short film was the best decision I took in 2020 Varsha Vasudev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-camera-in-the-kitchen/article34685191.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Biryani for vaccines||In Kovalam, people heading to the vaccination centre may get more than their shot — they may get a meal ofbiryani, sponsored by the local panchayat as part of NGO Chiraj’s vaccination drive. Heading it is New-York based epidemiologist Dr Rajeev Fernando, an alumnus of Don Bosco School, Egmore. “We will start the incentive model in Kovalam, and then move to Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli, where we are arranging for buses to pick up and drop people getting vaccinated. Our aim is to get 100% vaccinations, even in rural areas,” says Dr Fernando, over a phone call. Chiraj’s operations are being funded by the 1992 batch of Don Bosco alumni from across the world. The funds have also enabled setting up of a free 14-bed COVID-19 care facility in collaboration with Arun Hospital, Medavakkam. The school’s Egmore premises is home to a 100-bed COVID-19 care centre, an ‘extension centre’ of the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. “We are in close contact with the Egmore facility, which is supported mostly by the 1991 batch. We direct patients there as and when needed, as we only have the resources to take in people with SpO2 around 90, and no comorbidities.” Recognising that mental health is an important aspect of the pandemic, the NGO has also set up the Devi Project. “We have two Chennai-based psychologists, who provide women with online counselling in Tamil and English. They have reached out to over 100 women so far,” he says. The alumni are now collecting donations to expand their 14-bed facility to a 100-bed camp at a Government school.  Operations are funded by the 1992 batch of Don Bosco alumni from across the world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/biryani-for-vaccines/article34685190.ece
31 May 2021||Nikhil M Babu,||A matter of health and trust||On April 22, when 38-year-old Amit Gupta, a doctor working at Delhi government-run Satyawadi Raja Harish Chandra Hospital, tested positive for COVID-19, he was admitted at the same hospital. But not for long. “There was no space for new admissions and we had to clear a doctor’s duty room to admit him and another doctor,” said his wife Shristi Mittal, who is also a doctor at the same hospital. Dr. Gupta had to be shifted to Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, a private facility, within days and later to Medanta Hospital, another private hospital for “better care”. Dr. Gupta’s is not a lone instance. People who are part of the government healthcare system, including many healthcare workers and Delhi government Ministers, prefer private hospitals to government ones. All three Delhi Ministers who tested positive — Satyendar Jain, Manish Sisodia, and Gopal Rai — too were admitted to Max Hospital in Saket, a private hospital, at some point in their treatment and finally discharged from there. This trend did not evade the notice of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who in a video statement on April 11 had exhorted people to go to Delhi government hospitals. “Some people only go to private hospitals. In the past five years, your government has made government hospitals excellent. There is very good treatment at Delhi government hospitals. I request you to not run to private hospitals,” he had said. Losing trust But on April 30, Mr. Kejriwal’s wife Sunita, who had tested positive for COVID-19, was admitted to Max Hospital in Saket. “When people see that even politicians and bureaucrats are not opting for government hospitals, they lose trust. It sends a wrong message to the public. Politicians and bureaucrats should get admitted at government hospitals,” Girish Tyagi, Secretary of Delhi Medical Council, emphasised, adding that most people, including doctors and politicians, prefer private hospitals in most cases. However, K. Srinath Reddy, President of Public Health Foundation of India, pointed out that though there are some good government hospitals, most have been neglected. “It is because of lack of funding and poor governance. Thus, private hospitals have an upper hand,” he said. Delhi government spokesperson, though, did not respond to queries. Personalised care In April first week, a nurse at Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Delhi government-run hospital, tested positive for the virus and was admitted to the same hospital. But within three days, the nurse moved to Saroj Hospital, a private one. “I was admitted in the ICU of Lok Nayak Hospital. Going to the bathroom alone was difficult as I had to walk a lot. Then I developed breathlessness and I panicked and decided to opt for a private hospital for better care,” the nurse, who has been working with the hospital for over five years, said. The nurse said there was better personal attention at private hospitals. “There is always someone to monitor you. There is more individualised care. In Lok Nayak Hospial, a doctor does a round and then the other doctor comes in the next shift. But the ICU of Saroj Hospital is small and doctors are there all the time. Also, the bathrooms at Lok Nayak Hospital were not as clean as Saroj’s,” the nurse said. Vijay Gurjar, assistant professor at AIIMS, said people prefer private hospitals due to several factors. “Can any government hospital in Gurugram be compared with Medanta? Or any government hospital in Delhi be compared with Max or Ganga Ram? The services over there are way better,” Dr. Gurjar said. AIIMS and a handful of other government hospitals are exceptions, he observed. Dr. Gurjar said the management, coordination between departments, and manpower are better in most private hospitals. “If a doctor is leaving a private hospital, then the HR steps in and a new person is hired even before the doctor leaves. Whereas in government, it will be vacant for a long time before someone is hired,” he said. Costly affair The nurse spent about Rs. 2.5 lakh at Saroj Hospital for a week’s stay. Dr. Gutpa’s family couldn’t afford the daily hospital bill and his wife said they were spending about Rs. 1.25- Rs. 1.5 lakh a day on treatment at the second private hospital, which was “more than our monthly salary”. The family had to start fundraisers online for treatment. Later, after directions from the National Human Rights Commission, the Delhi government promised to take care of the treatment expenditure. Dr. Reddy said private hospitals among other things employ specialists, but it doesn’t necessarily mean the patient care will be better as a lot of unnecessary procedures might be done. “The solution is strengthening the public sector hospitals with better funding, better equipment and better payment to doctors and ensuring that there is a better governance of the system,” he said. Hiding deficiencies Dr. Gurjar said that administrative authorities are workingjust to hide the deficiencies in the system rather than finding solutions for the permanent shortage of machinery and human resources in government hospitals. “Management is better at private hospitals. For instance, during COVID, in a government hospital, knowing a patient’s status will be difficult for the family. But in private hospitals, doctors are more approachable. Even nurses and nursing orderlies will be easily approachable and friendlier. At government hospitals, due to the high workload, this may not be possible. Treatment-wise, there is not much difference,” Dr. Tyagi said. He said the government should increase the budget on health. “In government hospitals, the number of doctors is less, nurses are also less. Also, healthcare workers should be taken on a permanent basis so that they will get better remuneration and benefits. This will increase their dedication to work and they will work better. “Currently, it is the poor who suffer as they have no other option, but government hospitals,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-matter-of-health-and-trust/article34685497.ece
31 May 2021||Pune,||With 18,600 cases, State records lowest daily spike in two months||In its lowest single-day surge in nearly two months, Maharashtra reported 18,600 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday as opposed to 22,532 recoveries with the State’s active case tally dipping further to reach 2,71,801. A total of 814 deaths were added to the State’s progressive death toll, of which 402 occurred in the last week. Of the 402, as many as 272 were recorded in the last 48 hours while 412 had been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department. The total death toll has now risen to 94,844 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 1.65%. The State’s total cases have touched 57,31,815 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 53,62,370 with the recovery rate rising to 93.55%. “Of a total 3,48,61,608 laboratory samples tested thus far, 57,31,815 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 16.44%) have returned positive with over 2.53 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported more than 2,000 new cases as its total case tally reached 10,16,109. As per the State Health Department figures, 26 deaths were recorded as the fatality toll climbed to 12,413. With cases rapidly on the wane in Pune district, which is witnessing a concurrent drop in the demand for medical oxygen, industrial bodies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have urged the State government to restore the supply of oxygen for industrial uses. Mumbai recorded 1,062 new cases to take its total tally to 7,04,622 while the active count has declined further to 28,015. Twenty-two fatalities took the city’s toll to 14,797. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur showed no signs of improvement. It registered 74 deaths and nearly 1,700 cases, taking its fatality toll to 3,462 while its total cases reached 1,12,325 of whom 17,862 are active. Cases piled up in Satara, which added 1,855 new infections and 17 deaths, taking its total case tally to 1,63,690 of whom 21,625 are active. Its death toll has gone up to 3,094.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/with-18600-cases-state-records-lowest-daily-spike-in-two-months/article34685198.ece
31 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Beneficiaries miffed over queues at drive-through vaccination centre||Pooran Chandra Upreti, a Civil Engineer at IGI Airport, was sitting in a car with his daughter for over six hours on Sunday to get her the vaccine dose. “We are in the queue since 6 a.m. It might take another hour before our turn comes,” said Mr. Upreti. The queue of cars on Mehrauli-Gurugram road was around four kilometres long. All of them were in line for the vaccination drive at the DLF City Centre shopping mall. The district administration had on Sunday organised a drive-through vaccination drive with on-the-spot registration at the shopping mall for the 18-45 age group. ‘Good idea’ “This drive-through vaccination drive with on-the-spot registration doesn’t seem a good idea to me. It should be quick,” added 52-year-old Upreti, who lives in Laxman Vihar. While Mr. Upreti has received both the shots, he was accompanying his daughter for her first dose. Mr. Upreti was also critical of the “inherent bias” against the underprivileged in the concept of drive-through vaccination drive. “The rich come in cars and get vaccinated in a safe environment. What about the poor? The administration should spare a thought about them as well,” he said. The second day of the drive-through vaccination drive was no different from the first drive, which was held on Saturday with serpentine queues of vehicles and spats amongst beneficiaries. Ravinder (42), a cab driver, claimed that a minor brawl broke out after two motorists tried to sneak into a queue and a Police Control Room vehicle had to intervene. The police made all those involved in the brawl return home. Standing in a queue since 8 a.m., Mr. Ravinder, feared that he might miss the second opportunity to get the vaccine. “I was in the queue yesterday (on Saturday) as well for the drive at Mega Mall. The line stretched up to Galleria Market and beyond. I left after waiting for two hours. I tried booking a slot but found only in Nuh. I thought it better to wait in the queue here than to go all the way to Nuh,” said Ravinder, a Gandhi Nagar resident. Assistant Sub-Inspector Kuldeep, deployed for traffic management, said two people had parked their vehicles at the mall’s entrance at 11:30 p.m. the previous night to beat the rush. ASI Yogesh, deployed at the mall’s entrance, said beneficiaries had started queuing up around 5 a.m. He said that tokens were given to the first 500 beneficiaries so that others don’t have to wait. But many towards the end of the queue did not know about the tokens. Amit Lakhotia, founder and Chief Executive Officer, Park+, an automated parking solution start-up, said the update about the number of vaccinations administered was available on the company’s app as well on an LED screen at the shopping mall to keep those in queue informed. “It was clearly communicated that the vaccination would start at 10 a.m., but if people decide to come at 6 a.m. we cannot do much about it,” said Mr. Lakhotia. His start-up has been assisting the administration in managing the drive. The district administration claimed that 590 beneficiaries were vaccinated at DLF City Centre against the target of 500. Besides the shopping mall, similar drive-through vaccination drives for those above 45 years were conducted at Candor Techspace in sectors 48 and 21 as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/beneficiaries-miffed-over-queues-at-drive-through-vaccination-centre/article34685208.ece
31 May 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. to relax curbs from June 1 as cases drop||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced relaxations to the partial lockdown in much of the State as active cases have reduced to just over 41,000. From June 1, shops, bazaars and other establishments in the State would be allowed to open outside containment zones from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. for five days a week while a lockdown would be imposed during the weekend.  No relaxation in 20 dists The relaxations, however, as of now, would be introduced only in 55 out of the 75 districts. In the remaining 20 districts, which have more than 600 active cases, no relaxations would be provided till the active cases fall below this level, said Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, Chief Secretary, in an order. If the active cases in a district climb above 600, the district would forfeit its relaxations and would be brought under corona curfew again, the government said. The districts that will still have restrictions include Meerut, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Prayagraj, Jhansi and Bareilly. While Meerut has 2,806 active cases, Lucknow has 2,450, Saharanpur 2,225, Varanasi 2,111 and Ghaziabad 1,760, as per official figures. According to the State health department, U.P. recorded 1,908 new cases and 140 deaths on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-govt-to-relax-curbs-from-june-1-as-cases-drop/article34685481.ece
31 May 2021||GUWAHATI,||20 dead as 350 tea estates in Assam affected by COVID-19||The COVID-19 infections have spread fast across the tea belt in eastern Assam, affecting almost half of the State’s 803 major tea estates. The State Health and Family Welfare Department could not provide data specific to the tea estates. But associations of tea workers said about 350 estates have been affected, leaving more than 20 workers dead. “It is difficult to give the exact figures... a majority of some 6,200 workers who tested positive are from the gardens in five-six districts,” Congress-affiliated Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha leader Lakheswar Tanti said. The districts most affected are Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Biswanath, Golaghat and Jorhat. “The spread is worrisome. One can get an idea from the fact that a total of 1,325 people tested positive in these five districts on May 28,” a Health Department official said. Reluctant to get tested Dhiraj Goala, the president of the All Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association, attributed the spread to the reluctance of tea workers in getting tested. “There are 25 lakh people across the tea belt and 10 lakh of them are workers in large and small tea gardens. Our members have been visiting the gardens, motivating them to get tested as well as vaccinated,” he told The Hindu . “According to the government records, 27,000 tea garden workers have been given the first dose of the vaccination and 2,400 the second dose. We have asked the government to speed up the process with offline, on-the-spot registration facility,” Mr. Goala said. The State government has decided to facilitate offline registration for the vaccination drive. Sooner the better, tea organisations have said. Labour and Tea Tribes Welfare Minister Sanjay Kishan, who has been monitoring the pandemic status in the tea belt, said COVID Care Centres have been set up in over 270 tea gardens and more are being set up. “We have formed a COVID management committee in every tea garden, which updates us. We are also providing Rs. 2,000 for rations to each family affected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/20-dead-as-350-tea-estates-in-assam-affected-by-covid-19/article34685205.ece
31 May 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana government extends lockdown till June 7||The Haryana government on Sunday extended lockdown for the fourth straight week till June 7 but eased the restrictions. The shops in the marketplaces can now open for six hours from 9 a.m. onwards, and shopping malls and hotels can also open with certain restrictions. However, all colleges, coaching institutions, industrial training institutes, libraries and training institutes (both private and government) will remain closed till June 15. The anganwadi centres and crèches under Women and Child Development Department will remain shut till June 30. Amid a sharp decline in the number of active cases and the positivity rate in the State over the past one month, the government extended lockdown or “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana”, for another week till 5 a.m. on June 7, saying that there was the need to bring down the positivity and fatality rates even further. The stand-alone shops were allowed to open during the daytime last week, but the timings for the shops in the marketplaces were fixed from 7 a.m. to 12 noon adhering to the odd-even formula. In further relaxations to the shops in the marketplaces, the May 30 order allowed the shops to open from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. As per the new directions, the shopping malls can also open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. with only one person per 25 square feet allowed inside. The cinema halls, restaurants, and bars inside malls will remain closed. Similarly, room occupancy is allowed in the hotels, but restaurants and bars will remain closed. The Haryana government had first imposed a weekend lockdown in nine districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad — from 10 p.m. April 30 to 5 a.m. on May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-government-extends-lockdown-till-june-7/article34685206.ece
31 May 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Extend benefits to all orphans’||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced special ‘PM-CARES for Children’ for those orphaned due to COVID-19, activists here demanded similar benefits be extended all parents-less children. “Children are not left alone only when their parents lose battle against COVID-19. In backward areas, hunger and poverty too snap lives and orphaned children must be taken care of,” said Jyoti Prakash Brahma, a child rights activist here on Sunday. Ten days ago on May 18, Flora Nag (15), Sarita Nag (14) and Prashant Nag (11) (names changed) under Khaprakhol block of Balangir district lost their father Subal Nag (60), who had been keeping unwell largely due to his poor condition. Though COVID-19 test was not conducted, he had fever for three to four days before his death. His wife had died of tuberculosis in 2019. ‘None ready to take us’ “For the past 10 days, the local sarpanch has been arranging one time food while our neighbour in the village takes care of dinner. This cannot go on for an indefinite period. No one is ready to take our burden,” said Flora Nag, who has learnt cooking after her mother’s death. Similarly, two children aged 11 and 4 in Bhainsadani area of Nuapada district have lost their parents in the past couple of years. They belong to the Paharia community which lives on the Odisha-Chhattisgarh border. The community does not have enough resources to rely upon. The two siblings now live with their maternal uncle. Saroj Barik, an activist working with migrant workers, said, “I have come across many instances in which children had lost their parents either at workplace or home in the last two decades. These children too deserve government’s care which is being extended to COVD-19 orphans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/extend-benefits-to-all-orphans/article34685484.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||North-east riots: Natasha Narwal returns to jail||Jawaharlal Nehru University student Natasha Narwal, who was granted bail to perform the last rites of her father who succumbed to COVID-19, returned to the jail on Sunday, said a senior jail official. The Delhi High Court had granted bail to Ms. Narwal, a Pinjra Tod activist who was arrested last year in May in connection with the communal riots in north-east Delhi. She was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. In the clash that broke out on February 24, at least 53 people died and around 200 injured. Pinjra Tod was founded in 2015 to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-east-riots-natasha-narwal-returns-to-jail/article34685216.ece
31 May 2021||Agartala,||BJP corners rebel MLAs with relief distribution||The BJP leadership in Tripura has launched COVID-19 linked welfare activities in Assembly segments held by party’s rebel legislators. They have apparently targeted MLAs Sudip Roy Barman, Asish Kumar Saha and Sushanta Chowdhury to corner them in their own turf. Though the party is avoiding organisation programmes due to pandemic restrictions, it began mobilising leaders and cadres to distribute masks, sanitizers and food packets to destitute people in constituencies like 6-Agartala, Bardowali and Majlishpur without inviting the local MLAs. Party State president Manik Saha is regularly visiting Bardowali to hand out relief. Asish Kumar Saha won from the constituency five times in a row, but Manik Saha is reportedly expecting the party’s nomination in the next Assembly elections slated for February 2023.  Motorcycle rally Similarly party leader Dipak Majumder led a relief distribution programme in the Majlishpur constituency on Sunday. A motorcycle rally by party supporters escorted him to the area. Youth leader Sushanta Choudhury had won from Majlishpur in 2018 defeating CPI(M) firebrand leader and former Minister Manik Dey by a convincing margin. BJP’s women wing leader Papia Datta handed out aid to the poor in the 6-Agartala constituency of former Health Minister and MLA Sudip Roy Barman. Mr. Barman has been leading the dissident camp in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-corners-rebel-mlas-with-relief-distribution/article34685485.ece
31 May 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmers’ stir spreading pandemic in villages, says Lal||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said here on Sunday that the farmers’ agitation is one of the reasons behind the COVID-19 spread in villages, some of which are witnessing higher death rate than usual. Mr. Lal had earlier appealed to farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws to suspend their stir, citing the grim pandemic situation.  ‘More deaths’ Addressing a press conference through the virtual mode, the Chief Minister said the movement of those connected with the agitation to and from dharna sites is spreading the infection in villages, some of which have seen “more deaths than the average” number. “The death rate has gone up by six to 10 times in these villages than what it was in the previous year. If someone says it is not due to Covid, then there is no other pandemic at this stage,” he said, holding the agitation one of the factors behind the infection spread. “Thousands gather at one place, mingle together and Covid-appropriate protocols are not followed,” Mr. Lal said. He claimed that some of the villages have reported deaths equal to what is witnessed in an entire year there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-stir-spreading-pandemic-in-villages-says-lal/article34685486.ece
31 May 2021||Agra,||13 injured in U.P. accident||Thirteen passengers were injured after a bus fell into a 15-feet-deep ditch along the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Sunday. The accident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, and its suspected that the driver lost control of the vehicle after its axle broke, they said. The injured passengers were admitted to the Sarojani Naidu Medical College and Hospital here, police said. The bus, which was going from Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh to Jaipur in Rajasthan, had 70-80 passengers. It fell into a 15-feet-deep ditch along the expressway near milestone nine, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/13-injured-in-up-accident/article34685203.ece
31 May 2021||Patna,||Bihar CPI(M) MLA attacked at party office||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) MLA from Bibhutipur in Samastipur district of Bihar Ajay Kumar was attacked late at night on May 29 at party’s Samastipur office. He, however, was unhurt. The party has condemned the attack and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. Mr. Kumar, 51, is the leader of the CPI (M) legislature party in the State Assembly and a member of the State Secretariat. He is a popular Left leader in the district and in the 2020 Assembly elections, he had defeated sitting JD(U) MLA Ram Balak Singh from Bibhutipur. The party workers and leaders took out a protest march in Samastipur town on Sunday and blocked traffic demanding immediate arrest of culprits. Mr. Kumar could not be contacted. However, a local party leader told The Hindu that “over a dozen bike-borne criminals had attacked the party office on Saturday at 10 p.m. and broke the lock of the gate and damaged Mr. Kumar’s SUV. The security guard of the MLA was injured in the attack”. This was second attack on Mr. Kumar in recent past. Senior State party leader Sarvodya Sharma told The Hindu over phone that some criminals tried to enter the party office in Samastipur. “They had come to attack Mr. Kumar but could not as other people had gathered. However, a security guard got injured.” The party has asked all its district committees and units to observe May 31 as “protest day” across the State to condemn the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-cpim-mla-attacked-at-party-office/article34685204.ece
31 May 2021||Thane,||Mangroves: court refuses pre-arrest bail to 2 officials||A court in Thane in Maharashtra rejected the pre-arrest bail pleas of two Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) officials in connection with a police case on destruction of mangroves. In his order of May 25, the detailed copy of which was made available now, District Judge P.P. Jadhav said MBMC executive engineers Deepak Kambit and Suresh Wakhode did not deserve protection from arrest. The court order said the State had alleged that Mr. Kambit and Mr. Wakhode had, between January 2 and March 23 this year, issued a tender for construction work in prohibited mangrove area situated near Mira Road in the township.  Tehsildar report It said the tehsildar of Mira Bhayander had submitted a report stating that mangroves had been damaged in the area and, therefore, an offence was committed. The court order said the applicants were likely to obstruct the investigation and tamper with evidence if pre-arrest bail was allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mangroves-court-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-2-officials/article34685193.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records less than 100 deaths after over a month||The Capital recorded 946 fresh COVID-19 cases and 78 more deaths on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The bulletin said 75,440 tests have been conducted in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 1.25%. This is the first time in nearly a month-and-a-half that daily deaths in the city have fallen below 100. The city had recorded 81 deaths on April 13. There are 12,100 active cases in the city of which 5,817 are under home isolation. The cumulative figure in the Capital now stands at 14,25,592 cases with 24,151 deaths and 13,89,341 recoveries. Delhi on Saturday had recorded 956 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in over two months, and 122 fatalities. Atishi on vaccines Presenting the vaccination bulletin, senior AAP leader Atishi said one week had been completed since the vaccination programme had to be suspended for the 18– 44-year category due to the “so-called shortage of vaccines”. “There is currently no stock of vaccine available for those between 18-44 years and no governmental vaccination center is in operation. As far as 45 + is concerned, right now 3.5 lakh doses are available for them in Delhi, of which 40,000 doses of Covaxin and 2.75 lakh of Covishield are available,” Ms. Atishi said. She added that Covaxin is being administered only to those who are taking the second dose. In Delhi, 53,42386 people have been vaccinated in Delhi, of which 41,38, 523 people have been given the first dose and more than 12 lakh people have been given both doses. “It is a matter of pride for Delhi that more than 50% of the category of 45+ has been vaccinated. The more people are vaccinated, not only will they protect themselves, but Delhi will also slowly start to move towards herd immunity and consequently they will be able to save the people of entire Delhi,” Ms. Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-less-than-100-deaths-after-over-a-month/article34685215.ece
31 May 2021||Mumbai,||Actor’s bodyguard held for raping 30-year-old woman||A bodyguard of a leading Bollywood actor had been arrested from Karnakata by the Mumbai Police for allegedly raping a beautician on the pretext of marriage, an official said on Sunday. Kumar Hegde had been on the run for the last 10 days before being nabbed from his native Heggadahalli village in Mandya district on Saturday afternoon and brought here on transit remand, the D.N. Nagar police station official said. “A team under sub inspector Virendra Bhosle held Mr. Hegde a day before he was supposed to get married to another girl. A 30-year-old woman, who works as a beautician, had last week filed a complaint of rape against him. The woman said they had known each other for eight years and he had, in June last year, proposed marriage, which she accepted,” he said. Later, on April 27 this year, he took Rs. 50,000 from her claiming his mother had died in Karnataka, but then stopped all communication with the complainant once he reached his native State, the official said. “After the woman found out he was planning to marry another girl in a matter of days, she approached the police and Mr. Hegde was charged with rape, unnatural sex and cheating, and arrested,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/actors-bodyguard-held-for-raping-30-year-old-woman/article34685192.ece
31 May 2021||Pune,||Kin of victim overcharged, four Pune doctors booked||Four doctors from a Pune-based hospital had been booked for allegedly overcharging the kin of a COVID-19 victim, the police said on Sunday. The COVID-19 patient died in September last year and bills that his kin got were Rs. 2.5 lakh in excess of what should have been the amount as per the tariff prescribed by the Maharashtra government, a Pimpri Chinchwad police official said. “The family approached the district health department, which asked the Chakan-based hospital to refund the excess amount but it did not do so. A police complaint was filed by Chakan Rural Hospital medical superintendent Dr. Nanda Dhawale, following which four doctors/directors have been booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust,” a Chakan police station official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kin-of-victim-overcharged-four-pune-doctors-booked/article34685195.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre giving jabs to only pvt. hospitals, alleges Atishi||AAP leader Atishi on Sunday alleged that the only way for youngsters to get vaccinated here is to pay high prices in private hospitals as the Centre was not providing vaccines to the State governments that were carrying out the drive for free. She alleged that the BJP was earning a heavy commission through private hospitals. She said the vaccines, which were supposed to be supplied to State governments, are being diverted to private hospitals. “Today, the private hospitals in Delhi are vaccinating more than the government ones because the vaccines are being made available only to them,” Ms. Atishi said. She added that the State government, which was immunising people for free is not getting any vaccines, but private hospitals and hotels are getting huge supplies. “What kind of connivance is this of the Centre?... Nearly all the countries have approved Pfizer, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson, but India refuses to,” Ms. Atishi alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-giving-jabs-to-only-pvt-hospitals-alleges-atishi/article34685212.ece
31 May 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP demands probe into deaths due to lack of oxygen||Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Sunday demanded a judicial probe into the deaths that happened in hospitals due to the shortage of oxygen during the second COVID wave in the Capital. He said those who had died due to lack of oxygen supply or failure of the government should get a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh instead of Rs. 5 lakh as announced by the Delhi government. “It is high time that responsibility for these deaths be fixed...,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-demands-probe-into-deaths-due-to-lack-of-oxygen/article34685213.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Stormy times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stormy-times/article34685483.ece
31 May 2021||Aurangabad,||Scribe roughed up over report on Nilesh Rane||The executive editor of a Marathi daily based in Aurangabad was manhandled by four people on Sunday who also tried to blacken his face over the publication of a news item regarding former Congress MP and Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha leader Nilesh Rane, the police said. Five people reached the newspaper office around 1.30 p.m. and confronted the executive editor, Ravindra Tahakik, over the news item, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scribe-roughed-up-over-report-on-nilesh-rane/article34685194.ece
31 May 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Congress burns effigy of Modi in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai unit of the Congress on Sunday burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hoisted black flags in Nerul, as part of the party’s Statewide agitation to mark seven years of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre. Nerul block Congress president Ravindra Sawant said, “Instead of improving India’s economic condition, Mr. Modi made people bang plates and light diyas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-burns-effigy-of-modi-in-navi-mumbai/article34685196.ece
31 May 2021||May 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Life goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/life-goes-on/article34685525.ece
31 May 2021||Pithoragarh,||Tribals flee into forest to escape COVID-19 test||Residents of a Uttarakhand tribal village here ran to a nearby forest when a team of health workers came to their doorsteps recently to test them for COVID-19. Kuta Chaurani village is inhabited by Banrawats — an endangered tribe. The shy tribals fled to the adjoining forest on getting information about the arrival of a team in their village on Friday, Didihat SDM KN Goswami said on Sunday. “While we could test residents of Aultari and Jamtari villages, those living in Kuta Chaurani fled to the forest,” the SDM said.   “We will make another attempt to test them in two-three days,” Mr. Goswami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tribals-flee-into-forest-to-escape-covid-19-test/article34685202.ece
31 May 2021||New DELHI,||Delhi Health Minister’s OSD succumbs to Covid complications: Sources||An Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain succumbed to COVID-19 on Sunday, a day before his retirement, said his family. A.K. Rakshit, was battling COVID for over a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-health-ministers-osd-succumbs-to-covid-complications-sources/article34685209.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||Dust storm hits parts of Delhi||Delhi witnessed a change in weather on Sunday evening as a dust storm hit parts of the city. The IMD said the city is likely to receive rainfall late in the evening. The maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 38.2 °C and 25.2 °C , it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dust-storm-hits-parts-of-delhi/article34685210.ece
31 May 2021||New Delhi,||32 kids orphaned in COVID-19 pandemic in Delhi: Child rights panel chief||The Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) identified 32 children who were orphaned during the pandemic in the city. Ten more children have been identified who have lost their single parent to the virus, said DCPCR chairman Anurag Kundu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/32-kids-orphaned-in-covid-19-pandemic-in-delhi-child-rights-panel-chief/article34685211.ece
