June 1, 2020||World||US will consider rejoining WHO if it ends corruption, reliance on China: White House||WASHINGTON: The US will consider rejoining the World Health Organization if it ends corruption and reliance on China, the White House said on Sunday. President Donald Trump on Friday terminated America's relationship with the WHO and accused the global health body of being hand in glove with China in sharing inaccurate information to the world about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 370,000 people globally. “The WHO needs to reform. What the president said, if the WHO reforms and ends the corruption and ends the reliance on China, the US will very seriously consider coming back,” US National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien told ABC News. The US has said that it will spend the money, over $400 million which it gives to the WHO, on other international public health bodies. “In the meantime, we're going to take that $400 million that the US spends, compared to the $40 million that the Chinese spends on the WHO. And we're going to make sure it gets to front-line health care workers, just like we're doing with PEPFAR in Africa,” O'Brien said. “The WHO isn't saving lives for AIDS and HIV victims in Africa. It's the United States and our generous taxpayers who are saving those lives in Africa. We're not doing it through the WHO. We're doing it as the United States of America,” he said. “We're going to take that same money and make sure it gets to the Doctors Without Borders and the Red Cross and the hospitals all over the world that need it, and doesn't go through a corrupt international organisation that's controlled by the Chinese Communist Party. That's for sure,” O'Brien said. Appearing on the CNN on another Sunday talk show, O'Brien said that the US has got a series of measures to deal with China and the way they've choked out freedom in Hong Kong. “The president made a very important announcement on that front on Friday and the US government is looking at all of our relations with Hong Kong and China. So there will be a response and it will be proportional, but this is not something that our adversaries are going to get away with for free,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-will-consider-rejoining-who-if-it-ends-corruption-reliance-on-china-white-house/articleshow/76125744.cms||---
June 1, 2020||World||Militants in Burkina Faso kill 35 in separate attacks, govt says||OUAGADOUGOU: Militants in Burkina Faso attacked a cattle market and a humanitarian convoy, killing at least 35 people, the government said on Sunday. Saturday's violence underscores deep instability in parts of Burkina Faso, which has been battling armed groups with links to al Qaeda and Islamic State since 2017. Twenty-five people were killed and more wounded in the attack on the market in the eastern village of Kompienga, while five civilians and five military police were killed near the northern village of Foube, the government said in a statement. Armed groups "targeted a humanitarian convoy returning from Foube after delivering supplies", it said. A further 20 people were wounded in the convoy attack, it said. No group has claimed responsibility. Hundreds have been killed in the past year in the Sahel nation, and moer than half a million people have fled their homes due to the violence, which has also fuelled ethnic and religious tensions. The bloodshed follows the death of at least 15 people on Friday in an attack on a convoy transporting traders in northern Burkina Faso.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/militants-in-burkina-faso-kill-35-in-separate-attacks-govt-says/articleshow/76126253.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||3 Pakistan mission staffers caught spying, 2 of them expelled||NEW DELHI: In a joint operation conducted by the military intelligence and Delhi Police's special cell, three staff members from the Pakistan high commission were apprehended red-handed while trying to exchange stolen classified documents, in a development that might further strain the already tense ties with the hostile neighbour. The men — Abid Hussain, Tahir Khan and Javed Hussain — have been found to be directly linked to the ISI. The two men were declared persona non grata by the foreign ministry and were asked to leave the country by Monday morning. The last time a Pakistani diplomatic staffer was expelled was in 2016. "The government has declared both these officials persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within 24 hours," the MEA said in a statement. India also registered a strong protest with Pakistan’s charge de affaires with regard to the activities of these officials against India’s national security. He was asked to ensure that no member of its diplomatic mission should indulge in activities inimical to India or behave in a manner incompatible with their diplomatic status. An FIR under sections of the Official Secrets Act has been registered. Pakistan rejected the charge of espionage against the staffers of its mission as "false" and "unsubstantiated" and termed their expulsion as violative of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Amid the strong likelihood of a tit-for-tat response, the foreign ministry in Islamabad alleged that its personnel were tortured and accused India of trying to restrict the space for Pakistani diplomats. It also said the action was a ploy to distract attention from the "worsening situation and human rights violations" in J&K and from the issues, external and internal, facing the BJP government. It also sought the intervention of the international community for ensuring peace and stability in South Asia. Sources in Delhi said the three Pakistanis were tracked down by cops when they had allegedly gone to meet a "defence personnel" near Arya Samaj Road in Karol Bagh to exchange some highly sensitive info. It was found that Abid Hussain (42) and Tahir Khan (44) were using fake Indian names and identity cards. They had travelled around the city in a car that was being driven by Javed Hussain. Sources said they were under the intel scanner for quite some time after they attempted to contact and lure some defence personnel into espionage-related activities. They were caught with some incriminating documents along with Rs 15,000 and two iPhones, one which they wanted to give to the informant. During interrogation, the men claimed they were under diplomatic immunity but were not found to be so. They claimed to be in touch with a number of people who were providing them sensitive information about military deployments. Efforts are being made to track down the informants as well. The agencies are probing whether other staff members from the high commission were also involved in the spying racket. A report regarding the interrogation was sent to the MEA. After registering an FIR, the men were sent for a medical examination and then handed over to the high commission. Sources said Abid Hussain was posted as a visa assistant since December 2018, while Tahir Khan was an upper division clerk who came to India around the same time. Javed Hussain was working as a driver for the past five and a half years. In 2016, Delhi Police had busted another spy ring comprising more than a dozen officials from the Pakistan high commission after they caught a staffer, Mehmood Akhtar, who was retrieving data about BSF deployments along the Indo-Pak border. Following this, 16 staff members from the high commission were expelled after they were found to be obtaining information from different sources. After that, the ISI had been been using its agents posted in Pakistan's missions in neighbouring countries of Mauritius and Sri Lanka to organise espionage and subversion in India, sources said. Watch 3 Pak mission staffers caught spying, nabbed in joint operation by military intelligence and Delhi Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-pakistan-mission-staffers-caught-spying-2-of-them-expelled/articleshow/76126484.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||Railways resumes operations, 1.5 lakh to board 200 trains today||NEW DELHI: More than 1.45 lakh passengers will board 200 special express and mail trains from Monday when the railways restarts its operations. The state-run transporter said it was monitoring booking of tickets and would soon take a decision on resuming operations of Duronto, Shatabdi and Garib Rath trains. Sources said Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have expressed reservations about running trains or number of stoppages of these trains. In a late night response, railway ministry said, “All trains are running as planned.” The railway ministry on Sunday said around 26 lakh passengers have booked advance tickets on these special trains till June 30. These trains are in addition to the Shramik Specials and Rajdhanis which are being currently operated. The demand for Shramik Specials has been steadily declining. Speaking to reporters on Friday, railway board chairman V K Yadav had said, “We are monitoring the booking of tickets in these 200 special trains. We are heading towards normalcy. In the second phase, we will decide about running more trains after assessing the requirement. We will run more trains whether Duronto, Shatabdi or Garib Rath wherever there is requirement.” The operation of 200 trains is being seen as a step towards a graded restoration of passenger train services. These trains are on the pattern of regular services and are fully reserved having both AC and non-AC classes. The general coaches have reserved sitting accommodation to ensure there is no crowding. Social distancing norms for boarding and screening will apply. Till Sunday morning, the total bookings of passengers was close to 25.83 lakh, the railway ministry said. The Indian Railways has also allowed booking of parcel and luggage in these trains and also in the other 30 trains being operated between Delhi and 15 major cities. The ministry said no unreserved tickets will be issued and no tickets will be issued on board to any passenger during the journey. While passengers with RAC tickets are allowed to board trains, waitlisted passengers won’t be allowed in these trains. According to the ministry, all passengers will be screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train and passengers need to reach the station 90 minutes in advance. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as are prescribed by the destination state. Catering norms will be similar to the 30 Rajdhani-type trains. There will be no catering charges and provision for pre-paid meal booking and e-catering has been disabled. IRCTC will make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis only in limited trains which have pantry car attached. Similarly, no linen, blankets and curtains will be provided inside the train. Passengers have been advised to carry their own linen for the travel. The ministry said all passengers need to download and use the Aarogya Setu app and they have been advised to travel light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-resumes-operations-1-5-lakh-to-board-200-trains-today/articleshow/76126516.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||Curbs are being eased but lowering of guard is not an option: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: A day before further easing of the lockdown, with significant curbs restricted to containment zones, Prime Minister Narendra Modi struck a note of caution and asked people to guard against complacency, while emphasising the need to maintain physical distancing, use marks and practise good hygiene. “Lowering of guard is not an option,” the PM said as he referred to the plan for full resumption of rail and domestic air travel and reopening of a “substantial chunk” of the economy. “Much has resumed, Shramik Special trains are operational, other special trains too have begun. With utmost precautions, flights have resumed, industry too is returning to normalcy, thus opening up a major segment of the economy. In such a scenario, we need to be even more alert and careful. There should be no laxity on our part in complete adherence,” Modi said in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’. Asking for continuing adherence to distancing and hygiene norms so that the gains from the lockdown are not lost, the PM said relaxation of restrictions did not mean that the fear of the pandemic was over. He added that citizens should be aware that they and their families continue to be at risk from the highly infectious disease about which little is known. The address saw the PM focusing on the sufferings of migrant workers and the backwardness of eastern India, from where most migrate to other parts. He said while all sections of society had suffered because of the pandemic, the poor and workers were hurt the most. “Their agony, their pain, their ordeal cannot be expressed in words. Who amongst us cannot understand and feel what they and their families are going through? All of us are trying to share their distress; the torment… the entire country is doing that," he said. Modi said workers were forced to migrate because of backwardness of eastern India. “Today, the distress our workforce is undergoing is representative of that of the country’s eastern region. The very region which possesses the capacity to be the country’s growth engine, whose workforce possesses the capability and the might to take the country to greater heights… the eastern region needs development,” he said, referring to eastern UP, Bihar and West Bengal, where maximum migrants returned. “Considering the migrant labourers,” the PM said, “the need of the hour is devising a new solution, a paradigm, we are ceaselessly taking steps in that direction. For example, at places, skill mapping of labourers is being carried out; at other places, startups are engaged in doing the same. The establishment of a migration commission is being deliberated upon.” Modi began and ended his address on a cautionary note, saying adherence to safety measures was important, all the more so after so many hardships. “We must not let this fight weaken. Becoming careless or lackadaisical cannot be an option. The fight against corona is still serious,” he said. "We have to save the life of every human being, therefore distancing of two yards (do gaz ki doori), face masks and washing of hands are all precautions that are to be meticulously followed in the same manner as we have been observing so far,” he added, pointing to the gains which he said were significant given India's population and resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/curbs-are-being-eased-but-lowering-of-guard-is-not-an-option-pm-modi/articleshow/76126574.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||States wary of crowds, major shrines to stay shut for now||NEW DELHI: A day after the Union home ministry’s “Unlock 1” plan provided the green signal for places of worship to reopen on June 8, Uttarakhand was the only state to officially spell out on Sunday that all major religious destinations like Haridwar and Char Dham would open their doors after a week but restrict entry to the local population for a start. “We will chalk out how many people can be allowed inside each temple every day and other security measures later in the week,” Haridwar MLA Madan Kaushik said. In Bengal, churches and gurdwaras have been allowed to reopen from Monday with not more than 10 people inside at a time. A directive on temples and mosques will be issued later, officials said. Most large places of worship across the country are likely to remain shut for longer — either voluntarily or because of state-specific measures overriding the central unlock plan — even as some have tentatively announced they will reopen on June 8 without waiting for the respective governments to specify the way forward. In Maharashtra, the Shirdi and Siddhivinayak temples and Mumbai’s Haji Ali Dargah waited all day for word on whether they would be allowed to reopen before the state government came out with a “Mission Begin Again” strategy that does not include places of worship for now. Assam’s ancient Kamakhya temple decided on Saturday itself to remain closed till July, irrespective of the state government’s call on the Centre’s guidelines. Puri’s Jagannath temple, shut since March 20, won’t reopen before July either, which effectively means the annual Rath Yatra that draws lakhs of devotees will be an unusually quiet affair this year. In AP, the state government’s decision to reopen or keep the Tirumala and Tirupati temples closed won’t be known until next Thursday, said a senior official in Hyderabad. Gujarat will decide on reopening major places of worship only after receiving a detailed SOP from the Centre, deputy CM Nitin Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-wary-of-crowds-major-shrines-to-stay-shut-for-now/articleshow/76126612.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Business||As personal & small business loans crash, bank lending in April shrinks Rs 1.1 lakh crore||MUMBAI: Bank lending has shrunk by Rs 1.1 lakh crore during the four weeks ended April 24 to Rs 91.5 lakh crore. While such a decline in lending is not unusual, this year the drop was entirely because of loans to individuals in the personal segment shrinking by nearly Rs 63,000 crore and to micro and small enterprises by nearly Rs 50,000 crore during the period which coincided with Lockdown 1.0 and the first half of Lockdown 2.0. In percentage terms, the sharpest drop in outstanding loans was in the personal segment, with middle-class borrowing for consumption through credit card outstanding and advances against fixed deposits (FDs) and shares falling by over 10%. Most Indians in this period remained in their homes, unable to go out and spend or order anything online other than food and groceries. The personal loan segment saw outstanding advances decline by Rs 62,861 crore to Rs 24.9 lakh crore. According to data released by the RBI, the total bank credit as on April 24 stood at Rs 91.5 lakh crore — a dip of 1.2% from Rs 92.6 lakh crore on March 27. Loans to micro and small enterprises in the priority sector shrunk 4.2% in four weeks to Rs 11 lakh crore from Rs 11.49 lakh crore. While the lockdown has clearly brought down demand, many private banks, which were active in the retail and personal loan segments, turned risk-averse by tightening credit standards and reducing exposure. The Rs 11,116-crore drop in credit card outstanding is largely explained by the closure of all non-essential retail outlets, including online ones, during the lockdown. Credit card outstanding, which had crossed Rs 1.08 lakh crore in March 2020, has declined to Rs 96,978 crore in April. The drop in loan against shares and FDs also appears to be reflecting a decline in consumption. Loans against FDs fell 14% to Rs 60,975 crore while loans against shares dropped 10% to Rs 4,818 crore in April 2020. The sectors which saw an expansion in bank credit included large industry, where banks lent an additional Rs 8,900 crore, retail trade where loans grew by nearly Rs 7,000 crore and, surprisingly, non-banking financial companies, where banks lent an additional Rs 5,000 crore. Loans to the services segment did reasonably better, shrinking only 0.8% to Rs 25.74 lakh crore from Rs 25.94 lakh crore a month earlier. In the services sector, transport operators were the biggest borrowers in April. Loans outstanding to this sector grew 3% to Rs 1.48 lakh crore. The demand for loans was the lowest in the wholesale trade segment, where outstanding advances fell by 5% to Rs 2.49 lakh crore. To help banks overcome their risk aversion, the government has come out with a scheme to guarantee loans to businesses that have an outstanding credit limit of up to Rs 25 crore. This will include MSMEs and other small businesses. Many banks expect to grow their MSME books by nearly 20% on the back of this guarantee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-personal-small-business-loans-crash-bank-lending-in-april-shrinks-rs-1-1-lakh-crore/articleshow/76126657.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 1, 2020||Kochi||To help a marooned girl take exam, Kerala plies 70-seat boat just for her||ALAPPUZA: On Friday and Saturday, a 70-seat Kerala state water transport department (SWTD) boat with just one passenger made the round trip from MN Block in Alappuzha district to Kanjiram in Kottayam district so that Sandra Babu could write her Plus One exams. Passenger boats in the scenic Kuttanad area, which is situated below sea-level and is an official Ramsar Site (under the international treaty for the conservation and sustainable utilization of wetlands), were suspended ever since the lockdown began, and when fresh dates for the deferred HSC exams were announced, Sandra, whose parents are daily wage workers, was at first sure she would miss them. “I thought I would miss the examinations as I didn’t have any means to reach my school. But then, I contacted the SWTD office and informed them of my plight. They understood my situation and promised to send a boat. I am really proud of SWTD and I don’t know how to share my happiness,” Sandra gushed. Despite the lone passenger, the boat had its full complement of crew – the driver, a srank (navigator), a boat master and two lascars (for assisting the master in mooring). On both days, the boat picked up 17-year-old Sandra from a jetty close to her home at sharp 11.30am and plied all the way to Kanjiram, dropping her at the jetty in front of SNDP Higher Secondary School at around 12 noon. Water transport dept’s gesture earns goodwillThe boat waited for her till she finished her exam and then dropped her back around 4pm. Officials at SWTD were perhaps unaware of a famous Japanese precedent, when a remote railway station was kept open for three years to pick up just one passenger — a schoolgirl — so that she could go to school get to class, but their heart-warming gesture towards Sandra has earned them widespread goodwill. Shaji V Nair, SWTD’s director, said the officials didn’t think twice when Sandra sought their help. “My daughter too is a Plus One student. The government as well as our minister gave their full support for operating the service. We sent our boat with five crew members, only for her to ferry her from her home to the school and back,” he said. Santhosh Kumar K A, Alappuzha unit officer of the department, said hiring a country boat fitted with a boat engine would have costed at least Rs 4,000 for a single trip. Sandra was charged only Rs 18 for the journey, with a oneway ticket costing Rs 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/to-help-a-marooned-girl-take-exam-kerala-plies-70-seat-boat-just-for-her/articleshow/76126683.cms||Sajimon P S
June 1, 2020||India||Delhi, Chandigarh among strictest lockdown enforcers: Study||MUMBAI: Chandigarh and Delhi top and Bihar ranks lowest on severity of lockdown enforcement, according to a study by Mumbai University’s economics school. Ranking states on an immobility index, the researchers drew upon data from Google’s location-mapping of phones to assess the average number of trips people made from their homes during the period from March 24 to May 16. While the lockdown in India is being touted as the world’s strictest, the severity varied from state to state. Chandigarh was number one in following the norms, followed by Delhi. The lockdown in Bihar was the most lax, according to the immobility index. The School of Economics and Public Policy at Mumbai University used the data to show that India was like a lot of countries in one, as each state reacted differently to the lockdown. In the paper, professor Neeraj Hatekar noted that the lockdown was not uniformly strict across all the states. “States like Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, etc had lockdowns that were stricter than the average, whereas Kerala, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh etc had rather lax lockdowns,” the study read. As researchers projected the data for each state, they found that there was a rather weak link between the lockdown and the growth rate of Covid infection. “More immobility is generally associated with lower growth rate. So, lockdowns do influence the trajectory of the virus. But the effect is rather weak,” said Hatekar. Kerala had one of the lowest immobility index values, yet it has been the poster boy for conquering corona. Himachal Pradesh, with a similar level of immobility index, has had a much higher growth rate of infections. The difference in the growth rate of infections between Haryana and Gujarat is way greater than the difference between their immobility indices. Delhi’s immobility index is far higher than that of Maharashtra, but their growth rates of infections are similar. Jharkhand had a greater degree of immobility compared to Bihar, but the growth rate in Jharkhand of infections is much higher than that in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-chandigarh-among-strictest-lockdown-enforcers-study/articleshow/76126694.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 1, 2020||Goa||Train or no train, migrant workers camp, trudge, wait in Karmali’s vicinity||OLD GOA: All along the roads leading to the Karmali railway station on Sunday morning, groups of men trudge together, dragging or carrying heavy luggage. But once there, they’re turned away, with police personnel telling them no train will show up at Karmali till Tuesday. By noon, there are again groups of workers along the same roads, dragging their heavy luggage, but with footsteps noticeably slower. This time, they’re walking from Karmali station, not to it. And they’re unsure of where to go. “We were working under a contractor as labourers for the Railways in Margao,” said Abdul Ali from Malda, West Bengal. “We heard there was a train leaving from Karmali to West Bengal, so we gave up our rented room and headed here. Now, we are told by police not to hang around at the station. We do not know where to camp.” Ali and six of his fellow workers from West Bengal take turns carrying the heavy utensils, in which they cooked a common meal during their time in Goa. “The monsoon is almost here, and we will not find any work now,” said Aasik Akhtar. “Our contractor wanted to relieve us. Seven of us were living in a room very close to the Navelim stadium. We saw that it is full to the brim with thousands already living there. So the minute we heard of a train leaving for West Bengal, we set out. Now we do not know what to do.” Meanwhile at the station, a family of three shows up, riding in the carrier of a three-wheeler meant for goods. Krishna Bhetha and his family travelled over 40km from Advai in Sattari, where they were working at a construction site. On being told there is no train leaving from Karmali till Tuesday, he isn’t convinced, and continues to squat near a barricade leading to the station. Things are no better inside the station, where some like Jaynath Kushwaha from Deoria, Uttar Pradesh, attempt to book a ticket for when some regular trains start running this month. “We work at a construction site on Kadamba plateau,” he said. “We witnessed some very difficult days. The contractor would provide each of us with one kilo of either rice or atta, which had to last for four days. During the lockdown, when nothing else was available, how were we to make one kilo of rice or atta last four days? Government officials came only once with provisions. We want to return now.” By afternoon, there are several clueless men standing or squatting at the Haat Katro Khamb junction. Meanwhile at the athletics stadium in Bambolim, those who have been “misguided” to the station are accommodated, if they are determined enough to reach here by foot or hitching a ride. “Migrants started trickling in today from 7am onwards,” a policeman at the stadium told TOI. “Mostly those from West Bengal or Jharkhand are landing here today. Someone seems to have misguided them that a train is leaving to their home state today from Karmali. There are already at least 1,500 persons inside (the stadium) from different states waiting for their trains.” Outside the stadium, 200 were queued up to register to camp inside. Until the next message, they will stay here, hoping their time, or train, arrives soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/train-or-no-train-migrant-workers-camp-trudge-wait-in-karmalis-vicinity/articleshow/76126476.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Soon, ‘chota cops’ will be on Covid duty||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown winding down and no respite in corona positive cases, ‘chota cops’ will soon be deployed by the police to ensure people are taking proper precautions to keep the virus at bay. City police commissioner Anjani Kumar said that a novel concept of policing will be introduced to remind people about the need to maintain social distancing and wear a mask. He said through ‘chota cops’, police are planning to use the services of children. These kids would remind their parents, relatives and friends in the neighbourhood to take safety precautions. “We have finalised the concept and will unveil it soon,” Anjani Kumar said at a webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soon-chota-cops-will-be-on-covid-duty/articleshow/76126114.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 1, 2020||Business||Auto sector capex may have fallen 18% in FY20||CHENNAI: An 18-month slowdown and the pandemic-triggered lockdown has resulted in a sharp decline in planned investment by the automobile industry. The auto and component industry combined will see its overall capex shrink from Rs 31,750 crore in FY19 to an estimated Rs 26,000 crore in FY20 — a drop of 18%, according to a report by Crisil. Individual segments will however see a much sharper drop as the BS6 transition investment is already in place and the overall auto industry is working with 50% capacity utilisation. “Between this year and next year, auto OEMs (vehicle manufacturers) will see a capex contraction of 30-35%, whereas component companies may see a contraction of 40-45% depending on their exposure to commercial vehicle market and export,” said Anuj Sethi, senior director, Crisil Ratings. The reason is because there are “no major regulation requirements in the next couple of years and even after recovery next year the capacity utilisation will be less than 70% with companies investing only in new model, R&D and electric mobility”. Auto makers including TVS and Ceat have announced capex cuts. Ceat has announced a 33% or Rs 250-crore cut in capex to Rs 500 crore, while TVS Motor has announced a capex of Rs 300 crore down 58% from the Rs 719 crore spent last year. Others like Hero MotoCorp have announced they will defer capacity expansion and other investment plans. Bosch has announced that it has cut its capex by half due to slowdown in the auto market amid the pandemic. Auto parts makers’ trade body ACMA has announced that parts makers will defer planned capex of around $4 billion till 2022 to preserve cash and tide over demand and supply disruptions due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-sector-capex-may-have-fallen-18-in-fy20/articleshow/76125596.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 1, 2020||Patna||Patna HC upholds Centre’s decision||PATNA: The Patna high court has upheld the central government’s decision of dismissing one of its employees, Manoj Kumar, on grounds that he had fraudulently secured job 30 years back by falsely showing himself as a scheduled caste candidate. The same court had directed the Centre to reinstate Kumar and give him full consequential benefits on November 4, 2015. Kumar, hailing from Anadipur in Bhagalpur, was appointed as upper division clerk in central excise department in Patna on July 9, 1990. The fresh judgement of division bench of Justice Shivaji Pandey and Justice Anjani Kumar Sharan, upholding Kumar’s dismissal, was uploaded to the HC website on Saturday. “There cannot be equitable consideration in favour of the petitioner as the command of law is that who claims equity must come with clean hand,” the high court observed. Senior counsel Pushkar Narayan Shahi had represented the petitioner in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-upholds-centres-decision/articleshow/76124572.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||1,400 migrant workers leave for Jalpaiguri in Shramik special||HUBBALLI: Shramik Special, with 1,443 migrant workers on board, left Hubballi for New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal around noon on Sunday. Before boarding, all the passengers were medically screened and asked to follow the norms to stay safe and free of infection. They were also made to use sanitiser, wear masks and maintain social distance on board the train. The Hubballi division of SWR has so far run 20 Shramik specials, ferrying 29,578 passengers to different destinations across the country: Uttar Pradesh (eight trains), Bihar (five), Rajasthan (two), Jharkhand (two), West Bengal (two) and Odisha (one). OF the 20 special trains, 13 trains were run from the Hubballi station, four from Ballari station and one each from Hosapete, Belagavi and Koppal stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1-4k-leave-for-jalpaiguri-in-shramik-special/articleshow/76124764.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Rajkot||Three burnt alive in tractor inferno||Rajkot: Three persons were burnt to death after the tractor in which they were travelling overturned and god engulfed in fire in Madhiya village on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Saturday night. Police that the fire was caused by a spark falling on diesel leaking from the tractor. According to police, it appears that the driver of the tractor lost control over the steering wheel, resulting in the accident. The tractor rolled by the road side and turned turtle into a giant pit. “After it overturned, the tractor’s engine was still on and may have ignited a spark in the diesel that poured on the victims who were trampled under the vehicle. Soon, the fire turned into an inferno, charring the victims alive,” said I D Jadeja, sub-inspector with Velavadar police station. The deceased were identified as Teja Vaghela (40), Jignesh Baraiya (18) and Bharat Makwana (35), all residents of Savainagar village near Bhavnagar. One Mahesh Vaghela escaped with minor injuries from the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-burnt-alive-in-tractor-inferno/articleshow/76126196.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||After assurance, senators postpone stir||Vadodara: A group of senate members, who had threatened to launch a stir demanding ad hoc pension for retired employees, have postponed their protest programme. A group led by Dr Nikul Patel had threatened to start dharna protest from Monday demanding immediate resolution of pension related problems faced by both teaching and non-teaching staffers of the university. They had made representation before MSU vice-chancellor and later to all syndicate members. “We have been informed that in-charge deputy registrar Mayank Vyas has been given special responsibility to look after pension cases. Also, we have been assured positive output in the next one month,” said Patel, adding that the dharna protest has been postponed till July 1. “We will have meeting of all retired employees as college reopens after June 21,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-assurance-senators-postpone-stir/articleshow/76124759.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Varanasi||No processions, snan on Nirjala Ekadashi this yr||Varanasi: No traditional religious procession for jalabhishek of Lord Vishwanath with Gangajal as well as taking dip in holy Ganga will be allowed on the occasion of Nirjala Ekadashi falling on Tuesday. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, on Sunday, has made it very clear that no rituals like bathing in Ganga and offering Gangajal at Lord Shiva temples will be permitted in the district on the auspicious occasion of Nirjala Ekadashi on Tuesday. In an order issued on the arrangements prescribed for the festive day, the DM said, “Prohibitory orders under section 144 is effective in the district and as per the orders no religious activity with gathering of people is allowed. The same arrangements will be effective on the occasion of Nirjala Ekadashi.” The DM said that congregating at ghats along river Ganga for bathing and performing any religious activities there will also be prohibited. He appealed to the people to stay at home and perform the traditional rituals indoors only. The deployment of magistrates and senior police officers along with heavy police force at the ghats and roads leading to it had been started from Sunday night. The DM said that these officials will monitor the areas till the festive occasions become over on Tuesday night. The DM warned that in case of violation of the prohibitory orders stern legal action would be initiated against the person concerned. Due to the strict attitude of DM the Kashi Vishwanath temple administration has also cancelled the permission given to an organisation which has been carrying out a religious procession from Dashaswamedh Ghat to Kashi Vishwanath temple for past 21 years to offer jalabhishek to Lord Vishwanath on the occasion of Nirjala Ekadashi. As an annual tradition, participants of the proceesion carry Gangajal in over 1,000 urns for jalabhishek of Lord Vishwanath on this occasion. In view of lockdown, the office bearers of the organisation had sought permission from temple administration to permit them for continuing this tradition with 11 devotees only. KVT chief executive officer Vishal Singh said, initially the temple had decided to permit them but in view of the strict directives of the DM, the proposal was refused. “Now, only the priests of the temple will perform the rituals of jalabhishek on this occasion”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-processions-snan-on-nirjala-ekadashi-this-yr/articleshow/76125463.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Surat||Residents save girl before she fell to her death from apartment’s parapet||Surat: A 17-year-old girl, student of Class XII, was rescued by residents from a four-storey apartment’s parapet on terrace from where she was hanging at Parnera village of Valsad district on Sunday. The girl told police that she had lost balance but a video of the incident on social media shows her attempting suicide. When the girl was hanging from the parapet, some onlookers made videos from their mobile phones and uploaded them on social media. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that the girl lost balance and was about to fall when she caught hold of the parapet. Two men living in the apartment heard her screams. They rushed to the terrace and pulled her back from the parapet,” said a police officer in Valsad rural police station. These details were based on the girl’s statement made to police. However, the girl could not explain to police what she was doing on the terrace alone in the scorching hot afternoon. She told police that she used to go to the terrace often. Police claim they have no details about the girl’s fight with anyone or information about her failed friendship with someone. “We have no information or proof to believe it was a suicide attempt,” the police officer said. The girl is daughter of an employee of a cooperative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/residents-save-girl-before-she-fell-to-her-death-from-apartments-parapet/articleshow/76126108.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 1, 2020||Surat||VNSGU to conduct exams from June 26||Surat: After a long period of uncertainty Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) is set to hold exams from June 26. Varsity to hold all the exams as per University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines.Announcing its intentions, the university declared a detailed programme on Saturday in which students of semester six in majority of the under graduate (UG) courses will have to appear in the exam. Exams for second and fourth semester students of post graduate (PG) courses will be held from July 6. VNSGU will declare a detailed timetable on its website too. University announced that in majority of the UG courses, semester two and four students will be given merit-based progression with marks counted from internal and previous semester exams. While in architecture UG course, students will have to sit for exams from June 26. Semester two and four of students in both B.Ed and M.Ed will have to appear in exams from July 6. LLB exam of fourth and sixth semesters will be held. Exam of those students who are eligible for attempt to keep term (ATKT) will be conducted in months of October and November, the dates of which will be announced on the university website. Medical and homeopathy course exam dates are yet to be announced. “It has been suggested by deans of various faculty after discussion in a recently held meeting that in each class only 20 students should be allowed to maintain social distancing. A few papers or practical exams in some courses were completed before the lockdown was imposed and marks of these papers will be counted in the result,” a VNSGU official told TOI. Every student will have to wear face masks in the exam hall. “We will make seating and timing arrangement in such a manner so as to avoid crowding on the campus. Students will be instructed to maintain safe distance,” said a college teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-to-conduct-exams-from-june-26/articleshow/76126165.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Restaurants brace for low footfall, quick delivery in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Fewer tables, a longer waiting time, quicker service and hand sanitizers will be among the plethora of new norms across Kolkata’s restaurants when they reopen on June 8 — two and a half months after the onset of lockdown. You may have to place your order in one go to reduce contact time with waiters and your movements inside restaurants could be restricted and monitored to keep a track of things that need to be sanitized once you have left. Some restaurants are planning to deny entry to those not wearing a mask while others are ready with their own stock to help patrons protect themselves. Park Street — Kolkata’s party and food hub — has started limping back to normalcy with new arrangements. Restaurants are planning new seating arrangements and arming themselves with thermal scanners. Waiting time could go up at Mocambo and Peter Cat that have always had queues. But the good news is that the chelo kebabs and the chicken steaks could now reach your table faster. “We will lower our seat count by 30%-40% to ensure social distancing. Also, since we have a long waiting time, dishes will be prepared faster and patrons will be requested to place orders in one go to make things move quicker,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. Oasis on Park Street, too, is bracing to resume services with reduced capacity. Patrons will be asked to be quick with orders and stick to the tables they have been allotted. “Movement will be restricted and we shall sanitize everything used by the guests once they leave. Our staff will be screened and sanitized every 1-2 hours,” said owner Pratap Daryanani, adding that the decision to reopen was a positive step. The Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) has advised its members to keep every second table vacant to maintain a distance of at least six feet and stick to booking of tables to avoid crowding. It has also sent a letter to the state government seeking permission to operate bars. “With bars remaining shut, we expect footfall to be low initially. People will remain wary of crowded places for a few more months. The first few months could be difficult for us,” said HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar. Poddar, who owns Song-Hai restaurant, added that for a majority of Kolkata’s restaurants, liquor comprises 60% of total sales. Amber owner Sanjay Khullar agreed. “We must contend with an early closure by 8pm due to the night curfew hours, foregoing dinner hours. ,” said Khullar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restaurants-brace-for-low-footfall-quick-delivery/articleshow/76126063.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets ready for Covid-normal life||KOLKATA: Over 3,000 traders of New Market are set to resume business after more than two months. But they will have to tread with caution for if the contagion spreads its tentacles inside, traders run the risk of being shut down again. Traders associations at the market warned members against lapse in anti-Covid norms during business hours when the century-and-a-half-old market reopens on Monday. Times ViewCitizens must behave responsibly as we go from Lockdown 4.0 to Unlock 1.0. There is a risk of a spike in cases — already seen in areas that have seen a return of migrants from other states — and responsible behaviour may be the only way to slow the virus’s spread.On Sunday, a section of New Market traders was seen busy with last-minute preparations to take guard against the virus. Both the SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association and SS Hogg Market Shop-owners’ Association acknowledged the challenge, but said they were determined to ensure the market remained safe. “We need cooperation of all stakeholders — civic workers, shop-keepers and customers — to ensure everyone is on guard. It will be difficult to monitor all 3,000 traders and their employees unless there is self-regulation. Besides wearing a mask and keeping a 6ft distance from others, every trader has to keep adequate stock of sanitizers for employees and shoppers. Piling goods in common passages will attract penalty,” said Ashok Gupta, president of SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association. “That we are able to resume business is a major relief. But we need to handle the situation with care. We have told traders in our association that they must not compromise on anti-Covid measures under any circumstance. We have made them understand that it isn’t just about livelihood but life as well. To protect both, it is important that all norms are followed,” Gupta added. SS Hogg Market Shop-owners’ Association secretary Zaid Alam made it clear that traders would be penalized if they did not adhere to the rules. “Our members are eager to resume business after incurring a huge loss over the past two months. But we have asked them to abide by all rules set by the civic authorities. We will be compelled to impose penalty on errant traders,” he said. Traders from the flower range, bakery range, cosmetics range and readymade garments range are all gearing up for Monday. “It is a great relief. I have been counting the hours ever since I learned that our market will reopen,” said a trader at the bakery section. Traders of Simpark will, however, have to wait till June 8 to reopen shops as the central air-conditioning system in the underground market is under repair. The traders also plan to set up a sanitization tunnel for shoppers at the entrance. A market department official said the KMC will monitor the functioning of New Market through CCTV and civic officials will conduct surprise checks to verify if rules were being followed. “We have decided to keep open six out of 30 gates to avoid crowding in the market,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-market-gears-up-to-resume-business-but-traders-warned-of-penalty-if-rules-are-flouted/articleshow/76125959.cms||Saikat Ray
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Technology upgrade at malls a week before reopening in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Social media campaign on how to behave at malls; contactless parking on arrival; bullet camera on customers with high body temperature; unidirectional customer flow on the mall floor; sensor-based hand sanitizer dispensers at strategic points; spot checks by patrolling inspectors; virtual pay card at food courts. With just a week to go before business resumes on June 8, mall operators are rushing to put in place technology and systems to detect potential Covid carriers, insulate others and ensure social distancing. At South City mall, the city’s largest shopping facility with a retail area of nearly 8 lakh sqft, the mall chief is looking at turret or bullet camera that automatically does a thermal scan of customers and is intelligent enough to not trigger an alarm when the person is holding a hot cup of beverage. It can also cross-check images from other cameras to see if the high temperature detected from the customer’s forehead is due to rubbing action just prior to the reading. The mall is also putting in place unidirectional customer flow. “If customers move in one direction, there is less chance of direct droplet infection if someone coughs or sneezes. In any case, it will be mandatory for everyone to wear masks in the mall at all times, except while eating,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. The mall will have a clockwise flow for a week, followed by anti-clockwise flow the next. At Quest, the 4 lakh sqft luxury mall, vice-president Sanjeev Mehra has asked the car park and the food court operators to put in place contactless systems. “The Quest app will allow customers to drive in and scan the QR code on entering and then pay electronically at the end of the visit. Work is underway to put in place a virtual card for use in the food court. Since we have to live with the virus, the best way is to eliminate contact,” he said. At Acropolis, too, plans are on to develop a software for food courts and restaurants so that customers can use their phones to order and pay. “Acropolis has also planned a social media campaign on dos and don’ts,” said mall developer Sushil Mohta. At City Centre I, an ‘open’ mall designed by Charles Correa, the opening will be in phases. The mall, and several others, will have spot thermal checks by security persons. Only individuals with body temperature below 98.5°F will be allowed in. “We will request youngsters to leave the elevators free for the elderly. Also, since the design limits unidirectional flow of customers, we will urge customers to keep to the extreme left while walking through corridors,” said Ambuja Neotia group facility head Narender Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tech-upgrade-at-malls-a-week-before-reopening/articleshow/76125979.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Take 2: Bollywood gets Maharashtra government cue to shoot again, with many curbs||MUMBAI: It will soon be lights, camera, action in Bollywood again. But the new scene promises to be vastly different: No more star tantrums or open calls—everyone will now have to be compulsorily assigned a window to arrive; also, there can’t be senior citizens (above 65) or more than 33% of crew members on a set at a time. These are among the many conditions laid down by the state government as it allowed the entertainment industry to resume operations. A government resolution issued on Sunday made it clear that the industry that employs almost five lakh people will have to drastically downsize, except of course, without pruning the main cast of a movie. Makers of films and TV shows will have to obtain myriad permissions from the police and district authorities before they can start shooting. While casting for families, real families should be used so that physical contact is restricted. For fiction/non-fiction scenes, no audience is to be allowed; castings wherever possible are to be done via Facetime, Zoom, Skype, etc. Bollywood will have to do away with elaborate sequences such as marriages, markets, melas, even fights, till such time as the Covid-19 threat subsides. All crew members who handle equipment should bring their own gear—not even a pen can be shared. The resolution also states that actors should consider showing up after doing their own make-up/hair styling. They will be allowed only one person as support staff on the sets. All trials and fittings are to be done at home and everyone must carry home food. In case of secondary/back-up actors, the industry has been advised to avoid hairdos and makeup. Every actor should carry his or her own hard copy of script and discard it after use. Extras are to be kept to the bare minimum. In case of crowd management, sourcing of new outfits and costumes is to be avoided. “Either existing costumes are to be used or they can bring them from their personal wardrobe,” states the resolution. An employee who is pregnant or whose spouse is pregnant is not to be allowed on sets; likewise, children below the age of 10 years and people above 65. Ashoke Pandit, chief advisor, Federation of Western India Cine Employees, said it was a start but the age limit of 65 years would be difficult to implement. “How do you ask an actor like Amitabh Bachchan to sit home or a David Dhawan not to direct a film?” he asked. Also, it would be difficult to station an ambulance, a doctor and a nurse at every shoot since at least 70 shoots happen daily in the city. The television industry works between Borivli to Naigaon, said Pandit. B N Tewari, Federation president, said 80% of the lower staff who work on daily wages have left the city. “Film shooting will not be the but it is a start and we thank the chief minister for allowing the industry to reopen. By the time permissions come and the various conditions met we should be able to make a start around June 18-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/take-2-bollywood-gets-govt-cue-to-shoot-again-with-many-curbs/articleshow/76126477.cms||Clara Lewis
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Just 35 people on set a challenge to film shooting||Kolkata: The state government has permitted film shooting to begin from June 1. But the maximum number of people allowed on the sets per unit at a time is 35. An average Bengali film made on a budget of Rs 1 crore has at least 100 crew and cast members on the sets. Keeping the history of the friction between Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI) and producers, many believe the decision on the number of mandatory technicians in a unit of 35 will be the game changer. Two days prior to Saturday’s announcement, minister Aroop Biswas met the stakeholders including members of FCTWEI, Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), Welfare Association of Television Producers (WATP) and West Bengal Motion Picture Artists’ Forum. According to FCTWEI president Swarup Biswas, “We are discussing the nitty-gritties. The final decision will be taken on June 4.” Before that many are wondering if the custom of taking a certain number of technicians irrespective of the demands of the scene.  According to Mahendra Soni, co-founder and director SVF Entertainment, “Workforce is dependent on the kind of shoot being done. Currently, we have to shoot mostly indoors and with limited artistes, the composition would depend on the individual unit. It's fair to say that it would be easy for TV and some web shows to restart with the limited manpower. But for films to really kickstart, we need more people on the floors. Under the current mandate, I won’t be able to resume shooting of ‘Golondaaj’.”  Meanwhile, some are wondering if the shooting module followed for foreign shoots where talkie shoots require producers to take 16 crew members from FCTWEI. The number is even lesser when it comes to song shootings. Usually, a total of around 40 people travel from Tollywood on a foreign shoot. In addition, 10-15 foreign crew members including local artists and juniors are taken to complete a shooting unit of some 50-55 people. For a talkie shoot, 16 technicians from FCTWEI has to be taken. This includes a director, two assistant directors, one director of photography, one assistant cameraman, one electrician, one trolley setting person, one art setting person, one makeup person, one assistant makeup person, one dresser, one hair dresser, two production boys, one manager and a sound recordist. The rest of the unit includes artistes, director’s non guild assistants/associates, two light boys, three camera crew members, one steady camera operator, one executive producer, one assistant executive producer, a producer and an accountant. Some artistes also insist on personal hair, makeup and personal spot boys too. Sound recordists also insist on taking a boom man along. Most shoots also require an art director or assistant art director, costume designer/assistant and gaffer to travel too.  But EIMPA president Piya Sengupta insists that it won’t be prudent for producers to continue with the trend of having any mandatory number of technicians for shootings. “Not just FCTWEI, producers/directors will need to have a major say on the composition of the unit. We can’t go beyond 35 members. That includes even those like drivers who are not present on the floor. Under such circumstances, how can we stick to a fixed number of technicians? The composition of the 35 members will depend on the scene’s requirement. Post Covid, we don’t have the luxury to take anyone who isn’t required for shooting on that particular day,” Sengupta said.  She also suggests that stars will need to cut down on their entourage. “Currently, we are all bleeding. Collectively, we have to make temporary concessions so that the industry can get back on its feet,” she concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/just-35-people-on-set-a-challenge-to-film-shooting/articleshow/76126066.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New norms in place as golfers swing into action||KOLKATA: Golf is back in the lives of Kolkatans. The Ecopark Golf Arena opened its gates on Saturday, with a number of safety measures in place. RCGC will follow suit from Tuesday and Tolly Club, too, plans to resume the activity soon. Golfers have been waiting to flock to the greens since over a week ago when the government announced courses could reopen as part of relaxing lockdown measures. On Saturday, Salt Lake resident Arun Prasad Padmanaban was reacquainted with the putting grounds after 82 days. “The lockdown started on March 24, but the last time I came to Ecopark Golf Arena was March 10. I am happy to be back. The swooshing sound when I made contact with the ball and my hole-in-one — three months ago, these were things I had taken for granted,” said the electrical engineer who is a golf champion. “We started making preparations to reopen when chief minister Mamata Banerjee made her announcements regarding golf and tennis. I can see players are quickly adapting to the government’s new guidelines. Everyone is happy to be outdoors,” Neel Law, managing partner, Ecopark Golf Arena, told TOI on Sunday. Despite swinging back to action, physical distancing rules have prevailed. They begin at the entrance where everyone, wearing a mask, has to sanitize their hands. White lines or circles have been drawn for a queue of two to three persons at the starter area. Players need to keep a lot of things in mind, including the fact that flag sticks can’t be removed from the hole while putting and no more than three members are allowed for putting holes. “It’s an unprecedented situation. Most of us are sensible and will be meticulously following rules. Many are working from home and are desperate to get back, knowing golf is low risk,” said Umang Puri, a member of RCGC. He added he was waiting eagerly to start playing from Tuesday. The rules are mostly the same for all golf clubs. With no caddies around, golfers will have to wheel their own trolleys, carry water bottles and food packets. All players have been told to maintain a gap of one hole between each other. And the holes have been packed so the ball only drops an inch and can easily brought out. However, there will be no walk-ins. “Golfers are being asked to book tee times in advance to avoid congestion. They pay the exact fee for a round or for practice to avoid exchange of currency,” Law said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-norms-in-place-as-golfers-swing-into-action/articleshow/76126015.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 1, 2020||Patna||Screen people afflicted with other diseases: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday asked health officials to give special emphasis on medical screening of people afflicted with other serious ailments during the door-to-door screening programme for detecting suspected cases of Covid-19. “There is need to identify people who are already afflicted with any other serious disease, during the door-to-door screening campaign. Special attention should be given to their screening as they are more vulnerable,” Nitish told the officials during a high-level meeting to review the steps being taken by the state government to contain spread of Covid-19 infection. “Besides these, all old-age people and pregnant women should also be properly screened because they are more prone to infection,” he said. Taking note of the problems being faced by the patients of other diseases, the CM further asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure opening and proper running of all private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics for proper treatment of patients of other diseases. He also asked the officials to scale up testing for Covid-19 to maximum level to break the chain of the deadly infection. “Make arrangements of all necessary equipment and materials at the district level hospitals and identified medical institutions for ensuring maximum possible testing per day,” he said. “Since majority of migrant workers have now returned and number of positive cases is increasing day by day, the district administration must increase the number of beds in isolation centres as per the provisions laid in the protocol for Covid-19 treatment,” CM said and asked the officials to keep isolation centres in ready mode. State information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar said the block level quarantine centres would be functional till June 15. He said since most of the Shramik special trains would reach the state by June 1 and the migrant workers arriving from the red zones by special trains would be completing their 14-day quarantine period by June 15, there would hardly be any need to run the block level quarantine centres after that. He also clarified that the migrant people arriving from non-red zones are being home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/also-screen-people-afflicted-with-other-diseases-cm/articleshow/76124315.cms||Madan Kumar
June 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Major religious places to reopen from June 8||PATNA/GAYA: Almost all the registered 4,500 religious places are likely to reopen for devotees on June 8 after a gap of more than two months, but with all precautions against Covid-19 and proper management of the crowd, assert the trustees. The Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction will be open for Hindu devotees on June 8, said its trust secretary Kishore Kunal. He said the number of visitors would be restricted, keeping in view the social distancing norm. The temple is visited by about 30,000 to 50,000 people on Tuesdays and Saturdays and more than 15,000 on any other day. But this number would automatically be reduced by more than a half when it reopens after the lockdown, he said. Kunal said devotees would be allotted different time slot alphabetically for the temple visit and they would have to request for it online. The morning ‘aarti’ would be performed at 6am and the darshan would be allowed till 9pm. Request for offering ‘naivedyam’ would also have to be made online beforehand. The Takhat Shri Harimandir Ji Patna Sahib, which happens to be the birthplace of Guru Govind Singh, would also reopen on June 8, maintaining social norms, said its general secretary M S Dhillon. “We have already been running langer for the people all through the lockdown period and the same would be resumed on a larger scale, but taking all preventive measures. Though the shrine complex has enough space, people from outside would hardly visit the temple for the coming six months or a year and, hence, the crowd would automatically be controlled,” Dhillon added. The famous Vishnupad Temple at Gaya will also reopen on June 8 with a set of new protocol. According to Mahesh Guput, a leading panda and prominent member of the shrine management committee, arrangements will be made for use of non-alcoholic disinfectants in the shrine as Lord Vishnu. According to Mahesh, besides a couple of priests, only five devotees will be allowed inside the shrine at a time. Separate entry and exit points are being developed, he said. Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee secretary N Dorje said a decision on the shrine reopening will be taken after proper study of the government guidelines and local conditions. He will discuss the issue with the management committee chairman and Gaya DM before making any announcement, Dorje said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/major-religious-places-to-reopen-from-june-8/articleshow/76124367.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Business||Income tax return: You can claim deductions till June 30||MUMBAI: The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has notified the income-tax return forms for the financial year ended March 31, 2020 (assessment year 2020-21). The I-T return forms (ITR-1 to ITR-7) incorporate the recent announcement made by the finance minister to ease the burden on taxpayers owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Under an earlier announcement in March, the date for making various investments or payments for claiming deductions under Chapter-VI-A/B of the I-T Act, which includes section 80C (eg: contributions to LIC, PPF, NSC), 80D (mediclaim), 80G (donations), had been extended to June 30, 2020. A new schedule (column) has been added in the I-T return forms to report investments made between April 1 up to June 30, 2020, for which deductions can be claimed in financial year 2019-20. “This mitigates any anxiety taxpayers may have had on how to claim deductions for investments during this extended three-month period,” said Hinesh Doshi, a chartered accountant. The Budget tabled on July 5, 2019, had made it mandatory from financial year 2019-20, for ‘high-spenders’ to file their I-T returns, even if their taxable income is below the threshold exemption limit. Those who had, during a financial year, spent more than Rs 2 lakh on a foreign trip or deposited Rs 1 crore in a current account with a bank or even paid over Rs 1 lakh as electricity bill came under the mandatory filing norms. The relevant I-T return forms seek specific details of the quantum of expenditure from these taxpayers. Earlier clarifications from the CBDT have also been taken into cognisance. Joint property owners and high-spenders can file their I-T returns using the simple Sahaj (ITR-1) and Sugam (ITR-4) forms. While the I-T return forms have been notified, the software-utility for filing the I-T returns online remains to be rolled out. The due date of I-T returns for the financial year 2019-20 have been extended to November 30. However, Puneet Gupta, director, people advisory services, at EY-India, said, “The software-utility should ideally be rolled out soon. While the I-T return filing date has been extended, some salaried employees do not have their entire I-T obligation deducted through the employer. If they have not paid advance-tax, there will be interest payable each month till the date of paying the self-assessment tax.” The simple Sahaj (ITR-1) form can be used by a resident individual having total income of up to Rs 50 lakh, which can include income from salary, income from ‘one’ house property, income from other sources (say interest) and agricultural income of up to Rs. 5,000. This form cannot be used if the taxpayer is a company director or has invested in unlisted equity shares. The other simple form, Sugam (ITR-4) is for resident individuals, Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) and firms having total income up to Rs 50 lakh, where the income from business and profession is covered by the presumptive tax schemes. Watch Income tax return: CBDT allows claiming of deductions till June 30||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itr-you-can-claim-deductions-till-june-30/articleshow/76126075.cms||Lubna Kably
June 1, 2020||Patna||PM Narendra Modi mentions Bihar four times||PATNA: In his 65th edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, PM Narendra Modi referred to Bihar, where assembly elections are due in October-November this year, on at least four occasions – directly or indirectly. While Bihar is part of the country’s eastern region, the PM called the region “country’s growth engine whose workforce possesses the capability and the might to take the country to greater heights.” With assembly elections due in Bihar this year and in neighbouring West Bengal next year, the PM’s message was too striking to be ignored. That apart, Bihar figured directly in the PM’s Mann Ki Baat broadcast on three occasions – first, when he talked about the need for a solution for migrant workers; second when the PM referred to skill mapping of migrants and third when he introduced ‘Shriman Himanshu’ from the state who wrote on the NaMo App that he dreamt of a day when India reduces imports to the bare minimum. The PM also mentioned the names of the items whose imports, according to Himanshu, should be reduced to the bare minimum. The PM said the need of the hour is to devise a new mechanism to end the problems being faced by the migrant workers” Otherwise, the PM’s Mann Ki Baat turned out to be a big event for the state BJP. “At least 4.90 lakh office-bearers and members of the newly formed ‘saptarishi’ units at the level of polling booth along with lakhs of other party workers and sympathisers listened to the PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday,” state BJP spokesman and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said. There are over 72,000 polling booths in the state, while every ‘saptarishi’ unit constituted to take the PM’s achievements to the people of the state in their respective jurisdictions has seven functionaries. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal heard the PM’s broadcast at his booth in Bettiah. Patel said Union minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad also addressed the booth-level workers from the Digha assembly segment through the IT-enabled mechanism on Sunday. Among others, party MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia also conversed with Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-mentions-bihar-four-times/articleshow/76124605.cms||Abhay Singh
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||Officials keen on operating non-AC buses on BRTS lane||HUBBALLI: While other BRTS services in the country are completely shut down, Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transport System (HD BRTS) is expected to resume its service in the next three-four days. However, officials are confused over whether they should run AC or Non-AC buses. The one thing they are clear about is even if they run non-AC buses, they can’t reduce the fair. So, passengers will have to pay AC fare even for non-AC services. A BRTS official told TOI that as there is a fear over the usage of air conditioners all over the world and passengers are also expected to refuse to use AC buses in coming days. “Keeping it in the mind, there was a discussion over the removal of ACs from 40 buses on a pilot basis. However, there was no mention of reducing fare if non-AC buses are operated,” he added. HR Vastrad, a frequent BRTS passenger said as many researches have proved that the possibility of spreading coronavirus is more in closed structures, it is a welcome move if BRTS operates non-AC buses. When bus fares were hiked in the state last February, BRTS had hiked the fare from Hubballi old bus stand to Dharwad old bus stand to Rs 27 while NWKRTC buses were ferrying passengers at Rs 22 on the same route. When contacted, HDBRTC managing director Rajendra Cholan said a communication with Volvo is on over removal of ACs from the Chigari buses to meet the guidelines of the Union government. “Volvo officials have said there is no need of structural change and buses can be run by opening the emergency door. Meanwhile, health department recently issued an order allowing AC buses. We had formed an expert committee involving Volvo and people from the health sector to conduct a trial at our depots. However, we are open for both options and ready to run buses as per government guidelines,” he said. When asked about the fare, he said, running AC or non-AC buses does not matter on the cost of operations. “Maintenance of stations where security guards and other staff are deployed, has a major share in the cost of operation and that remains the same. Moreover, running non-AC buses is a temporary measure to meet Covid-19 guidelines. We will also have to run buses with just 24 seats to maintain social distancing and it enhances cost by 40%. If we reduce the fare in this scenario, we will struggle to buy diesel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/officials-keen-on-operating-non-ac-buses-on-brts-lane/articleshow/76124894.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 1, 2020||Kozhikode||First consignment of Wayanad Coffee shipped||KOZHIKODE: The survival strategy of coffee farmers of Wayanad, the top coffee-growing region in the state, to steer through export market disruptions owing to Covid-19 has met with initial success with the first consignment of coffee beans collected locally getting exported to the Gulf by farmers’ cooperative Brahmagiri Development Society. Five tonnes of graded coffee beans under the Wayanad Coffee brand has been shipped to Kuwait through the Cochin Port. The export foray by the Society has come a month after it started procuring coffee from the farmers. Also, the society, which has around 13,000 farmers in Wayanad as members, has begun steps for 1,200 farmers in six panchayats to get organic certification to better place the product in the export market. “We have received a couple of orders, including another export order as well. We are moving ahead with enabling farmers to take organic farming certification and in the first phase, 1,200 will take the certification. This will enable the farmers from Wayanad to get more acceptance in export markets,” said Jubunu K R, manager of BDS coffee division. The coffee farmers had been hit hard by price crash partly due to drying up of orders from their major export markets following the Covid-19 outbreak. The society has already set up a roast and ground factory at Kambalakkad that will produce coffee powder, processed green berries, instant coffee, and other products with the aim to double the income of farmers. Also, a coffee-cupping lab has been set up in Wayanad to check the quality of coffee produced by farmers. Wayanad is an exclusive Robusta coffee-growing region and produces 80% of Kerala’s coffee. BDS authorities had said once their branded Wayanad Coffee products hit the markets, they aim to procure coffee from farmers for Rs 240 per kg, over the next three years by sharing the profit reaped through coffee powder sales. As per the Coffee Board of India’s estimates, Wayanad had produced 58,450 tonnes of coffee during 2018-19, all of which is the Robusta variety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/first-consignment-of-wayanad-coffee-shipped/articleshow/76124740.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mysuru||In Karnataka, Bidar tops in list of tests per million people||MYSURU: According to Covid-19 war room data that’s available till May 27, Bidar district has conducted 7,573 tests done per million people, the highest in the state. Mandya, which is witnessing a surge in cases due to returnees from Maharastra, is in the fifth place with 5,243 tests, while Shivamogga is at 10th spot (3,874 tests). The positions of other districts: Kodagu 12th (3,756); Hassan 14th (3,378); Mysuru 21st (2,959); and Chikkamagluru 27th (2,139). Chamarajanagar, the only green district that is yet to report any positive case, stands at 26th place (2,190). Such tests give an idea about the number of tests carried out in a district to find out the number of positive cases. According to Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar, Mysuru had done the highest per million tests till mid-April. “We have less number of inter-state returnees, and almost have no contacts pending. So we are concentrating on random samples. Our number is no less,” he said, adding that they have been maintaining a steady testing rate commensurate with their capacity. “We can’t flood the lab as Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute also caters to neighbouring districts,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/in-karnataka-bidar-tops-in-list-of-tests-per-million-people/articleshow/76124149.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Patna: Released on bail, but told to check temperature of court visitors||PATNA: The managing director of a private construction firm has been asked to check the temperature of every person visiting the civil court as a volunteer in view of the Covid-19 spread. The Patna high court granted bail to Mohammad Khalid Rashid with a rider that he would report to Patna civil surgeon so that his services be utilized accordingly. Prisons sources said Rashid had come out of Beur central jail on May 22. He was in jail in two cases and this order was in a case of cheating lodged by one Kumari Priyanka with Kotwali police station in Patna on August 18, 2018 alleging that he had not handed over the possession of flat to her. The high court also ordered him to hand over the flat’s possession to Priyanka within six months. “He was attached to district immunization office on Friday after reporting to me on Thursday in compliance with the high court’s order,” Patna civil surgeon Raj Kishore Chaudhary told TOI on Saturday, adding Rashid would now be asked to conduct thermal screening with a team of police and health staff of all those visiting the Patna civil court premises from Monday. Though Rashid, the MD of Amina Construction Private Limited, was granted bail by Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay in the cheating case on March 20, he remained in jail in another case and was released on May 22, jail sources said. He had been in jail since November 18 last year in the case lodged by Priyanka. This is the second case in which the high court put such conditions while granting bail amid the pandemic. On May 13, a bench of Justice Anjani Kumar Sharan had granted bail to one Santosh Sahni in a liquor prohibition case on condition that he would deposit Rs5,000 in the PM Cares Fund and show the receipt to special excise judge in Samastipur before getting released. Sahni was arrested after recovery of 18 litres of country liquor and 600 litres of raw material kept at Khanpur in Samastipur on January 18 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/released-on-bail-but-told-to-check-temp-of-court-visitors/articleshow/76124434.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways gears up to run more passenger trains from Monday||PATNA: At least 17 pairs of special mail and express trains will either originate from or pass through the Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) from Monday under the new guidelines of the ministry of home affairs (MHA). Of the 17 pairs of trains, 13 will originate from the division and the rest four will pass through it. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the railways will now run Danapur–Bengaluru Sanghmitra Express special (02295/02296), Rajgir–New Delhi Shramjeevi Express special (02393/02394), Rajendra Nagar–New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti Express special (02393/02394), Danapur–Secunderabad Express special (02791/02792), Danapur–Tata Express special (08183/08184) and Patna–Lokmanya Tilak Express special (03201/03202) from Monday. Similarly Danapur–Pune Express special (02149/02150), Patliputra Junction–Lokmanya Tilak Express special (02141/02142), Patna–Ahmedabad Azimabad Express special (02947/02948), Patna–Shalimar Duronto Express special (02213/02214), Patna–Howrah Janshatabdi Express special (02023/02024) and Patna–Ranchi Janshatabdi Express special (02365/02366) will also be operational from Monday, while Dibrugarh–New Delhi Rajdhani Express special (02423/02424), Agartala–New Dellhi Rajadhani Express special (02501/02502), Howrah–New Delhi Poorva Express special (02303/02304) and Dibrugarh–New Delhi Bhramputra Mail special (0595305956) will pass through the division from Monday. The DRM said the railways would follow the social distancing norms prescribed by the MHA. “Passengers will have to reach the station at least 90 minutes before the departure of the train. Only those having confirmed and RAC tickets will be allowed to enter the station premises to board special trains. Thermal screening will also be mandatory for each passenger,” he said. Kumar added automatic vending machine would be set up at the Patna Junction to make sanitizer and face mask available at low price. “Railways has provided online training to its catering staff to run food kiosks on platforms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-gears-up-to-run-more-passenger-trains-from-today/articleshow/76124407.cms||Kumod Verma
June 1, 2020||Rajkot||Honour killing in Gujarat: Two arrested for couple’s murder in Junagadh||RAJKOT: A man and his cousin were arrested for alleged honour killing of a newly married couple from the outskirts of Darsali village of Mangrol taluka in Junagadh district on Saturday night. The accused Rajesh Parmar (35) and his cousin Amit Gareja (22), had allegedly hacked Parmar’s sister Dhara Ram (22) and her husband Sanjay Ram (24) to death on Junagadh-Somnath highway near Vanthali of Junagadh district on the evening of May 27. Rajesh and Amit both are farmers. “We had received a tip-off that both Rajesh and Amit were hiding in the outskirts of Darsali village, following which we kept a watch. The accused were going on a bike which we intercepted and nabbed them,” said R C Kanamia, inspector with Junagadh local crime branch. The police said Rajesh had been baying for Dhara’s blood ever since his father Bhana Parmar committed suicide after he could not bear the fact that Dhara had eloped with Sanjay and got married, four months ago. Dhara and Sanjay used to live in Rajkot after marriage. On May27, Sanjay drove Dhara to his sister Gita Kachot’s house in Keshod of Junagadh district. When Rajesh and Amit came to know about this, they drove to Keshod. Armed with an axe, they started following the couple on their bike. “On the evening of the crime, Sanjay was driving his bike with Dhara and his other sister Vanita Nandania riding pillion. Rajesh, who was following Sanjay’s bike on his motorcycle, came within a striking distance and dealt a blow on Sanjay’s head with the handle of the axe, subsequent of which Sanjay and the two women fell off the bike. Then Rajesh allegedly hacked both Sanjay and Dhara to death,” said N B Chauhan, sub-inspector with Vanthali police station. “At present we have detained the accused. We will be formally arresting them after they undergo Covid-19 test,” added Chauhan. Vanita, on whose complaint both Rajesh and Amit were booked, had called up her husband Devshi Nandania, who serves as a constable with Junagadh police. It was Devshi who alerted Junagadh police control room after he received a call from his wife informing him about the crime. Sanjay used to work in a submersible pump manufacturing firm in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/honour-killing-two-arrested-for-couples-murder-in-junagadh/articleshow/76126191.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Quarantined migrants get family planning tips in Bihar||PATNA: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, the Bihar State Health Society (BSHS), a wing of health department, has come up with a unique campaign to promote family planning. It has started distributing contraceptives among migrant workers at the time of their discharge from the quarantine and isolation centres. A BSHS official said the pilot project has already been launched in Rohtas, Gopalganj, East Champaran, Saran, Jamui, Supaul and Samastipur districts. “At the time of discharge of people from isolation and quarantine centres, the health workers give tips to migrant workers on family planning and also provide contraceptives like condoms, pregnancy test kits and oral contraceptive pills to them,” the health official added. He said the initiative was aimed at controlling population explosion during the lockdown period as more people are coming from other states. Asha healthcare workers and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) have also been asked to provide contraceptives to people during door-to-door survey. Jamui civil surgeon Dr Vijyendra Satyarthy said all the officers at the block level have been asked to ensure counselling of migrants and distribution of contraceptives among them at the time of their discharge from quarantine centres. “Around 2,000 contraceptive pills and condoms have already been distributed among the migrants at quarantine centres.” Samastipur civil surgeon Dr Rati Raman Jha said the Asha workers distribute contraceptives to the eligible couples during the door-to-door survey. “Since migrants are coming from other states, there is a threat of population explosion in the state. Hence, the family welfare officers at block level have started providing contraceptives to the migrant workers at quarantine and isolation centres,” he added. Gopalganj civil surgeon Dr T N Singh said health camps have been set up at quarantine centres for distribution of contraceptives. “Health workers also counsel the migrant workers on family planning in the district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantined-migrants-get-family-planning-tips/articleshow/76124053.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 1, 2020||Business||Indian Bank cuts lending rate by 30 bps||Chennai: State-owned Indian Bank has announced a cut in its marginal cost of fund-based lending rate (MCLR) by 30 basis points across various tenors. The new interest rates will be effective from June 3, the bank said in a regulatory filing. The rate cut is in line with easing of interest rate in the market following moderation in interest rates by the RBI earlier in May. The public sector bank has reduced its one-year MCLR by 30 basis points to 7.5% from existing 7.8% earlier. Overnight and one-month MCLRs have been reduced by 30 basis points to 7.2% and 7.25% respectively. The RBI had earlier reduced benchmark repo rate by 40 basis points to 4% on May 22 in yet another out-of-turn Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting to ease the financial burden on lenders and borrowers caused due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The reverse repo rate was also reduced by 40 basis points to 3.35%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-bank-cuts-lending-rate-by-30-bps/articleshow/76125584.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Goa||Remaining three accused held in Arambol murder||Panaji: Pernem police on Sunday arrested the remaining three accused in the murder of 24-year-old youth, Dilip Payaji from the Quepem jungle. Payaji, a resident of Korgao, Pernem was murdered by five persons of the same village over previous enmity. Pernem police station PI Sandesh Chodankar told TOI that after committing the murder, the three accused went to a relative’s place in Quepem to hide. Chondankar said that when the police received the information, the team launched a joint search operation along with PIs of Churchorem and Quepem to trace the accused. “We caught them hiding in jungle of Quepem and have arrested them,” Chodankar said, “The accused have been identified as Snehal Narse, Manoj Narse and Suryakant Narse, all residents of Korgao.” Chodankar said that the accused who were arrested on Saturday are Satish Narse and Swapnil Bali, have been remanded to seven-day police custody. He also said that the body of the deceased has been handed to the family to conduct final rites. Family members of deceased had refused to take the body till all five accused were arrested. The murder took place on Friday night between 8pm and 10pm at Arambol beach. Police said that the deceased and accused were close friends earlier, but developed differences over some issues.  Police said that the group of friends would fight over minor issues and had an altercation during the Korgao zatra. An offence under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered and investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/remaining-three-accused-held-in-arambol-murder/articleshow/76126478.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Law college pupils to study Bihar police role||PATNA: In order to appreciate the exemplary efforts of men and women in khaki, more than 150 students of Patna Law College have undertaken a study project on ‘A new face of Bihar Police during Covid-19 pandemic: Role and challenges so far’. The project is likely to be completed by mid-June and the final report will be submitted to state DGP for its onward transmission to the state government. College principal Md Sharif said the main objective is to ascertain the extent of socio-administrative role played by Bihar Police towards containment of Covid-19 pandemic during the lockdown period apart from maintaining law and order. As the students are currently staying at home in different villages and towns due to lockdown, they have been asked to collect some basic data from their respective police stations on the nature of duties performed by the policemen and the people’s response at large. They have all been given a lengthy questionnaire to be filled in after visiting the police stations and interacting with the policemen. The DGP has been requested to instruct all the police stations to help the students in data collection, he said. The questionnaire relate to the duty hours of male and female staff, provision of basic amenities like safe drinking water, separate toilet for women staff, availability of protective medical kits and food to the patrolling staff, particularly during night duty, cooperation received from the people and the hardships faced by them in performing their duties and helping the people in distress, said Sharif. The principal said in the last two months, many police personnel went beyond the duty line to help the people in distress. This included helping migrants stranded on roads. Some men in khaki even went to an extent of performing last rituals of those deceased who had no one in the city to look after them and showed a greater side of humanity. Hence, the study project is aimed at saluting the khaki warriors and boosting up their morale, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/law-college-pupils-to-study-police-role/articleshow/76124415.cms||B K Mishra
June 1, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli district reports first Covid-19 death||Rajkot: Amreli district reported its first death due to Covid-19 on Saturday night when a 55-year-old woman from Gajerapara locality of Amreli town succumbed to the infection. Official sources said that the woman had travelled from Ahmedabad to Amreli on May 28. In Ahmedabad, she had undergone hospitalization for hypertension and asthama in a private hospital. “On Saturday, she was admitted to the civil hospital with high fever and Covid-19 symptoms. The woman's report confirmed her as Covid-19 positive on Sunday. But she died before the report arrived,” said an official from the Amreli Civil Hospital. Amreli municipality has declared Gajerapara, where the deceased woman lived, as a containment zone. “We are tracing those persons who had come into contact with the this woman to put them under home quarantine,” said an official. So far, Amreli district has reported 10 Covid-19 positive cases, of which two have been discharged from the hospital after they recovered. KID WHO DIES OF CANCER DECLARED AS COVID-19 POSITIVE Rajkot: A 10-year-old boy, who died of cancer, was mistakenly declared as Covid-19 positive by GG Hospital in Jamnagar on Sunday. Jamnagar district collector told media persons that the hospital had declared the deceased boy as Covid-19 positive by mistake and that the boy had actually died of cancer. ONE MORE POSITIVE CASE IN RAJKOT Rajkot: One more Covid-19 positive case was reported in Rajkot on Sunday. The 35-year-old man had apparently contracted the infection from a private Covid hospital where he used to work. Following this, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation put Goldan Portico Apartment, where the Covid-19 positive man lives, in Madhapar village on the outskirts of Rajkot under containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-district-reports-first-covid-19-death/articleshow/76126263.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Business||Companies await pick-up in demand to boost manufacturing||NEW DELHI: With a majority of manufacturing facilities across sectors still operating below optimum levels, India Inc awaits a pick-up in demand to ramp up production capacities as Lockdown 4.0 ends and Unlock 1.0 begins. Several manufacturers TOI spoke to across sectors said their operations are running below 100% capacity. While those operating in essential services, such as pharmaceuticals and fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), are better off but still not utilising full capacity, others in consumer durables, auto, auto components, tyres, jute and textiles find their factories stunted way below 100% capacity levels. Manpower shortage and demand-related issues continue to plague companies. Read the full story on TOI+  It’s still a lockdown till consumers unlock wallets||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-await-pick-up-in-demand-to-boost-mfg/articleshow/76126086.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Partha Chatterjee nod for keeping varsities shut till June 30 in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Education minister Partha Chatterjee has approved the recommendation to keep colleges and universities closed till June 30, as was suggested by the West Bengal Vice-Chancellors’ Council on Friday. Along with schools, all academic activities will remain suspended in the education institutes across the state in the first phase of “unlocking” the country. The decision has, however, raised doubts over holding the West Bengal Higher Secondary Examination on June 29, as was announced by the government. A call will have to be taken by the Mamata Banerjee-led government on the issue next week. On Sunday, the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE) instructed examiners, who have not yet submitted their allotted answer scripts and marks to the head examiners, to do so within 48 hours. “It must be treated as urgent,” the communiqué to teachers said. The head examiners have also been instructed to submit their balance marks to the regional office or to the office of the deputy secretary (examination) within 48 hours of receiving the answer scripts. “If necessary, examiners and head examiners can carry their appointment letters or the instruction from the Madhyamik Board when travelling to submit the answer scripts,” said a WBBSE official, adding, “We are yet to receive around 10% of the scripts, which is delaying the results. We aim to publish the Madhyamik results by the beginning of July.” Earlier, after the West Bengal Vice-Chancellors’ Council had sent a proposal to the state, suggesting keeping institutions closed till June 30, several VCs estimated that the first-year classes in the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes could only begin in October, delaying the academic session further. The minister on Sunday also mentioned that 7,000 schools were being converted into quarantine centres for migrant labourers returning to Bengal. “Education secretary Manish Jain will seek financial assistance from the Centre for the loss incurred by the education institutes during Amphan,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partha-nod-for-keeping-varsities-shut-till-jun-30/articleshow/76126053.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private bus operators stare at loss, not to start services now||KOLKATA: Private buses will remain off the road as operators on Sunday felt they would incur a huge loss even if they ply with passengers in every seat. The chief minister had clarified that buses could run with full seating capacity passengers. But no one will be allowed to stand. Private buses will be needed on June 8, when offices resume services with 100% workforce. “We understand the health concern of the government, but we will be bled dry if we run buses with such a small number of passengers and according to the old fare structure. Seating capacity is one third of the passengers we ferry normally. If the government does not revise fares, we cannot run buses,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates (JCBS). JCBS demanded a regulatory authority on fare. “If the government thinks we are making an unnatural demand, let there be an independent authority to decide if fare revision is necessary. Or let the government make viability gap funding so we don’t incur losses,” Bandyopadhyay said. JCBS also demanded insurance for all bus workers, he added. However, some mini-bus operators said they would resume services, but needed the government to help them operate. STU and WBTC will continue full-scale operations on 40 routes across the city. The full-seating capacity will help faster dispersal of passengers. WBTC is expected to resume services on all 234 routes from June 8. NBSTC and SBSTC, two other STUs serving the rest of north Bengal and south Bengal respectively, have also resumed services. However, full-scale WBTC operation will severely fall short of demand. Tram and ferry services will resume from June1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-bus-operators-stare-at-loss-not-to-start-services-now/articleshow/76126033.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 1, 2020||Patna||55,000 people reach home by 35 Shramik special trains in Bihar||PATNA: At least 35 Shramik special trains carrying about 55,000 migrant workers and other stranded persons reached different places in Bihar from Delhi and nine other states on Sunday. The East Central Railway ( ECR ) has so far received 1,476 Shramik special trains and brought back nearly 19lakh migrant workers and others stranded to the state since May 2. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said that Shramik special trains from Chennai, Chengalpattu, Tiruppur and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu carrying about 9,000 migrants and others stranded reached Madhubani, Jehanabad, Muzaffarpur, Hajipur and Darbhanga on Sunday, while three other special trains from Bengaluru, carrying 4,700 migrants reached Araria , Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur on Sunday. “Five Shramik special trains from Ludhiana and one special train from Amritsar in Punjab carrying migrant workers reached Madhepura, Madhubani, Nalanda, Patna and Purnia on Sunday, while Shramik special trains from Gandhidham and Vapi in Gujarat carrying about 4,500 migrant workers reached Chhapra and Nalanda on Sunday,” the CPRO said adding, “Shramik special trains from Lokmanya Tilak and Borivali in Maharashtra reached Bhagalpur and Darbhanga on Sunday.” Besides these, a Shramik special train from Anand Vihar (Delhi), carrying mostly migrant workers, reached Purnia on Sunday and another special train from Dehradun in Uttrakhand reached Motihari with migrant workers. Three Shramik special trains from Jalalpur and one special train from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh carrying about 6,300 migrant workers reached Katihar and Saharsa on Sunday . “Migrants had to undergo health check-up on the platforms of these two stations in presence of railway and government doctors. While a Shramik special train from Jirania in Tripura reached Gaya with migrant workers,” the CPRO said. Several other Shramik special trains ferried stranded migrant workers to their native places in Bihar from Bettiah to Barauni, Danapur to Bettiah, Danapur to Gopalganj, Danapur to Madhubani and Barauni to Madhubani on Sunday. Meanwhile, Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj said that Danapur commercial staff engaged in serving meals and other requirements to passengers travelling by Shramik special trains had served about 5.2 lakh meal packets among migrant workers at Danapur during the last one fortnight. “Besides, the railways had also provided meals to passengers travelling by special train from Goa to Bairbi in northeast at Patna Junction on Saturday,” Raj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/55k-people-reach-home-by-35-shramik-special-trains/articleshow/76124396.cms||Kumod Verma
June 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: One more held in drug seizure case||RAJKOT: In the seizure of 33 gram of heroin worth Rs 3.3 lakh near Master Society on Kotharia Road in Rajkot last month, Rajkot special operation group arrested one more person from Pratapgadh district in Rajasthan on Sunday. Earlier, the cops had arrested Imran Pathan and his wife Fatma Pathan, both aged 35, along with Salma Sandhi.  The Pathan couple claimed that Sandhi had provided them with the contraband. Sandhi claimed that the drug was supplied by Bharaiya Meena (62) from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-more-held-in-drug-seizure-case/articleshow/76126266.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Surat||Migrant lynched over suspicion of theft, Cong councillor among 6 detained||Surat: A migrant worker from Bihar was allegedly lynched by a group of men in Pandesara area, reportedly after they suspected him of being a thief, in the early hours of Sunday.The victim Sangam Pandit, a native of Bihar, died during treatment in Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMER hospital. Pandit, who was around 30 years old, was employed in a local textile mill. Police booked and detained six persons including a Congress municipal councillor of Vadod area in Pandesara, Satish Patel, allegedly involved in the crime, for questioning. Police initially registered an offence of rioting, attempt to murder and attack but added the section of murder after Pandit succumbed. The complaint was lodged by Sujit Singh, a textile businessman and Pandit’s friend, in Pandesara police station. In his complaint, Singh said that Pandit and he had gone to meet their friend in Bhestan on Saturday night. While returning home in Sachin area at around 2am on motorcycle, they took wrong road by mistake and reached Bhairavnagar. Patel and others, who were sitting outside, stopped the duo and accused them of being thieves, Singh alleged in the complaint. Pandit was then smashed on head with some blunt object due to which he suffered serious injuries while Singh suffered fracture in both legs due to thrashing. Police said that Pandit’s parents work in Mumbai as labourers and efforts are being made to contact them. Preliminary investigation revealed that the attackers were sitting on the road when they spotted the duo and attacked them. However, one of the persons named Pratik, who was detained for questioning, claimed that he had a fight with a man named Vicky on Friday night and assumed that the two were the latter’s men who had come to attack him. "Pratik claimed that he had a fight with Vicky over some personal dispute on Friday night. Vicky was thrashed by Pratik then and both groups had fought on Saturday night too," claimed DK Patel, police inspector, Pandesara police station. Patel claimed the assailants thought they were Vicky’s men. “However, we are taking their claims with a pinch of salt," Patel said when asked why only two persons would be sent to attack a group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-lynched-over-suspicion-of-theft-cong-councillor-among-6-detained/articleshow/76126103.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 1, 2020||Surat||69 days on, textile & diamond markets to ‘unlock’ shutters||Surat: More than two months later, Surat’s textile and diamond markets are set to reopen from Monday as the city prepares to ‘unlock’ in phase 5.0 of lockdown. According to municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, markets, which are outside the containment zones would reopen from Monday, and he hopes that economic activities will pick up steam. “Everyone and every establishments will have to adhere to the guidelines of wearing face mask and maintaining social distancing. We will send videography teams on the field as well keep a watch through CCTVs to ensure that markets do not overcrowd. If we find anybody flouting norms, strict actions will be taken,” Pani said. “Bank services are considered as an essential services and they will be allowed to operate even in containment zones. Auto rickshaws with one plus two passengers will be allowed to operate outside containment zones in the city,” he added. Meanwhile, Surat recorded 49 more Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally to 1,597 in the city. On the other hand, Surat district recorded six more Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Two persons succumbed to the virus too taking the death toll to 70 till date. The deceased include 80-year-old resident of Jalaramnagar in Udhana zone, Devnarayan Gujjar, and Shivram Parida, 65, a resident of Amroli Avash in Katargam zone. On Sunday, 22 more Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals. Of them, 13 were discharged from Covid Care Centre and nine from New Civil Hospital. Total 1,064 patients have been discharged till date in the city. Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) too will start operating from Monday. Pani said that BRTS buses would start operating in a phased manner to help people in commuting. BOX: Cyclonic storm may hit South Gujarat coast Surat: SMC chief Banchhanidhi Pani said that the civic body is preparing for the possible cyclonic storm which is likely to hit South Gujarat on June 3-4 as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. BOX: Covid-19 Meter Total Positive: 1548 Total death: 70 Total discharged: 1064||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/69-days-on-textile-diamond-markets-to-unlock-shutters/articleshow/76126128.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Surat||Four youths feared drowned in Narmada river near Aliya Byet||Bharuch/Surat: Four youths are feared drowned in estuary of river Narmada in Aliya Beyt near Hansot in Bharuch district on Sunday evening. According to police, five youth from Hanst town had gone to take bath in the river in the afternoon. Sources said that all five got swept away due to the water current, however, one of them managed to able to save himself and reach the shore. He alerted the people who alerted the police and fire department.The fire brigade team of Ankleshwar municipality rushed to the spot and has started search operation. Police said that because of low visibility the search operation has been suspended till Monday morning. Divers will resume search for the youths on Monday morning. Police said that all the youths were in their early 20s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-youths-feared-drowned-in-narmada-river-near-aliya-byet/articleshow/76126270.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Three more flights from Patna airport from today||PATNA: Three more flights will operate from the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport from Monday, as per the revised provisional flight schedule approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. GoAir would resume its flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, increasing the number of total flights from Patna airport from 13 to 16. The Delhi-Patna-Delhi (G8-2511/ 2512) would land here at 9.40am and depart for Delhi at 10.20am, whereas Patna-Mumbai G8-351/352 would arrive 10.30am and leave for Mumbai at 11.20am. The third flight between Patna and Bengaluru (G8- 873/ 874) would land here at 1.20pm and depart for Bengaluru at 2pm. Meanwhile, the number of flyers landing at the city airport has been more than those leaving for other destinations in the last one week since May 25. Altogether 14 flights landed here and took off to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Amritsar on Sunday. Altogether 2,412 passengers arrived and 1,017 flew out of the city. One Delhi-Patna flight (SG-8480) scheduled to land at 6pm on Saturday, was diverted to Varanasi due to bad weather in the city. It reached the city airport around 12.40am and left for Delhi at 1.10am. Patna airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said altogether 13,062 arrived and 5,063 departed in the last seven days. “Since flight operations resumed on May 25, the airport handled 80 domestic flights, with total 17,208 passengers. All standard operating procedure has been followed to ensure safe/secure journey,” he said. “As a precautionary measure, NDRF conducts extensive disinfection drive on entire airport premises every alternate night,” Negi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-more-flights-from-patna-airport-from-today/articleshow/76124386.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Locusts in their fields trigger panic among Dakshina Kannada farmers||MANGALURU: In many parts of Dakshina Kannada, farmers were in a tizzy when they found swarms of locust on their fields, terrified at the prospect of these being the desert locusts, which have been laying farms to waste in Rajasthan. Farmers in Shiralu in Belthangady taluk, Nooojibalitha in Kadaba are not new to invasion of locusts, having suffered the depredations of these attacks in the past. However, none of them has seen an invasion of the pest on such a scale. The panic-stricken farmers have intimated the agriculture department about the discovery of locust on their fields. A Shiralu farmer said that a swarm of locust had destroyed crops on many of their fields. Joint director of the agriculture department, Dakshina Kannada MC Seetha confirmed to TOI that they had received information about invasion of locusts in several villagers. “Entomologists have visited the villages to gather information. We were alerted to this invasion on Saturday evening, and we immediately alerted entomologists, asking them to visit the spot to assess the situation on the ground. Photographs that the farmers sent us have also been forwarded to them. The entomologists who took a look at the insects said that these were likely to be ‘Caloptropis Locusts’ or the colour grasshopper. The desert locusts arrive in lakhs. It is highly unlikely that the locusts in Dakshina Kannada are of the desert variety,” she added. Meanwhile, entomologists are looking to nab the adult insects so as to be able to identify the exact species accurately. “In accordance with the procedure, we will make our recommendations, and the department will disclose the findings confirmed by the entomologists,” said Seetha, adding that there was no cause for panic among the farmers. “What the farmers must do is make a loud clashing noise with vessels, which will drive the locusts away,” she said. Meanwhile, officials in the agriculture department in Puttur taluk, quoting experts’ findings said that the locust found on the farms in Dakshina Kannada villages was the ‘Spotted Coffee Grasshopper’, also known as the Aularches Miliaris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/locusts-in-their-fields-trigger-panic-among-dakshina-kannada-farmers/articleshow/76124657.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Varanasi||14 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Varanasi||Varanasi: As many as 14 new positive cases of Covid-19 including 10 migrant labourers, three policemen and a woman sari trader were detected in the district on Sunday. With the arrival of Sunday’s reports from Banaras Hindu University laboratory, the Covid tally of Varanasi reached to 182. The number of patients cured and discharged from hospitals rose to 117 after six more were discharged on Sunday. Now, active patients in the district are 61 while 92 areas have become hotspots. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “A total of 200 test reports were received by the district administration, out of which 14 are positive. Three of them are police constables who were deployed as followers of CO Sadar. The three had been quarantined after one of their colleagues had tested positive four days ago. They all lived in barrack-8 of police lines. After the arrival of their reports, they were admitted to isolation ward of DDU district hospital.” A 40-year-old woman sari trader of Chhamuhani area under Jaitpura police station also tested positive on Sunday, DM Sharma said. “Contact tracing is in progress to ascertain the source of infection,” he added. Other 10 patients are migrant labourers, informed the DM A 60-year-old man of Umraha Barai village of Chaubeypur was found positive. He had returned home from Mumbai with fellow labourers in a car and one of his his friends had already been tested positive. Similarly, a 30-year-old woman of Hiramanpur in Phoolpur area was found positive. She had also returned home from Mumbai in a car with her husband, who had been tested positive. A 42-year-old labourer of Mokalpur village of Chaubeypur had returned from Mumbai with other migrants. One of his companions tested positive earlier. A Surat-returned 30-year-old migrant of Chhitampur village in Chaubeypur area. A 23-year-old Mumbai-returned labourer of Amilo village in Badagaon, a 48-year-old Bharatpur (Rajasthan)-returned vegetable vendor of Tikari village of Chaubeypur. A 36-year-old native of New Colony Soyepur of Cantonment police station area who had returned from Delhi by flight on May 25 and had tested positive. Apart from them, Mumbai-returned 32-year-old youth and his companion. A comparision 35-year-old native of Ratanpur village in Badagaon area and a 27-year-old man of Hariharpur in Jansa area were found infected. DM said that after a fresh rise in reports from areas around it, many localities Chhitampur, Amilo, Sarai Tikari, Soyepur, Ratanpur, Hariharpur and Chhamuhani have been declared new hotspots. Now, total number of hotspots in the district have become 92. Of them 28 have turned to green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/14-new-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-varanasi/articleshow/76125480.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||30% of migrants will not return to cities: Irudaya Rajan||NEW DELHI: About 30% of migrants who have left big cities are not likely to return due to the “bad experience” they had, an economist who has tracked migration issues for nearly three decades said while backing the idea of immediate cash transfers and rolling out migrant smart cards, reports Surojit Gupta. We expect that about 30% of them will not come back to the cities owing to the bad experiences they had with their employers. Many employers simply abdicated their responsibilities towards their migrant workers and left them to fend for themselves in a dangerous time. Those who had employers who took care of their issues will return,” S Irudaya Rajan, professor at the Centre for Development Studies in Kerala, told TOI in a telephone interview. About 10% of the workforce from cities would have left before the lockdown began. Another 10% would have left during the third and fourth phases of the lockdown, when mobility was a little eased. We might see a further 10% return during the fifth phase after June 1. We should see a total of 30% of the total workforce leave cities. What is the total size of the migrant population?  The Census estimated 453.6 million internal migrants in India in 2011, adding about 139 million compared to the estimate of 314.5 million in 2001. Given government-led urbanisation programmes like smart cities initiatives, internal migration would have increased in the 2011-2021 period. If we were to add the same number of migrants as was seen in 2001-2011 period, the migrant population would be almost 600 million. The 2011 census showed that around one-third of all internal migrants are inter-state and inter-district migrants, which makes it almost 200 million. Of these 200 million, about two-thirds are estimated to be workers. This gives us a migrant worker population of about 140 million as of today. Unfortunately, in the absence of reliable data, we do not have an understanding of the migration numbers. We have failed migrants at every level during Covid-19. How many migrants have gone back from the cities?  About 10% of the workforce from cities would have left before the lockdown began. Another 10% would have left during the third and fourth phases, when mobility was a little eased. We might see a further 10% return during the fifth phase after June 1. We should see a total of 30% of the total workforce leave cities. The government should immediately announce a cash transfer of Rs 25,000 as compensation in light of wages lost during the two-month lockdown period. In order to avail it, the workers would have to register with the respective state governments with their bank account details. This would serve two purposes — provide an immediate financial assistance and get an estimate of the number of migrant workers in each state. We could implement issuing a Migrant Smart Card to every worker when they migrate to other states, which can be swiped at bus or railway stations. This smart card would contain their socio-economic details, maybe linked to Aadhaar or ration card as well as details about their work contract and employer’s details so that they have a means of official restitution in times of disputes with the employers. The Centre should invest in a pan-India migration survey, similar to the Kerala migration survey, which the Kerala government has used to understand migration patterns and trends from the state over the years. It is no coincidence that Kerala has prepared to receive migrants (both internal and international) to handle the migrant crisis. How many migrants will return to cities?  We expect that about 30% of them will not come back owing to the bad experiences they had with their employers. Many employers abdicated their responsibilities and left them to fend for themselves in a dangerous time. Those who had employers who took care of their issues will return. The central and state governments should take this opportunity to identify and penalise these bad employers. The employers have failed to protect their workers and governments have failed to hold them accountable. Yes, there will be a serious labour scarcity in cities which will probably lead to a wage increase. It is hard to imagine cities without migrants and migration. But some will also return to cities owing to an expected deep depression created in rural economies. Migration is often the only viable strategy for survival for millions of these people. It will take at least 6 months to a year, given the constraints and prevailing fears. To get migrant workers back to cities, the Centre and states should ensure that employers pay the workers not only the salaries of the previous two months, but also an advance of three months’ salary. Would you advocate cash transfers to help the migrants?  Registration with the government for a cash transfer of Rs 25,000 will do a lot to tide over the financial stress. If we were to send a sum of Rs 25,000 to every inter-state and inter-district migrant worker, earlier estimated at 140 million, this would amount to Rs 3,50,000 crore, which is about one-sixth of the package announced by the Centre. We can target only those who were stranded, which would be a further fraction of the total amount. This will help stimulate local economies by giving a large number of people purchasing power that they currently lack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/30-of-migrants-will-not-return-to-cities-irudaya-rajan/articleshow/76126701.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Activist sterilises pet dog without owner’s permission, booked||Haridwar: An activist was booked in Rishikesh on Sunday after she allegedly stole a pet dog, a female, and sterilised it without the owner’s permission. While the woman has been traced, the dog is missing and police are trying to find it. The incident took place in Tapovan area, under the jurisdiction of Muni ki Reti police station. After the owner of the dog lodged a police complaint, a case was registered against the activist, Aditi (who goes only by her first name) under sections 379 (punishment for theft), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Animal Cruelty Act. Station house officer (SHO) Muni ki Reti RK Saklani told TOI, “The accused is a volunteer with Karma Animal Trust, an organisation which operates in Tapovan area. She confessed to taking the dog and sterilising it without permission of its owner, Pradeep Pundir. She said she assumed it was a stray. The dog is still missing and an investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/activist-sterilises-pet-dog-without-owners-permission-booked/articleshow/76124751.cms||MS Nawaz
June 1, 2020||Varanasi||More migrants test +ve, 42 new cases in east UP||Varanasi: More and more migrant workers returning from Mumbai, Surat and other cities have been testing positive for novel coronavirus infection and increasing the Covid-19 case graph in east UP region. The trend continued as 42 migrants tested positive on Sunday. As many as 19 cases were detected in Ghazipur district, including 14 labourers from just one village. Seven new cases were detected in Ballia, six each in Mau and Azamgarh and four in Bhadohi. Additional chief medical officer Ghazipur Dr Umesh Kumar said, “A batch of 76 migrant labourers had returned to Nasirpur Survat village in Kasimabad area from Mumbai by train on May 21. They all had been quarantined and their samples were collected. When the reports came, 14 were found infected. Five more cases were found in Saichanpur village of Jamania, Devkali, and Birno.” Till now, the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day was 18 on May 20. Now, total cases in Ghazipur have risen to 122 of which 56 are active. Mau chief medical officer Dr Satish Chandra Singh said two real brothers, a woman and three migrants, from Ranipur, Mohammadabad, Kopaganj, Pardaha and Ghosi area, who had returned from Mumbai, Haryana and Delhi, tested positive in the district on Sunday. Now, Covid-19 cases in Mau have increased to 29, including two who got cured and were discharged from hospital. DM Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi said seven new cases were detected in the district on Sunday from Ratsar village in Gadwar, Chakra Prasadpur of Pandah, Dihwa village of Nagra, Kaithwali of Sohao and Belahri of Bahadur area. They all are migrants. With new figures, total cases in Ballia reached to 49 of which 12 have recovered. In Azamgarh, six new cases on Sunday pushed the district figure to 94. CMO Azamgarh Dr A K Mishra said an employee of district hospital and five persons of Bhilampur Pavai, Mejwa Phoolpur, Mortienganj, Telipur Nizamabad and Berina Vishwambharpur tested positive. In Bhadohi, four new cases, including a health employee, were reported on Sunday, taking the district’s Covid-19 tally to 43, including three casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/more-migrants-test-ve-42-new-cases-in-east-up/articleshow/76125510.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid harassment; health worker attempts suicide||Kozhikode: A health worker attached to the New Mahe public health centre in Kannur district has tried to commit suicide following alleged mental harassment in the name of Covid-19. The woman was admitted to the Government Medical College, Pariyaram after attempting suicide by consuming tablets for hypertension in large numbers on Friday night. According to hospital sources, she is recovering. There were allegations that she violated quarantine norms by visiting a relative who came from Bangalore. BJP and UDF had organized a dharna in front of the PHC demanding that the staff should be sent to quarantine. But the relatives said that her sister who had come from Bangalore and mother who visited the sister are living at another house and they were not in contact. A WhatsApp message purportedly from the woman is doing the rounds in the social media in which she named some of her colleagues for raising baseless allegations against her. Meanwhile, New Mahe police said they have not yet registered a case as they are unable to record the woman's statement as she is in the hospital. "We will record her statement as soon as possible after she is tested negative for Covid-19," said New Mahe sub-inspector Ratheesh. "We have not yet checked the veracity of the WhatsApp message. Only she can tell whether the details in the message are true or false. We will register a case after recording her statement," he said. Meanwhile, the New Mahe panchayat has come up supporting the health worker saying that the allegations against her are baseless. The panchayat said that the accusations are politically-motivated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-harassment-health-worker-attempts-suicide/articleshow/76124754.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid curve: So far so good but need to keep guard up||With fifth round of lockdown kicking in from Monday, health and administrative officials in western districts of Tamil Nadu are bracing for a possible surge in Covid-19 cases in the region. Western districts were better in terms of containing the spread of the virus, largely due to fewer people visiting Koyambedu market, one of clusters in the state, and absence of major influx of people from other states till a week ago. But the situation appears to be changing. Coimbatore may not be having any active cases as per government records, but the district has seven people undergoing treatment in hospitals. They were not accounted for in the district’s tally because they flew down from various metros and were detected immediately upon arrival at the city airport. However, this might change as district borders are being opened, say health officials. Salem, which had no active cases till third week of May, has started getting fresh cases as scores of people came in from other states. Now, Salem has 123 active cases, 49 of them declared as Covid-19 positive on Sunday. Salem collector S A Raman says more cases could come up in the district in the coming days. “Rules for people’s movement have been relaxed, allowing more people to enter the district,’’ he said. Some people sneak into the district in motorcycles, coming from as far as Chennai. They avoid arterial roads to evade check-posts and hence don’t come under testing mechanism put up at the borders. “So, there could be increase in the cases,’’ he said. Fresh Covid-19 cases have started trickling into Erode too, which now has two positive people undergoing treatment. Namakkal had its first death due to the infection on Friday night which was notified in the bulletin on Sunday. The deceased had visited Andhra Pradesh sometime back. He returned on May 28, got admitted in the hospital and died by the time test result came. A health official in Namakkal said that often people obtain passes for inter-district travel for only two, but more tend to travel using the same pass. “Security personnel at check-posts check if people travelling in cars have passes, but sometimes don’t look the number of people allowed. We have quarantined 11 such people who came from Chennai,’’ he said. Meanwhile, the engines of the industries have started slowly picking pace. The small industries in Coimbatore do complain of manpower shortage and lack of financial support from banks, but Tirupur garment units have found a foothold in medical textile sector to emerge as key suppliers of PPEs and masks across the country. Industrial cluster in Hosur too has gathered momentum, if not fully. Easing of more restrictions in Lockdown 5.0 will enable the industries to step up production. The central region of the state witnessed a big chunk of cases from the TJ cluster while Ariyalur and Perambalur were the worst affected by the Koyambedu cluster. Now, the region is affected by an influx of positive cases from Maharashtra.At least 84% of the total Covid-19 cases reported until May 31 in Tamil Nadu were from northern districts, including the state capital Chennai that has emerged as the hotspot. Again, 91% of Covid-19 deaths were reported from the northern region as on May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-curve-so-far-so-good-but-need-to-keep-guard-up/articleshow/76126119.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Varanasi||Budding basketball player killed in thunderstorm||Varanasi: Saturday night thunderstorm caused large scale damages especially in the city outskirts and also in adjoining districts. A budding basketball player was killed when branch of a tree fell on her while a woman lost her life after suffering grave injuries after her mud house collapsed during storm on Saturday night. Many animals also lost their lives due to lightening in Chandauli district while some building structures were also damaged in Jaunpur. According to reports, Anushka Patel, a native of Holapur village under the limits of Shivpur police station area, had gone to her orchard to collect fruits when she fell down on ground during thunderstorm on Saturday night. In the meantime, a tree branch fell on her causing serious head injuries. Her family members and neighbours rushed her to the district hospital but she died on the way. She was an emerging basketball player and had played for Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth team in All India Inter University tournament this year. Meanwhile, in Hariharpur village of Shivpur area Sudama, wife of Phoolchand Kanojia, was buried under the debris after their mud house collapsed. Locals rescued her and rushed her to Trauma Centre where she died during the course of treatment on Sunday. Police have sent the body for postmortem. Three mud houses in Koirajpur area of Badagaon also collapsed after trees uprooted during the storm fell on them during thunderstorm. Three minors were injured in the incident while three goats were killed after getting buried under the debris. The thunderstorm followed by heavy showers also caused huge loss to horticulturists as mango crop was damaged at a large scale. Besides, power supplies in most parts of the district also remained disrupted till late night. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that teams of officials and revenue department have been engaged for assessment of the loss of life, property and crops. The teams will submit their reports on Monday after which all possible help will be extended to the affected people. In neighbouring districts, three buffalo and a calf were struck by lightening in Karvandia village of Chakia area in Chandauli district. The dome of a temple was also damaged due to lightening in Ahmadpur area under Jafrabad police station in Jaunpur district. At the time of the incident several villagers were sitting there and were injured after they came under its debris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/budding-basketball-player-killed-in-thunderstorm/articleshow/76125524.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Varanasi||As Lockdown 4.0 ends, markets to remain open till 7 pm, e-rickshaws allowed to ply from today||Varanasi: Minor relaxations in restrictions will be visible from Monday onwards, as Lockdown 4 has come to an end. Extension of market opening hours and permission to run e-rickshaws in the bylanes of the city are some of themn. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “The markets will now be open from 8 am to 7 pm, but the shops will continue with the formula of left lane-right lane and odd-even as it proved to be effective in the fourth phase of the lockdown.” Till the end of lockdown-4, the administration had allowed the markets to be open only till 5 pm. With regard to public transport, DM Sharma said, “The UPSRTC will star operating its buses. However, within the city limits, only e-rickshaw operation is allowed for a few days. After SP (traffic) finalises new traffic plans, auto-rickshaws will also begin to ply on road. The entry of heavy vehicles on city roads will remain completely banned.” “Plans for all other services and reopening of offices are being finalised as per the guidelines issued by the state government,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/as-lockdown-4-0-ends-markets-to-remain-open-till-7-pm-e-rickshaws-allowed-to-ply-from-today/articleshow/76125633.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Goa||New Rs 1.5cr Covid test machine set to become operational this wk||Panaji: Two months after setting up a virology laboratory, Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, is set to add another feather to its cap. A Rs 1.5 crore machine to conduct RT-PCR tests for the novel coronavirus is currently being installed, and is likely to become operational this week. The laboratory, which currently conducts 60-80 tests a day, will be able to conduct around 500 RT-PCR tests daily after the machine becomes functional. Tests are currently being conducted on a non-automated machine, which was borrowed from the Malaria research centre when the Covid-19 pandemic hit. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said that with the installation of the new machine, it will facilitate the hospital to do all virus tests in the state itself. “The new automated machine is being installed and we expect to make it operational from this week. It will enhance our testing facility,” said Bandekar. Currently, Goa has TrueNat machines installed in district and subdistrict hospitals, as well as in GMC. Any sample which tests positive on the TrueNat machine is taken to the virology laboratory for a RT-PCR confirmation test. Bandekar also said that the hospital has worked on a war footing not only to set up the virology laboratory in the microbiology department, but to complete a new laboratory in an area covering 250 sq m. “It was a struggle right from the time of identifying the space to getting various sanctions. Finally, the structure is ready, but some work is delayed due to the lockdown.” The new machine is being installed in the microbiology laboratory as bio safety norms are already in place there, thus making it easier for start operation of the machine as soon as possible. It will be shifted to the new laboratory once it’s ready and bio safety norms are implemented there. Bandekar also said they have already had discussions and that shifting of the machine to the new laboratory should not be a problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-rs-1-5cr-covid-test-machine-set-to-become-operational-this-wk/articleshow/76126483.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 1, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19 sampling in Rani Mandi leads to panic in area||Prayagraj: Panic gripped Rani Mandi and adjoining areas under Attarsuiya police station for an hour when a large number of people assembled for Covid sampling. Whe nthe health department enforced “Operation Prayagraj” to collect samples of migrants and locals to test for Covid infection, a huge crowd, other than the people who had registered for sampling, assembled in Rani Mandi. To this, the registered group of locals raised objections and called the police, complaining of violation of social distancing. “Local corporator and other peace committee members sent the crowd back to their homes,” said Attarsuiya inspector Police also said that people who were registered for sampling in different batches also assembled together due to late arrival of medical teams who had to collect samples. This also led to a chaotic situation, and medical teams collected samples amid police presence. Meanwhile, a minor girl tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night, taking the district Covid tally to 87. Nodal officer and additional CMO Dr Rishi Sahai said that the number of active cases is 26. While 58 patients have been recovered and discharged, three patients have died, he added. On Sunday, officials of health department received reports of 60 samples including 24 from Fatehpur, 14 from Chitrakoot, 13 from Prayagraj and nine from Pratapgarh and two patients ( one each from Chitrakoot and Fatehpur) tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-sampling-in-rani-mandi-leads-to-panic-in-area/articleshow/76126210.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Couple come in contact of live wire, get electrocuted||PRAYAGRAJ: A couple was electrocuted to death after they came in contact with an electric wire at their home in Gosai Ka Purva under the limits of Lalganj police station of Pratapgarh district on Saturday. The deceased couple identified as Rajendra Kumar Maurya (45) and Rajkumari (42), were residents of Gosai Ka Purva. Inspector ( Lalganj) Rakesh Bharti told TOI that the incident took place when the wife had gone to take clothes on the roof and the wire, on which, the cloths were lying, was in contact with a tin shade structure . Due to storm, a high tension wire might have fallen on tin shade and the woman came in contact. It was wife who first came in contact with an open wire and tin having electric current. Hearing her cries, the husband made a futile attempt to save her and both of them were electrocuted to death. Police said that the son also went on roof to know about parents and found them unconscious. When son raised an alarm, neighbours arrived the spot and informed police. The police have sent the bodies for post mortem. Two morning walkers shot at: Two persons identified as AK Gupta (48) and Ajeet Gautam ( 45), residents of Durgaganj and Singahi were shot at by two unidentified bike borne miscreants near Sigahi bridge road under the limits of Raniganj police station on Sunday morning. The incident, as per police, took place when they were sitting near bridge canal road. Upon being alerted, senior police officials rushed the spot and admitted both the injured persons at the hospital. Body found: Body of a youth identified as Karna Sraoj (21), resident of Raipur Tiyai village was found outside the village under the limits of Lalganj police station on Sunday morning. Police said that the youth was missing from his house since Saturday evening. On Sunday, locals spotted the body of missing youth lying near a tree and informed the police. Police have picked up six perosns for quizzing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/couple-come-in-conact-of-live-wire-get-electrocuted/articleshow/76126202.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kochi||Silver lining: Demand for nurses from Kerala shoots up abroad||KOCHI: Amid all the gloom and doom of the coronavirus pandemic a bit of good news is that there is an increase in the demand for the state’s nurses from healthcare institutions worldwide. While the government department of non-resident Keralites affairs (Norka) has already started the process for recruiting nurses for a private hospital in Saudi Arabia, private recruitment agencies too have been receiving inquiries from hospitals from across the globe. According to Norka authorities, the agency will kick start recruitment interviews by mid-June. “A hospital in Saudi Arabia has approached us for facilitating recruitment of nurses from Kerala. We have issued a notification inviting applications and more than 260 people have applied. But we are unable to conduct interviews owing to the restrictions put in place to limit the spread of Covid-19. We are exploring the possibilities of conducting interviews at regional levels. We will be holding talks with hospital officials,” said K Varadarajan, chairman, Norka. He said more countries have started making inquiries prior to recruitment. “The rating of healthcare staff from Kerala has gone up, thanks to better measures put in place in the state in its fight against Covid-19,” he said. Leaders of nurses’ associations said private healthcare institutions and old-age homes from the UK and Ireland have also started efforts to recruit nurses from Kerala. “Prospects of nurses from Kerala have certainly improved. Many hospitals from abroad are waiting for the resumption of flights,” said Mohammed Shihab, general secretary, Indian Nurses Association. “A few months ago, around 10,000 applications for recruiting nurses from Kerala in hospitals abroad had been pending. Now, processing of most of the applications has almost been completed. Once international flights resume services, they will be able to take up their new jobs,” Shihab said. “With demand for the nurses picking up, the Union government has made safety precautions mandatory for hospitals employing them. A hospital chain run by an NRK has appointed around 260 nurses from Kerala for hospitals in Dubai. They completed the recruitment processes after making all safety arrangements,” said Rahul Chakrapani, managing director, Medcity International Academy, a recruitment agency based in Kannur. “Several countries, especially those in Europe, have relaxed eligibility conditions. The Nursing and Midwifery Board of Ireland, for instance, has slashed the International English Language Testing System score for writing to 6.5 from 7 points. It will help nurses who look for placement in hospitals and healthcare institutions abroad,” Chakrapani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/silver-lining-demand-for-nurses-from-state-shoots-up-abroad/articleshow/76124768.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar seers welcome govt’s decision to open temples after 2 months||Haridwar: Seers and priests in Haridwar have welcomed the government’s decision to reopen temples after a gap of over two months. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Narendra Giri asked all temple office-beares to "follow the guidelines issued by the government and not let our fight against corona get weak in any way.” Mansa Devi temple chief Swami Ravindra Puri told TOI on Sunday that all necessary precaution will be taken by the temple in view of Covid-19 threat. "We have already engaged a firm to make arrangements for sanitisation of pilgrims and temple staff besides the temple premises," he added. The company running the ropeways at the Mansa Devi and Chandi Devi temples, is also gearing up to provide "safe service to pilgrims." "Right from their entry to the ropeway to their landing at the temple premises, pilgrims will be kept safe in every way," Manoj Dobhal, Mansa Devi ropeway in-charge said. He added that wearing a mask is compulsory for all and arrangements have been made for thermal scanning before people go to the ticket counter. Employees checking their luggage will do so without any contact and only two people will be allowed to travel in one cabin, Dobhal added. All employees coming in close contact with the passengers will be wearing protection kit, he added. The same arrangement has been made at Chandi Devi ropeway as well. Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said that they have held a meeting to devise a detailed plan to ensure safety at the Har-ki-Pauri. While the entire Har-ki-Pauri premise will be looked after by Ganga Sabha, safety of pilgrims at individual temples will be the responsibility of the temple owners, he added. However, Mahant Vishweshwar Puri, chief priest of Daksha temple at Kankhal said that “it is not the temple’s responsibility to take safety measures against Covid. “Pilgrims should take care of their own safety. The temples will, however, ensure their safety only if there is specific instruction by the administration,” he said. Meanwhile, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik told TOI that the state government is awaiting guidelines from the Centre regarding standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed while opening temples after which a decision on beginning the Char Dham Yatra in a phased manner will be taken. He added that the guidelines are expected sometime next week. (With inputs by Ishita Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-seers-welcome-govts-decision-to-open-temples-after-2-months/articleshow/76124785.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||Mob attacks women in Dahod over a youth’s murder last month||Vadodara: Violence erupted in Bhiloi village on Saturday over an old enmity following a youth’s murder in Dahod’s Garbada taluka around a month ago. Police arrested 17 persons and booked 16 others for attacking some women from the accused’s neighbourhood. According to police, Bhatu Bhuriya, father of the slain youth Naresh Bhuriya, along with a mob of 32 people arrived at the house of Meda Damor with sticks, bows and arrows and other sharp-edged weapons on Saturday. Fearing a backlash of the murder, Damor and others from her family had fled from the village, but a few women members had returned on Saturday. Police said that Naresh was murdered by one Manish Damor who lives in the same neighbourhood. However, due to suspicion over the involvement of the Meda and their family members, the women were attacked. Damor told the police that Bhuriya alleged that her family members had killed his son and now they are not paying any money to them. She said that before anybody could retaliate, the mob entered the house and started to attack them. While Damor managed to hide herself, her sister-in-law Kesri was beaten up and her other sister-in-law’s father too suffered injuries. The mob damaged valuables and furniture in her house and also robbed some valuables worth Rs 20,000. The pick-up vans in which Damor and others had arrived were also pelted with stones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mob-attacks-women-in-dahod-over-a-youths-murder-last-month/articleshow/76124775.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat coastal areas brace for strong winds, rainfall||AHMEDABAD: A low-pressure area over southeast and east-central Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm after moving northwards, affecting southern Gujarat and northern Maharashtra area, stated the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast on Sunday. The forecast added that ‘heavy to very heavy’ rainfall accompanied by strong winds are likely to be experienced in coastal districts of south and central Gujarat along with eastern Saurashtra on June 3 and 4. Regional centre of IMD has advised hoisting of ‘distant cautionary (DC)-1’ storm warning signals at all ports on north and south Gujarat coasts, as the sea condition is likely to be ‘rough to very rough,’ with wind speed reaching 90-100kmph gusting to 110kmph by June 4. ‘The low-pressure area over southeast & adjoining east-central Arabian Sea & Lakshadweep area persists. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over east-central and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea during next 24 hours and likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm over east-central Arabian Sea during the subsequent 24 hours. It is likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and recurve north-northeastwards thereafter and reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts by June 3,’ stated the IMD forecast. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds is likely at isolated places in Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath and Botad along with Union territories of Diu, Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3. “On June 4, apart from above-mentioned districts, Dang, Tapi, Chhota Udepur, Panchmahal, Dahod, Kheda, Anand and Ahmedabad are also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall due to cyclonic storm,” said Sarkar. “As the storm has not been formed yet, it’s not named officially so far.” Meanwhile, several parts of the state including Ahmedabad reported overcast sky Gandhinagar with 42.2C maximum temperature on Sunday was the hottest city, followed by Surendranagar (42 degrees) and Ahmedabad (41.4 degrees). Majority of the coastal districts recorded maximum temperature in the range of 33.6 degrees to 40.8 degrees in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-coastal-areas-brace-for-strong-winds-rainfall/articleshow/76125384.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Meerut||Car mechanic held in Meerut was recruited by wanted KLF man: ATS||MEERUT: The car mechanic, arrested by a team of Punjab Police from Meerut for his alleged links with Khalistan movement on Saturday, was recruited by wanted Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) operative Gursharanbir Singh to carry out subservice activities, UP ATS said on Sunday. According to UP Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which helped the Punjab Police team in the operation, “extremist literature” was recovered from the home of Teerath Singh. Sources in ATS alleged that Teerath was recruited by wanted KLF’s Gursharanbir Singh. Gursharanbir is wanted for his alleged role in the killing of a senior RSS functionary in Punjab. Teerath was hired for promotion of “Referendum 2020”, a drive launched by US-based Sikh separatist body Sikh for Justice (SFJ) to know the opinion of Sikhs on a separate Sikh nation, the sources said. However, in Meerut, Teerath’s father Ajeet Singh said that he has no inkling about his son’s connection with extremists. “There has never been any complaint against my son. Policemen from Punjab accompanied by local police raided our house. Apart from few photographs of Bhindranwale, they found nothing,” said Ajeet Singh, a rickshaw-puller at a local school. In its official statement, UP ATS said, “The arrested accused is highly radicalised and posters of Bhindranwale have been recovered from him. He is also part of Khalistan movement.” Teerath, who works at an automobile repair shop in Meerut’s Sotiganj and lives in nearby Thapar Nagar, had come in contact with Gursharanbir through Facebook messenger, a source in ATS privy to the investigation said. Interrogation revealed that Teerath was hired for promotion of “Referendum 2020” by Gursharanbir. According to the FIR, Teerath, on the directions of Gursharanbir, had added several like-minded people with him. The FIR also says that Teerath was in contact with arms smugglers across the border in Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/car-mechanic-held-in-meerut-was-recruited-by-wanted-klf-man-ats/articleshow/76124744.cms||Piyush Rai
June 1, 2020||Goa||State to Centre: Biodiversity parks not feasible in Goa||PANAJI: Government has informed the Centre that setting up of biodiversity parks is not practically feasible in the state in view of the absence of floodplains along the banks of polluted river stretches. The state in its monthly progress report has maintained that there are 11 polluted river stretches in Goa. “Flood-prone areas are tackled at Sakhali, Bicholim and Panaji by installing pumping stations and also building protection bunds. No major flood-related issues have been faced by Goa since the last five years,” a senior officer said. He said the matters pertaining to encroachment along the river banks are being addressed by the district collector and the revenue department from time to time. “There are no drains, per se, that contribute to river pollution, but natural streams which are mainly dry except during monsoon season,” he said. The senior officer said that the Water Resources Department is very much concerned about the environmental aspects, flow of the river waters and takes care to keep the rivers and tributaries flowing with sufficient water. He said the entire sewage received at treatment plant (STP) is treated as per the norms prescribed. “At present, major towns of Panaji, Margao and Vasco are having proper sewerage systems in place. Work on sewerage systems in Ponda, Mapusa, Calangute, Colva and Porvorim are in progress. Wherever underground sewer network does not exist, conventional method of septic tanks is adopted by individuals and housing complexes,” he said. “Sludge generated from such systems is being disposed of through government-run STPs,” he said, adding, “Many residential-cum-commercial complexes and hotel establishments have set up their own STPs.” The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) conducts performance evaluations of such STPs on a case-to-case basis to ascertain its compliance to CPCB-prescribed standards, he said. In villages or hinterland areas, standalone soak pits, septic tanks systems ensure effective treatment of domestic sewage. The state does not have any common effluent treatment plants (ETPs). Further, as there are no industrial units located within the catchment of any of the polluted river stretches, no ETPs are mandated therein, he said. The state has declared entire Goa as scheduled area. The Goa Ground Water Regulation Act, 2002 and Rules, 2005 are in force and Ground Water Officers are appointed taluka-wise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-centre-biodiversity-parks-not-feasible-in-goa/articleshow/76126490.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kochi||First repatriation flight from Nigeria evacuates 312 people||KOCHI: A special chartered repatriation flight from Nigeria has brought 312 Indians stranded there to Kochi. The flight operated by Air Peace reached Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) at 3.30pm on Sunday. There were 197 Keralites among the evacuees, who were stranded in the African country during the lockdown. All the passengers underwent health-screening and none of them were symptomatic. It is the first repatriation flight from Nigeria to Kochi during the lockdown. Dubai flight brings 184 passengersAs part of the Vande Bharat Mission, Air India Express flight (IX434) from Dubai carrying 184 passengers landed at 5.30pm on Sunday. On Monday, there will be four repatriation flights to Kochi. Air India Express will operate flights from Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Bahrain and Kuwait. Meanwhile, in the domestic sector, Cial reported 11 arrivals and 12 departures on Sunday. Three return operations in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Chennai sectors and one departure operation to Thiruvananthapuram were cancelled. The airport handled 918 arrival passengers and 543 departure passengers on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/first-repatriation-flight-from-nigeria-evacuates-312-people/articleshow/76124788.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK man takes aide away from police custody, held||Coimbatore: A DMK functionary and his personal assistant (PA) were arrested on Saturday night for spreading defamatory messages against municipal administration minister S P Velumani and AIADMK MLA Ettimadai Shanmugam. The DMK man had earlier prevented police from taking his PA into their custody. A police source identified the arrested as DMK south district incharge S Thendral Selvaraj, 59, of Pollachi and his PA Keerthi Anand. According to the source, Selvaraj had instigated the villagers of Singaiyanpudur to stage a road roko on May 26, after a 45-year-old local resident sustained injuries after a stone fell on his right knee from a tipper truck while he was heading to Kinathukadavu on his motorcycle. On May 27, social media was fled with messages that minister Velumani and Kinathukadavu MLA Shanmugam were engaged in smuggling boulders, sand and liquor to Kerala through Veerappagoundanur check post. The AIADMK MLA subsequently lodged a complaint with the Kinathukadavu police, who registered a case against Selvaraj and his PA. Meanwhile, Kinathukadavu police inspector Murali and team secured Keerthi Anand at Valparai on Saturday evening. When Selvaraj came to know about this, he, along with around 57 party workers, waylaid the police vehicle near the forest department’s check post at Aliyar and took away his PA by force after threatening the police officials of dire consequences. They also damaged the police vehicle. Following this, Murali lodged a complaint with the Aliyar police against Selvaraj, his PA and other party workers. The Aliyar police arrested Selvaraj and his PA around 11.30pm on Saturday night. The two were remanded in judicial custody on Sunday. The Aliyar police have also registered cases 57 DMK cadres, who are still at large. DMK MLA N Karthik condemned the arrest of party functionaries. “Police cannot threaten the DMK by foisting false cases on the party workers. We will face the cases legally,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-man-takes-aide-away-from-police-custody-held/articleshow/76126127.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jamshedpur||Two killed in Maoist ambush in West Singbhum||Jamshedpur/Bokaro: Two people, including a police personnel, were killed in firing by Maoists in Keraikela police station area of West Singhbhhum on Sunday, SP Indrajeet Mahata said. He said, “The Maoists squad opened fire on security personnel when they were crossing Jonua village in Keraikela. One of the deceased has been identified as Lakhinder Munda, a body guard of Chakradharpur SDPO Nathu Singh Meena, and the other person is Sunder Swarup Mahtoa, a special police officer. Both the men were rushed to the hospital in Chakradharpur but doctors declared them brought dead.” The security forces were on a combing operation in the hilly, forested terrain when the incident occurred. The SP said, “Maoists were hiding behind the women and children and opened firing soon after noticing the security forces. Additional forces have been reinforced and the combing operation is underway.” Notably, security forces had killed three PLFI members in Bandgaon under Tebo police station on Thursday. In Giridih district, police on Sunday busted a naxal hideout and arrested a Maoist in two separate raids conducted with the help of the CRPF. Giridih SP S K Jha said, “A hardcore Maoist Rakesh Marandi was nabbed. He was a member of a squad active in the bordering areas of Bihar and Giridih district. During interrogation, Marandi confessed to his involvement in attacking workers at a bridge-construction site in Baghmari and Chirudih under Bhelwaghat police station on April 27.” About the hideout, he said, “The naxal hideout was busted at the foothills of Parasnath under Nimyaghat police station. We also seized 45 electric detonators, 98 live cartridges, naxal literature, banners, posters and other items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/two-killed-in-maoist-ambush-in-west-singbhum/articleshow/76133979.cms||B Sridhar
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Two killed in Maoist ambush in West Singbhum||Jamshedpur/Bokaro: Two people, including a police personnel, were killed in firing by Maoists in Keraikela police station area of West Singhbhhum on Sunday, SP Indrajeet Mahata said. He said, “The Maoists squad opened fire on security personnel when they were crossing Jonua village in Keraikela. One of the deceased has been identified as Lakhinder Munda, a body guard of Chakradharpur SDPO Nathu Singh Meena, and the other person is Sunder Swarup Mahtoa, a special police officer. Both the men were rushed to the hospital in Chakradharpur but doctors declared them brought dead.” The security forces were on a combing operation in the hilly, forested terrain when the incident occurred. The SP said, “Maoists were hiding behind the women and children and opened firing soon after noticing the security forces. Additional forces have been reinforced and the combing operation is underway.” Notably, security forces had killed three PLFI members in Bandgaon under Tebo police station on Thursday. In Giridih district, police on Sunday busted a naxal hideout and arrested a Maoist in two separate raids conducted with the help of the CRPF. Giridih SP S K Jha said, “A hardcore Maoist Rakesh Marandi was nabbed. He was a member of a squad active in the bordering areas of Bihar and Giridih district. During interrogation, Marandi confessed to his involvement in attacking workers at a bridge-construction site in Baghmari and Chirudih under Bhelwaghat police station on April 27.” About the hideout, he said, “The naxal hideout was busted at the foothills of Parasnath under Nimyaghat police station. We also seized 45 electric detonators, 98 live cartridges, naxal literature, banners, posters and other items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-killed-in-maoist-ambush-in-west-singbhum/articleshow/76125166.cms||B Sridhar
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||15 cases of child sex abuse in Telangana: Activists||HYDERABAD: With Monday being International Day for Protection of Children, child right activists alleged over 15 cases of child sexual harassment have come to light in Telangana during the lockdown, while, in the city, nearly eight such instances were reported. “The recent incident in which a 13-year-old girl was raped by her father during the lockdown in Vikarabad has raised concerns,” said Achyuta Rao, president of child rights NGO, Balala Hakkula Sangham. The father had allegedly raped the victim on multiple occasions during the lockdown. “Such incidents are worrisome. It was not the sole child abuse case in the state during the lockdown. Even though some cases are being reported, there is a high chance that several victims are struggling to reach out for help,” added Rao. “We have received less than 10 cases of harassment faced by minor victims during the lockdown period. All the victims are between 15 to 18 years old,” said DCP C Anasuya, Cyberabad She Team. “The severe cases usually come to light late, as children struggle to reveal the incident. With lockdown, if the victims are stuck with their predators, it is most likely to not get reported. Most cases we have received are related to social media harassment and stalking by a known person,” said a She Team officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-cases-of-child-sex-abuse-in-t-activists/articleshow/76126131.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Directorate of collegiate education eyes alternative routes to bridge connectivity gaps||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Only 70% students in arts and science colleges in the state have so far been attentive to random online classes offered by college teachers during the lockdown. But the directorate of collegiate education is meticulously working out plans to ensure that all students benefit from online classes when it is officially rolled out on June 1. The directorate has successfully completed talks with those running community radios to ensure content delivery to remote and hilly areas, including Wayanad, Idukki and Attappadi. It has also roped in a number of local television channels, besides making arrangements with thousands of Akshaya centres across the state and libraries registered with state library council for the content delivery to students. A rough estimate was carried out by the directorate of collegiate education by analyzing the feedback collected from college principals regarding student participation in online classes conducted by the respective colleges. The information from teachers having a preview regarding the socio-economic condition of their students were also taken into account. “The study has revealed that around 30% students attached to various courses in arts and science colleges have problems in accessing online classes as seamlessly as their classmates. With this understanding, the directorate has charted out a mission mode initiative to explore alternative content delivery mechanisms to bring all students on board,” said collegiate education director V Vigneshwari. To start with, the directorate has reached an agreement with community radio-Mattoly and local television channel Wayanad Vision so that the connectivity issues faced by students in far flung areas could be addressed. Talks are on with various other community radio operators and cable TV channels for the purpose. The service of Victers’ channel, which is being primarily used for content delivery for school classes, would also be used for the service of college students, she added. Akshaya centres every 2km on average and over 8,000 libraries across the state seems to be the collegiate education directorate’s ray of hope. “For those who are unable to access online classes can do so from Akshaya centres, libraries and media rooms in panchayat offices. If anybody still remains left out, we would make arrangements for providing them lecture notes,” said officials concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dce-eyes-alternative-routes-to-bridge-connectivity-gaps/articleshow/76124823.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 1, 2020||Kanpur||KMC to send house tax bills through SMS from next year||Kanpur: From next year, Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be sending house tax bills to house owners through SMS. To execute this plan, KMC has entered into contract with an ITI company of Lucknow which has started door-to-door survey in 110 wards of the city collecting data of house owners and their contact numbers. So far, KMC has been realizing house tax from 4.15 lakh residential and commercial properties through manual bills but due to shortage of staff, the bills did not reach them in time and therefore they did not get rebate. The KMC officials, after seeking help of digital management, decided to send the bills via SMS as this would reduce pressure on KMC staff. .According to municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi, the KMC had collected mobile numbers of around 60,000 house owners for sending house tax bills via SMS. From next financial year, every house owner would get the bill on his/her mobile phone, he added. Rahul Sabbarwal, IT manager, smart city mission said, “KMC will send a link with SMS, and the house owner have to open that link and after which he will get the details of his bill”. The house tax could be deposited on line too, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kmc-to-send-house-tax-bills-through-sms-from-next-year/articleshow/76126232.cms||Anant Chandak
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Man killed, wife hurt as bus rams into bike||Rudrapur: A man died and his wife sustained critical injuries after their bike was hit by a bus at Khakra Bridge in Nanakmatta town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Sunday morning. The husband died on the spot while the woman is in a serious condition and is undergoing treatment. The couple has been identified as Manjeet Singh (25) and Gurnam Kaur, 23. Kamlesh Bhatt, SHO of Nanakmatta police station, told TOI that the couple was heading to their native Sundarpur village from Sitarganj when an Uttarakhand roadways bus coming from the opposite direction hit their motorbike. Both of them were rushed to the hospital where Manjeet was declared brought dead by the doctors and his wife Gurnam was referred to a higher centre from the civil hospital. “We have arrested the accused bus driver Pan Singh, a resident of district Paudi, who was found in an inebriated state. He had come to Banbasa to drop twenty migrant workers. The accident took place when he was returning back,” SHO Bhatt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-killed-wife-hurt-as-bus-rams-into-bike/articleshow/76124800.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 1, 2020||Salem||Salem: Man, 47, beats 75-year-old father to death for taking alms||COIMBATORE: A 47-year-old man beat his 75-year-old father to death at Sukkampatti in Salem on Saturday night after they picked up a quarrel over the latter seeking alms from public. Police identified the deceased as Sithamalai, of Gandhi Nagar Colony in Sukkampatti. A widower, he was residing alone. He is survived by two sons - Periyasamy and Murugesan, who are residing in the same locality along with their families - and a daughter, who is married off. An investigation officer said Sithamalai used to go to Sukkampatti main road and take alms form passers-by for food and tea. “His sons had asked him not to beg for money. However, Sithamalai did not pay heed to them and often sought money from public.” On Saturday night, the officer said, Periyasamy visited his father in an inebriated state and fought with him over talking alms from people. “Sithamalai abused his son, who in a fit of rage beat him up with a wooden log and escaped from the house. Sithamalai suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot.” On Sunday morning, neighbours found Sithamalai dead and informed the Veeranam police, who sent the body to the Salem government hospital for postmortem. Salem city police commissioner Senthil Kumar has formed special teams to nab the murderer. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-47-beats-75-year-old-father-to-death-for-taking-alms/articleshow/76126129.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Puri hotels unsure about taking bookings||BHUBANESWAR: The Centre on Saturday gave its nod to states to allow hotels to open after June 8 but hotels in Puri are unsure about reopening as the Odisha government is yet to decide on allowing the participation of devotees in the June 23 Rath Yatra. Hoteliers in Puri said they were confused about accepting bookings from tourists. Adding to the indecision, Puri Maharaja and chairman of Jagannath temple managing committee Dibyasingha Deb on Saturday advocated celebration of the Rath Yatra without the participation of devotees. The Puri king also said the government should seal Puri’s entry points to ensure a controlled Rath Yatra. “Hotels in the state will open from June 8. As far as Puri is concerned, it depends on the government’s final decision on the Rath Yatra. The hoteliers in Puri will be informed accordingly,” state tourism secretary Vishal Dev told TOI. The Hotel Association of Puri (HAP) said the district administration should issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hoteliers at the earliest. “We are ready to operate. The administration should allow us to accept bookings after June 8. If the government decides to ban the participation of devotees in the Rath Yatra, we can refund the booking amount to the tourists. But a decision should be taken in the next two or three days,” HAP secretary Raj Kishore Patra said. The hoteliers said they had already incurred heavy losses because of the closure of their establishments over the past two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-hotels-unsure-about-taking-bookings/articleshow/76124813.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram school to home deliver textbooks to students||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For Government Lower Primary School, Cotton Hill, at Vazhuthacaud, the reopening day of the academic year were much-celebrated occasions till previous year. As the students cannot attend school due to lockdown imposed by Covid-19 threat, the school authorities have decided to reach out to them. In a novel initiative, the school headmaster K Buhari along with a few teachers and PTA representatives will visit the houses of students to distribute textbooks. Director of general education Jeevan Babu will inaugurate the initiative by handing over textbooks to class I student Abhinath, who stays at Edapazhanji, near Vazhuthacaud at 10am on Monday. The teachers will be travelling in school buses to the houses of the students. “The school reopening day used to be a grand celebration for the school when the students get to interact with the teachers. But, due to lockdown class teachers cannot meet the students. And the government announced that the classes will be held online through Victers channel from June 1 and our students cannot study without textbooks. Also, parents cannot travel with kids due to safety measures of lockdown. So, we all decided to handover the books to the students at their houses,” said Buhari. There are around 200 new admissions at the school in this academic year and 150 students took admission to class I. The school authorities have planned to distribute textbooks to the over 900 students from class I to IV in the school. “We have students who are staying at around 20km distance from the school. We will travel in school bus loaded with textbooks and distribute books at their houses. In case, it is difficult to reach their houses we will handover books at a place which is convenient to them. This initiative will create an emotional connect for the students with the school. Care will be taken to adhere to Covid-19 protocol,” added Buhari. The school plans to distribute books to all students within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tvm-school-to-home-deliver-textbooks-to-students/articleshow/76124826.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus: Telangana cases surge, 199 positive in a day||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 199 new novel coronavirus cases, the highest single-day surge in the twin states, even as five persons died, taking the death toll to 82. On a day the Telangana government issued more relaxations and hassle-free inter-state movement, the total number of positive cases in the state jumped to 2,698. Greater Hyderabad has emerged as a major worry for authorities as it accounted for 122 of the total cases, with the government blaming people for not abiding by lockdown rules. Health department officials said they were worried about several areas of Hyderabad and urged the police to strictly enforce lockdown in all the new containment zones. “People are travelling across the state and some of them are not following the basic preventive measures such as wearing a mask, maintaining safe physical distancing and not overcrowding,” the government said in a statement. “The lockdown has been relaxed since May 16. It is being observed that there is a lot of mobility and movement of people from all walks of life and of all age groups,” it added. Apart from Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy district also saw a surge with 40 new cases reported on Sunday. New coronavirus cases were reported in Mahbubnagar, Suryapet, Nirmal, Warangal Urban, Yadadri, Medchal, Jagtiyal, Medak, Khammam and Jangaon. With the latest cases turning positive, Yadadri, Khammam and Jangaon district moved from the list of districts with no positive cases a fortnight ago to the list of districts having new cases. The number of districts which have not reported new cases in a fortnight has now reduced to 10 from 18, about a week back. A total of 1,428 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the state and have been discharged. In fact, Telangana ranks sixth-highest among states having over 2,000 positive cases, in terms of recovery rate of Covid-19 patients. The recovery rate in Telangana is 56. 5%, which is higher than the national average of 47.8% as per latest records of the central ministry of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cases-surge-199-ve-in-1-day/articleshow/76126512.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Goa||State asked to provide sluice gate data||Panaji: The National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) has asked the state government to provide authentic data of sluice gates for restricting the high tide line (HTL) up to the line along the bund or the sluice gate. NCSCM is the Chennai-based agency entrusted with drawing up the coastal zone management plan (CZMP). On May 7, the Union environment ministry amended the coastal regulation zone notification, 2011, to demarcate the high tide line (HTL) along bunds in khazan lands — leaving out mangroves — for the CZMP. In a letter to the state government, The NCSCM also asked that the khazan lands presently demarcated in Goa’s draft CZMP be reviewed and updated or corrected if required. “Since there had been many controversies in the past regarding demarcation of HTL and khazan lands, it is requested that the data on sluice gates and khazan lands is verified by concerned stakeholders, and certified so as to put all doubts to rest. This will help us in completing the work on time,” NCSCM’s senior scientific consultant M Dharma Raj said.The Centre’s move came after the state government made a representation to the environment ministry after a public outcry when the draft CZMP was put in the public domain in July 2019. A number of village panchayats and municipalities had earlier demanded that the HTL be demarcated along bunds and not around mangroves. They had even submitted their respective CZMPs to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). TOI was first to report that the National Coastal Zone Management Authority (NCZMA) had accepted the state government’s request to demarcate the HTL along bunds and not around mangroves in khazan lands. The notification also said that the eco-sensitive low-lying areas, which are influenced by tidal action known as khazan lands, shall be mapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-asked-to-provide-sluice-gate-data/articleshow/76126511.cms||Murari Shetye
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||NSTC staff protest pay cuts||Coimbatore: Employees of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation protested in Salem and Tirupur on Sunday demanding full pay without deducting salary for leave days. More than 50 drivers and conductors gathered at the bus depot at Johnsonpettai in Salem on Sunday calling upon the government to provide full salaries for May. Their sit-in protest inside the bus depot will continue until their demands are fulfilled. The protesters said TNSTC authorities have calculated the attendance of May 2019 for drivers and conductors to provide salaries of May 2020. Many employees had taken leave last May, they said. This decision led to deduction of their salaries for leave days. They also condemned the government for deducting their one-day salaries for Covid-19 donations. The workers alleged that technical and office staff were asked to report for work by TNSTC authorities but were not given any protective gear to safeguard themselves from the pandemic. In many places, the technical staff were treated badly by officials, workers alleged. In Tirupur, employee unions of TNSTC protested in front of a TNSTC depot located on Tirupur – Kangeyam road. They demanded the transport corporation not to deduct their salary. They said that as per the health department’s advisory, the transport corporation should protect its employees who are returning to work. The transport corporation should not take away the rights of the employees. They demanded the TNSTC officials to conduct talks with the TNSTC workers’ unions to fulfill the demands raised by the employees. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nstc-staff-protest-pay-cuts/articleshow/76126136.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Help migrant workers travel: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has asked migrant workers to come forward if they want to return to their native places and have ordered the state government to make all necessary arrangements for them – transportation, food and basic amenities.In the past, the high court had lambasted the state government for its stiff approach of not paying train fares for more than 7,512 workers from other states and its statement that it was not liable to pay for the return of 22.5 lakh migrant workers. The HC had ordered the railways and state government to bear the transportation cost for the migrants. In an order released on Sunday, the HC has appreciated government’s efforts and said, if any “are desirous to go back to their native states, then they may come forward so that necessary arrangements can be made for their departure. The state government shall ensure that necessary arrangements are made for such migrants inclusive of providing food, water and other basic amenities.” Meanwhile, Gujarat is the first state to complete the task of sending back migrant workers safely to their destinations, said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary (ACS), labour & employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/help-migrant-workers-travel-hc/articleshow/76125459.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur guidelines to be issued today||NAGPUR: As the state rules have to be implemented from June 3, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation is expected to release its guidelines on Monday, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI. “The Centre and state have extended lockdown till June 30 with some relaxations and it will be implemented in Nagpur too,” he said. On state government’s decision to include Nagpur in 10 ‘restricted’ cities, Mundhe said, “It was taken considering the current situation. We are in agreement and will have to implement it.” In the order dated May 19 which came into effect on May 22, the state had not included Nagpur in red zone. Mundhe then wrote a letter to chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and insisted on a change, which was accepted. This time, state has placed Nagpur in the 10 cities which are seeing the highest cases. Apart from Nagpur, Akola and Amravati from Vidarbha too are in the 10 cities that include Mumbai and Pune among others. The remaining eight districts of Vidarbha — Chandrapur, Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim — will get various types of relaxations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-guidelines-to-be-issued-today/articleshow/76126137.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 1, 2020||Kanpur||WhatsApp message reunites 70-year-old woman with her family after 14 years||Kanpur: A WhatsApp message reunited a 70-year-old woman with her family during lockdown in the city on Sunday. She had gone missing from her native village in Prayagraj 14-years-ago. Sita Devi of Champatpur village in Ghurpur area of Prayagraj district, who was mentally unsound, went missing from her house after the death of her husband in 2006. Her family, after lodging a missing case at a local police station, launched a search to find her whereabouts, but to no avail. They finally gave up their search after couple of years. It was nothing less than a miracle when station house officer Sachendi Atul Kumar Singh, who had spotted the woman roaming in Bhaunti area of the city, posted her photograph on his WhatsApp in order to help her in tracing her family members during the lockdown, but he did not expect what God had planned for her as well for her family members. The photo helped the elderly woman reunite with her family after 14 long years. The Ghurpur police of Allahabad (Prayagraj), where the woman's missing complaint was lodged, acknowledged the video shared by SHO Sachendi. "We forwarded the woman's picture to her family members on WhatsApp, active in Ghurpur," said a police personnel at Ghurpur police station while talking to TOI. On Saturday, Ghurpur police contacted Sachendi police and informed them that they knew her family which was still searching for her. Soon after this, the woman's three sons--Sanjiv Kumar, Uday Singh and Roshan Singh spoke to SHO Sachendi over phone to ascertain her identity. The trio reached the police station on Sunday morning and met their mother. An elated Sanjiv told TOI, “It’s no less than a miracle for us. Every year, since she went missing, presuming her to be dead, we thought of observing her `teharnvi', but there was some force that used to stop us from doing so.” "They were happy and left on Sunday afternoon to return to their native village”, said SHO Sachendi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/whatsapp-message-reunites-70-year-old-woman-with-her-family-after-14-years/articleshow/76126249.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Plea against provisions of bovine breeding act||MADURAI: A public interest litigation was filed before Madras high court challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Tamil Nadu Bovine Breeding Act, 2019. S Venkatesh of Madurai stated that the Constitution has explicitly recognized the value of lives and welfare of animals even when they are being used for meat consumption. However, section 12(10) of the Act mandates that animals that are declared/certified ‘unfit’ for breeding shall be eliminated by the owner. This is in direct violation of the provisions of the Constitution, particularly fundamental rights of an individual to pursue any trade or profession of his choice. He stated that this is particularly cruel upon the owners of the animals as well as the animals themselves as it simply legalized ‘elimination’ of one’s own animal just because it is considered not ‘fit’ by the state. He further stated that the Act also restricts and prohibits natural mating in cattle so as to circumvent the provisions of law to benefit corporations and destroy individual holding of animals for their livelihood. Saying that the state government is attempting to play the role of God, the petitioner stated that the present legislation would wipe out indigenous species. A division bench of Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi adjourned the case to a further date for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-provisions-of-bovine-breeding-act/articleshow/76126140.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||The story has been removed as it had some inaccuracies||The story has been removed as it had some inaccuracies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/the-story-has-been-removed-as-it-had-some-inaccuracies/articleshow/76126494.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Finish proceedings against Tasmac official in 2 months: HC||Madurai: Taking cognizance of the fact that disciplinary proceedings had been initiated against a Tasmac shop supervisor on charges of selling liquor during lockdown, Madras high court directed the authorities to complete the same within two months. It was alleged that petitioner Kumar, supervisor at the Tasmac shop on West Pirathasanam Road in Karur district, was found trying to sell liquor despite Tasmac shops being asked to close since March 24, when Karur Town police conducted an inspection on April 10. A criminal case was registered based on which the Karur district manager of Tasmac suspended him from service. The petitioner claimed through his counsel that he was not on duty on April 10. However, the standing counsel for Tasmac Karur district manager submitted that disciplinary proceedings have already been initiated and a charge memo issued. Justice J Nisha Banu said it would suffice if the respondent is directed to complete the disciplinary proceedings within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/finish-proceedings-against-tasmac-official-in-2-months-hc/articleshow/76126153.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hotels, malls get ready to open doors||Bhubaneswar: Hotels, restaurants and shopping malls outside containment zones in the capital city are gearing up to resume their services after the Centre allowed these sectors to start functioning from June 8. Following social distancing norms, using protective equipment and maintaining utmost hygiene will be the ‘new normal’ for both the customers and employees of the hospitality industry and shopping centres. Souvagya Mohapatra, executive director of the Mayfair group of hotels, welcomed the decision of the Centre and said they will maintain their quality along with other standard operating procedures (SOP) for the hotel industry to be issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare soon. “We have already started the process of cleaning and sanitizing the premises of the hotel. As the hotel rooms were closed during lockdown, they will not need sanitization. But we will continue to do that after the arrival of guests. We are planning to keep the hotel rooms empty for 24 hours after a guest leaves. Then we will clean or sanitize the hotel room,” Mohapatra said. He added that the hotel has accommodation for its staff. Many of them are staying on hotel premises. Others will also join at short notice. Jagdish Prasad Naik, managing director, DN Regalia Mall, said they have already sanitized the mall. “We will tell every customer to wash their hands or use sanitizer before entering into the mall. When they walk into the main entrance, security guards will screen their body temperature using infrared thermometers” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hotels-malls-get-ready-to-open-doors/articleshow/76124836.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Arrange everything for migrants desirous to return: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has asked migrant workers to come forward if they want to return to their native places and have ordered the state government to make all necessary arrangements for them – transportation, food and basic amenities.In the past, the high court had lambasted the state government for its stiff approach of not paying train fares for more than 7,512 workers from other states and its statement that it was not liable to pay for the return of 22.5 lakh migrant workers. The HC had ordered the railways and state government to bear the transportation cost for the migrants. In an order released on Sunday, the HC has appreciated government’s efforts and said, if any “are desirous to go back to their native states, then they may come forward so that necessary arrangements can be made for their departure. The state government shall ensure that necessary arrangements are made for such migrants inclusive of providing food, water and other basic amenities.” The state government told the HC that in total 13,84,023 inter-state migrant workers had left for their native states from Gujarat in 953 trains. However, the issue of deploying GSRTC buses for sending people to neighbouring states and other districts is pending in form of a PIL filed by Congress MLA Naushad Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/arrange-everything-for-migrants-desirous-to-return-hc/articleshow/76125472.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||TNSTC to operate 1,019 buses from Monday||COIMBATORE: The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses will resume operations from Monday. A TNSTC official said, “As per the state government’s decision to operate 50% buses, we have decided to operate 1,019 buses, including town buses, from Coimbatore division.” According to him, 375 buses will be operated from Coimbatore, 148 from Nilgiris, 299 from Erode and 197 from Tirupur. The town buses would only ferry government employees, including teachers and sanitary workers. Explaining that the districts were divided into eight zones and there was no need not obtain e-pass to travel within the zone, the official said Coimbatore was part of the zone that comprises Nilgiris, Erode, Tiruppur, Karur, Salem and Namakkal districts. He said passengers would be allowed to pay the ticket fare in cash and no additional charges would be levied from them. While 31 passengers would be allowed to travel in mofussil buses, only 20 passengers could travel in town buses, the official said. The passengers, who have to wear face masks, would be allowed to get into the bus through rear entrance after thermal screening them and sanitizing their hands. Conductors are assigned with the task of providing sanitizer to the passengers, who have to get down through the front entrance. Both the conductors and drivers would be given masks, gloves and hand sanitizers. Their body temperatures would also be checked. The official said steps were being taken to ensure social distancing norms at bus stands. “The buses will be disinfected after each trip with the help of corporation workers.” Meanwhile, hundreds of TNSTC workers protested in front of bus depots in the district demanding the state government to provide full salary for the month of May. M Velankanni Raj, general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said, “The city corporation had decided to reduce the workers’ salary by half after calculating the average number of days that they worked a month in the previous year. It is the government that imposed the lockdown and restricted the movement of buses. In this case, how fair it is to reduce the workers’ salary?” They withdrew the protest after the state government assured to provide them full salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnstc-to-operate-1019-buses-from-today/articleshow/76126148.cms||---
June 1, 2020||World||NASA's Crew Dragon astronauts enter International Space Station||WASHINGTON: Two NASA astronauts crossed over into the International Space Station on Sunday after their Crew Dragon capsule docked with the orbital outpost after an hours-long space journey. "This is the first time in human history @NASA_Astronauts have entered the @Space_Station from a commercially-made spacecraft. @AstroBehnken and @Astro_Doug have finally arrived at the orbiting laboratory in @SpaceX's Dragon Endeavour spacecraft," NASA tweeted. "It was a tremendous day in mission control as we watched the Dragon approach and then dock, and the hatch open and have @AstroBehnken and @Astro_Doug come forward into the @Space_Station," said NASA Johnson Center Director Mark Geyer. The US space agency posted a video of Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley stepping into the ISS and being greeted by the three spacefarers who had been living on its board for months. US billionaire Elon Musk's SpaceX company built the Dragon module that lifted off from the Florida spaceport on Saturday, after days of delay. This was the first launch from US soil since NASA retired its space shuttle program in 2011. On Wednesday, the planned launch was called off due to bad weather. Behnken is the joint operations commander for the Demo-2 mission, responsible for activities such as rendezvous, docking and undocking, as well as activities while the spacecraft is docked to the space station. He was selected as a NASA astronaut in 2000 and has completed two space shuttle flights. Hurley the spacecraft commander for the mission, responsible for activities such as launch, landing and recovery, was selected as an astronaut in 2000 and has completed two spaceflights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/nasas-crew-dragon-astronauts-enter-international-space-station/articleshow/76126710.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Breaking digital divide with devices and data||KOCHI: A handful of dalit colonies, fisher and tribal hamlets in the state would witness a unique initiative to bridge the digital divide this week when they start attending lectures in makeshift digital classrooms. The students would access video lectures through bhimonlineclassroom.in, a public repository of learning material contributed by school teachers, college lecturers and developed by Rights, an NGO working in the child rights domain. Since content alone would not solve the woes associated with the digital divide, they came up with the idea of setting up digital classrooms using android TV sets and portable wi-fi devices. The trial run of the initiative was held at Kodithookkikkunnu in Manambur village in Attingal on Friday with around 500 families, comprising mostly dalits and Muslims. Classes were held in the house of Santha of Charuvilaveedu, a daily wager who vacated it for setting up the digital classroom “We are trying to create a model which others can emulate. To overcome digital divide faced by marginalised communities, different models need to be tried out,” said Ajay Kumar, founder of Rights. An offline application with pre-loaded videos for use in remote areas is also being planned. The panel of content contributors have now grown to 40 and the NGO expects the content to grow to 1,000 videos in next two months. This week, they are planning to set up classrooms in three remote tribal hamlets — Udumbanchola and Valiyapanikkankudi in Idukki and Appankappu in Vazhikkadavu panchayat in Nilambur. “There are many remote areas with no internet access, let alone mobile coverage. In some tribal pockets there would be just one point where coverage is available. That’s when we thought of developing application with pre-loaded videos which can be updated when there is connectivity,” said Ajay. State’s internet penetration stands at 54% according to recent reports but Ajay says huge divides exist when you factor in gender and class. “Only the men in the colonies have smartphones and they won’t spare it during daytime for social media. They now use it to access BevQ app. The women mostly have feature phones,” says Subhash S, a school dropout who coordinates the initiative at Manambur panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/breaking-digital-divide-with-devices-and-data/articleshow/76124855.cms||Binu Karunakaran
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Agriculture dept on a mission to turn dryland in dist fertile||Coimbatore: The agriculture department will implement the Tamil Nadu mission on sustainable dryland development (TNMSDD) in all the 12 blocks of the district to promote dryland farming.The scheme will help promote cultivation in idle lands, said an official. “It will be implemented in 90 clusters of 100 hectare each. While there is no fixed number of beneficiaries for the project, we aim to reach 9,000 hectares in the district based on the availability of dryland in each block. For each hectare, the department will give Rs 1,250 as subsidy for summer ploughing and 50% subsidy for buying inputs such as seeds, bio-fertilisers, and biocontrol agents. To make value-added products, machines worth Rs 10 lakh will be given to the district through the agricultural engineering department. A custom hiring centre will also be set up to hire farm machinery,” she said.Farmers can use the machinery to make value-added products and market them themselves, said the official. “For example, they can make groundnut oil and sell it, as it is in demand.” “Millets such as sorghum and maize, pulses such as green gram, black gram, cowpea, horse gram and Bengal gram, and oilseeds such as groundnut can be cultivated. We have identified clusters and the baseline survey is underway. In the earlier phase of the project, we had constructed 28 check dams, which have recharged groundwater in drylands across districts,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agriculture-dept-on-a-mission-to-turn-dryland-in-dist-fertile/articleshow/76126157.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM flays pro-Left teachers’ organization||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has flayed the statement made by All Kerala Private College teachers Association (AKPCTA), a pro-Left organisation of college teachers, that ‘the state government is destroying the higher education sector’. In his weekly television programme ‘Nam Munnottu’, the chief minister said such a statement from a teachers’ association should not have come especially at a time when the higher education sector in the state is making rapid strides. “I was surprised to see such a statement from teachers’ association. It has overblown some minor issues. If there are any problems, then it could have been sorted out through discussions with concerned minister. Instead, they are trying to flay the state government, which is not an encouraging sign,” said the CM. “When there is generally positive opinion regarding the higher education sector in Kerala, a responsible organisation like AKPCTA, which enjoys the benefits of the same, has made these statements. They should reconsider their stand in this matter,” he added. The AKPCTA had come out against the government on the online classes scheduled during the Covid period and also for rearranging the workload of college teachers. The directorate of collegiate education had issued an order regarding the commencement of the online classes from June 1. However, the association had pointed out that the lockdown period should have been be used for providing adequate training for teachers and students for the conduct of online classes. The association had pointed out that there is vast difference between conventional classes and online classes. Hence, the order issued by the department lacks clarity on providing training for teachers and students and also on the gadgets that had to be procured for conducting such classes, the AKPCTA leaders had alleged. The association had come out against the decisions being taken by the bureaucracy in the department, which they termed as “unscientific” and “non-practical”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-flays-pro-left-teachers-organization/articleshow/76124841.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Strengthen NHRC, SHRC’s to safeguard human rights, says former SCJ||Madurai: Former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan B Lokur said that problems of finding solutions to human rights violation would continue till the institutions of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and State Human Rights Commission’s (SHRC’s) are strengthened by appointing chairpersons, adequate staff, and providing resources. Justice Madan B Lokur, who is the judge of Supreme Court of Fiji, participated in the valedictory function of the 21-day online certificate course in human rights offered by the Institute of Human Rights Human Rights Education of People’s Watch, an NGO, through Zoom application on Sunday. He said that the large number of complaints to NHRC indicates that there are a large number of human rights violations. He said that since NHRC is understaffed it is not able to deal with large number of complaints. He also stated that SHRC’s is also not functional at many places and the post of chairperson is lying vacant in a few places. He said that unless the institution is strengthened by appointing chairpersons, adequate staff, problems of finding solutions to human rights violations would continue. He said that the states and establishment will have to pull up its socks to give necessary support to the human rights commissions. Citing a few cases of custodial death and illegal detention where people moved court seeking compensation, he said that we need to develop the principle of accountability in jurisprudence by not waiting for a grave violation of human rights to happen to go to courts for compensation. He also said that the courts should not only look at the crime committed but should also look at alleged criminals by considering the circumstances, which led to the offence. He said that these are factors that have been taken in to consideration not only during trial but also during granting or denying bail by courts. Retired additional chief secretary PWC Davidar, executive director of EQUITAS, Canada, Ian Hamilton and UN Human Rights Officer from Methodology, Education and Training Unit, Elena Ippoliti were also present. The executive director of People’s Watch, Henry Tiphagne, offered facilitations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/strengthen-nhrc-shrcs-to-safeguard-human-rights-says-former-scj/articleshow/76126160.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Small industries await workers from southern districts to resume full ops||Coimbatore: With the state on Sunday announcing that industries can begin functioning with full workforce, representatives of micro and small industries in the district said they were gearing up to resume functions even as employee availability remains a concern.A major chunk of their workforce is stuck in southern districts, their homes. Industrialists said that the ‘unlocking’ and allowing industries to function with 100% workforce will prove useless unless the state government operates buses freely between different ‘zones’ as notified by the government, so that their workers can reach the city.“Only if the state operates buses freely between different zones, workers from southern states can come back to the city and industries can resume their functions,” said an industrialist.Micro and small industries in the district are currently running with only around half of their workforce. Workers from southern districts of the state had returned to their homes at the beginning of the lockdown and are currently unable to report for work without proper transport facilities. A significant portion of guest workers from north India — around 30% by some estimates — have already left for their home states in special trains operated for them.J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said, “Big industries can bring back their workers in their own vehicles. But workers of small industries have to apply for e-passes, whose procedure many are not aware of. So the state has to operate buses for them without such hassles.”S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association, said they have been working with 60% of their workforce since being allowed to operate earlier this month. “If the state government freely operates buses between zones in the coming week, workers from southern districts can come back sooner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-industries-await-workers-from-southern-districts-to-resume-full-ops/articleshow/76126161.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kanpur||SI faces action for spitting at public place||Kanpur: In its drive against the people who were spitting at public places, the police on Sunday challaned a sub-inspector for spitting at a public place besides also sought explanation by issuing a show cause notice to him. Giving information, SP West Anil Kumar said in order to contain the spread of coronavirus, the state government had banned spitting at the public places. He said that on Saturday, SI Anil Kumar Dubey, doing duty near Rave Moti in Rawatpur area of the city was issued a challan after he was found spitting at the public place. He added that not only the people but government servants also have to play a vanguard role for further checking the spread of Covid-19. The incident happened on Saturday when SI Anil Kumar Dubey spotted a motorcyclist riding a two-wheeler without a helmet. It was when SI himself spat on the road while issuing the challan, the motorcyclist made a video of his act and later made it viral on social media platforms. The motorcyclist can be heard telling the SI, “You’re a government servant. How can you spit in public place like this?” Meanwhile, after the video went viral on social media, people praised the motorcyclist. To recall, the state government had passed an order to prohibit spitting in public places. “In the order, it was directed that spitting, or spitting gutka or tobacco in public places is prohibited. Any violation will attract a penalty for offenders,” said a district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/si-faces-action-for-spitting-at-public-place/articleshow/76126256.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||Truck drivers looted: Anand police to verify their claims||Vadodara/ Anand: While Anand police are casting aspersions on the claims of truck drivers and cleaners’ of five trucks of being looted by youths on the Vataman-Tarapur highway near Anand on the wee hours of Friday, Tarapur police registered an offence of dacoity based on a video of the incident. Cops filed a complaint lodged by Bhola Devmorari, a driver from Vartej area on the outskirts of Bhavnagar city, and registered offence against six unidentified persons in the age group of 30 to 40 years. The complaint said that the trucks were coming from Bhavnagar. He claimed that when he stopped his truck at near Varsada village, a gang of unidentified robbers attacked him and looted Rs 30,000 including Rs 12,000 in cash. However, cops are finding contradictions in the versions of the drivers. “We have registered an offence and are investigating the matter,” said Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian. Meanwhile, videos of truck drivers and cleaners claiming that they were stopped, thrashed and looted of cash on the highway went viral on social media platforms on Saturday. In the video, the drivers are seen claiming that some of them had stopped to freshen up on the roadside when the gang struck, stripped by the gang members and decamped with their money. A driver has claimed that a total of seven trucks including one from Amreli and six from Bhavnagar have been looted by the gang at the spot, around 10km from Vataman. “We have some concrete information with us, but we are collecting more details which will get soon,” Rajian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-drivers-looted-anand-police-to-verify-their-claims/articleshow/76124786.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||500 street vendors resume business||Coimbatore: Close to 500 street vendors resumed their business across the city on Sunday. Since the civic body has prohibited them from doing business on pavements, many of them are in the process of finding a pushcart. On Tuesday, they had obtained permission from the city corporation to resume their business activities, which had come to a grinding halt two months ago when lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19.While granting permission, the city corporation had directed the vendors to adhere to precautionary measures like social distancing and disinfection of their business premises. The civic body had also warned to revoke the nod upon violation of guidelines.P Mani, district president of Coimbatore Street Vendors’ Association, said, “The city corporation has permitted only pushcart vendors. So, the ones having them resumed their business today. Some of the vendors, who had been selling vegetables and fruits in residential areas, were stationary on main roads such as Mettupalayam Road in the city.”In the case of vendors, who had been selling toys, clothes and other items on pavements, he said they had advised them to rent a pushcart to resume their business immediately. “More number of vendors are expected to hit the streets in the coming days.”Sivakumar, a vendor from Venkatapuram, said the business was dull. “Due to financial crisis, I couldn’t procure the quantity of vegetables that I used to before lockdown. Yet, I managed to sell only half of that.” Pointing out that he used to earn anywhere between Rs 300 and Rs 400 a day before lockdown, he said he earned only half that on Sunday. Chitra, another vendor from Velandipalayam, said, “While I was selling vegetables in pushcarts, I had stopped doing business during lockdown as police didn’t allow us to park our carts at a place. We had to visit at least 10 streets a day to clock a moderate business. It was difficult for me to push the cart throughout a day.” The woman said she was confident that their business would pick up momentum in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/500-street-vendors-resume-business/articleshow/76126167.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 1, 2020||Madurai||TNSTC buses to run from today under strict curbs||Trichy/Madurai: After being grounded for two months due to the lockdown, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will resume bus services from Monday within the eight zones into which they have been divided. In the Trichy region, 330 buses will operate connecting seven districts classified under zone IV while 373 will operate in Madurai district and another 75 to five other districts under zone V. While there is no need of e-pass to travel within the zone, it is mandatory for moving between zones. Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts will be interconnected by buses in the Trichy region while Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar are the districts under zone V. Private bus operators are in no hurry to resume operations as they have sought time to mobilise crew and prepare the fleets. A maximum of two people will be allowed to be seated in three-row seats while only one person should be seated in two-row seats in mofussil buses. None will be allowed to stand and only 30-32 of the 50-odd seats will be allowed to be filled. There will be a minimum 180 cm gap between passengers and the buses will ply from 5 am to 9 pm. About 50% of buses in Trichy region will operate with 60% occupancy. “Passengers without mask will not be allowed to board the bus. They should strictly board only though rear entrance and exit through the front entrance. They will be given disinfection liquid to sanitise their hands,” a senior official said in Madurai. There will be water and soaps for enabling passengers to wash their hands at terminals. Crew will be screened for temperature before allowing them to work. They will be given masks, hand sanitisers and gloves. “Only if passengers adhere to safety protocols can we ensure social distancing but we doubt that. Tendering exact change will be helpful,” a TNSTC staff from Trichy told TOI. The buses will be disinfected every time at their destinations. “Only the main routes will be operated. We have to check the patronage to alter the routes for operation,” a senior official with TNSTC Trichy said. Private bus operators said they need time to prepare the fleets and crew to resume operations. “A request has been submitted to the government to exempt us from paying road taxes for three months from April,” D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of bus operators association of Tamil Nadu, said. With movement of special trains also starting from Monday, railway officials have asked passengers to reach station 90 minutes before scheduled time. All of them will be screened for temperature before allowing them to board. They have been asked to bring their food to avoid infection during travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnstc-buses-to-run-from-today-under-strict-curbs/articleshow/76126162.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 1, 2020||Goa||250 Mayem families live in fear of mining dump||BICHOLIM: Nearly 250 families in Poira and Sikerim areas of Mayem are living in fear as cracks have started developing to the stepped walls of the mining pit, which may cause widespread devastation and loss of life. Villagers fear that if the wall collapses due to heavy rainfall, there is a possibility that entire Poira and Sikerim villages which are situated parallelly at the same depth of around 200m-deep pit could get washed away. Sakharam Pednekar, a local informed that the villagers have urged the government to look into the matter and undertake precautionary measures. Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit, who is also the in-charge of the Bicholim taluka disaster management cell, stated that the existing mining pit along with the mining face is not in a danger of collapsing, even as a safety audit report is being prepared. The villagers have warned that they will hold government and the mining company responsible if tragedy comes their way. On June 6, 2016, a mining dump collapsed due to heavy rains and battered the Bicholim town with the gush of water. Silt also got deposited into several houses at Pazwada, Chimulwada and nearby areas. People faced lot of hardships though there was no loss of lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/250-mayem-families-live-in-fear-of-mining-dump/articleshow/76126523.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Restaurants want govt to extend closing time to 10pm||Madurai: Hoteliers in Madurai are happy to get back to business from June 8, but are urging the government to reconsider the closing time for hotels set at 8pm.Joint secretary of Tamil Nadu Hotel Association, K L Kumar, said that they are grateful to the government for allowing them to begin functioning in a week. ``We are ready to function with a 50 % seating capacity and 50% staff, but many hotels have been badly affected due to the lockdown, and the government should provide some respite in the form of tax relief, and some sort of leeway on rent and loans,’’ he said. Kumar said that fixing the opening time at 6 am was fine, but the closing the restaurants at 8pm would affect their business. “People in Madurai and other southern districts have the habit of having their dinner from 8pm onwards. If we close at that time, we would lose our customers and our business,’’ he said.Madurai city alone has about 500 hotels, of which 300 are registered with the association. But, many of them are going to find it very difficult to even get back to work, without some help from the government, he said.Sampath, manager of a hotel in the city said that the industry provides employment to over 15 lakh people in Tamil Nadu and that the reduction of staff will aggrieve the hotel owners. ``We are ready to adhere to all the guidelines laid down by the government and operate safely,’’ he said. Many hotels in Madurai also have lodges attached to them and the government should also allow them to start functioning and let 50% of the rooms to accommodate guests, he said. “If lodges are closed, people who are travelling would be affected,’’ he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restaurants-want-govt-to-extend-closing-time-to-10pm/articleshow/76126166.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||PM Narendra Modi lauds courage, resilience shown by Amphan-hit states amid pandemic||BHUBANESWAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the courage and resilience shown by the people of Odisha ahead and in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan amid the raging pandemic. Modi, in his monthly address ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday, said the whole country stands united with the cyclone-affected states of Odisha and West Bengal. “At a time we are busy combating the corona pandemic, we were recently confronted with a natural calamity in some parts of eastern India. In the last few weeks, we have seen the havoc wreaked by Super Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha,” the PM said. He had visited the state on May 22 to take stock of the damage caused by the severe cyclonic storm. “Many houses were razed by the storm. Farmers also suffered heavy losses. I had gone to take stock of the situation in Odisha and West Bengal last week. The courage and bravery with which the people of West Bengal and Odisha have faced the ordeal is commendable. In this hour of crisis, the country also stands in unison with the people of these two states in every manner whatsoever!” he added. After an aerial survey of the damages caused by the cyclone in the northern districts of the state, Modi had announced a cash relief of Rs 500 crore for reconstruction work. He had also praised the state government’s evacuation measures resulting in zero casualty during natural disasters. He also underscored that the eastern region has the capacity to be the country’s growth engine and its workforce has the capability and the might to take the country to greater heights. “It is only the development of the eastern region that can lead to a balanced economic development of the country. Ever since the country offered me the opportunity to serve, we have accorded priority to the development of eastern India. In the last few years, much has been done in this direction which gives me inner satisfaction. And now, considering the migrant labourers, the need of the hour is devising a new solution-paradigm…we are ceaselessly taking steps in that direction,” Modi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pm-lauds-courage-resilience-shown-by-amphan-hit-states-amid-pandemic/articleshow/76124872.cms||Minati Singha
June 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Silver jubilee halo for Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences’ stellar work||By K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s medical education ministerKarnataka has been a pioneer in medical education in the country. Today, the state’s premier health varsity, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), is celebrating its 25th Foundation Day. The country’s largest health sciences varsity with more than 800 affiliated institutions and over 65,000 admissions annually to various courses, RGUHS has more than 2.5 lakh students on its rolls at any given point. Established under Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Act 1994, the varsity brought under it all existing health science colleges and institutions to ensure systematic instruction, teaching, training and research in both modern and traditional systems of medicine, bring uniformity in teaching standards, have a common curriculum for various courses offered in different colleges and attain excellence in medical education with emphasis on research. The joy and enthusiasm of the entire RGUHS family doubled with Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreeing to grace this occasion. Under the leadership of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Karnataka has been at the forefront of the country’s battle against Covid-19 and has leveraged technology extensively in all its efforts. Under the aegis of RGUHS, the government has trained more than 1.5 lakh corona warriors through the online mode. The Tele-ICU, a first-of-its-kind initiative, has improved recovery rate and reduced mortality without stressing our healthcare system. We have integrated various departments using technology in the Covid-19 war room. Karnataka has pioneered the technology like no other state. Our Prime Minister has always stressed on Jan Bhagidari – people’s participation in good governance and leveraging technology to improve governance. Acting on his suggestion to conduct hackathons to address several issues pertaining to management of Covid-19, RGUHS has initiated a ‘Covid-19 Innovation Hackathon Challenge’ where several institutions of national importance like IISc, IIMB, IIIT, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Centre for Human Genetics and others will interact with its faculty and students. New ideas that come forward from the hackathon will throw more light on the pandemic and will facilitate future planning and management of Covid-19. The ultimate goal of medical and health science education is to meet societal needs for better healthcare. RGUHS is striving to augment the need of the community and develop human resources in all spheres of healthcare. It is also working to curtail the gap between the growing advancement in scientific and medical fields and the dearth of specialised experts in various disciplines of medical, nursing and technological fields. I am confident that with this holistic vision, RGUHS will enhance tertiary and super-specialty healthcare services in Karnataka and also provide access to quality healthcare services to all sections of society. PM modi to inauguratePrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 25th Foundation Day and silver jubilee celebrations of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences online on June 1. He will also release the compendium of research publications of RGUHS faculty. The PM will attend the function between 11am and 11.30am. About 50,000 people, including chief minister BS Yediyurappa, seven state and central ministers and directors of top institutes like IIM-B and IIIT-B are likely to attend, beside the RGUHS family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/silver-jubilee-halo-for-rajiv-gandhi-university-of-health-sciences-stellar-work/articleshow/76135077.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Power consumers can clear pending bills in 4 instalments||Ludhiana: In a huge relief to all power consumers, who have not been able to pay their bills up to June 1, the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) on Sunday allowed them to clear the pending bills in four monthly instalments without any late payment charges, though 10% interest on reducing balance basis will apply.Daljit Inderpal Singh Grewal, engineer in chief, central zone, said, “PSPCL has undertaken several measures to provide relief to the electricity consumers to mitigate the impact of Covid-19. All domestic, commercial and industrial consumers, who are unable to pay their bills up to June 1, can clear the dues pay in maximum four monthly instalments. In place of late payment surcharge and other charges, only 10% interest (per annum) shall be charged on reducing balance computed from May 11 (extended due date) or the original due date of bill, whichever is later.”However, this facility is subject to the condition that the current bill with due date on or after June 1, 2020 is cleared timely by the consumer.Grewal said, “In addition to this, the due date of payment of power bills of all domestic and commercial consumers with bill amounts up to Rs 10,000 and all the industrial consumers payable from March 20, 2020 till the end of May 2020 will be extended up to June 1 without levying late payment surcharge. In cases where bills in May have already been issued after levying late payment surcharge on previous bill, the surcharge shall be refunded. Besides, it has also been decided that no power disconnection will be done for non-payment of bills till June 15.”Hailing the decision, Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana said, “Allowing consumers to pay the pending bills in four instalments is a huge relief, especially for those having industrial connections, as we have suffered huge losses due to the lockdown.”Pardeep Wadhawan, former senior vice president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), said, “We are grateful to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and senior officials of PSPCL, who have taken the bold decisions of bill payment in instalments and waiving late payment charges. Now the only major problem we face from PSPCL is the high rates of industrial power which should be reduced immediately, so as to reduce the industrial cost of production in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/power-consumers-can-clear-pending-bills-in-4-instalments/articleshow/76124887.cms||Mohit Behl
June 1, 2020||Madurai||TNSTC staff protest ‘move’ to cut salary||Madurai: Employees of TNSTC staged sit-in protests in TNSTC depots in Madurai district as news of salary of transport department workers being slashed did the rounds. Around 200 members of trade unions including CITU, INTUC, LPF and HMS staged protest in front of the main TNSTC bus depot in Madurai on Sunday. They demanded that the state government should not go ahead with cutting the salary of transport department employees if any such decision had been taken. Similar protests were staged at 350 depots across the state including 17 depots in Madurai district. CITU Madurai district general secretary A Kanagasundar said that the protest, which began at 10 am was withdrawn at 2 pm after higher officials from transport department assured that there would not be any salary cuts. “We will extend our full cooperation when operation of buses starts from Monday onwards. Officials have assured to provide masks and hand sanitizers to employees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnstc-staff-protest-move-to-cut-salary/articleshow/76126170.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||4 more +ve cases in district||Ludhiana: Four Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district in the past 24 hours. Of these, one is a 33-year-old resident of Chawni Mohalla, who is a kin of the patient who passed away at DMCH on Friday evening. The other is an 86-year-old man, who was admitted to Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital for some other disease, but when his sample was sent for testing, he was found positive for the virus. The two others are Deep Hospital healthcare workers — a 34-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman.On Sunday, 541 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing. Yogendra Awadhiya, director of Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, said, “The 86-year-old patient had come to the cardiac OPD and his sample was taken on May 28. He has been sent to the isolation ward.” To date, 7,463 samples have been taken from the district, of which reports of 6,853 have been received and 610 are pending. The number of patients from Ludhiana is 194, and 90 are from other districts and states. Eight from Ludhiana and six from other districts have lost their lives and 149 were discharged so far. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said, “As per the state directions, any person not wearing a mask will be fined Rs 500. If a bus, car, auto-rickshaw or two-wheeler owner is found not following social distancing, then they will be fined Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 500, respectively. Any person breaking home quarantine will be fined Rs 2,000 .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-more-ve-cases-in-district/articleshow/76124884.cms||Mehak Jain
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Suspended councillor likely to be charged in riots case||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is set to file a chargesheet in connection with the violence that broke out in the Chand Bagh area of northeast Delhi in February. Suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, along with others, has been named in it, said sources. In the chargesheet that is likely to be filed in the next two days, police have also mentioned the roles of Hussain’s brother, Shah Alam, and 15 others who were accused of instigating the rioters. Chand Bagh had seen maximum violence during the northeast Delhi riots. Protesters had torched a petrol pump and attacked the outnumbered policemen. Mobile phone footage, forensic evidences and eyewitness accounts have been cited to prepare a watertight document that may be placed before a court in the coming week, said sources. During the probe, police found that Tahir Hussain and Shah Alam had instigated their supporters to attack shops and small businesses. A day after the riots, a video showing Tahir standing on his terrace and instigating his aides to throw Molotovs had surfaced. The cops have used such videos as evidences. As per the probe, former AAP legislator and his supporters had stored deadly weapons like petrol bombs and acid bottles which were recovered by the cops. Stones and petrol-filled soda bottles that were thrown on the streets from the terrace were also seized. The video in which Tahir claimed to be appealing for peace showed him casually strolling on the terrace while rioters pelted stones below, said a source. The former legislator has been named in at least 10 FIRs pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots. Tahir has also been named in the murder case of an IB staffer who had stepped out of home to look for his younger brother. His mutilated body was recovered two days later from a canal. Police had also recovered a few other videos from Chand Bagh showing a mob, including women, going on a violence spree attacking the cops. Some people were arrested in this connection as well. Cops have attached the forensic findings from these to establish the roles of these men, added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/suspended-councillor-likely-to-be-charged-in-riots-case/articleshow/76126525.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||CM K Chandrasekhar Rao opens Telangana for inter-state travel, but mum on malls||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday extended the lockdown in containment zones up to June 30, while restrictions will be in place till June 7 for rest of the city but with more relaxation. In a huge relief to lakhs of migrants and other travellers, the government issued orders removing restrictions on inter-state transport and travel. As a result, no separate permission is required for travel to or from Telangana. Also, the night curfew has been relaxed by three more hours. In areas outside containment zones, the night curfew will be from 9 pm to 5 am, giving a two-hour extension from the earlier 7 pm deadline. Malls, movie theatres and places of worship will remain shut till June 7. But the government made it clear that all shops and establishments have to close by 8 pm, except for hospitals and pharmacies. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued these orders on the directions of KCR, who held discussions with Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy and other senior officials against the backdrop of the Centre’s new guidelines on the lockdown. The permission on free travel comes as a big relief as many people are still stranded in Telangana, mainly in Hyderabad. They have applied for transit passes from the police department to leave for their home states. Also, thousands of people have been seeking permission to come back to Telangana from other states. However, the GO was silent on opening malls, restaurants and places of religious worship though the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had allowed them with effect from June 8. Sources said the government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations to the lockdown outside the containment zones with effect from June 8. However, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is expected to conduct a review meeting on or before June 7 and announce further relaxations in areas outside containment zones from June 8. It was decided to implement the relaxations in tune with the guidelines issued by the Centre in all the areas except in the containment zones. The chief minister instructed the officials concerned to implement strictly the lockdown in the containment zones. The Telangana government on May 18 had extended the lockdown in the state till May 31 with certain relaxations. However, on May 30 MHA issued guidelines extending lockdown in containment areas till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-opens-t-for-inter-state-travel-but-mum-on-malls/articleshow/76126524.cms||Roushan Ali
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai barber who helped poor on cloud nine after PM praises him||Madurai: C Mohan, a barber from Melamadai who helped hundreds of people in his area during the lockdown with the money he saved for his daughter’s higher education, was humbled when he received appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday. “I was busy with my job at the saloon when I saw the news of the PM congratulating me. I immediately went home and conveyed it to my wife and daughter. My wife M Pandiselvi broke down out of happiness while my daughter M Nethra was overjoyed,” Mohan told TOI. Within no time many news channels made a beeline for his house to get a byte from him. Even as local BJP leaders reached his house to share his happiness, party state president L Murugan congratulated him over phone. “My daughter asked them if we could meet the Prime Minister to thank him. BJP leaders have promised to facilitate a meeting. We did not expect anything when we decided to help those who were suffering due to the lockdown. Now, I feel like I have become the richest person on earth,” Mohan said. Later in the evening, Mohan and Pandiselvi joined the BJP. Mohan said it was his daughter, studying in class nine, who got him to help the poor by spending the Rs5 lakh he had saved for her. He has spent more than Rs8 lakh by now and helped more than 1,500 people. “My mother often told me that one should help but not expect any returns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-barber-who-helped-poor-on-cloud-nine-after-pm-praises-him/articleshow/76126169.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Kin say Khud Mohalla residents were killed and thrown in canal||Times News Network Ludhiana: Contrary to the police claims, the kin of deceased Jaswinder Singh, 28, and Tejwinder Singh, 22, on Sunday alleged that both were murdered and later their bodies dumped in Kaind canal. Missing since May 26, the duo’s bodies were fished out of the water body on Saturday. The Division 3 police have called it a suicide case. Both friends were residents of Khud Mohalla, and had left their houses around 10.30pm on May 26. They left on one scooter, saying they were going out to have ice-cream, but never returned. They had left their mobile phones at home, but Tejwinder had taken his father’s phone along. By May 29 night, the Dehlon police recovered their scooter from near the Kaind bridge and mobile of Tejwinder’s father was found under the seat of the two-wheeler. Thereafter, the divers were called and bodies fished out. Honey Chattwal, brother of Tejwinder, said, “On Sunday, we reached the civil hospital as post-mortem was to be conducted. The cops asked us to sign a paper in which they had written that Tejwinder had committed suicide. We know he cannot kill himself. We have seen their bodies. Tejwinder had injury marks and all teeth of Jaswinder were broken. Both have been assaulted, murdered and them dumped in the canal. We are waiting for autopsy report, which will ascertain the cause of death.” Division 3 SHO inspector Satish Kumar said, “The autopsy reports are awaited. The police have visited the crime spot and the CCTVs have captured the duo there around 10.09pm on May 26. Then again in the morning of May 27, they were captured on a scooter. Thereafter, they were not seen there. On May 28 when a snacks’ vendor, who has a shop at the bridge, saw an abandoned scooter, he called up the police. We will proceed further on the basis of the autopsy reports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kin-say-khud-mohalla-residents-were-killed-and-thrown-in-canal/articleshow/76124869.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kochi||Two from Kerala succumb to Covid-19 in Gulf countries||KOLLAM/THRISSUR: A 68-year-old man from Kollam district and a 58-year-old man from Chavakkad in Thrissur died in the Gulf countries on Sunday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The man from Kollam has been identified as Vijayanath of Thiruvathira, Alankode near Anchal, while the Chavakkad native has been identified as Irattappuzha Vadakkoott Mohanan. Vijayanath was staying with his son’s family in Muscat after reaching there on a visit visa five months ago. After getting infected, he was admitted to a hospital there. On Sunday, his condition got worsened and he succumbed to the infection. He leaves behind wife Suguna and son Suvin V Nath. He is also the brother of Edamualkkal grama panchayat president V Ravindranath. Mohanan had been under treatment for the past two weeks at a hospital in Qatar after he was diagnosed with Covid-19. He leaves behind wife and two children. His relatives said Mohanan was working in Qatar for the past 35 years and had come home last in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-malayalis-succumb-to-covid-19-in-gulf-countries/articleshow/76124910.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Villagers plan memorial for poet Kaniyan Poongundranar||MADURAI: After taking a virtual heritage tour, people of a small village in Sivaganga are motivated to construct a memorial for a poet, who was born there during the Sangam era. This village is the birth place of Sangam poet Kaniyan Poongundranar. Dhan Foundation Madurai’s tourism development wing organizes heritage walks in villages around Madurai to showcase the rich culture and heritage to the people of the city. Coordinator of the programme, K P Bharathi, said that Covid-19 crisis had made it impossible for them to conduct the walk in April. These heritage walks have entered the 11th year after they were started in 2009. Dr Vedachalam, retired archaeologist and Dr Sethuraman, art historian, briefed the walkers during the virtual tour. The village, they said, had been a part of a bigger, Poongundra Nadu, which had been a cluster of 24 villages. A month-long ororientation for the locals of Mahibalanpatti in Poongundram, in Sivaganga, on how to use the Zoom app, helped the foundation to organize the virtual tour in which around 79 people took part. Panchayat president of Mahibalanpatti, V Baskaran, said that he had, in his election manifesto, promised the people to construct an arch in the name of the great poet as it would bring more attention to the village and promote tourism. “The Tamil Nadu government had decided to construct a memorial for him, but they identified a spot near the village cemetery. I want to build one in the middle of the village,” he said. S Subbaiah, a villager said that these tours would really help to develop small villages like theirs, which would otherwise be forgotten.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-plan-memorial-for-poet-poongundranar/articleshow/76126175.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Ton of relief: Highest 24-hr rain in century||Ludhiana: The rain that started on Saturday evening and continued to lash the city intermittently till Sunday was the highest Ludhiana received in 24 hours in May in the past 100 years. The city recorded 42mm rain from 5.30pm Saturday to 5.30pm Sunday. The meteorological department has predicted wet conditions to prevail till Monday. As per the department, the previous record for highest 24-hour rainfall in the month in Ludhiana was registered on May 23, 1965, when it was recorded at 38.6mm. Chandigarh meteorological department director Surender Paul, while asserting that Ludhiana has never witnessed such high 24-hour showers in May, said the rainfall for the city for this month was also on the higher side. He said the rainfall activity was likely to reduce by Monday evening. The department officials said the rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Sunday was recorded at 2.8 millimetres and from 5.30pm Saturday to 8.30am Sunday 42mm. The showers lowered temperatures in the city, with maximum (day) on Sunday being 30.2 degrees Celsius, which is 10 degrees less than normal. On Saturday, the day temperature was 35.3 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees below normal. Minimum (night) on Sunday was 20.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than normal and 2.4 degrees less than a day before.As per Met department website, the day temperature is expected to rise to 35 degrees Celsius by Wednesday and night temperature to 25 degrees. The pleasant weather gave residents the much-needed relief. “Who would have imagined that after rising to 44.2 degrees Celsius a few days ago, the day temperature would witness such a fall. For a moment, it appeared that winter was round the corner. I went for a walk in the drizzle and it felt wonderful,” said Munish Kumar, a trader from Model Town.Washes away 10-year record This May received the highest rainfall (84.8 millimeters) in the past 10 years. The second highest May rainfall (43.7 millimeters) was recorded the previous year. The highest rainfall in the month so far was 90.4 millimeters received in 1913. Good for cropsPunjab Agricultural University agrometeorologist K K Gill said, “Rainfall at this point of time has more positive effects than negative on crops, provided it is not allowed to stagnate in fields. It is good for cotton crop, which was sown about a month ago and for the transplantation of paddy.”RAIN CHECKYear Highest rainfall in 24 hours in Ludhiana (in mm)2020 422019 20 (3 May)2018 3.2 (13 May)2017 16.2 (31 May)2016 17.2 (11 May)2015 21 (15 May)2014 15.8 (13 May)2013 2.4 (12 May)The earlier all-time high record 38.6 (May 23, 1965).AQI falls The rain that lashed the city since Saturday evening and continued intermittently on Sunday impacted the air quality, too. The AQI, which is the measure of air quality, for Ludhiana was 62 on Saturday (which comes under satisfactory category with health impacts as minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people). It dropped to 48 on Sunday (which comes under good category with minimal impact on health). Date AQI May 31 48May 30 62May 29 91May 28 102||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ton-of-relief-highest-24-hr-rain-in-century/articleshow/76124900.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Dehlon man held for kidnapping, raping Class VII student||TNNLudhiana: The police on Sunday arrested a resident of Dehlon for kidnapping and raping a Class VII student in his car in Gujjarwal.The accused has been identified as Lakwinder Singh, who is unemployed.The 14-year-old girl said in her police complaint, “Around 6pm on Friday, I was going to a nearby market to buy vegetables when a white sedan pulled over near me. The man driving it asked me to get into the car. When I refused, he bundled me into the car and drove off. He stopped at Gujarwal and raped me.”The accused then dropped the minor near her house and threatened her of dire consequences if she told anybody of the incident. The minor later mustered courage and apprised her mother of the incident.Investigating officer sub-inspector Manjit Kaur said, “The minor’s statement was recorded before a court. Her medical examination will be conducted soon.”“The minor said she had seen the accused, who was in his 30s, in the area earlier, too, but did not know his name. She is being counselled as she is scared. She has three sisters. Her parents are daily wagers,” said a cop. On a tip-off, the accused was arrested a day after a case was registered under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc), 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dehlon-man-held-for-kidnapping-raping-class-vii-student/articleshow/76124906.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM, cabinet opt for quarantine as tourism minister tests coronavirus positive||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and his cabinet colleagues have put themselves in self-quarantine after tourism minister Satpal Maharaj was found Covid-19-positive on Sunday. Maharaj had on May 29 attended a cabinet meeting in which CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and other senior ministers and top bureaucrats including urban development minister Madan Kaushik, agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat and chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh were also present among others. Maharaj’s Covid-19-positive diagnosis came a day after his wife Amrita Rawat had tested positive. Besides Maharaj, his younger son, two daughters-in-law and six-year-old grandson also tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday. Seventeen members of the minister’s household including his staff members were found positive as well. A total of 41 samples had been taken from Maharaj’s household on Sunday and tested in a private lab in the city. Talking to TOI, chief medical officer of Dehradun Dr BC Ramola said that the health department has now started tracing the first contacts of all those who have been found positive. The chief minister’s OSD Abhay Rawat meanwhile confirmed that the CM had cancelled his meetings scheduled on Sunday after Maharaj’s diagnosis was confirmed and had isolated himself in his residence. Secretary (health) Amit Negi told TOI that the CM and other cabinet ministers are “low-risk contacts and they will continue working from home.” Meanwhile, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said that Maharaj’s family members had been shifted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, while the others from his household were being admitted at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC). “We are shifting all those who have tested positive including the minister and aides to AIIMS and GDMC on the basis of availability of beds,” said the DM adding that further contact tracing is being done on the basis of the protocol set by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-cabinet-ministers-in-self-quarantine-after-tourism-minister-satpal-maharaj-family-members-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76124183.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 1, 2020||Shimla||Haryana, Himachal Pradesh hit hard in Lockdown 4.0||CHANDIGARH: While Haryana and Himachal Pradesh reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases during Lockdown 4.0, as a large number of relaxations were extended across the country, the number of new cases in neighbouring Punjab slowed down. The number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh was also not very high between May 18 and May 30. An analysis of data from the three states and UT revealed that Haryana received 1,01 cases, the highest number during this period. During Lockdown 3.0, which was from May 4 to 17, the state reported only 393 cases. There were eight deaths in the third phase of lockdown in the state, which is two more than the six deaths in Lockdown 4.0. During this period, 409 in Haryana recovered from the infection. Lockdown 4.0 brought good news for Punjab as the number of Covid-19 cases was one-third less than in Lockdown 3.0. The numbers of deaths was also lower. It was 12 in Lockdown 3.0 and nine in the fourth phase. Around 600 people recovered in Punjab during the fourth lockdown, while the figure was 1,200 for Lockdown 3.0. For Himachal Pradesh, the fourth lockdown only brought bad news. While the state got only 39 fresh cases during the third lockdown, the figure was 233 during Lockdown 4.0 in the hill state. There was only one death in the state in Lockdown 3.0, but there were three fatalities in the last two weeks. The situation in Chandigarh remained constant. While there were 89 fresh cases in Lockdown 3.0, the figure was 97 for Lockdown 4.0. One death was also reported during this time. Combined analysis The three states and the UT got 1,253 cases during Lockdown 3.0 and this figure rose to 1,613 in Lockdown 4.0 — primarily because of a hike in cases in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. When it came to daily growth of infection, the figure was 9% for Haryana, 8% for Himachal Pradesh, and around 1% for Punjab and Chandigarh. While 23 deaths took place during Lockdown 3.0 in the three states and UT, the number was 19 in fourth phase. Also, 1,582 persons recovered during Lockdown 3.0 in the region and the figure was 1,225 during Lockdown 4.0.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/haryana-hp-hit-hard-in-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/76136096.cms||Ajay Sura
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Car plunges into pond; driver dead, one missing||AHMEDABAD: A couple travelling in a Mercedes car on Sunday evening plunged into a stepwell-turned-pond in Ambapur village in Gandhinagar. Police and fire brigade jawans fished out the man’s body from the pond and efforts were on to find the woman’s body. The incident took place at around 4pm on Sunday when the man was driving his car having registration number from Maharashtra alongside the pond on a road and suddenly lost control over steering and drove into the water body, said an official of Adalaj police. Inspector Dharmendra Chaudhari of Adalaj police said that locals told cops that two persons — a man and a woman — were inside the car when the incident took place. “The locals also witnessed them opening roof top of the car and coming out of it. But as they came out, they began to drown,” said Chaudhari. He said that the locals called up police and fire brigade but by the time the cops and fire brigade personnel reached there, they had drowned. “We, though, recovered the man’s body, his identity could not be established in the absence of any identity proofs on him. Later, we contacted maker of the number plate as he put his website address on the number plate and obtained document of the owner of the car,” he said. The owner of the car is one Anand Modi from the Shahibaug area but the cops were still not sure that the deceased person was the owner or someone else, Chaudhari added. This is because there is some difference in the deceased’s feature and the photograph of the owner of the car. Chaudhari said that Adalaj police have informed Shahibaug and Madhavpura police. Adalaj police registered a case of accidental death and began an investigation into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-plunges-into-pond-driver-dead-1-missing/articleshow/76125582.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Live telecast, N95 masks, sanitisers, wedding planners usher in new trends during lockdown||MADURAI: Wedding planners in Madurai have come up with special packages suiting the lockdown restrictions and pricing them competitively in order to kickstart their activity after the lull. The two months have been tough for them as people had preferred to conduct marriages at their houses and nearby temples. Live telecast through website and Youtube channels, thermal scanning, hand sanitisers, N95 masks and getting required permissions are the new additions to the package. With the government yet to allow more than 50 people for marriages, packages are kept as low as Rs 1.49 lakh inclusive of marriage hall. Wedding planners say that they could bring down package price as expenses towards food, thamboolam, electricity charges and time spent in hall will drastically reduce. R Senthilkumar of Hello Events said that during lockdown people preferred houses and farm houses to conduct marriage, but now inquiries have started coming in to conduct marriages in halls. “To suit the needs of lockdown restrictions we are offering a couple of packages at Rs 1.49 lakh and Rs 1.99 lakh packages, which including hall, e-invitation, food, photography, videography, hand sanitisers, masks, thermal screening, live telecast and chair arrangement with social distancing,” he said. “Live telecast was introduced since many friends and relatives could not take part in wedding. Around 4,000 people can watch through our website,” he said. They show an awareness video to guests before the function starts in order to sensitise them on how to be cautious to stay away from Covid-19 infections, said Senthilkumar. S Suresh of MRP Mahal in SS Colony said that he earlier used to charge separately for food, halls and other services. Recently, he has come out with a package to attract customers. “There was no inquiry due to lockdown restrictions for two months. While people concerned about ‘moi’ have postponed marriages, those, who organized functions, also conducted them at houses and temples. There have been a few inquiries in the last few days after I came up with packages suiting lockdown restrictions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/live-telecast-n95-masks-sanitisers-wedding-planners-usher-in-new-trends-during-lockdown/articleshow/76126178.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||BC, MBC student hostels to open for board exams||Coimbatore: With Class X exams to begin on June 15, the backward classes, most backward classes, and minorities welfare department has ordered opening of hostels for students from BC, MBC and denotified communities on June 11.In a communication, the department said the hostels should be opened for the duration of board exams. Only students from other districts who are to appear for Class X, XI and XII exams, who stay in the hostels, should be accommodated. The hostel and surroundings should be cleaned and disinfected every day. Wardens and matrons should ensure that the body temperature of inmates is screened using thermal scanners every morning and evening and it should be recorded in a register. The inmates should be provided with soap, hand wash and sanitisers. It should be ensured that they wear masks and maintain personal distance.“Hostel inmates coming from containment zones should be accommodated separately as a precautionary measure to prevent their mingling with the rest of the students,” it said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bc-mbc-student-hostels-to-open-for-board-exams/articleshow/76126172.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana, Himachal Pradesh hit hard in Lockdown 4.0||CHANDIGARH: While Haryana and Himachal Pradesh reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases during Lockdown 4.0, as a large number of relaxations were extended across the country, the number of new cases in neighbouring Punjab slowed down. The number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh was also not very high between May 18 and May 30. An analysis of data from the three states and UT revealed that Haryana received 1,01 cases, the highest number during this period. During Lockdown 3.0, which was from May 4 to 17, the state reported only 393 cases. There were eight deaths in the third phase of lockdown in the state, which is two more than the six deaths in Lockdown 4.0. During this period, 409 in Haryana recovered from the infection. Lockdown 4.0 brought good news for Punjab as the number of Covid-19 cases was one-third less than in Lockdown 3.0. The numbers of deaths was also lower. It was 12 in Lockdown 3.0 and nine in the fourth phase. Around 600 people recovered in Punjab during the fourth lockdown, while the figure was 1,200 for Lockdown 3.0. For Himachal Pradesh, the fourth lockdown only brought bad news. While the state got only 39 fresh cases during the third lockdown, the figure was 233 during Lockdown 4.0 in the hill state. There was only one death in the state in Lockdown 3.0, but there were three fatalities in the last two weeks. The situation in Chandigarh remained constant. While there were 89 fresh cases in Lockdown 3.0, the figure was 97 for Lockdown 4.0. One death was also reported during this time. Combined analysis The three states and the UT got 1,253 cases during Lockdown 3.0 and this figure rose to 1,613 in Lockdown 4.0 — primarily because of a hike in cases in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. When it came to daily growth of infection, the figure was 9% for Haryana, 8% for Himachal Pradesh, and around 1% for Punjab and Chandigarh. While 23 deaths took place during Lockdown 3.0 in the three states and UT, the number was 19 in fourth phase. Also, 1,582 persons recovered during Lockdown 3.0 in the region and the figure was 1,225 during Lockdown 4.0.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-hp-hit-hard-in-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/76126174.cms||Ajay Sura
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Pandemic one more reason to quit tobacco use: Doctors||MADURAI: Doctors have emphasized the need to give up tobacco which harms the respiratory system more than ever especially in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The theme for the day, according to World Health Organisation (WHO), is “Tobacco and lung health’. “Though there is no direct evidence showing those who consume tobacco are more prone to Covid-19, poor respiratory health due to tobacco-caused chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) can in turn aggravate if infected by Covid-19,” said Dr Prem Ananth P, interventional pulmonologist at a private hospital. As per latest statistics, more than 6.25 lakh children (10-14 years old) and 8.95 crore adults continue to use tobacco every day in India. “Apart from nicotine, all tobacco products contain other harmful chemicals. E-cigarettes have become popular recently with many believing it is safer. But, they too carry harmful preservatives,” said Dr Prem Ananth. Doctors said that statistics show that 68% of smokers want to quit but only around 8% quit without help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pandemic-one-more-reason-to-quit-tobacco-use-docs/articleshow/76126179.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bareilly||Three cows stolen from a temple in Pilibhit, one of them found killed||Pilibhit: Unidentified persons allegedly took away three cows from a temple in Puranpur Kotwali area of Pilibhit and slaughtered one of them in an agricultural field near Sirsa crossing, police said. Police recovered the remains of the cow on Sunday morning following the information of locals. An FIR in the matter has been lodged. “The cow stolen from the temple was identified by her remains recovered by police on Sunday morning,” said SK Singh, the SHO of the area. The SHO said that police have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons under section 378 (dishonestly taking any moveable property out of the possession of any person without that person’s consent) of IPC and section 3, 5, 8 of prevention of cow slaughtering act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-cows-stolen-from-a-temple-in-pilibhit-one-of-them-found-killed/articleshow/76124908.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||White tigress undergoes dental surgery in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A white tigress at the Delhi zoo had to undergo an emergency dental operation after the animal stopped eating. The 5-year-old white tigress, Sita, was operated upon by a joint team of wildlife SOS experts and the zoo veterinarians. Zoo officials said her food intake had gone down over the last few days. A preliminary examination revealed swelling in the lower gum close to her lower left canine. The officials then consulted experts from Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly and the Wildlife SOS veterinary team to carry out digital radiography and biopsy for proper diagnosis. A digital X-ray machine and a dental X-ray machine were brought to Delhi from Agra, with the zoo director sending a vehicle himself in order to help the animal immediately. A root abscess was detected in the lower left canine of the tigress’s jaw and a surgery was subsequently performed. The animal is recovering well. “We are doing our best to provide necessary treatment to animals even during the lockdown,” said Dr Suneesh Buxy, the zoo director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/white-tigress-undergoes-dental-surgery/articleshow/76144848.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Temporary markets to be shifted from bus stands||Coimbatore: With the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) making arrangements to resume operations from Monday, the city corporation has decided to shift the temporary markets that were functioning at bus stands.In a press release, corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said the temporary markets set up at town and mofussil bus stands in Gandhipuram will be shifted to the prison ground on the Dr Nanjappa Road. The market at the Ukkadam bus stand will be moved to Lorrypet and the the market at the Singanallur bus stand will be moved back to the farmers’ market in Singanallur.The corporation had moved traders from TK Market to the bus stands in Gandhipuram, Ramar Kovil Market to Ukkadam bus stand and Singanallur farmers’ market to the bus stand to enforce social distancing norms. The temporary markets will be moved to larger public spaces to ensure that people have sufficient space, said a corporation source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/temporary-markets-to-be-shifted-from-bus-stands/articleshow/76126182.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Had govt not acted, we would all have been dead: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has asked people to stop criticizing the Gujarat government and politicizing the Covid-19 issue. The HC said that had it not been for the state government’s actions, all would have been dead by now. The HC has censured all debates targeting state government on basis of its orders slamming the state government for its poor response to the Covid-19 pandemic. For last one month, the HC had posted various questions and made adverse observations about management of healthcare facilities in Gujarat and the state government’s response to the plight of migrant workers and the poor. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said, “We request one and all to be very careful from now onwards before commenting or entering into any debate with regard to court orders that are being passed from time to time in public interest. Our message is loud and clear. We need not further elaborate on this issue.” The judges further said, “We also say that PILs are not meant to advance political gain and also to seek any political mileage. The public interest litigation should never be made a political battle.” In line with what the solicitor general submitted before the Supreme Court earlier this week on migrants’ crisis, the HC further said, “All those who cannot extent their helping hand in these difficult times and do anything good for the people at large have no right to criticize the functioning of the state government. If the sate government would not have been doing anything, as alleged, then probably, by now, we all would have been dead. All that we are doing in this litigation is to keep the state government conscious and active by reminding its constitutional and statutory obligations.” The HC said that merely criticizing the government in power will not “magically cure people of Covid-19, nor is it going to make the dead come back to life”. Politicizing the issue would only downplay the widespread suffering and it would prove detrimental to the society. Insisting on the need of constructive criticism instead of adversarial criticism, the bench observed, “Simply highlighting the flaws and gaps in the state’s handling of the situation only creates fear in the minds of people. People are least concerned about political ideologies and rivalries when their lives are at stake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/had-govt-not-acted-we-would-all-have-been-dead-hc/articleshow/76125579.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Two, including former BJP MLA, booked for derogatory remarks against Sikh community||Rudrapur: Two persons, including former Kashipur BJP MLA Rajiv Agrawal, were booked on Sunday by city police for allegedly making derogatory comments against Sikh community. The second accused has been identified as one Pushp Kumar Vishnoi. According to the police, Palwinder Singh, a resident of Mohalla Alli Khan of Kashipur, in his complaint filed with the police, said that Agrawal posted derogatory remarks and targeted Sikh community with abusive language while commenting on a post that he shared on social media on May 27. The two accused have been booked under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 505 (statement causing public nuisance), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 294 (b) (uttering obscene words in public place) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, Agrawal has apologised to the Sikh community on social media for his remarks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-including-former-bjp-mla-booked-for-derogatory-remarks-against-sikh-community/articleshow/76124931.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 1, 2020||Bareilly||Shahjahanpur bizman files extortion case against gangster Border||Bareilly: Police are on the lookout for notorious gangster Sohail Khan, alias Border, and his accomplices after a case of extortion was registered against them following a complaint by a local businessman in Shahjahanpur. According to the complaint, the gang used to honey-trap people and then blackmail the victims by sending morphed videos and photos via WhatsApp.SHO of Sadar Bazaar police station Kiranpal Singh said an FIR was filed against the accused on a complaint by a businessman after the gang attempted to blackmail him and extort money. Singh told TOI, “We have booked Sohail Khan, his brothers -- Imran and Kamran -- and three of his aides for extortion and also under section 67(a) of the Information Technology Act. Raids are being conducted to nab the absconding accused.”The businessman, who did not wish to be named, said, “There are a few other people who couldn’t gather courage to lodge complaints against Border earlier but now may come forward to do so. I have also sought police protection as the accused are yet to be arrested,” the complainant said.Police said there are over a dozen cases of extortion, fraud and murder against the gang. Earlier, Border used to threaten people by sending self-composed songs having sinister lyrics. He was identified as a land shark in Shahjahanpur during BJP’s drive against land mafia in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/shahjahanpur-bizman-files-extortion-case-against-gangster-border/articleshow/76124916.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court eases testing for pvt labs||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has directed the state government to grant approval within 24 hours to private laboratories to conduct Covid-19 test on a person, who is advised by a doctor. The HC has also said that private laboratories and hospitals are not required to seek government nod to perform the test on patient requiring surgery, but the government authority is required to be intimated only. The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) had approached the HC citing various difficulties. Its advocate Mitul Shelat had argued that in many cases permission for Covid test took many days. It was detrimental for the health of patients as well as medical staff. The high court has given a deadline of 24 hours to take decision on request from private laboratory, if a patient is referred by a physician. The HC has posed various queries to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and state government for restrictive Covid testing policy of not allowing testing on asymptomatic persons. it also questioned whether a person can take the test in private lab to eliminate his doubts. It has sought replies by June 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-eases-testing-for-pvt-labs/articleshow/76125577.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada people in Mumbai threaten to walk back home||MANGALURU: About 60 migrants from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, attached to the hotel industry in Mumbai, threatened to return home walking on Monday. Avinash Pol, along with a group of like-minded people, has volunteered to send back Kannadigas to their respective homes. They have been trying to reach out to the Udupi and Dakshina Kannada district administrations, as well as the state government, seeking permits and to make arrangements, so that they can return home. On the one hand, the state government is worried about the surge in Covid-19 cases, mainly from people who have returned from Maharashtra, and on the other, the plight of those staying there is miserable. Avinash Pol said, “We are trying to make appropriate arrangements to send people back home. Most of them are jobless for the past two months, and staying in chawls. People from Borivali, Central Mumbai, Vashi and Thane have reached out to us for help. Some of them have held talks with BJP leaders, and are awaiting an official communication. We have also approached the Maharashtra government. Since they are finding it difficult to sustain, and with the monsoons approaching, we expect the situation to go from bad to worse. We will be holding another round of meetings on Monday, after which a decision to walk towards Karnataka will be taken,” he said. Bhujanga Shetty, a waiter, who works in a hotel in Thane, and hails from Udupi, said, “With every passing day, the situation is getting worse. We have remained jobless for two months, and are finding it difficult to pay the rent and sustain ourselves. Back home, my family is also worried. My father-in-law is aged and he keeps calling and asking, if he will ever be able to see us again. I have two school-going children. We cannot afford to arrange a private taxi. Every morning, we wake up, with the hope of going back home,” he said. “Many philanthropists are making arrangements for sending people back to their hometowns, we hope philanthropists from the coast also help,” said Avinash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-people-in-mumbai-threaten-to-walk-back-home/articleshow/76125266.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Mercury dips across U'khand following rain spell||Dehradun: Mercury levels have dropped across Uttarakhand following widespread rainfall and thunder activity in several parts of the state in the past 24-hours. The temperature levels are settling significantly below normal in the hills and the plain regions of the state. On Sunday, several places in Garhwal, including state capital Dehradun, and Kumaon received light showers. On the day, Pantnagar received 6.6 mm rainfall, followed by Chaukhutiya (2 mm), Dehradun (1.3 mm), Khatima (1 mm) and Nainital (1 mm). In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 27.6 degree Celsius, almost eight notches below normal, and the minimum temperature settled at 21.1 degree Celsius. Similarly, Pantnagar recorded a maximum temperature of 26.1 degree Celsius, 11 notches below normal. Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, said, “Both Garhwal and Kumaon regions witnessed widespread rainfall and thunder activity in the last 48 hours. As a consequence, temperature levels have dropped and are settling below normal.” According to the MeT office, the state will brace for dry weather and clear skies from June 1 onwards. "Dry weather is likely to prevail in Uttarakhand for a brief period but the climate will take a turn from June 4 onwards due to approaching western disturbances,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mercury-dips-across-ukhand-following-rain-spell/articleshow/76124938.cms||Gaurav Talwar
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||Miscreants attack railway employee deployed at level crossing near Bagalkot||Hubballi: The attack on a railway trackman by miscreants at a level crossing (LC) near Bagalkot on Saturday after he reportedly refused to open the gate citing an oncoming locomotive train has triggered a debate on the safety of railway personnel and passengers as well. The victim, Parashura, Harnal works as the gatemen at LC gate no. 51 near Kadlimatti on the Bagalkot-Almatti line, which falls under the purview of the South Western Railway (SWR), Hubballi division. Recounting the horrific episode to TOI, Harnal said that he shut the gate since an engine that had left Jadramakunti was scheduled to pass through. “A biker who arrived at the LC insisted that I open the gate so he could get through. When I refused citing that an engine was about to pass, he called his friends and family members to the spot. Within a few seconds, a group comprising both men and women arrived and started hurling abuses at me in Kannada and Hindi, before proceeding to assault me. They even tore my uniform. Since there were no means using which I could defend myself, I raised the red flag to halt the engine. They tried to assault me again when I boarded the engine. I subsequently rode the engine to Bagalkot, where my seniors took note of the injuries I had sustained on my back and admitted me to the government hospital,” said Harnal. Assistant general secretary for the All India Railway Track Maintainers’ Union, Hubballi Ravikumar Kenganal said that attacks of this nature were disturbingly common. “If these miscreants are not brought to book and punished, they will pose a threat to the trains, and safety of passengers,” he feared. Deputy superintendent of the government railway police (GRP), Hubballi BB Patil said that a case had been registered in connection with the assault. “SWR officials visited the GRP station in Vijayapura on Sunday and relayed the details of the incident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/miscreants-attack-railway-employee-deployed-at-level-crossing-near-bagalkot/articleshow/76124730.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 1, 2020||Bareilly||Man accuses wife of infidelity, beats her to death in front of 5-year-old son||Bareilly: A man from Sambhal district allegedly beat his wife to death in front of their minor son, suspecting her of having extra-marital affair. After committing the crime, the accused reached the police station and surrendered himself. The incident took place in Budhnagar Khandua of Chandausi on Saturday. The police later rushed to the spot, recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem. Their five-year-old son, who was witness to the killing, accused his father of murder, the police said. According to the police, accused Shivlal is a drunkard and often used to assault his wife, Seema (30), accusing her of infidelity. On Saturday, the situation turned worse when Shivlal, in a fit of rage, hit her with a wooden stick, resulting in the woman’s death. “The man has been arrested and sent to jail. An FIR has been registered under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further investigation is underway,” station house officer, Chandausi, Prem Pal Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-accuses-wife-of-infidelity-beats-her-to-death-in-front-of-5-year-old-son/articleshow/76124923.cms||Maria Khan
June 1, 2020||Bareilly||Gangster wanted for auto thefts held in Bareilly||Bareilly: An inter-state gangster wanted in several cases of vehicle theft both in UP and Uttarakhand and carrying a bounty of Rs 20,000 was arrested in Shergarh area of Bareilly district on Sunday. Identified as Tasleem, the gangster was also allegedly involved in an auto theft reported during the lockdown. Ashwini Kumar, SHO of Shergarh police station, told TOI, “Tasleem operates by forming gangs of local criminals for stealing bikes in various districts of UP and Uttarakhand. In Bareilly district alone, 12 cases are registered at various police stations against him. He was recently booked under the Gangster Act at Bahedi police station after his involvement was confirmed in a few auto-lifting cases. On Sunday morning, we received a tip-off that Tasleem is waiting for a bus near Pipariya bus stand. We immediately sent a team there and nabbed him. A countrymade pistol and two live bullets were seized from him. He was sent to jail after questioning.” Shailesh Pandey, SSP of Bareilly, said, “It was indeed an achievement of Ashwini Kumar and his team. Ashwini’s team will receive a cash reward of Rs 20,000 announced for Tasleem's capture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gangster-wanted-for-auto-thefts-held-in-bareilly/articleshow/76124926.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Major temples and mosques are unlikely to reopen on Monday||KOLKATA: All major temples and mosques in the state are unlikely to throw open their gates to people on Monday. At present, they are trying to put in place safety measures and work out social distancing norms. The state has given the go-ahead to open places of worship with not more than 10 worshippers on their premises at a time. Gurdwaras in the city will, however, open, along with churches, after daylong sanitisation and a introduction of some other safety measures. Dakshineswar and Kalighat temples are yet to decide on the reopening dates. They said it would take time to get the sanitisation system in place. Tarapith and Mayapur Iskcon temple, too, will not re-open soon, sources said. “We are trying to make the temple premises safe and sanitised before reopening and that cannot be done in a hurry,” said Kushal Chowdhury, spokesperson of the Dakshineshwar Temple Trust. Taramay Mukhopadhyay, president of the Tarapith temple committee, said: “We need time to sanitise the compound and instal some equipment. Our priests also need to be trained. That will take time.” Management of most mosques said they were yet to decide on any date. “We need more clarity from the government,” said Nasser Ebrahim, a trustee of Nakhoda mosque. Gurudwaras, on the other hand, spent the entire day sanitising their premises and will remain open from 10am to 6pm. Behala Gurudwara general secretary Satnam Singh Ahluwalia said: “All high-touch points will be sanitised repeatedly following a schedule. Sewadars at entry points have been equipped with thermal guns and sanitsers.” (Inputs by Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey, Zeeshan Jawed, Saikat Ray & Someswar Boral)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/major-temples-and-mosques-are-unlikely-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76125525.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SPIC MACAY starts digital series to help youngsters de-stress||NEW DELHI: To steer the young generation through the mental stress triggered by Covid-19, SPIC MACAY has launched Anubhav, a weeklong online project. The series seeks to help youngsters indulge in mystical and diverse aspects of Indian art, culture and heritage. The inaugural keynote address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was live-streamed on Monday on the YouTube channel of the Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth. Before the pandemic, SPIC MACAY planned to organise its eighth international convention on its 43rd year at IIT Kanpur. Now with Anubhav, “we will be able to reach out to a much larger and diverse audience base of all ages, across geographies, nationally and internationally”, the organisation said in a statement. More than 50,000 people from India and abroad have already registered. The series, to be streamed till Sunday, includes sessions on Carnatic and Hindustani vocals, classical dance performances, folk performances by prominent artistes, theatres, lectures and interactions, a virtual heritage walk, virtual workshops on classical music, dance and crafts, and yoga. There will also be a screening of the film ‘Making of the Mahatma’ by Shyam Benegal along with live interaction. On the last day, there will be a classical overnight concert where leading India artistes will perform. Several Padma awardees will take part in the online sessions. Following the series, selected students will get an opportunity to participate in virtual workshops under the mentorship of esteemed gurus, SPIC MACAY added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spic-macay-starts-digital-series-to-help-youngsters-de-stress/articleshow/76144863.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||Government yet to decide on reopening schools, says Suresh Kumar||DAVANAGERE: Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar has said that they are yet to decide on the date to start the next academic year in view of Covid-19 crisis. “Discussions on the issue are still on,” he said while charing a review meeting on the preparations being made for the SSLC exams, at Chitradruga on Sunday. The meeting was attended by the DDPIs and BEOs of Chitradurga and Davangere districts. “Children of migrant workers, who have gone to their villages now, can write the exams at any centre near their place,” Kumar said, adding that the students of BCM, social welfare and Morarji Desai residential schools can also write the exams at centres near to them if their schools are made quarantine centres. The minister directed the DDPIs and BEOs to take necessary precautions while holding the examinations scheduled from June 25. “Boost the confidence of students and their parents so they do not panic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/government-yet-to-decide-on-reopening-schools-says-suresh-kumar/articleshow/76124985.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||VMC not to declare identity of Covid-19 patients from today||Vadodara: As restrictions are being eased with what is being dubbed as Unlock 1, there is another concern. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has decided not to release names, address and even gender, age and areas of Covid-19 positive patients. The medical bulletin of VMC released on Sunday evening stated that as per directives of centre and state government, details of the positive patients will not be released as it results in violation of privacy of patients and also leads to legal complications. It mentioned that the civic body will continue micro-zoning, active screening and surveillance of new areas as usual. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel too said that no details of the positive cases will be made public. “We will share just numbers and analysis from time to time. We have been time and again directed not to make names and other details of the positive cases public,” he said. When questioned regarding the safety of citizens who are likely to be more vulnerable with relaxations that begin from Monday, Patel said that citizens should increase usage of the Aarogya Setu mobile application which will continue issuing alerts. “We will also continue our containment activity,” he said. The discrepancies in official figures too are becoming evident. A clerk working with the academic section of M S University tested positive on Saturday. After this, the university has decided to close down head office for three days but like Saturday, the clerk’s name did not appear in the list of positive cases even on Sunday. Meanwhile, the spike in Covid-19 cases continued on Sunday. “Officially”, the total number of positive cases in Vadodara reached 1,057 with 34 new cases being reported since Saturday evening and 42 persons losing their lives. Three persons, including two from Mumbai’s Vile Parle (west) and one from Ahmedabad’s Vastral area, have also tested positive in the city. As many as 25 persons were discharged in the city including three from private hospital, two from SSG Hospital, 16 from Covid Care Centre and four from home isolation. As many as 616 Covid-19 patients have been discharged either from various facilities or home isolation even as 399 remain under treatment. Those under treatment include 14 on oxygen and eight on ventilators or BIPAP machines. The condition of remaining 377 patients is said to be stable or they are even asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-not-to-declare-identity-of-covid-19-patients-from-today/articleshow/76124803.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Online classes click with students of government schools||NEW DELHI: “The online classes are superb. There’s so much to learn. And the best part is that we can record classes in case we miss out on a lesson,” remarked Dia Jain, a Class XII student of a government school, while enthusiastically sharing her feedback with deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia. On Sunday, Sisodia reviewed different online activities launched during the lockdown for students of government schools. Many activities concluded with the beginning of the summer vacation. However, there were many children who couldn’t attend the classes. The data shared by the government for Class XII online classes showed that 85% of the students had registered for it, during which 105 hours of tutoring for 11 subjects were conducted, 10 hours more than normal classes. In the “Everyday English and Personality Development” activity, out of 2.7 lakh students of classes X and XII appearing for the boards, 83,454 accessed the content. An average of 52,000 students attended the classes held in collaboration with British Council and Macmillan Education. About 1.75 lakh out of 4.8 lakh children actively took part in the mathematics classes for Class IX students done in collaboration with Khan Academy. Mukesh Jain, a mathematics teacher at a school in Punjabi Bagh, said, “I got a lot of positive feedback from the students. The videos were of such a length that they kept the concentration of the students intact.” The government also took the entrepreneurship curriculum online for students of classes IX and XII, while for children of classes KG to VIII activities of “Mission Buniyaad” and happiness classes were sent through SMS/IVRS. Sessions called “Parenting in Corona” were also carried out. Gargi, a student of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya at Chirag Dilli, said she used the lockdown period to improve her script writing as part of the digital Entrepreneurship Mindset Class (EMC) activity. A teacher, Arif, said, “We will have an EMC boot camp and are also documenting my journey of the activity.” “About 45,000 students of classes IX to XII participated in the digital EMC sessions addressing themes of creativity, managing fear and self awareness, along with two live interactions with accomplished entrepreneurs. We could minimise the academic damage because of the exemplary efforts of our teachers, parents and children who embraced this new way of learning,” said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-classes-click-with-students-of-govt-schools/articleshow/76126536.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||168 new cases take Haryana count to 2,091||CHANDIGARH: NCR districts continued to account for a majority of Covid-19 cases in Haryana as 168 more people tested positive for the coronavirus in the state, taking the overall tally past 2,000 to 2,091. The doubling rate has now fallen to nine days. There have been 20 deaths so far and the number of active cases is 1,023. The state had crossed 1,000 cases on May 21 and has now breached 2,000 cases. Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the state government was taking adequate measures to control situation. Gurgaon got 97 new cases, taking the district total to 774, of which 487 are active. There were 28 new cases in Faridabad and the district tally rose to 367. Bhiwani district has emerged as the new hotspot in the state where 20 cases, who include family members and staff of Bhiwani city MLA Ghanshyam Saraf, have been found positive. Saraf’s personal assistant was the first to be tested positive. Saraf’s samples have been sent for retesting as he was found negative in the first test. All those who tested positive are being sent to private Covid-19 centre for treatment. In Hisar, nine persons tested positive. Also, four cases each were reported from Kurkshetra and Ambala, two cases each from Karnal and Narnaul, and one case each person from Palwal and Panipat. In Kurukshetra, while three patients include a 58-year-old man, his 33-year-old son and 32-year-old daughter-in-law, the fourth case is of a 33-year-old man who returned from Delhi to Umri village on May 29. In Ambala, two children aged three and five, and a woman with cancer, were among the four people who tested positive for Covid-19, said deputy civil surgeon Dr Sanjeev Singla. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the new patients included a 24-year-old woman in Nissing town and a 27-year-old woman in Garhi Khajur village. The Panipat patient is a 63-year-old man from Samalkha, said chief medical officer Dr Sant Lal Verma. He visited a private hospital for hernia surgery where he was advised for Covid-19 test on May 28. He had also travelled to Delhi. Enquiries revealed that 77 persons had been discharged from hospitals after treatment and this had taken the total of recovered patients to 1,048. The state’s recovery rate is now 50.12 %. (With inputs from Kurukshetra, Panipat, Ambala and Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/168-new-cases-take-hry-count-to-2091/articleshow/76126184.cms||Manvir Saini
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT tells LG to monitor leak-hit for 5 years over cancer worries||HYDERABAD: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has slammed LG Polymers for the styrene leak tragedy in Visakhapatnam and asked the company to prepare a health monitoring programme for the affected population as styrene vapours can cause cancer and cell mutation. The joint monitoring committee report asked the plant owner, LG Polymers, to work in tandem with reputed hospitals for monitoring the health of the affected population for five years. It also said that pregnant women affected during the May 7 leak should be monitored with utmost care. Twelve people and 22 animals had died in Venkatapuram, located at a distance of 100metres from the unit. “Since the NEERI team has already conducted preliminary studies and a report has been prepared, the agency shall be given the work,” the committee opined. It also said that adjacent to the LG Polymers company, VUDA approved layouts and habitations were developed over a period of time. It questioned how building plan approvals were given in 200 metres radius adjacent to the factory. “Maintenance of a buffer zone for all industries, stoppage of encroachments and policy of not allocating residential houses near to industry should be strictly followed,” the NGT report said. “District administrations shall take more care in approving such layouts. All the affected families should be given identity cards and health cards by the government and LG polymers unit shall bear the expenditure on medical bills. In the R.R. Venkatapuram surrounding villages, pregnant women were also affected. Hence, the government has to take necessary monitoring mechanism for pregnant woman,” the report said. The committee also pointed that at the time of gas leakage villagers started to run away towards Vizianagaram, but police at Kothavalasa checkpost stopped them and directed them to stay in a nearby school. “Lack of coordination between district administrations of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts was clearly visible during the incident,” said the report. The NGT committee comprising retired HC judge Justice B Seshasayana Reddy, prof Ch V Rama Chandra Reddy and Dr Chandrasekhar director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, and others visited all five affected villages. An estimated 800 ton of styrene escaped into the surroundings and the committee observed that the root cause appeared to be the lack of experience of LG Polymers India and their Korean principal, LG Chem, in monitoring and maintaining full tanks of styrene that left idle for a long period of several weeks without operation. The panel found serious safety violations in several aspects, leading to the leakage. ”Operators and any industrial persons being not aware of control measures in such a situation is the main cause. Lapses on the part of the Industry, which rest with managing director of the unit, certified safety officer, safety department and production department,” opined the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-tells-lg-to-monitor-leak-hit-for-5-years-over-cancer-worries/articleshow/76126531.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 +ve patient dies at AIIMS Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: A 24-year-old Covid-19 positive patient died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Sunday. This is the third death of Covid-19 positive patient at the facility. The AIIMS-R administration has said that the victim died of electric shock. Reportedly, the victim was electrocuted in April this year. Later, he was operated on, treated and discharged from the facility in the first week of May. Professor UB Mishra, dean (administration) AIIMS, said that the patient had sustained severe burn injuries in the elbow and had suffered perforation. “We had to remove those parts of his body that were totally burnt as he was electrocuted by a high-tension wire. He was treated and discharged from AIIMS-R in May first week but he returned to our OPD with breathing issues. Subsequently, we collected his sample and he was tested Covid-19 positive on May 29. He died today due to excessive electric shock,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-ve-patient-dies-at-aiims-rishikesh/articleshow/76124962.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Minister, CS asked to keep a close watch||Ahmedabad: There is no respite for the government and the Civil Hospital administration as the Gujarat high court has said that it would continue to monitor the conditions in the Civil Hospital and asked the health minister, chief secretary and concerned authorities to keep a close watch on its functioning. While seeking another report on functioning of Gujarat’s largest Covid care facility, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala ordered the government authorities including the state health minister to keep a “very close watch on the administration functioning of the Civil Hospital. There should not be any laxity in this regard. As days are passing by, all steps should be taken to improve the quality of medical treatment and other facilities at the Civil Hospital. No citizen of this country should gather a feeling that he is being treated differently than a person with necessary resources”. The court issued a slew of instructions to improve medical care in the hospital and stop ill treatment of patients. One of them is to stop the much criticized practice at the Civil Hospital of allowing family members to attend a Covid-19 patient in ward. The court warned the principal health secretary of action in case of default. This happened when amicus curie in the suo motu PIL, Brijesh Trivedi, brought to the court’s notice that the Civil Hospital administration has started feeling pressure of the epidemic and is now restricting admission for patients. On hearing this, the HC said, “We want the Civil Hospital to function at its full strength. Not a single bed should be kept vacant. If the health department is not able to withstand the pressure, then it should immediately make necessary arrangements to increase the strength of doctors, nursing staff etc.” It further said, “We sound a note of caution in this regard, more particularly, to the principal secretary of the health department that in future, if we come to know that deliberately, the admission in the Civil Hospital is restricted with a view to cope up with the pressure of work, then we may have to take appropriate action in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minister-cs-asked-to-keep-a-close-watch/articleshow/76125572.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: First on-site mass after lockdown on June 7, at St Patrick’s Church||KOLKATA: After the lockdown, the city’s first on-site mass will happen on June 7 (Sunday) at St Patrick’s Church, Dum Dum. Though only 10 masked worshippers will be allowed to attend the mass, it will be a full-fledged service to be conducted by archbishop Thomas D Souza of the Roman Catholic Church. Ever since the lockdown started, only online masses have been live streamed from the archbishop’s house and the Christian community observed Lent, followed by Good Friday and Easter, virtually. In keeping with the state government’s orders, churches are re-opening post lockdown on Monday when the 35 churches under the Church of North India, Kolkata Diocese (CNI) will also open their doors. They will allow only 10 masked worshippers at a time while a slew of other measures are also being taken following the guidelines of the state government. This is slightly different from the ministry of home affairs’ guidelines allowing religious institutions to start from June 8. The special mass on the church premises has been organised to install a new parish priest at St Patrick’s Church. Father, S Irudaya Raj, will be anointed as the new priest of the church and he will be blessed by the archbishop, following Catholic church traditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-on-site-mass-after-lockdown-on-june-7-at-st-patricks-church/articleshow/76125533.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 1, 2020||Goa||Mapusa civic body to waive shop rent||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has decided to waive off the rent for six months of the shops owned by the municipality. MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza said the proposal to waive off the rent from March to August will be forwarded to the directorate of municipal administration for approval. The revision of sopo rates and terms and condition of the sopo contract were also discussed at the council meeting held on Friday. Braganza said that the sopo agreement will have to be signed immediately so that it comes into force from June 1. At the meeting, it was also agreed to hand over the hydraulic lift vehicle used to impound cattle to the Gomantak Gausevak Sangh, on condition that the body assists the municipality in moving cattle as and when required. The municipality also agreed to provide an alternative location for the immersion of Ganesh idols during the Ganesh festival. Councillor Sandeep Falari suggested that the market could be reopened by following the social distancing norms, with a reduced number of vendors. Falari also said that pay-parking for two-wheelers can be commenced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-civic-body-to-waive-shop-rent/articleshow/76126543.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bareilly||Despite lockdown, UP sugar mills crush more cane than any year, begin producing sanitiser||PILIBHIT: The principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in the UP government, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has claimed despite the lockdown, UP sugar mills have so far crushed 771.83 lakh quintals of sugarcane in excess this year, in comparison to the corresponding period of 2019. He added that a large number of sugarcane growers have also benefitted from the sugar allotment policy, introduced by the government this year for a period of three months. “It’s a remarkable achievement. Of the 119 functional mills in the state, 25 are still operating whereas the crushing season normally concludes by end-May. Projecting an outstanding performance for the year, mills have so far crushed 11,015.07 lakh quintals of sugarcane, compared to 10,243.243 lakh quintals over the same period last year,” Bhoosreddy said. As per senior cane department officials, higher rate of crushing this year has been reported by almost every sugarcane growing district. It is being estimated that this reflects bumper productivity of sugarcane crop across the state during 2019-20. Officials further said although jaggery units had been fully authorised to procure sugarcane and carry out production of jiggery, farmers probably diverted a major part of their crop to sugar mills this year, possibly due to several subsidies in the package offered by the state and better price offered by the government. Bhoosreddy further said 70,793 willing farmers were allotted one quintal sugar per month at minimum sale price of the day for a total of 74,865 quintals, under a scheme aimed at reducing dues a sugar mill had with the farmer. This also allowed mills to liquidate their cane price arrears, he added. He said mills paid Rs 5,543.07 crore to farmers for cane during the lockdown period. This was aimed at safeguarding their economic and social interests. “Along with this, as part of our social responsibility towards facing the Covid-19 outbreak, the cane department, in association with the mill owner’s association — Cooperation of Sugar Mills — has so far sanitised 5,398 places, including 3,066 villages, 180 towns and 2,152 public offices,” Bhoosreddy explained. For the first time, the cane department also encouraged sugar mills to start sanitiser production. As a result, 27 UP mills have been producing over two lakh litres of sanitiser per day, which is being supplied to almost every state in the country, after meeting the state’s own requirement, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/despite-lockdown-up-sugar-mills-crush-more-cane-than-any-year-begin-producing-sanitiser/articleshow/76124932.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||158 new Covid cases in Uttarakhand, sample pendency now over 6,000||DEHRDAUN: With 158 fresh cases reported on Sunday, the total tally of Uttarakhand’s Covid-19- positive patients reached 907. Among those reported positive are a doctor from Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) and 48 others from Dehradun. With 1,500 more samples sent for testing, the pendency of samples has touched 6,133 till 3 pm, according to the report shared by the health department. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant informed that 49 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun on Sunday among which 22 are contacts of already positive patient while others have travel history. Importantly, the 22 cases in Dehradun are tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, his family members and aides. “The other patients in Dehradun are those who have travelled from Delhi and Mumbai and a vendor of Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi,” Pant added. Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer of Covid-19 at GDMC said that an anesthetic from the Doon hospital tested positive. “She was involved in the treatment of a pregnant lady from Shamli who tested positive after her death earlier last week,” he said. Among the new cases reported on Sunday, 31 are from Nainital, all had travelled to Uttarakhand from Maharashtra. Udham Singh Nagar reported 20 new cases on Sunday followed by 18 in Almora and 17 in Haridwar. Uttarkashi reported seven new cases while Pauri reported six. Champawat reported four new cases, followed by three in Tehri, two in Chamoli and one in Rudraprayag. With 1,588 new samples collected by the health department on Sunday, the total number of pending reports is 6,133. Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 war room at the health directorate, said, “The state’s recovery rate till 3pm on Sunday was 12.72% and of the total samples tested, 3.43% were positive. The state till now has tested 30,448 people. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the state is 5.45 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/158-new-covid-cases-in-ukhand-sample-pendency-now-over-6k/articleshow/76124972.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 1, 2020||Bareilly||17-year-old girl falls off Shramik Special train, dies||Rampur: A 17-year-old girl died after she allegedly fell off a speeding Shramik Special train near Dhamora station in Rampur district on Saturday evening. The victim, Sabrina Bano, had boarded the Deoria-bound train in Delhi and was on her way to Raebareli. Speaking with TOI, Government Railway Police (GRP) police station SHO Satish Kumar said, “We got to know about the accident around 10pm on Saturday and our staff, along with other railway employees, reached the spot soon and rushed the girl to the Rampur district hospital, where doctors proclaimed her dead upon arrival. After postmortem, the body was handed over to her family members who were also travelling with her in the same compartment." "The girl was going to the toilet and fell out of the train after it shook terribly. Soon, passengers informed her family members sitting inside the compartment and the train was stopped at Bareilly Junction. Railway authorities sent her family members back to Rampur station," said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/17-year-old-girl-falls-off-shramik-special-train-dies/articleshow/76124960.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Contact link to 14 of 30 new Covid-19 cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 30 new cases of Covid-19 and a death due to the virus on Sunday, taking the tally of infected people in the state to 2,263 and the casualty count to 45. This is the fifth death due to coronavirus in Punjab in three days. Fourteen of the new patients are contacts of people who tested positive for the virus earlier. The source of 10 new cases is outside Punjab. Nine cases were from Ludhiana, eight from Ropar, four each from Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, three from Amritsar, and one each from Moga and Barnala. There were two more cases in Amritsar, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin on Covid-19. Seven of the nine cases in Ludhiana are contacts of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/contact-link-to-14-of-30-new-cases/articleshow/76126187.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP records highest Covid cases in a day||LUCKNOW: Spike in Covid-19 cases returned in NCR on Sunday with Gautam Buddh Nagar recording 49 cases taking the district’s total to 457, the second highest in the state. Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) now accounts for the highest number of 171 active cases in the state. According to government officials, keeping in view the increasing cases of Covid-19 in the national capital and also in the district, the local administration has decided to keep Noida-Delhi border sealed for movement of people. Health officials said the state recorded 378 cases – maximum in a single day – pushing the overall Covid-19 tally to cross 8,000-mark and reach 8,125 on Sunday. The patients included 139 migrant workers. As on date, 23 districts in state have more than 100 cases. Last 24 hours also saw discharge of 192 patients taking the total number of recoveries to 4,843. Officials said since 40% of the cases in GB Nagar traced in the past 20 days were linked to neighbouring Delhi, the movement of people should be checked to contain further spread. DM Suhas LY said: “While a significant number of patients are residents of Noida, the others belong to neighbouring districts whose samples were tested in a Noida-based lab.” GB Nagar was followed by Ghaziabad where 33 new patients surfaced in last 24 hours. Eastern UP districts also continued to record large number of cases with Deoria taking the lead with 20 cases followed by Ghazipur where 19 fresh cases were reported. As many as four deaths were reported in the state taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 217. “One death each was reported from Agra, Meerut, Deoria and Gorakhpur,” Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, joint director/state surveillance officer at Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said. Meanwhile, principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said, “Today, we have achieved a target given by the Chief Minister (Yogi Adityanath). We have made arrangements for more than one lakh beds under three-tier medical system of L1, L2 and L3 hospitals in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-records-highest-covid-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76126190.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital in red, US Nagar in Green Zone||DEHRADUN: Chief Secretary Utpal Kumar Singh on Sunday issued new colour zone categorization of districts across the state as per government of India guidelines. As per new categorization, Nainital has been placed in red zone while Udham Singh Nagar has been kept in green zone. The other 11 districts across the state, including Dehradun will be in orange zone. As per the guidelines, offices and other services in red zone will remain operational from 7 am to 4 pm and public vehicles will remain suspended apart from picking and dropping people to railway stations or airports. The government officials in red zone too would operate only till 4 pm. People would require having registration and valid pass to go inside and outside Nainital. The district magistrate will decide the containment zones and buffer zones in their respective areas, as per government of India Protocol. All the non-essential activities in orange and green zone will remain suspended from 7 pm to 7 am. People will have to get mandatory registration at Dehradun smart city portal in case they are travelling to any district within the state. “Those coming from other states via road in personal or commercial vehicles will have to get mandatory pass from Dehradun smart city portal. Those taking trains and flight to come to the state will have to follow the standard protocols set up by disaster management authorities,” stated the press release issued by the chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-in-red-us-nagar-in-green-zone/articleshow/76124987.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Two sisters killed after balcony of flat collapses in West Bengal||HOWRAH: Two sisters died on Saturday evening when the hanging balcony of their flat on the third floor of a housing complex at Belur collapsed. The women — Anuradha Sharma (40) and Dipika Dhant (37) — were found bleeding profusely under the debris after the incident that happened around 9pm. The two were rushed to a private hospital where Sharma was declared brought dead. Later, Dhant succumbed to her injuries. Cops said they would take action once the victims’ kin lodged a complaint with them. Dhaval Jain, commissioner, Howrah Municipal Corporation said he had sent a team to inspect the structural stability of the building. “Once they submit the report, I will initiate steps,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-sisters-killed-after-balcony-of-flat-collapses/articleshow/76125553.cms||Rupak Banerjee
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||‘Mission Begin Again’: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray says dump ‘lockdown’ in bin||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray continues to steer course taking a cautious approach despite pressure from within the ruling alliance to introduce more concessions for economic activity during the lockdown. In a televised address on Sunday, Thackeray said while the lockdown was “a science”, allowing concessions was “an art”, and it has to be achieved in a gradual manner. “…some people are in a rush and want the lockdown revoked completely. We have seen examples of countries where there was no lockdown and of countries where they had a lockdown, and what happened after it was revoked. We don't want to relax something and then revoke it. We have to take our next steps very carefully,” said the CM. Avoiding comparisons between the Centre and the state’s strategies—in recent speeches, the CM was at pains to underscore “lack of support” from the NDA regime—this time, he thanked the railway minister for his support and then zeroed in on Maharashtra’s plan to exit the lockdown. Newspapers can be delivered door-to-door from June 7: Uddhav ThackerayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state government will allow door-to-door delivery of newspapers from next Sunday (June 7). He said the boys who deliver newspapers should be given masks and hand sanitisers and “their safety should be taken care of ”. Newspaper delivery has remained disrupted in some parts of Maharashtra since the lockdown began. CM: Field hospitals at BKC, NSCI will be on stand-by in futureChief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that the priority of the state henceforth will be on healthcare and education. He said field hospitals set up at BKC and NSCI will be kept on stand-by even in future while regular activities like exhibitions and conventions are resumed. "In case it is required, all this machinery can be set up in 2-3 days there," he said. He also dwelt on his government’s position vis-à-vis the lockdown saying Maharashtra has to be watchful in allowing relaxations. He later referred to the Centres’ guidelines allowing re-opening of malls, restaurants, religious places and even barber shops, which the state government has not allowed. He also snubbed the BJP's state unit saying there were people who claimed the situation in Mumbai was out of control and that the Army should be called in or presidential rule should be imposed in the state. "It saddens me when our own people give a bad name to the state. But I have the support of the people, I don't worry about losing power," said Thackeray. He also thanked railway minister Piyush Goyal for providing 800 trains and said so far nearly 16 lakh migrants in the state had left for their hometowns, of which 11.5 lakh boarded trains. Thackeray and Goyal had engaged in a bitter spat a few days ago over coordination issues linked to supply of trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mission-begin-again-cm-says-dump-lockdown-in-bin/articleshow/76126541.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Salons and liquor shops open today||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered formulation of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for opening hospitality services, shopping malls, places of worship, and restaurants for in-dinning from June 8, in line with the guidelines for Unlock 1.0. CM announced opening of shops, including liquor vends and salons, in non-containment zones from Monday. He directed health and transport departments to formulate SOPs for permitted activities for the period from June 1 to 30 for areas outside containment zones. In containment zones, only essential activities will be allowed and there will be a strict perimeter control. Such zones will be demarcated on the basis Union health ministry guidelines. Non-essential activities will be prohibited from 9pm to 5am and district authorities have been directed to issue prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC for this. As per CM’s directives released in the evening, shops in main markets could stay open between 7am and 7pm and liquor vends from 8am to 8pm. E-commerce has also been permitted for all goods. Sports complexes and stadia can also open without spectators. Inter-state buses will ply with consent of other states, said SOPs issued by the transport department. There are no restrictions on inter-state or intra-state movement of passenger vehicles such as taxis, cabs, stage carriers, tempo-travellers and cars, but self-generated e-pass would be needed from Cova app. All categories of industries and construction activities are allowed without any restriction in rural and urban areas, along with agricultural, horticultural, animal husbandry and veterinary services. No separate permission will be needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/salons-and-liquor-shops-open-today/articleshow/76126193.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Saliva best alternative to sweat: Vinay Kumar||DEHRADUN: After the International Cricket Council’s (ICC) recommendation to prohibit the use of saliva to shine the ball in view of Covid-19 pandemic, Indian pacer Vinay Kumar has suggested sweat as an alternative to ensure that the game is not tilted towards batsmen. “There are many theories and ideas coming up recently regarding the shining of the ball and to make sure that it swings but nothing can replace saliva. However, considering the present pandemic situation, sweat is the best alternative to saliva,” said Vinay Kumar. Although he added that the transition won’t be easy for bowlers as they are trained to use their saliva to shine the ball since childhood. Meanwhile, the 35-year-old cricketer advocated for the matches not to resume until the pandemic isn't fully under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/saliva-best-alternative-to-sweat-kumar/articleshow/76124993.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||We urge the government to follow the HC directions in letter and spirit: AHNA||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Sunday welcomed the HC decision regarding the rates for treatment and the testing strategy.“We urge the government to follow the HC directions in letter and spirit and not create any further impediments in the quick testing of patients,” read a release issued by AHNA.Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that now only an email intimation will do to get the test done as the approval from government-appointed authority has been done away with. “The clarity on getting the test done on OPD basis is yet to come,” he said.On Saturday, Dr Prakash Vaghela, additional director (health), had sent a letter to the medical superintendent of Sola Civil Hospital. In the letter, Dr Vaghela asked the superintendent to answer the hospital lab in a matter of one to two hours and inform the state health department about requests received and approved by 5pm daily. Health practitioners said that they will wait till Monday to ascertain the new arrangements.Dr Mona Desai, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), said that they have already sent a letter to the state health department seeking clarification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-urge-the-government-to-follow-the-hc-directions-in-letter-and-spirit-ahna/articleshow/76125569.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University alumni take up regreening drive on Amphan-hit campus||KOLKATA: Former students of Jadavpur University came forward to replant the uprooted trees in the sprawling campus, one of the green zones in the city. Cyclone Amphan uprooted nearly 70% of mature trees on the JU premises on May 20. “Our entire campus was completely ravaged by the cyclone. We are proud of our green campus. I proposed to the university authorities that the uprooted trees must be replanted without delay, so that maximum of them can survive,” said Dipankar Das, a ’94 batch alumnus of architecture department. Many other alumni of the university joined his initiative, if not physically, certainly morally. The JU campus has more than 280 mature trees while the cyclone had uprooted over 150 of them. “The university asked for an estimate. But I felt that much time would be wasted in proposing and approving the estimate. We might lose the time for replantation of the trees. That is why, I wanted to bear the cost. JU will reimburse it after proper evaluation,” he added. On Saturday, a team managed to erect 10 trees. “It may be a small step but can pave the way for replantation of Amphan-ravaged trees,” said Shankha Chowdhury, another alumni. A team of horticulturists and botanists, all ex-students of the university, will assess how many trees can be replanted. Some trees need pruning and treatment of root system before they can be restored to their previous forms. Some trees are beyond any restoration. For these trees, they are being cut into big logs. Everything is being documented and video-graphed so that no question can be raised on the process, said JU sources Some major arterial roads of the university campus have already been cleared, said a JU official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-alumni-take-up-regreening-drive-on-amphan-hit-campus/articleshow/76125562.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Trichy||Tamils seek Tamil Nadu govt nod to return on flights leaving Malaysia||TRICHY: Malindo Air has decided to operate two flights to Trichy from Kuala Lumpur on June 5 to evacuate Malaysian nationals stranded in Trichy due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, Tamils stranded in Malaysia including pregnant women have appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to allow them to come on the flight. The Malindo Air (OD 223/224) service will arrive at Trichy at 9.45am from Kuala Lumpur and depart at 10.35am. The same day another flight (OD 221/222) would arrive at 10.40am and depart at 11.20am. Around 250 Tamils who have been stranded in Malaysia said that they were ready to remit their fare to the carrier to ferry them to Trichy. They had also conveyed their stand to the high commissioner of the country. “Even then, we could not get any positive response from them,” said D Rajendran, 30, a native of Padalur in Perambalur district who has been stranded in Kuala Lumpur. When contacted, DMK Rajya Sabha MP Trichy Siva told TOI that he had been coordinating with the concerned ministry. Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar said that he had been doing the needful to operate flights to bring back all the stranded Tamils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamils-seek-tn-nod-to-return-on-flights-leaving-malaysia/articleshow/76126198.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||24-year-old MBA student dies in hit-and-run case||Hyderabad: A 24-year-old second-year MBA student died after a four-wheeler vehicle rammed into the bike he was riding in the wee hours of Sunday. The deceased, Mudurini Venkata Santosh Krishna Varma, along with his friend Aakash Reddy, was travelling on Aakash’s bike from Kowkoor to Yapral. A speeding four-wheeler hit their vehicle from behind, causing both of them to fall. Krishna died after sustaining severe head injury. Aakash sustained injuries on his leg and was shifted to Sunshine hospital for treatment. Following the accident, police have registered a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC and took up the investigation to nab the offender. The four-wheeler remains unidentified and accused are absconding after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/24-year-old-mba-student-dies-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/76125564.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Girder launch for new Majerhat ROB on Tuesday||KOLKATA: The much-awaited girder launching of the new Majerhat Bridge will start on Tuesday. The state public works department (PWD), which is implementing the bridge reconstruction project, has written to Eastern Railway (ER) for a power and rail traffic block for two days starting on June 2. Construction of the bridge resumed on May 8 after 46 days. But Cyclone Amphan dealt a blow to the work as the girder could not be launched in 10 days as per the plan. Work for the chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s priority project remained suspended since March 22, the day of the janta curfew. Barely a month earlier, on February 28, the bridge reconstruction project had received a shot in the arm as the commissioner of railway safety (CRS) gave its long pending nod for building the superstructure. The CRS, under the ministry of aviation, clears any new railway project across the country. The bridge that serves as the lifeline linking Behala and beyond to the city is actually a road overbridge (ROB). A span of the ROB, that comes under ER, had collapsed on September 4, 2018. On May 8, work resumed with a few labourers who had stayed back at the Majerhat site. They are wearing masks and following social distancing and safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/girder-launch-for-new-majerhat-rob-tomorrow/articleshow/76125563.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiff ends in murder of 27-year-old housewife||HYDERABAD: A 27-year-old housewife was bludgeoned to death allegedly by her husband during an argument at their house at Indira Nagar, Banjara Hills on Sunday. The victim was identified as R Anita, wife of an event management company employee, Anil. Anil, an alcoholic, used to torture Anita every night, Banjara Hills inspector N Kalinga Rao said. “On Sunday, Anil came home drunk and picked up an argument with Anita levelling allegations over her fidelity. Anil attacked Anita on her head. Later, he called 108 ambulance,” the inspector added. While paramedics were examining Anita, the accused fled. The victim was declared brought dead at a hospital, police said. A murder case was registered and a manhunt was launched. The couple have four children, including a two-month old boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiff-ends-in-murder-of-27-year-old-housewife/articleshow/76126200.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Don’t look for profit in times of crisis’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has said that the private hospitals have infrastructure and money to help people in the Covid-19 pandemic and they should not think of profit because God is watching us and their good deeds would not go unnoticed in the eye of the Almighty. The court said so while withdrawing its order that the private hospitals should not take advanced deposit from patients other than referred by the government. It said that the hospitals can charge advance deposits also in phased manner. While ordering so, the HC in its order passed on Sunday said, “In times of crisis when people are dying, the Association (Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association) should not think of even making profit of one rupee. The private hospitals have adequate infrastructure and materials and financial resources required to fight this pandemic. All the hospitals whether private or public are considered moral agent and hence have a moral responsibility.” The court further said, “We may only say that the Creator is watching us. The good deeds performed today in these critical times will never go unnoticed at the end by the Almighty.” The HC said that any patient who is not accommodated by SVP Hospital and Civil Hospital has to go to private hospitals and in such circumstances he should not suffer on account of his financial condition. “It should not happen that because of financial constraint, the patient remains without any adequate medical treatment. If such a thing occurs, then that would be the worst scenario. The medical fraternity in these times of crisis is expected to rise to the occasion. Medicine is a humanitarian profession,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-look-for-profit-in-times-of-crisis/articleshow/76125568.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||The story has been removed as it had some inaccuracies||The story has been removed as it had some inaccuracies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-story-has-been-removed-as-it-had-some-inaccuracies/articleshow/76126718.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Agra||More migrant workers test positive for Covid-19 in western UP, 1 death in Agra, 15 new cases in Meerut||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: At least 15 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Sunday, taking the tally to 434, including one found in Kanpur, while seven new cases surfaced in Agra, taking its tally to 899. Also, a 70-year-old provisional store owner died in Agra. The man - a resident of Lohamandi who was suffering from fever and breathing difficulties - was under treatment at a private hospital and was found positive. Importantly, several cases of migrant workers getting infected by the virus were also reported from across western UP. The new cases in Agra included three patients of SARI, a patient suffering from chest pain at SN Medical College, another with fever at district hospital, and two cases related to family of those tested positive earlier. They mainly belonged to Kuberpur, Lohamandi, Jaipuriya colony, Jaghishpura and Etmadullah. Four patients were discharged. Out of the 899 cases in Agra, 87.65% have recovered. There are 67 active cases. Chief medical officer (CMO) RC Pandey confirmed, "So far, 788 people have recovered. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checks in hotspots." Meerut CMO Dr Raj Kumar said, "As many as 15 cases tested positive on Sunday. These include one resident of Ishwarpuri and Ahmed Nagar each, two from Asoura House, Purva Shekhlal and Moripada each. Total active cases are now 93." Five people were found positive in Bijnor district on Saturday night. They are migrant labourers. Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav, "Total tally here is now 100. Out of them, there are 50 active. These patients were found in Noorpur and Chandpur areas. Their family members were quarantined and contact tracing is on." In Aligarh, eight people, including three migrants and four health workers, with a professor and a senior resident of TB and chest department of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, tested positive on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 156, with 16 deaths. At least, 82 patients have recovered so far. While four migrant workers, two each in Mathura and Mainpuri, also tested positive. Talking to TOI, Chief development officer Anunay Jha said that three migrant workers, who recently returned from Maharashtra and Gujarat and a primary contact of the Covid patient, tested positive. Till now, 58 are active. Principal of JNMC Prof Shahid Ali told TOI, all heath workers, including a professor, senior resident doctor and nursing staff were asymptomatic with no high risk factor, hence they were advised to be home quarantined. He added, "We are trying to find out the source of infection." According to health officials in Mathura, two migrants, who recently returned from Haryana and Telangana, tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 77 with 20 active cases. In Mainpuri, two youths who recently returned from Delhi and Aligarh, tested positive and were admitted to an isolation ward of a hospital in Bhogaon. Till now, 40 people have been found positive. Of these, 14 are under treatment. In Sambhal, 13 fresh Covid cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally to 101, with 46 active and 55 discharged. Of the 13 new cases, most of them are migrants who returned from Delhi and Maharashtra. Sambhal CMO Dr Amita Singh said, "The new cases are mostly migrants. They even include children between age of three and six. The infected ones belong to Panju Sarai, Rajpura and Baniyakhera block Faridpur localities of Sambhal district." Two more migrants who recently returned from Ahmedabad and were quarantined at 300-bed hospital of Bareilly were found positive on Sunday. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "Two among 57 samples sent for Covid-19 testing were tested positive. Both of them are symptomatic and sent to L1 hospital for treatment. Migrants are continuing to test positive in Bareilly. So, we are appealing to locals to share more information with us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/more-migrant-workers-test-ve-for-covid-19-inwup-1-death-in-agra-15-new-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/76125012.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Cheer among Ayodhya seers with temple reopening order||AYODHYA: Priests in Ayodhya who were grappling with low resources and zero dakshina (offerings) for over 65 days heaved a sigh of relief after the government decided to open places of worship from June 8. The seers, who were demanding relaxation in lockdown guidelines to allow pilgrims to offer prayers, lauded the government’s move and hoped that chiming of bells and chant of mantras would usher happiness and prosperity in the now desolate temple town. Talking to TOI, Mahant Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, priest of Saryu Kunj temple, adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi premises, said , “We were in deep distress with drying up of dakshina after rituals were halted by the lockdown.We survive on offerings made by devotees. Now, we have something to cheer.” Pandit Kalkiram, president of Ram Dal Trust, an organisation of Vedic Brahmins, which submitted a memorandum to chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking funds to help tide over the crisis, said, “We were living on the edge and feared going hungry if temple doors didn’t open. Now, we hope life will return to normal.” However, the district administration is still waiting for clarity from the government before allowing pilgrims to offer prayers at Ramjanambhoomi, which witnesses footfalls ranging from 10,000 to 20,000 on normal days. Speaking to TOI, Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said, “We are awaiting guidelines from the government before allowing prayers in religious places, particularly social distancing norms and other standard operating procedures.” Member of the Ram Temple Trust, Dr Anil Mishra said, “Opening of the Ramjanmabhoomi to devotees will depend on directions and guidelines of the district administration. However, we are very happy that religious activity will return to the temple town after a week.” Mahant Raju Das of Hanuman Garhi temple said, temples should be opened to enable devotees to invoke the divine and receive spiritual power to battle coronavirus. “We are eagerly waiting for guidelines for opening of the temple doors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cheer-among-ayodhya-seers-with-temple-reopening-order/articleshow/76126201.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
June 1, 2020||Delhi||AI flight return: Crew waits for 10 hours at Delhi's IGI||NEW DELHI: Air India’s Moscow-bound flight AI 1945 was cruising at 38,000 feet in Tashkent airspace on Saturday morning with five pilots and 12 cabin crew onboard when the cockpit got a one-line message to return to Delhi. This proved to be the start of an over 14-hour ordeal for the crew who did not know that the Airbus A320neo had been recalled because the pre-flight corona positive test report of a captain was mistakenly read as negative. The crew informed Tashkent air traffic control that they needed to turn back. Coming back to India meant flying over Turkmenistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan and these countries as per protocol asked reason for returning. As per flight tracking websites, the aircraft took an orbit (loop) in Afghan airspace before entering Pakistan which means it was asked to hold for a while before getting the nod to re-enter Pakistan. The aircraft landed at 12.50 pm in Delhi. “The plane parked at a regular use bay. All the 17 crew members remained inside the aircraft for 1.5 hours after which a team came to take a pilot (who was corona positive) away. Then the remaining 16 crew members waited for another half an hour inside the aerobridge,” said a crew member. After this 2-hour wait, they finally made their way to the airport health officials who directed them to get institutional quarantined for which the 16 members were sent by a bus to an Aerocity hotel. This despite a health ministry circular of March 23 which says crew of an aircraft with a positive case be home-quarantined for at least 14 days. “They went to a hotel in Aerocity which did not let them enter the premises as there was no word about the crew arrival from anyone. After waiting at the hotel gate for over an hour, the crew went back to the airport where they were allowed them to leave for home quarantine,” said the person. Finally the crew left the airport at 10 pm — after landing there over nine hours back. After this episode, AI has asked its pilots and cabin crew to “check and reconfirm” their pre-flight corona test result before operating Vande Bharat flights. “COVID-19 test… is a recent procedure and there is a shortage of staff in office, there is a possibility of an oversight in this matter…. Every effort will be made by the personnel (to ensure only corona free crew is rostered… However, it is imperative that the individual crew member also checks and reconfirms his/her test result…. it is mandatory for every individual crew member to check and confirm a negative report result, before undertaking a flight,” says a circular issued by AI executive director (operations) Captain R S Sandhu. AI pilots’ union — Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association (ICPA) — on Sunday sought clarity on protocol if a crew tests positive after the harrowing experience of the Moscow flight crew. “…we are operating Vande Bharat flights as ‘national duty’ and the treatment meted to the operating crew is distasteful… if history repeats itself we will not be in a position to operate any flights other than the essential services,” ICPA wrote to the airline management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ai-flight-return-crew-waits-for-10-hours-at-igi/articleshow/76126544.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mass transfer of judges in lower courts||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Sunday transferred more than 300 judicial officers of lower courts across the state in mass transfer orders that the state judiciary witnesses once annually. Among those transferred are more than 70 sessions judges including nine principal judges working at present as principal district judges and principal family court judges. Principal district judge B S Upadhyay has been shifted from Patan to Ahmedabad’s district court at Mirzapur. Similarly, principal judge of Jamnagar’s family courts, Mohammed Hanif Mansuri, has been posted as Ahmedabad family court’s principal judge. There are more than 220 judges of senior civil judge cadre who have been transferred, and as many as 141 judges of magisterial courts as well as labour and industrial courts too have been transferred within the state. For last few years, the high court has adopted a policy of effecting transfer of a judicial officer every three years. Thus, the state witnesses transfers of 33% judges every year. Meanwhile, the lower courts are closed for more than two months due to Covid-19 situation and all lower courts function with a couple of judges who hold urgent charge. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mass-transfer-of-judges-in-lower-courts/articleshow/76125567.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||Three vandalize eatery over bill payment, beat up owner||Vadodara: Owner of a popular restaurant near Golden Chowkdi on Vadodara-Halol highway and two staffers were beaten up on Saturday night by three persons over the issue of bill payment. Police said that three accused Manish Sharma, Lucky Sharma and Amit Parmar, all residents of Tarsali, went to Sangam Hotel late on Saturday evening. The trio ordered food and insisted on eating at the eatery itself instead of take away. Owner Jaiveer Malik tried to convince them to take their food away, and after failing let them sit and eat at the premises. After finishing the meal, the trio refused to pay saying that the rice was uncooked. They started arguing with Malik and a staffer Manohar Yadav hurling abuses at them. When Malik asked them not to use foul language, one of them picked up a glass bottle and hit Malik on his head. When Yadav and another employee Jaswant Rathod intervened, they too were beaten up. Police said that the accused vandalized the entire restaurant before escaping from there. Around Saturday midnight, Malik lodged an offence against them at Harni police station. “The accused’s car’s registration number was available with the restaurant owner so we traced them at night itself and arrested them,” said a policeman. The restaurant is quite popular among youth from city as it remains open beyond midnight. Lately, as the lockdown had eased the restaurant was reopened for take-away services only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-vandalize-eatery-over-bill-payment-beat-up-owner/articleshow/76124818.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Trichy||Woman dead, 33 new cases in South Tamil Nadu, 11 in central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: A 65-year-old woman from Begambur in Dindigul district died of Covid-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai on Sunday making it the fourth death to be reported at GRH. With 33 more Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the total number of cases in the southern region has climbed to 1,488, excluding cases under airport and railway quarantine. The woman was admitted to GRH after suffering chest pain on May 28 and tested Covid-19 positive. According to hospital sources, the woman died at 2am on Sunday due to cardiac failure, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and systemic hypertension. Notably, a 70-year-old woman who had returned from Chennai died at GRH on Friday. Meanwhile, a nurse from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy has been admitted to the hospital’s isolation ward after testing positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The 37-year-old woman was a native of Beema Nagar in Trichy. Two more positive cases were also reported in Trichy on Sunday. A 24-year-old man from Thiruvanaikoil and a 45-year-old man from the airport area tested positive. With this, the total number of cases in Trichy has climbed to 88. Meanwhile, Madurai district saw 10 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The ten cases included a frontline worker from Chennai, contacts of Covid-19 patients, and an ILI case from a containment area. Two men who were working as Railway AC Mechanics and travelled from Uttar Pradesh were among those who tested positive for Covid-19. A 72-year-old woman from Avaniyapuram also tested Covid-19 positive. Under airport quarantine, a 30-year-old man from Sivagangai who had returned from Delhi tested Covid-19 positive. With the 10 new cases, Madurai district has the second highest Covid-19 cases in the southern region with 269 cases behind Tirunelveli district with 352 cases. Tuticorin also reported 10 cases on Sunday of which six were local cases and four were immigrant cases. The district now has a total of 226 cases. Ramanathapuram reported six more local cases while Kanyakumari reported three, all with contact history. Virudhunagar too saw two more local cases with contact history. Dindigul and Sivagangai reported one case each on Sunday. A 34-year-old man of Thabirkulam area in Keelavasal in Thanjavur tested positive. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts have also recorded one case each on Sunday. Perambalur has recorded a new Covid-19 positive case on Sunday. Four people tested positive from Pudukottai district on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-dead-33-new-cases-in-south-tn-11-in-central-region/articleshow/76126205.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Agra||UP: Lock industry down seeks financial packagefor workers, says can’t pay them any further||AGRA: Aligarh's centuries-old lock industry, which comprises over 6,500 registered and 3,000 home units, employing nearly 2 lakh workers, is facing an acute financial crunch and has demanded urgent assistance from the state government for paying salaries to its workers. With no production for the past two months and no money coming in, lock manufacturers say that now they do not have any resources to pay their staff. According to industry association members, 80 per cent of the total production of locks takes place in Aligarh, and around 25-30 per cent of it is exported to countries like Bangladesh and Sri Lanka and parts of the Middle East. Ever since the Covid-19 lockdown, all activities have come to a standstill. General secretary of Tala Nagri Industrialist Association, Sunil Dutta, told TOI on Sunday that a meeting with the state government is scheduled within a day or two and they are going to put all these issues before the government. “We are not in a position to support our workers any longer. We had no business during the lockdown, but still paid salaries to them. Now, things are out of our hands. We need some urgent financial assistance to survive," Dutta said. “Though several units have started functioning, there is virtually no demand in the market right now, hence it is not possible to engage the workers. Also, there is a shortage of capital money, as nearly 50 per cent investments of manufacturers are stuck in the market as outstanding payments," he added. Echoing similar views, president of Aligarh Industrial Estate Association, Vijay Bajaj, said that there are are too much of financial constraints. “We need some support from the government for survival.” He added that the industry will probably come back in running condition by Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lock-industry-down-seeks-financial-packagefor-workers-says-cant-pay-them-any-further/articleshow/76125032.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Agra||Two days after storm struck Agra, 120 villages still reel under darkness||AGRA: Two days after high-speed winds accompanied by heavy rain struck Agra district, power supply is yet to be restored in several parts of the district, including more than 120 villages, which continued to remain in complete darkness. Friday night's storm had left 100 substations and 300 feeders badly affected, crippling its power infrastructure and even causing minor damages on the Taj Mahal's premises. Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (DVVNL) officials have estimated over Rs 3 crore in losses to the power infrastructure, and it "would take at least five days for supply to be normalised". Gusty winds at a speed of 124 km per hour damaged over 700 electricity poles, according to sources. DVVNL has now roped in contractors and additional manpower from other districts to restore power supply at the earliest. On Friday, villages in development blocks of Baroli Ahir, Khandoli, Fatehpur Sikri, Fatehabad, Bah, Pinahat, Etmadpur, Kiraoli, Achnera, Shamshabad, Jaitpur Kalan and Jagner had no power supply. Major damages to power infrastructure has also occurred in neighbouring Mathura, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Aligarh, Etah and Kasganj districts. On Sunday, DVVNL staff officer SK Baghel said, "High-velocity winds had caused major damage to substations, transmission lines, transformers and supply poles. Agra has been the worst hit among other districts of the region." Baghel added, "We have deputed additional teams for quick repair and restoration of power supply network. Damage assessment is still under progress. It will take some time for the situation to return to normal."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-days-after-storm-struck-agra-120-villages-still-reel-under-darkness/articleshow/76125028.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC focuses on fitness in life||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body on Sunday introduced some key elements of fitness into the citizens’ lives during Lockdown 5.0, as they take the slow trek back to normalcy. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issued the guidelines, allowing citizens in the non-containment zones to go out for solo exercises such as cycling, jogging, running and walking in public open spaces between 5am and 7pm in accordance with the social distancing norms. The PCMC order, issued by civic chief Shravan Hardikar, made it clear that people could not part take in any team sport and that no activities would be permitted in the indoor stadia. The civic body, however, reversed its last week’s order on letting salons and beauty parlours to remain open. Hardikar cited the Maharashtra government’s order to ban them specifically this time throughout the state as the reason behind the reversal in the decision. The PCMC allowed the industrial units to operate with 100% workforce and IT and private offices with 50% staff strength. It stated that no movement of vehicles or citizens, except those of the essential service providers, would be allowed from the containment zones. The civic body stated that there should be strict perimeter control to ensure there was no movement of people in and out of the containment zones, except for medical emergencies and supplying essential items. All private establishments have been told to ensure that their employees have downloaded the Arogya Setu App and the PCMC’s Smart Sarathi app. According to the order, schools, colleges, educational training amd coaching institutions, passenger movement by trains, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places, and social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and large congregations can’t open. The citizens’ movement has been prohibited from 9pm to 5am, while markets can stay open between 9am and 5pm in accordance with the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-adds-fitness-to-life-in-lockdown-5-0/articleshow/76126216.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 1, 2020||Goa||‘Monsoon onset advanced due to cyclone Amphan’||Panaji: Dates for the monsoon onset over Kerala have been advanced due to cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal, which has upset the monsoon circulation, former chief scientist in the physical oceanography division at National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) M R Ramesh Kumar told TOI. The India meteorological department (IMD) recently announced that the southwest monsoon is likely to arrive in Goa by June 10. However, earlier this week, they revised the arrival date to June 5 or 6. “A low-pressure system has formed over southeast Arabian Sea, which can trigger the monsoon onset over Kerala,” he said adding that the onset of monsoon over Goa depends upon the progress of this system. Last year, the monsoon set over Kerala on June 8, but it arrived in the state on June 23. “The progress of monsoon over the Indian subcontinent is not linear, some years it covers the entire Indian subcontinent very fast, like in 2013 when it covered the Indian subcontinent in 16 days. That was the year when we had Uttarakhand floods. In 2002, it took the monsoon 76 days to cover the entire Indian subcontinent. In general, it takes about 45 days to cover the Indian subcontinent, that is it usually covers the region by July 15,” he said. “This year, this convective system over the southeast Arabian Sea may move very fast and bring monsoon to the state as early as June 3,” Kumar said. Sharing his thoughts about the frequent cyclonic circulations in the Arabian Sea, Kumar said that convective systems such as low-pressure systems usually form either in the Arabian Sea or Bay of Bengal prior to the monsoon onset over Kerala. “This year we had two such low pressure systems one off Oman coast and one of southeast Arabian Sea,” he said. The torrential rain last season led to inundation in various parts of the state. Kumar said the problem is not Goa specific. “The main reason for this is the land use and land change pattern which has changed for the past several decades over most of the coastal regions, especially in the Western Ghats and these are the regions which receive about 250-300mm of rainfall on an average from Kerala up to Mumbai during the monsoon,” he said. “In fact, Professor Madhav Gadgil warned people well in advance about this through his report, but most of us, thought it may not happen during our lifetime and continued in business as usual attitude.” Kumar said. M R Ramesh Kumar said the main reason for torrential rain is the land use and change pattern which has changed for the past several decades over most of the coastal regions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-onset-advanced-due-to-cyclone-amphan/articleshow/76126550.cms||Nida Sayed
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Details of 473 evacuees not disclosed||Secunderabad: Credentials of 473 evacuees from Saudi Arabia, who are quarantined at the Wellness Centre in Secunderabad Cantonment, have not yet been provided by the military authorities to the state government and district medical authorities. Soon after the evacuees landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on May 28, they were shifted to the Wellness Centre, set up near the Military Hospital. They were tested for Covid-19 at the centre and 157 out of 437 people had tested positive. “We are awaiting results for the remaining 280 evacuees,” a source in the Hyderabad district medical office told TOI. As the area around the centre has been marked as a hot spot, state government officials are also not allowed the visit it. “The military authorities have not yet provided information of the evacuees, like the age, native places etc to us. But we will approach them again for gaining access to the information,” said a medical officer, adding that the department is assisting military authorities in regards to conducting tests of the evacuees. The district medical office had deputed medical teams in the Cantonment to conduct door-to-door fever surveys in Trimulgherry, Bowenpally, Marredpally and Picket. Despite repeated attempts to contact the military authorities, they remain unavailable for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/details-of-473-evacuees-not-disclosed/articleshow/76125586.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 2,487 new Covid-19 cases, 89 deaths; Mumbai toll rise to 1,279||MUMBAI: Even as the state prepared to take baby steps towards normal life, a total of 2,487 Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the cumulative count of affected individuals to 67,655. Also, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region breached the 50,000 mark on Sunday. With 51,397 cases, MMR alone accounts for 76% of the state’s overall load. Eighty-nine Covid-19 deaths were reported on Sunday, pushing Maharashtra’s toll to 2,286; the state said that of the 89 deaths, 39 occurred in the last two days and the rest were from April 27 to May 27. The state accounts for 43% of the country’s toll. Mumbai on Sunday recorded 52 deaths, its second highest on a single day. The city’s overall toll has reached 1,279—of which 989 deaths took place in May alone. In the city, 1,244 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the overall to 39,686. BMC officials said that of the 52 deaths, eight took place between May 20 and 26. Despite the deaths, state officials said the case fatality rate for the state as well as the city have remained low, at 3.37% and 3.22%, respectively. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that of the 36,031 active Covid-19 cases in the state as of Sunday, the majority were asymptomatic, while around 9,500 had symptoms ranging from mild to serious. Out of that, 1,200 were critical, of which 200 were on ventilator, the CM said. Incidentally, figures released by the BMC on May 28 showed that over 270 people were on ventilator in Mumbai alone. The CM said that the state has used the lockdown to expand its testing facilities and augment the number of beds. He said that the state had two testing labs on the first day when cases were reported, which has increased to 78, and in the next one week will be taken up to 100. The CM said there was a need to increase testing capacity as the monsoon is around the corner and it will bring other diseases. “We also want the Centre to reduce the cost of the Covid-19 test. Because with the rains around the corner, common fever and cold cases will increase and so a person should be able to get himself tested by paying less,” said Thackeray. Incidentally, the Indian Council of Medical Research has already asked individual states to renegotiate prices with private labs. Importantly, Thackeray admitted that the issue of bed allotment was yet to be fully sorted and steps were being taken to streamline it. In Mumbai, the civic body claimed that under ‘project victory’ nephrologists and IIT-Bombay students have managed to develop a portal for dialysis patients. Over 160 dialysis facilities in the city will be providing real time information to the portal, including details of Covid-19 positive or suspect patients handled as well as logistical aspects, including bed assignments for inpatients needing dialysis care, and the transport of patients to designated facilities using a dedicated fleet of vehicles to be arranged for by the BMC. Kidney patients were one of the worst hit at the beginning of the epidemic as there were limited machines for Covid-19 positive and suspect patients. The BMC subsequently added machines at SevenHills hospital, Trauma hospital and Nair hospital. “Nephrologists from Mumbai and IIT engineers got together to create a patient and dialysis facility management platform that shows the availability of machines, slots. The portal is handled by a set of central clinical coordinators. Around 373 patients have been registered on the portal so far. Meanwhile, the state claimed that the case doubling time has improved to 17.5 days from 11.7 days. The same for the country is 15.7 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2487-cases-89-deaths-in-state-city-toll-at-1279/articleshow/76126548.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 1, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune region records 285 fresh cases as tally nudges 7,750||PUNE: As many as 285 people in the Pune Metropolitan Region tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll for the region to 7,750. In Pune Municipal Corporation limits, 267 people were found infected, taking the total case count to 6,537. On Sunday, 138 patients were declared cured and discharged, while six people lost their lives. All the deceased patients had underlying conditions and were suffering from issues like respiratory trouble, high blood pressure and diabetes. “The number of discharged patients stands at 3,782, after 138 were allowed to go home after recovery on Sunday, “ said a senior official from Pune Municipal Corporation’s health department. This takes the total death toll for the region to 337 — including 298 in Pune, 19 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction and 20 in the rural parts of the region. The six deceased included three women, all of them from the Peth areas or densely populated areas. They included a 65-year-old woman from Laxminagar in Yerawada, and two 80-year-old women from Yashwantnagar, Yerawada, and More Vidyalay area in Kothrud. A 76-year-old resident of Nana Peth, a 52-year-old man from Tadiwala Road and a 63-year-old Kasba Peth resident too breathed their last. According to the district administration, nine fresh cases were found in PCMC limits, taking the total to 521. The civil surgeon and cantonment board limits have 408 cases, while the district heath office of the zilla parishad has recorded 284 cases. TOI recently reported that the doubling rate in Pune civic limits had gone up from 6 days in March to 14 days currently. Doubling rate refers to the number of days it takes for the number of cases to double. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had said it was a good sign, but a closer reading of the PMC data showed that while the doubling rate increased, the average number of daily cases too had gone up. Civic officials, however, attributed this increase to a rise in the number of daily tests being done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-region-records-285-fresh-cases-as-tally-nudges-7750/articleshow/76126207.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Covid grips 9 more rail cops, depletes strength by over 50%||Lucknow: Nine more railway cops tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Sunday, while 65 Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel were quarantined, taking the total number of those in quarantine to 125, more than 50% of the total strength of security personnel deployed at Charbagh railway station. Total 13 persons were diagnosed with Covid-19, of which eight were GRP personnel and one Railway Protection Force (RPF) jawan. Besides, two family members of a constable, found infected earlier, also tested positive as did the daughter of a deceased Covid-19 patient in Barood Khana, Golaganj as well as a man in Jankipuram. Total 16 GRP and two RPF personnel deployed at railway station to oversee security, crowd control and ensuring social distancing, screening of migrants arriving in Shramik Special trains, have been found to be infected so far. Of 240 GRP jawans posted at GRP Charbagh, 60 have been quarantined over the past four days while 65 were put in isolation on Sunday, leaving the police station with just 115 personnel, less than half of its total strength. Superintendent of Police, GRP, Saumitra Yadav said, “As a precautionary measure, all the constables living in barracks have been sent to quarantine.” When asked about impending manpower crisis, additional director general of police, railways, Sanjay Singhal said, “The frequency of Shramik Special trains has come down now, hence we can manage with present strength of jawans.” “And in case an emergency arises, we have put GRP cops posted in Barabanki and Unnao on the standby,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-grips-9-more-rail-cops-depletes-strength-by-over-50/articleshow/76126226.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Man murdered in Telangana for ‘smoking and drinking’ during Ramzan||HYDERABAD: A youngster who ventured out of his residence along with three friends was found murdered in bushes near Mir Alam Tank in Bahadurpura on Saturday night. The victim, Shaikh Mohammed, 20, was found dead with his throat slit by unidentified persons, Bahadurpura police said. Based on the information given by locals, police, after identifying Shaikh, called his grandmother, a resident of Kalapathar. She identified the body. According to the information given by her, Shaikh had been residing with her and was addicted to ganja and alcohol. Some days ago, one Mohammed Sajid and his friends picked up a quarrel with Shaikh over the latter drinking and smoking during the holy month of Ramzan. On Saturday, Sajid along with two others went to Shaikh’s residence and took him along with them for a compromise. A few hours later, Shaikh’s grandmother got information that he was murdered. Police said they were investigating the case and were on the lookout for the three suspects. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-murdered-for-smoking-and-drinking-during-ramzan/articleshow/76126229.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: For survival, many lean on financiers, but reel under yoke of high interest||HYDERABAD: With his income reduced to zilch during lockdown, Mohammed Saleem, an auto driver from Ameerpet had to take a loan from a local financier to survive. “I borrowed close to a lakh to make ends meet, including household expenses and my mother's medical bills. Based on the belief that the lockdown will end by May 7, I borrowed money at 18 per cent interest (nearly Rs 18,000). I was planning to to return it within three months,” said Saleem. Saleem is not alone. From making daily at least Rs 1,000 before lockdown, most auto drivers say they barely make a few hundreds now. Many others who faced losses or drew no wages during lockdown, had to pin their hopes on local financierz to make up for the losses. But now most are faced with a new challenge of paying off the money. “I might have to mortgage some of the jewellery for some more money. Even if they increase the interest rate, we have no option but to borrow again,” said another auto driver near Punjagutta metro station. The situation is equally grim for Kailash Singh, an idol maker from Dhoolpet had borrowed from money lenders on a 7 per cent interest rate, however, as he fails to pay the installment every month the interest amount doubles. “Due to the lockdown, our business has been badly hit . The festivals, temples and individual contracts for idols are our main source of income, Now we hardly earn anything but the interest keeps piling up,” said Kailash. Of the Rs 7 lakh that he owes the financier, Rs 2 lakh is just interest piled up in the last three months. “We lend amounts between Rs 5,000 to Rs 3 lakh. Most people usually borrow money to pay off bills or for small-business purposes, medical expenses and school fees. We charge 18 per cent interest on the cash we provide, after taking gold as mortgage,” said MC Jain, who owns a pawn shop in the city. “During lockdown, people were at home, so expenses were comparatively less. We hardly had any customers for two months. But now, number of customers has increased,” said another pawnshop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/for-survival-many-lean-on-financiers-but-reel-under-yoke-of-high-interest/articleshow/76125598.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 1, 2020||Pune||Violation of norms worries PCMC||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body’s ‘Sarathi’ mobile app and email address have recorded a steady increase in the number of complaints regarding violation of social distancing norms during Lockdown 4.0, when the city witnessed a considerable relaxation of restrictions. The business establishments that have opened, as well as a few citizens, were found to be engaging in the undisciplined behaviour, which needs to be corrected, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI, urging citizens and the establishments to follow the social distancing and other safety guidelines, as issued by the Union and state governments. In Lockdown 4.0, the twin industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad had shed its red zone classification after recording a noticeable decline in the number of Covid-19 infections. “However, the relaxations given during the past two weeks have often led to situations, where social distancing norms were barely being maintained and this is causing worry,” Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation officials said. On May 27, the civic authorities were decided to shut down the Pimpri Camp market over such violations. Meanwhile, PCMC’s additional medical officer of health Pavan Salve, in a release, stated that 11 people tested positive in the municipal limits on Sunday. The new cases were recorded from Indiranagar, Chinchwad station area, Bhatnagar, Rupinagar, Pimpri, Boudhnagar, Walhekarwadi, and Dattanagar area. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 522 in PCMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/violation-of-norms-worries-pcmc/articleshow/76126220.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, 100% staff at govt offices today||SHIMLA: In Himachal Pradesh, all government offices will function with 100% employees from Monday, an order issued by additional chief secretary (personnel) R D Dhiman on Sunday stated. The order, however, will not be applicable to educational institutions, which will remain closed till June 15. To prevent overcrowding on routes and in offices, timings of arrival and departure of employees will be staggered. While one group will report for duty at 10am and leave at 5pm, the other group will come in at 10.30am and leave at 5.30pm. The order states all work places will have a provision of thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitiser at entry and exit points. Meetings involving large number of persons shall be avoided, while wearing face covers and masks will be mandatory for all, it added. Employees who develop flu-like symptoms, fever or respiratory problem may be advised to proceed on paid leave and get the prescribed treatment or home quarantine. Pregnant women employees and those with underlying medical conditions may be advised to take extra precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-hp-100-staff-at-govt-offices-today/articleshow/76126217.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Small hotels have their task cut out||MANGALURU: For many restaurants across the state, table partitions and online menu could be the new normal as they plan to resume services from the second week of June. But restaurants in Mangaluru are hoping to adopt the wait and watch approach as the demand for parcel services, when compared to the pre-Covid days is low. Harish Barvathaya, owner, Hotel Rama Vilas near Kadri Sri Manjunatha Temple, said he started parcel service for one hour each in the morning and evening after the government relaxed the lockdown for restaurants. “The business is comparatively low and only our permanent customers have returned. Currently, we are cooking at our house and not the hotel. It is a tough time for the hotel industry, as it is difficult to meet the expenditure including salaries of the employees. We are yet to take a call on starting regular service. Since most people are working from home currently, the business is low, “he said. President of Dakshina Kannada Hotel Owners Association, Kudpi Jagadeesh Shenoy said the decision to resume regular service will depend on the government orders. Arrangements will be made to ensure that social distancing is maintained. However, a few restaurants may have a problem as many of their employees —mostly migrant workers — have returned home. Several restaurants have employed labourers from North India as cleaning staff and majority of them have returned home or have went around looking for alternative jobs. It could be a challenge for fast food joints too to get back into the business, said Umesh RK, a caterer. Resuming regular service is not going to be a cakewalk for many restaurants. With social distancing being the new normal, restaurants with less than 10 tables will find it hard to manage. The industry is, however, hoping to pick up once offices and educational institutions resume, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/small-hotels-have-their-task-cut-out/articleshow/76125043.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Colleges get set for online admissions||Lucknow: Candidates vying for admissions in National PG College’s professional courses can fill an online form Monday onwards, while Isabella Thoburn (IT) College’s online application process will begin from June 10. The two colleges will grant admissions to students on the basis of an entrance test. Lucknow Christian College (LCC) has decided to not conduct an entrance exam, but will admit students on the basis of their class XII marks. “The application forms for regular undergraduate and postgraduate courses are already available on the website, while those for professional courses like BBA, BCA and BVoc will be available from Monday,” said National PG College’s admissions coordinator Rakesh Jain. He said the college will conduct an entrance test for admission to all its courses and the test has been tentatively scheduled for August 5-8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/colleges-get-set-for-online-admissions/articleshow/76126235.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Shimla||18 more coronavirus patients in Himachal Pradesh, tally 331||SHIMLA: Eighteen new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, including eight from Kangra district, four each from Solan and Hamirpur districts and one each from Kullu and Una districts. Total nine positive patients, including two each from Solan and Hamirpur, four from Kangra and one from Una, have recovered. The state now has a total of 331 positive cases, of which 206 are active and 116 cases have recovered, four have migrated out of state and five have died. In Kangra district, eight persons who were in institutional quarantine at Jawalamukhi and had Delhi travel history have tested positive. They include a 30-year-old male from Dari, Dharamshala; a 51-year-old male from Sandu village in Shahpur tehsil and his 17-year-old son; a 47-year-old male and his 9-year-old son from Kulhan village in Nurpur; a 2-year-old boy from Mijhgran village of Nurpur tehsil; a 27-year-old male from Bari village of Khundian tehsil; and a 6-year-old girl who had returned from Mumbai with parents on May 24 and was in institutional quarantine. Those who tested positive in Solan district include one from Nalagarh, two from Chandi and one from Parwanoo. After they tested positive, the district administration started tracing their travel history. In Hamirpur district, four who tested positive include a 40-year-old male and a 23-year-old male from Jangal, Nalti who had returned from Gautam Budh Nagar in Uttar Pradesh and were in institutional quarantine at Bakarti. A 52-year-old male from Shashan, Bhareri, and a 32-year-old female from Dhamrol, both of whom were in institutional quarantine at Bhareri after her return from Delhi, have also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/18-more-patients-in-himachal-tally-331/articleshow/76126231.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad crosses 12k cases||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad district including the city crossed 12,000 total Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday with addition of 299 cases in past 24 hours. Now the total for the district is 12,180 – of which 220 are from outside AMC limits. Analysis of the figures show that in the month of May, Ahmedabad added 9,154 cases at an average of 295 cases daily. Likewise, with 20 deaths recorded in 24 hours, the death toll for Ahmedabad is now 842, and of these only 13 are from the areas outside AMC limits. In the month of May, the district including city recorded 693 deaths at the rate of average 22 deaths per day. In terms of total cases, Ahmedabad is fourth in country after Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi whereas in terms of deaths, the district is second after Mumbai. In the past seven days, the district recorded 1,900 cases and 145 deaths. State health department officials said that the district now has 4,420 active cases which is 36.3% of total positive cases recorded so far. The state added 438 positive cases in a day – second highest ever – taking the total to 16,794. Ahmedabad recorded 299 – the highest in past six days – whereas Surat recorded 55 and Vadodara 34 new cases. Gujarat recorded 31 deaths in 24 hours, the highest in 13 days. The deceased patients include 20 from Ahmedabad, 3 from Panchmahal, two each from Porbandar and Surat and one each from Amreli, Aravalli, Jamnagar and Rajkot. The death toll for Gujarat is now at 1,038. The state authorities carried out 6,150 tests to find out new Covid-19 cases in past 24 hours, one of the highest rounds of testing in past 10 days. With the tests, the total tests now conducted in the state is 2.11 lakh. Of the total cases, 34.8% (5,837) are active, 59% (9,919) are discharged and 6.2% (1,038) have died in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-crosses-12k-cases/articleshow/76126554.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Praise from Narendra Modi motivates disabled beggar to help more||PATHANKOT: Since the beginning of lockdown, Raju — a disabled man who begs for a living in Pathankot and found a mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest ‘Mann Ki Baat’ — has been arranging help from individuals and organisations and helping it reach other lesser privileged people. He claims to have distributed ration worth Rs 3 lakh and face masks worth Rs 5,000 and is continuing to do so. On Sunday, Raju attracted media attention after Modi heaped praise on him for helping others during trying times. Modi, in the 65th broadcast of his radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday, said he had come to know of Divyang Raju. “Raju through a small investment raised with help from others got over 3,000 masks made and distributed them. In these difficult times, Raju arranged food for nearly 100 families,” he said. “PM made my day by referring to me in ‘Maan Ki Baat’. I want to continue serving humanity, like I am doing now,” Raju said. Raju can be seen begging on his tricycle in market areas of Pathankot and had helped in fixing a small bridge on Dhangu Road in Pathankot. About 30 years ago, his parents died and there was no help extended to him by his three brothers and three sisters. They have never met him since. He said he begs and takes people’s help only to further extend help to people like him. “I have nothing in my account. I collect daan (donations) from people and distribute it further. I have distributed face masks worth Rs 5,000, 30 tricycles and ration worth Rs 3 lakh since lockdown ” he said. “I collect a rupee or two or ten from houses, purchase ration and distribute further,” he said, adding that he had distributed ration worth Rs 50,000 in last couple of days. He described himself as some who had the people’s blessings. He added there were many people who collected ration or other help, but never did anything for the needy. He urged PM to open a sewing centre for poor girls. “I wish to have my office in that sewing centre, so I could extend help to them. I am also contributing to the marriage of a poor girl in the first week of June,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/praise-from-modi-motivates-disabled-beggar-to-help-more/articleshow/76126237.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Kin skipped surgery due to fin constraints||Lucknow: The family of Anwari Begum (75), who died after brain haemorrhage on Saturday and also tested corona positive after death, said they decided to skip the surgery and take her home as they ran out of money. She died within two hours of reaching home on Saturday morning. “We borrowed Rs 40,000 from neighbours. Doctor told us that immediate surgery is required and it would cost more, but chances of survival are bleak. We decided to return home because even if we had borrowed more money, it would have not helped,” said Anwari’s son-in-law Mohammad Aslam, a bookbinder. “Anwari’s son works as a bookbinder in Saudi Arabia but he doesn’t support the family. Her elder daughter is a widow and bedridden. The younger daughter is married to me and we have two kids,” said Aslam, the lone bread-earner of the family. Shahnaz, the elder daughter of Anwari, said: “Mother could have been saved had my brother given money for treatment. We even took her to private hospital hoping that quick and better treatment will help but the cost of treatment was beyond our expectation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kin-skipped-surgery-due-to-fin-constraints/articleshow/76126244.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Booksellers in Pune struggle to stay afloat amid Covid-19||PUNE: Neighbourhood bookstores in the city are doing their best to look past the uncertainty brought to their businesses due to the spread of coronavirus. Considering that their customers are unwilling to step out of their houses during the lockdown, some enterprising booksellers are resorting to home delivery of books and payment on delivery options. The owner of the Solanki Book Sellers in Camp, Anand Solanki (44), said, “Most of my patrons live within 15km radius of my shop. During the lockdown, I realized it was necessary to modernize to strike out competition posed by online sellers. When the lockdown was relaxed on May 15, I started with the home delivery of books without any extra charge. Now, I am selling more than 30 books a day.” Anand’s father, Kanhaiyyalal Bhagwandas Solanki, established the bookstall in 1989. It is a well-known spot for book lovers, especially for those from the cosmopolitan parts of Pune. Sudhakar Waman Joshi (78) of Utkarsh Book Service and Utkarsh Publications in Deccan Gymkhana, one of the oldest establishments dating back to 1954, is unable to provide home delivery service due to inadequate workforce. “I have stock of more than 1 lakh books, especially Marathi titles. Our shop was shut due to lockdown but I have started opening it from 10am till 1pm. I have started offering my patrons select books for free home reading. Once they finish a book, they may come to my shop and exchange the book,” he said. Narendra Chandan, owner of Book World on Fergusson College Road, said, “Although I have a stock of almost 50,000 books and have reopened my shop, the business is slow because 60% of my patrons are students living in hostels and they have returned to their native places due to the pandemic .” Satish Vichare, All India Book Distributors (Bombay) Ltd manager for Maharashtra, Goa and Indore said, “Now when the lockdown has been relaxed, we have resumed supply to bookstores and book malls like Landmark, Crossword. We have started using social media for the promotion of books. Besides, considering the present economic crisis, our company is planning to come up with some attractive offers for book dealers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/booksellers-struggle-to-stay-afloat-amid-covid-19/articleshow/76126236.cms||Shyam Sonar
June 1, 2020||Madurai||Locust attack: 350 years ago they swarmed in and left Madurai barren||MADURAI: As the northern part of the country faces the worst desert locust invasion in more than 20 years with crop-destroying swarms attacking Rajasthan and now spreading to Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, authorities in the southern states assure that no such threat is imminent here. But historical references show Madurai experienced a two-day locust attack in the fag end of the 17th century which resulted in a famine for nearly three years. READ THE ENTIRE STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/350-yrs-ago-they-swarmed-in-and-left-madurai-barren/articleshow/76126238.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
June 1, 2020||Goa||IMD warns of very heavy rainfall in state for 3 days||Panaji: Some parts of the state are very likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied by winds with speed of 45-55kmph from June 1 to 3, according to the orange alert issued by the India meteorological department (IMD). The low-pressure area which has formed over the south east and adjoining east central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area is very likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours, the IMD alert for Goa stated. This is likely to further intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. “Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea along and off Maharashtra-Goa coast till June 4,” the advisory stated. The IMD stated that this development is very likely to result in isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over the Goa coast on June 1. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over Konkan and Goa on June 2 and 3. The rainfall is likely to be accompanied by winds with speed of 45-55kmph gusting to 65kmph. It will gradually gain speed of 65-75kmph and gust to 85kmph from June 2 and further becoming 90-100kmph gusting to 110kmph over east central and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts from June 3. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services has stated that high waves in the range of 2.8-4m are likely along the Goa coast till June 2 midnight. Surface current speeds will vary between 25-95cm/sec, the alert read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-warns-of-very-heavy-rainfall-in-state-for-3-days/articleshow/76126559.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Cabs, auto services to resume in Chennai today||CHENNAI: After a gap of two months, autorickshaws and cabs will start plying legally in the city from Monday, but fares could be higher than usual due to driver shortage. T Ramanujam from Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Drivers Association said around 60% of cab drivers who worked in Chennai were stranded in their native places. “It is not clear whether all the available drivers will take the risk and return to work from Monday.” While a few drivers have gone on long-distance trips and 5,000-odd have ended their lease agreements with cab aggregators as they faced huge losses even before the lockdown. Drivers said they weren’t sure about the demand as well as it hasn’t increased in the past one week, when cab services were permitted for airport trips. Hardly 20 to 30 bookings were made a day. On Monday, however, many IT professionals and employees of other private firms will be returning to work and demand might shoot up. But getting a return trip will be a problem, said D Kalanidhi, a driver from Ekkaduthangal. "Also, we are awaiting details on supply of sanitizers or disinfectants and government has made it mandatory to sue them at the end of every trip," he added. Sources from aggregator Ola Cabs said efforts were underway to provide the essentials and Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) at their parking yards and petrol bunks. Uber in an official statement said a new in-app safety feature will notify drivers to replenish their PPE supplies after they have completed a predetermined number of trips. The notification will provide a list of convenient pick-up points and generate a QR code once they select the preferred location. An Uber volunteer will scan the QR code at the pick-up location and hand over the supplies to drivers. Given the cap on number of passengers allowed per trip, however, cab drivers opined that many passengers would prefer autorickshaws to taxis. While three were allowed in cars, excluding the drivers, a maximum of two passengers are allowed in autorickshaws. With none sticking to the government-approved fares even during normal days, they will have a free hand charging more now. “Demand could also be much more as government Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses won’t be available,” said S Dinesh, who is working at a private firm in Sholinganallur. Even before restrictions were relaxed, autos were operated illegally and drivers overcharged passengers during the lockdown 3.0. For instance, to travel from Periamet to Mint, they usually charged Rs 50- Rs70, but they collected almost double the fare in the last week of May. Government authorities, however, assured that cases will be registered against auto drivers who fleece customers. People can complain against them by calling 1800-425-5430.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cabs-auto-services-to-resume-in-city-today/articleshow/76125608.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Two more PG doctors test positive taking total to five||Hyderabad: Two PG doctors from city hospitals tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking total number of PG doctors affected by coronavirus across the state to five. One of the two is a PG doctor of gynaecology at the Petlaburj Maternity hospital while another is a PG doctor of dermatology at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH). Results of five more symptomatic junior doctors at Osmania Medical College (OMC) are awaited. Barring these doctors, all others (confirmed as well as suspected cases) have been attending regular duties in different wards at the OGH and staying at their respective houses. Majority of these doctors were not on Covid-19 duty. They were tending to regular patients and do not have access to personal protection equipment (PPE). “While doctors posted at the regular out patient in various departments work with the triple layer surgical masks, N95 masks and gloves, as per protocol of the government, they do not require PPEs. But the fact that many have contracted the virus shows that the state needs to provide PPEs to all. These cases have already caused fear among other resident doctors as they too are exposed to a large number of regular patients each day, who might be asymptomatic,” said a representative of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA). Meanwhile, the increase in patient flow to over 2,000 OP patients per day at the OGH, since Gandhi Hospital was turned into an exclusive Covid-19 hospital, has increased the exposure of the doctors. “Each doctor is exposed to 30-40 OP patients during their shift. Moreover, the patients are accompanied by one or two family members, which further increases the exposure. Now, with a few doctors testing positive, the larger threat is of the hospital turning into a hot spot,” said a resident doctor from the OGH. Last week, the OMC hostels were turned into a containment zone after three junior doctors and a resident doctor had tested positive. Among the three, the latest to test positive, on Saturday, was a orthopaedic PG who had been running high fever for the last few days. He attended to his duty till five days ago. The medico was shifted to the King Koti Hospital by OMC authorities. The other two doctors are a PG gynaecologist and another PG from the department of surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-more-pg-doctors-test-positive-taking-total-to-five/articleshow/76125615.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kanpur||HC grants 6-week parole to accused in Jyoti murder case||Kanpur: The Allahabad high court recently granted parole of six weeks to Piyush Shyamdasani, the main accused in the much publicized Jyoti murder case of the city. The bench of Justice Arvind Mishra while granting conditional parole of six weeks to Piyush on May 15 on ground of the illness of his mother, had asked him to furnish two sureties and one personal bond of the like amount to the satisfaction of the court. The period of his parole would be computed from the date of Piyush’s release from jail. Justice Mishra observed in his order that the accused-applicant had stated on oath that his mother was suffering from various serious ailments and needed immediate medical care and attention as there was no one to look after her. Granting conditional short term bail (parole), the high court had ordered that the accused-applicant (Piyush) would neither tamper with the evidence nor induce, threaten, promise, nor intimidate the prosecution witnesses. He would not misuse the liberty of parole. After the expiry of six weeks, he would surrender before the court/authority. Since Piyush is also accused in one more criminal case associated with the Jyoti murder case and has not got bail from the court, he has not been released from jail. Piyush, son of biscuit baron, had allegedly got killed his wife Jyoti Nagdev by his friends on July 27, 2014. According to police, Piyush was the master mind of the murder and he had planned to get his wife killed. The murder plan was executed by Awadhesh, Sonu, Renu and Manisha Makhija. Piyush had a love affair with a woman Manisha and he wanted to marry her. Only Manisha has got conditional bail from the Allahabad high court whereas other accused are in jail and their bail applications have been rejected by the sessions court and the high court. The police have also charged Piyush and Manisha and one other accused in a SIM forgery case which is associated with the original murder case. According to police story, Piyush had managed a SIM on fake identity which was used by the accused in the execution and supervision of the murder plan of his wife Jyoti. Piyush’s counsel Syed Naqvi, talking to TOI stated that he had moved Piyush’s bail application in the SIM forgery case which was registered under sections 420/467/468/471/120Bof IPC in the lower court on Saturday last. The court had rejected the bail application on the ground that this court had no power to grant bail as the jurisdiction to try the case belongs to the sessions court. Naqvi said that he would prefer the bail application before the sessions court on Monday Shankar Nagdev, father of Jyoti, who lives in Jabalpur talking to TOI in a telephonic conversation said that he would challenge the parole order in the high court as the accused had obtained it after misguiding the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/hc-grants-6-week-parole-to-accused-in-jyoti-murder-case/articleshow/76126239.cms||Anant Chandak
June 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Deadline to pay property tax extended till June 30||PUNE: The civic administration has decided to extend the deadline to avail the benefit of 5-10% rebate scheme on property tax bill till June 30 in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. Each year, the last date for availing the benefit of the rebate scheme is May 31. “However, looking at the issues caused by Covid-19, the civic body has decided to allot more time for making the payment this year,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, said. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the property tax is charged based on the annual rateable value of the property. “The final nod on the extension of deadline is expected on Tuesday,” Rasane said. The tax payment can be done either online or offline. The civic officials said that this year, the usage of offline modes had gone down due to the lockdown. “The citizens had to rely only on the online mode of payment due to the lockdown. It has affected the overall revenue collected through civic property tax. Since many property owners could not avail the benefit of the discount till May 31, a demand was made to extend the deadline,” a senior PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deadline-to-pay-property-tax-extended-till-june-30/articleshow/76126243.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Shimla||20 IAS officers transferred in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: In a major administrative reshuffle, state government on Sunday transferred 20 IAS officers. Chief Minister’s Office is going to have new faces with 1991 batch IAS officer Jagdish Chander appointed as Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, 2000 batch IAS officer Ravinder Nath Batta as Advisor to Chief Minister and he will also hold the additional charge of Principal Private Secretary to Chief Minister. Earlier, Sanjay Kundu a 1989 batch IPS officer was holding the post of Principal Secretary to Chief Minister but on Saturday he was appointed the DGP Himachal Pradesh. Jagdish Chander will also hold the additional charge of the post of Principal Secretary (PWD, Excise and Taxation; Information and Broadcasting). Vinay Singh 2001 batch HPAS officer was holding the post of Principal Private Secretary to CM since Jai Ram Thakur had assumed the office. He has now been posted as Special Secretary to CM and Special Secretary, PWD. Devesh Kumar 1998 batch IAS officer is Secretary toCM and Secretary (Tourism and Civil Aviation, SAD, GAD, Sainik Welfare and Parliamentary Affairs). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/20-ias-officers-transferred-in-hp/articleshow/76125630.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh clears appointment of eight next of kin of martyrs||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has cleared appointments of eight next of kin of martyrs in recognition of their gallantry actions. The appointments were recommended by a high powered committee headed by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh. The state government has appointed Amritbir Singh as tehsildar in the revenue department for sacrifice made by his father inspector Raghbir Singh, who belonged to Sathiala village in Amritsar district and had joined CRPF in 1991. He was an outstanding sportsperson and had won medals in athletics at the national level. He attained martyrdom on April 24, 2017, while fighting naxalites in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh. Tanveer Kaur has also been appointed as tehsildar in the revenue department. Her husband Major Ravi Inder Singh Sandhu joined NDA Khadakwasla in 2003 and was commissioned in the Corps of Signals in 2007. The officer had also done two stints in counter insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir. He laid down his life while serving in the UN Mission in South Sudan and was awarded Dag Hammarskjold Medal by the United Nations for courage and sacrifice in line of duty. The other appointees include Akwinder Kaur as naib tehsildar, Astha Garg as excise and taxation officer, Malkeet Kaur as library restorer, Tanveer Kaur as tehsildar, Amandeep as clerk in the defence services welfare department, Gurpal Singh as junior engineer (electrical) in PWD, Radha Rani as inspector in cooperative societies, and Amritbir Singh as tehsildar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-clears-appointment-of-eight-next-of-kin-of-martyrs/articleshow/76125624.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Short menus, no small talk: Dine-ins to be quick||CHENNAI: Eating out can be quite different when restaurants reopen on June 8. You may not get all the delicacies you have been pining for over the past two months, there won’t be ACs and forget dining as a party! Eateries will not seat more than two individuals at a table and acrylic sheets will divide tables across. And you may have to order all the dishes before you are even seated. A majority of the eateries are likely to be self-serviced and there won’t be any table ordering as it might hold up the queue. But ordering shouldn’t take much time either, menus will be short and mostly south Indian fare. The state government on Sunday permitted restaurants with dine-in facilities to open from June 8 but operate at 50% seating capacity to maintain social distancing. This isn’t applicable for facilities in containment zones in the city and air conditioning must not be used. Only takeaways are permitted in eateries now. Though reopening for business is music to the ears of restaurateurs, getting their kitchens running is a mighty task. “The biggest challenge we face is acute shortage of labour. We will be able to reopen only 25% of eateries for dine-in services, and most of them will be self-service facilities,” said M Ravi, president of The Chennai Hotels Association. According to him, about 70% of the 10 lakh employees of eateries in the city and suburbs were guest workers from other states, and another 20% from other parts of Tamil Nadu. “Around 90% of our workforce has left Chennai. We need to sustain with the 10% left and there is a huge paucity of chefs and cooks preparing north Indian and Chinese cuisines,” he said. Since the two cuisines are predominantly served in many eateries, hardly 20% of the dishes on the menus will be available for customers, largely south Indian delicacies, he said. “You may see eateries returning to the menu cards of the late 90s, people will not have a lot to choose from.” The city and its fringes, has around 8,000 eateries in a 30km radius. The places have seating capacity ranging from 50 to 300. As per the estimates of state’s food safety department, more than 1,500 licensed standalone restaurants operate within the limits of Chennai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/short-menus-no-small-talk-dine-ins-to-be-quick/articleshow/76125625.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Two ASIs succumb to Covid-19 in 24 hours in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two policemen, both in their 50s, passed away due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours taking the death toll in the force to three. The two assistant sub-inspectors were posted in Central and Outer districts. While one death was reported on Saturday night, the other officer died on Sunday morning. Contact tracing in both the cases has been initiated. Meanwhile, 13 police officers in West district, including the SHO of Moti Nagar, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. Extremely saddened at the death of two Delhi police bravehearts in the line of duty.Their untimely demise is grea… https://t.co/SdI4xuAlSM— LG Delhi (@LtGovDelhi) 1590980488000Police commissioner SN Shrivastava expressed his condolences on Twitter. “Delhi Police family mourns the loss of 2 brave police officers in our fight against corona pandemic despite best efforts to save them. We pay homage to ASIs Vikram and Shesh Mani Pandey and may their souls rest in peace. We are committed to providing all help to their families,” he tweeted. ASI Vikram (52) was posted at Sultanpuri police station and died on Sunday morning. He was on highway patrol duty since May . His two Covid tests conducted till May 22 tested negative, but after not feeling well on May 25 he went to a hospital in Mongolpuri where doctors advised him bed rest for a week. The next morning he started feeling breathless. His family rushed him from his Suleman Nagar residence to a nearby hospital. Later, he was taken to the Army Base hospital where he was tested for the third time. This time his result came out Covid-positive and he died around 11.30am on Sunday. He is survived by his wife and three sons aged 15, 19 and 24. On Saturday evening, ASI Shesh Mani Pandey, a fingerprints expert with Crime Branch attached with the mobile crime team at Kamla Market police station, passed away due to the viral infection. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “Pandey was earlier in the Army and had joined Delhi Police in 2014. He was a native of Madhya Pradesh and lived in Naraina village. He was tested at Lady Hardinge Medical College on May 26 as he had fever and cough. His reports came out Covid-positive on May 28 and he was admitted to the Army Base hospital where he passed away on Saturday evening.” Pandey is survived by his wife and three children. His elder son and daughter are married and settled in Madhya Pradesh. His younger son is a Class XII student and lives with his mother at Naraina. In the first week of May, a constable posted at Bharat Nagar police station in Northwest district had died due to Covid-19. Later, his wife and son also tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-asis-succumb-to-covid-in-24-hours/articleshow/76126254.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Now virus woes in Covid-free zones of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Fresh Covid-19 cases have been detected in areas of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which did not have any case for the past month, after relaxation of lockdown norms. Eight cases were reported in Seriligampally circle which was Covid-19 free for more than 35 days. A techie living in a PG accomodation as well as a senior citizen in Lumbini Avenue both in Gachibowli have tested positive. Two people in Lingampally were diagnosed on Thursday. Another four people from Kondapur, including a software employee, tested positive this week. “Both the techies admitted that they moved in the city and visited multiple places post lockdown relaxation. One of them also met a friend who came from Mumbai. In Lingampally, two people who tested positive crossed state border and reached their home post lockdown relaxation,” said an official deployed on Covid-19 duty. New cases were also detected in Begumpet, Malkagjiri and Secunderabad post lockdown relaxation. “Bhoiguda , Neredmet and Seethaphalmandi are the three new places which have been added to Covid-19 list. These places were free form coronavirus for a month. The people who tested positive visited wine shops, vegetable markets and other places. They also admitted that their activity increased post lockdown relaxation. Socialising is the reason for increased cases in these three locations,” said a GHMC official. Several residents from these newly formed hot spots said that their apartment associations are framing stricter rules. “While the government relaxed the lockdown rules, our apartment association has decided to implement stringent regulation following four positive cases in our locality. They said that they will not allow any outsiders, including relatives of residents, to enter the premises,” said Chellanki Ramana, resident of Raghavendra Colony in Kondapur. Several residents from newly formed hot spots said that their apartment associations are framing stricter rules and even relatives of the residents are not allowed to visit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-virus-woes-in-covid-free-zones/articleshow/76125629.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||Fake marksheets racket busted in Vadodara||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) has busted a bogus marksheet scam and detained one person in the city. Mukesh Parmar, a resident of New Sama Road was booked for cheating and preparing bogus marksheets after the police received a tip-off about him. Parmar was arrested by the special operations group (SOG) two years ago in a similar scam. “We had received information following which we raided Parmar’s premises and found many bogus marksheets and certificates of Parul University and M S University. He is a habitual offender and has conducted similar crimes in the past too,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The police seized six fake marksheets and one degree certificate of Parul University and a blank marksheet of MSU along with colour printer, computer and stamps from Parmar’s premises. The police said that Parmar used to sell off the fake marksheets and degrees to the needy for a good amount. Cops involved in the investigations said that two other persons — Bushira Patel and Pinakin Raval were also involved in the racket and they would be arrested soon. “We have sent Parmar for Covid-19 tests and if the results are negative, he will be arrested. If he is tested positive, then he will be quarantined,” Jadeja told TOI. Parmar was nabbed by the SOG with two Patel and Raval in November 2018 for making bogus marksheets and school leaving certificates. Then they used to sell the marksheets at Rs 20,000 to 25,000. Police said that the Parmar and his aides were out on bail. The cops have seized 41 fake marksheets, five certificates, 37 rubber stamps, computer, scanner, printer and pen drives from his home. The two other accused used to bring in clients and Parmar used to prepare bogus marksheets at his home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bogus-marksheets-racket-busted/articleshow/76124844.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown drags car sales down by a whopping 87%||New Delhi: Covid-19 has made a massive dent in the sale of vehicles in the country’s car capital. Compared with January, when the pandemic was yet to become a part of a Delhiite’s daily lexicon, the registration of cars has dipped 87% in May. The picture is slightly better for two-wheelers — a 74% dip during the same period. A transport department official said while the car registration was sluggish, two-wheeler sales were expected to pick up faster. The exact breakup is not available, but gearless scooters are selling the most now, he added. In January, 15,661 cars were registered in the 13 regional transport offices (RTOs) of Delhi. In the same month, 32,464 two-wheelers were registered. In May, the numbers stood at 2,084 cars and 8,543 two-wheelers — the latter being four times more than the former. “A four-wheeler is a much bigger investment than a two-wheeler and also costs more to run and maintain. In the present scenario, it will take some time for car sales to match with the pre-Covid-19 times,” the official said. “The two-wheeler sales will pick up faster and while the price difference between a motorcycle or a scooter and a gearless scooters is not astronomical, gearless scooters are easier to ride and more economical to run,” he added. Vehicle registrations were mostly closed after the lockdown was announced in March end. Though it resumed in May, many dealers found it difficult to function properly and the odd-even rule also affected operations, the official said. “Now that the odd-even rule is over and more relaxations have been added, there will be some improvement,” he said. It’s been a difficult time for the vehicle dealers. “They not only had to pay staff but also rent in many cases. Vehicle dealerships are usually spacious and located in prime commercial locations, which means higher rent,” he said. South Delhi has witnessed the highest number of registrations in May. The highest number of cars — 306 — were registered at the south zone II RTO in Vasant Vihar, which caters to areas such as Vasant Kunj, Hauz Khas, Green Park, Safdarjung Enclave, Munirka, Vasant Vihar and parts of Delhi Cantonment. The count, however, was 1,758 in January, when the northwest zone RTO at Wazirpur saw the maximum registrations at 2,111. The south zone I RTO at Sarai Kale Khan registered the highest number of two-wheelers — 1,579 — in May. This zone caters to large parts of south Delhi stretching from Sunder Nagar to Badarpur, Greater Kailash, Saket and Mehrauli. In January, too, it was at the top with 6,052 registrations. Transport experts feel the sale will pick up in the coming months as more and more people are likely to move from public to private transport due to the virus fear and the truncated carrying capacity of public transport owing to social distancing. “The carrying capacity of public transport has literally become one-fifth. While those who can afford will go for a car, many will shift to two-wheelers,” said S Velmurugan, head of traffic engineering and safety division at Central Road Research Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-drags-car-sales-down-by-a-whopping-87/articleshow/76145000.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Chennai corporation to test slum dwellers extensively||CHENNAI: The city corporation will intensify testing for Covid-19 in the various slums after experts said the number of cases is likely to go up in the coming weeks. On Sunday, there were 804 positive cases in the city. Officials in the Royapuram, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Tondiarpet, Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar and Teynampet zones have been asked to test even asymptomatic people in contact with a Covid patient. “We will also test extended contacts. We have got orders to open more testing centres. Earlier, testing centres functioned on alternate days. Now, they will be open daily,” said an assistant engineer. Another official said people in slums were among the most vulnerable. “Now, with more relaxations in place, they will be travelling across the city for jobs and other activities.” J Radhakrishnan, Covid-19 special officer for Greater Chennai Corporation, said they had told officials not to worry about numbers. “They will have to identify every contact in slums, test them and ensure they are aware of the precautions. In slums, we have realized people are shying away from tests. Officials will reach their homes and take tests. Next week, we may cross 1,000 cases a day,” he said. Corporation deputy commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy said of the 1,094 contacts of Covid positive people tested on Sunday, 500 were family members. Of the 1,200 slums in the city, volunteers of NGOs distribute masks and create awareness in 92. “We are conducting house-to-house surveys and have appointed one worker for 100 houses. We disinfect tenements periodically and give residents multivitamin tablets and other immune boosting drinks,” said Dr Jagadeesan, city health officer. The civic body is taking surveys of various unauthorised slums. At Pulianthope, Annai Sathya Nagar, Thideer Nagar, the corporation’s drives have helped stabilise the cases. “We want to intensify testing at slums in hotspot zones to ensure they do not turn into clusters,” said Jagadeesan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-to-test-slum-dwellers-extensively/articleshow/76125642.cms||Komal Gautham
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Truck drivers offer free lift to migrants||HYDERABAD: A few truck drivers plying their vehicles on the National Highway 44 came to the rescue of migrant workers — walking or cycling home — by offering them lifts. On Sunday, at Indulvai toll plaza near Nizamabad, a migrant couple walking to their hometown in Chhattisgarh’s Korba district from Uppal in Telangana, broke down in tears when a truck driver named Sukhbir Singh offered them a lift. While there are several truck drivers, who are demanding thousands of rupees to give migrants a lift on their vehicles, others like Singh have been lending a helping hand to these unfortunate workers on their long and arduous journey. “I saw these migrant workers with their children waiting on the roadside for a ride. It is impossible for even adults to walk up to Chhattisgarh or Bihar in this heat without food and water. Here there are children as young as three or four months old. I just couldn’t see them suffer like that,” said Singh. In the last one month, Singh has been trying to help walking migrant workers by giving them a free lift as far as he could. “We have been waiting here for the past three to four hours for a truck to stop by. A few vehicles have stopped but they were asking for Rs 2,000 each. We do not have that kind of a money. Me and my children will be grateful to this driver for giving us a lift up to Chhattisgarh for free,” said Sukanya Bai, who used to work as a construction worker in Uppal told TOI. Another truck driver, Nilesh Kumar, who was on his way to Maharashtra from Medchal in Telangana offered a lift to at least 30 migrant workers in his truck on Sunday morning. “Initially, I preferred to just take three or four people with children or elderly. But today, I have more place in my vehicle. It is better to give them a lift instead of going in a half empty vehicle. I am only trying to ease their pain for some distance on their long and tiring journey. Most of them have to find another ride to their hometowns from the Maharashtra border,” said Kumar. “There are many drivers who are demanding money from these people, but I don’t think that is right. Most of them don’t even have money to feed their children. The plight of these migrant workers is really unimaginable,” Kumar said as he was trying to make more place in the driver’s cabin to accommodate a few more workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/truck-drivers-offer-free-lift-to-migrants/articleshow/76126252.cms||Moulika.KV
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop among three killed in accident||Hyderabad: Three persons, including a police constable, died after their car rammed into a tree in Chevella on Sunday evening. Police officials are yet to confirm whether they were driving under the influence of alcohol. The deceased were identified as constable Yenkatala Raghavender (30) and his friends Sara Naresh (30) Garela Ravinder (30). All three, residents of Aloor village, died on the spot while another of their friends Nadikuda Naveen Goud sustained injuries. The victims were travelling from Chevella to Aloor when the accident occurred near Mirzaguda at around 7 pm. “Three of them died on the spot after sustaining multiple injuries. No liquor bottles were found inside the car. We can comment on whether they were driving under the incluence of alcohol only after the PME report arrives,” said a police officer from Chevella police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-among-three-killed-in-accident/articleshow/76125647.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||It’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ for Maharashtra as states plan to unlock in phases||NEW DELHI: Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana on Sunday extended the lockdown till June 30 even as other states like Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh released a roadmap to restore normalcy after 68 days of shutdown to fight Covid-19 by announcing that malls and restaurants will open and buses and cabs will operate from June 8. Even as the Maharashtra government extended the lockdown for another month, it announced a phase wise ‘unlocking’ of the restrictions in red zones like Mumbai from June 3 under ‘Mission Begin Again’, that would allow, among other things, outdoor physical activities like walking, jogging in open spaces and society grounds between 5 am and 7pm in the first phase. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray announced that from June 3, self-employed personnel like plumbers, technicians and electricians will be allowed to resume work with the necessary health and safety protocol in place. Garages and workshops to mend vehicles will also be allowed to operate with prior appointments. All government offices except those that provide essential services will begin working with 15% capacity or 15 staff members, whichever is more. Thackeray announced that door-to-door delivery of newspaper will be allowed from the coming Sunday. From June 5, the second phase of relaxations will be applicable, in which all shops, market areas and markets will be allowed to function on alternate days. Also, from June 5, taxi and autos with just two passengers will be allowed to ply for essential services. From June 8, which will mark the beginning of the third phase, private offices can function with 10% capacity. In UP, the Yogi Adityanath government allowed government offices to open with 100% attendance from June 1. But they will have to operate in three shifts to maintain social distancing. Also, school and colleges will remain closed till July 20. The Tamil Nadu government, while announcing the extension of the lockdown till June 30, said curbs will remain for inter-state bus transport and Metro and suburban train services. Telangana announced the extension of lockdown in the containment zones till June 30 but said there would not be any restrictions on inter-state travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-mission-begin-again-for-maharashtra-as-states-plan-to-unlock-in-phases/articleshow/76126720.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Shimla||Fresh snow in higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh, temperature dips||MANALI: Even as scorching heat is making life difficult in the plains, there is no trace of summer heat in the higher regions of Himachal Pradesh where the peaks are still getting fresh snow. While the higher regions of Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti, Kangra, Chamba and Kinnaur on Sunday experienced fresh snowfall, the lower regions witnessed downpour. Rohtang Pass received nearly 10cm fresh snow, though it did not affect the movement of traffic. People in Manali, Lahaul-Spiti, Pangi, Kinnaur and other higher regions of the state are still using woollens as the temperature is too low. The temperature in lower regions of Himachal, including Una district, has reached 40 degrees Celsius, but it is still below 25 degrees in many areas, while the night temperature at many places is not crossing 10-degree mark. Minimum temperature in Kalpa (Kinnaur), Keylong and Manali is still below 10 degrees, with Keylong recording lowest in the state at 6.9 degrees Celsius. Shimla MeT director Manmohan Singh said both minimum and maximum temperatures in Himachal have decreased by 1 to 2 degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours. “Minimum temperature in the state is 2 to 3 degrees below normal and maximum temperature 4 to 5 degrees below normal. Mid and high hills of Himachal will continue to receive rain and snow for few more days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/fresh-snow-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-pradesh-temp-dips/articleshow/76125658.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Mechanic held in Meerut was recruited by wanted KLF man’||MEERUT: The car mechanic, arrested by a team of Punjab Police from Meerut for his alleged links with Khalistan movement on Saturday, was recruited by wanted Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) operative Gursharanbir Singh to carry out subservice activities, UP ATS said on Sunday. According to UP Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which helped the Punjab Police team in the operation, “extremist literature” was recovered from the home of Teerath Singh. Sources in ATS alleged that Teerath was recruited by wanted KLF’s Gursharanbir Singh. Gursharanbir is wanted for his alleged role in the killing of a senior RSS functionary in Punjab. Teerath was hired for promotion of “Referendum 2020”, a drive launched by US-based Sikh separatist body Sikh for Justice (SFJ) to know the opinion of Sikhs on a separate Sikh nation, the sources said. However, in Meerut, Teerath’s father Ajeet Singh said that he has no inkling about his son’s connection with extremists. “There has never been any complaint against my son. Policemen from Punjab accompanied by local police raided our house. Apart from few photographs of Bhindranwale, they found nothing,” said Ajeet Singh, a rickshaw-puller at a local school. In its official statement, UP ATS said, “The arrested accused is highly radicalised and posters of Bhindranwale have been recovered from him. He is also part of Khalistan movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mechanic-held-in-meerut-was-recruited-by-wanted-klf-man/articleshow/76125650.cms||Piyush Rai
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||How Kali river divides as well as unites India & Nepal||NAINITAL: With India and Nepal fighting over the source of Kali river, which is referred to as Mahakali in Nepal, the river — that holds as much significance as Ganga does to millions across the country— has come into the limelight. For centuries, residents of villages such as Garbyang, Nabi and Gunji along the tri-junction of India, Nepal and China borders have been worshipping the Kali river which acts as a natural border between India and Nepal. "There are seven villages near Kalapani and the Lipulekh area and for these villagers, the river is as holy as Ganga is for people across the country. We offer hairs of our children after ‘mundan’ to the river for blessings while the ashes of the dead are also immersed in the Kali," said Prakash Gunjyal from Gunji village. Residents of villages along the border on the Nepalese side also revere the river equally, he added. The source of the Kali river has been a point of dispute between India and Nepal. While the Indian stand is that Kalapani in Pithoragarh district is where the river originates from, Nepal alleges that the river originates either from Limpiyadhura – around 15 km from Kalapani — or from Lipulekh and considers both the locations along with Kalapani as part of Darchula district of Nepal’s Sudurpaschim province. The recently-released map by Nepal included all these areas as part of its territory. Kalapani is the site of the famous Kalika Devi Temple as well. "We believe that the Kali river originates from the mountains behind the temple. That’s why even those who have moved to places such as Dharchula town and other areas visit the temple almost every year. In fact, even the ITBP jawans come to the temple daily to offer prayers," said Krishna Garbyal from Garbyan village. Meanwhile, historians say that both Kali river and Kalapani have cultural and religious significance and link it to the Mahabharata era. Nainital-based historian Ajay Singh Rawat said, "The area is famous for Vyas cave which is a major attraction even among people travelling from outside the state. It is believed that Ved Vyas, the sage who wrote the epic Mahabharata, meditated here." Villagers of the area say that with the river’s blessings, they hope that situation between the two countries becomes normal so that the tensions along the border can be eased. "There is a strong bond between us and these tensions are not going to benefit anyone," said Shalu Datal, a local resident. (With inputs from Prem Punetha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-kali-river-divides-as-well-as-unites-india-nepal/articleshow/76124338.cms||Prashant Jha
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Places of worship to open with due safety measures||Lucknow: The managements of various places of worship started working on reopening plans following a green signal from the government to allow entry of devotees from June 8. Closed since March 19, heads of various temples said that safety protocol like no entry without masks and social distancing while offering prayers besides regular sanitisation of the premises will be enforced in letter and spirit. They all are waiting for the district administration’s advisory before finalising plans. Members of Shri Sankat Mochan Hanuman Ji Trust will be arranging foot-operated sanitizer dispensers at the entry and exit gates of Hanuman Setu temple. Limited number of devotees will be allowed entry at a time and will be asked to maintain distance from priests and among themselves. “Special arrangements will be made for Tuesdays when there is large crowd,” said Diwakar Tripathi, secretary, Shri Sankat Mochan Hanuman Ji Trust. Aliganj Naya Hanuman Mandir Trust will request the administration for police deployment to enforce safety protocol. “We will take all precautions,” said Anil Tiwari, a trust member. Management committee of Mankameshwar Temple said a plan is being drafted and would be released soon. Rajendra Singh Bagga, president, Lucknow Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee, said that daily kirtans will be organised by following all necessary precautions. “For elaborate functions like Nagar Kirtan, we will take permission from authorities,” he said. Father Donald D’Souza of Catholic Diocese of Lucknow said, “Number of people allowed entry at a time will be restricted. Also, entry will be on certain timings. Detailed plan will be out after going through the administration’s order.” Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali said an advisory has been prepared. “Those less than 14 years and above 65 and people with contagious diseases will not be allowed in mosques. There will be no carpets and namaz will be offered on bare floors which will be cleaned with disinfectant regularly,” he said. Syed Fazlul Mannan Rahmani, Imam Teele wali Masjid, said, “Those who used to sit in mosque after prayers will not be allowed to do so. Mandatory namaz and dua against coronavirus will be done. No other gathering will be held.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/places-of-worship-to-open-with-due-safety-measures/articleshow/76126257.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IGL may hike CNG price to recover ‘corona costs’||NEW DELHI: IGL is considering raising the price of CNG as a sharp decline in sales due to the lockdown has proven inadequate to cover operational costs and additional expenditure incurred to make stations corona-ready. Sources told TOI the company was not looking at raising the price of PNG (piped natural gas). But continued under-recovery on CNG may affect the company’s Rs 1,500-crore plan to expand clean fuel coverage, they said without indicating the quantum of hike being considered. The company had cut CNG price by Rs 3.2 per kg and PNG rate by Rs 1.55 per unit from April 3. After the reduction, the company needed daily sales to reach 70% of the 35 lakh kg sold in the pre-lockdown period of February to recover operational expenditure. Sales had dropped 90% to 3.5 lakh kg in April after the countrywide lockdown began on March 25 as all public and private transport — except essential service vehicles — went off roads. Sales have rebounded to about 30% of the pre-lockdown level in May, which is not enough to recover costs. The sharp drop in sales had forced the company to shutter 250 of its 526 stations in the NCR. But the company continued to incur expenditure on paying salaries, fixed charges for power connections, maintenance of equipment and rent. In Delhi, DDA charges land rental of Rs 1.5 crore per year and collects the annual amount in advance. In addition, hardship incentives had to be paid to staff deployed during the lockdown. IGL also had to spend additional money on equipping CNG station staff and creating new facilities to conform to the corona guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igl-may-hike-cng-price-to-recover-corona-costs/articleshow/76126260.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||NGO lends helping hand to school mgmts||Hyderabad: The Confederation of Voluntary Associations (COVA) on Sunday announced that it would pay Rs 10,000 as salary to 17 school teachers. In exchange to this, COVA has demanded that the school management provide free education to two students for every teacher they support. The confederation members said that they targeting to help at least 1,000 students, adding that they have already signed MoU with three school in the Old City. Keeping in mind the non-payment of salaries to teachers during lockdown, the executive director of COVA, Mazher Hussain, said: “Through this initiative, the teachers will be able to live with some comfort and dignity till August when they could get their salary dues.” Hussain added that this will also come as a relief to school managements, as they will be able to save Rs 10,000 on every teacher. According to the executive director, the move will reduce the number of students dropping out of school during the academic year 2020-21, due to the financial crisis their families might be going through during lockdown. “Many parents are labourers and daily wage earners. We are entirely dependent on the fees collected to pay our teachers. But with the sudden lockdown, no fee has been collected since March and we could not pay our teachers who are also facing acute financial distress,” said Jhansi Jaison, principal of New St Maria High School, one of the schools that signed the MoU. Lockdown was sudden and we were caught totally off guard. Both, I and my wife work as teachers and we did not receive any salary since March. We are surviving on loans from our neighbours and welfare from our school principal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-lends-helping-hand-to-school-mgmts/articleshow/76125679.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Shimla||No end to smuggling, 1,735kg poppy husk seized from truck in Una||SHIMLA: The lockdown and curfew imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic has failed to deter narcotic smugglers in Himachal Pradesh as is evident from the seizure of a record 1,735 kg poppy husk at Amrali village in Haroli area of Una district in the wee hours of Sunday. While the truck driver fled from the spot taking advantage of darkness, cops found the contraband packed in gunny bags. The drug haul is estimated to be worth around Rs 80 lakh to Rs 1 crore during lockdown. The truck, suspected to coming from Rajasthan, was stopped for routine checking of vehicles around 3am on Sunday. Sources said police are now trying to establish the link between interstate suppliers. Una SP Karthikeyan Gokulchandran said a case has been registered and further investigations are on. Almost 11,818 kg of poppy husk has been seized in the state over the past 10 years. The biggest seizure was made in 2010 when 2,042.3 kg poppy husk was confiscated. Till April 30 this year, 549.6 kg was seized but with the fresh recovery of 1,735 kg, the total seizure has crossed 2,284 kg, which is highest in 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/no-end-to-smuggling-1735kg-poppy-husk-seized-from-truck-in-una/articleshow/76125668.cms||Anand Bodh
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||27-year-old electrocuted in Akbarbagh||HYDERABAD: A software engineer died while trying to remove clothes that had fallen on a live electric wire in an residential apartment complex, on Sunday. 27-year-old Praveen Goud, a resident of Anand Nagar, Akbarbagh was trying to extract his denim trousers that were carried by the wind onto a live wire of the apartment transformer. Due to the sudden downpour, the trouser was wet and when he tried to remove it,he was electrocuted. The software engineer died on the spot and the body was shifted to OGH for postmortem. Chaderghat police have registered a case and investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/27-year-old-electrocuted-in-akbarbagh/articleshow/76125695.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||Safety norms deboarded on NWKRTC buses; elderly, children charged full fares||HUBBALLI: In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, a slew of recommendations were issued by both state and central governments in order to prevent transmission of the fatal novel coronavirus. When public transport services resumed in the fourth iteration of the lockdown, it was mandated that each bus could carry only 30 passengers in order to ensure safe distance between commuters, in addition to prohibiting standing on board. However, these norms issued to ensure safety of public are being ignored on board North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) buses in Hubballi-Dharwad, thereby making passengers vulnerable to contracting the novel coronavirus. Besides stipulating that only one passenger can be seated on each seat, the safety norms mandate that senior citizens and children below 10 years are not to be allowed on board. However, one can spot several senior citizens, and young kids on NWKRTC buses; besides, they are being denied the concession they are entitled to. Secretary of the Consumer Protection and Research Foundation, Dharwad RS Patilkulkarni said that blatant disregard for the safety norms indicates that NWKRTC was more focussed on increasing its revenue than on securing the safety of the people. “The world over, social distancing is being emphasised but NWKRTC is ignoring it. If this continues, people will have no choice but to take their vehicles, which will only add to the pollution,” said Patilkulkarni. GK Hiremath, a senior citizen who travelled aboard an NWKRTC bus, admitted to being refused concession by the conductor. “The conductor informed me that she was doing me a favour merely by allowing me on the bus. She dared me to raise the issue with higher officials, which makes me think if denial of concession is a diktat from the top brass,” Hiremath said. Veena Kerur, a homemaker in Unkal, said that the conductor refused to give her a half-ticket for her 11-year-old daughter from the Hubballi old bus stand. “The conductor said that half-tickets would not be issued until the lockdown was formally lifted. NWKRTC must ensure there is no confusion in such areas,” Veena said. Patilkulkarni said that the fault lay with the government’s diktat restricting entry to the elderly and children on buses. “If it is in the earnest, the government must reserve seats for senior citizens and children and ensure they are provided tickets at concessional rates,” he said. NWKRTC Hubballi city division controller Vivekananda Vishwajanya said that it was not an easy task to bar entry to children and the elderly when they were accompanied by those who were not restricted from using public transport. “When they board buses en route, it becomes difficult to ensure social distancing. It has come to our notice that BMTC buses are running at full capacity, and we are in the process of verifying this. Thus far, we have received no complaints about full fare being levied on senior citizens and children. We will ensure that this is rectified,” Vishwajanya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/safety-norms-deboarded-on-nwkrtc-buses-elderly-children-charged-full-fares/articleshow/76125091.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 1, 2020||Nashik||30 new cases take total to 214; 21 containment zones added||Nashik: A total of 30 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Nashik city on Sunday, taking the tally to 214. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed 21 more containment zones in the city in the last 48 hours after residents from these areas tested positive for Covid-19. Of the total 80 containment zones drawn up in the city so far, restrictions have been lifted in 31 zones as all positive patients have recovered and no new suspects have been detected during the last 14 days. With this, currently there are 49 containment zones in the city. Of the 214 positive cases, 66 have recovered and got discharged, while 8 have succumbed to the infection. There are a total 140 active patients undergoing treatment in hospitals across the city. The city had recorded it’s first positive case on April 6 and till the end of the month there were only 10 positive cases. In May, the city has recorded 204 cases of which 126 have tested positive for the contagion in the last week — between May 25 and 31. A civic official said that movement of people from most-affected areas like Mumbai and Malegaon has led to spike in positive cases. “Over 90% of the patients have Mumbai and Malegaon connections. The high-risk contacts of the patients are testing positive. We have started tracing the high-risk contacts of all the 30 positive patients and they will be isolated,” he said. Health teams of the civic body have conducted door-to-door survey of 4,366 houses in existing containment areas, covering total population of 17,406. “ We have also started survey in the slums and densely populated areas apart from containment areas,” the official said. “Considering the spike in Covid-19 cases, we have decided to institutional quarantine people even with slightest symptoms of the pandemic. We have also readied a ward with 450 beds for institutional quarantine at the office of the social welfare department of the state government in the city,” the official added. As many as 200 teams of health department officials, comprising nurses and other staff, have been to conduct survey in 159 slums across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-new-cases-take-total-to-214-21-containment-zones-added/articleshow/76125690.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Waterlogged roads & uprooted trees leave commuters fuming||HYDERABAD: The heavy downpour that the city witnessed on Sunday was followed by waterlogged roads, inundated cellars, uprooted trees and power cuts in several areas. Areas such as the Hafeezpet flyover, the Biodiversity junction, the stretch connecting IIIT junction to Gachibowli and the road connecting Inorbit Mall to Durgam Cheruvu were waterlogged forcing people to wade through knee-deep water in some stretches. The brief spell brought to the forefront underlying civic issues that need immediate addressing. “Some commuters and a traffic inspector had to clear the waterlogged road near IIIT junction. Strengthening the existing infrastructure is the need of the hour,” said Sai Teja, a techie. In addition to main roads and flyovers, water logging was also reported in residential colonies and smaller lanes. A resident from Srinagar Colony rued that water gushed into his cellar on Sunday. “We have been facing the same issues for five years. We complained to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) several times but in vain,” said Uday Kiran, a resident of Srinagar Colony. In Barkatpura and Yousufguda, uprooted trees and broken tree branches, caused by the heavy showers, were cleared by GHMC. As per GHMC, permanent measures are being taken to avoid the recurrence of the issue. “Permanent measures such as building box drains, desilting nalas and widening storm water drains are being taken up. We have also pressed into service staffers to clear water logging points and uprooted trees,” said Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan who inspected relief works near KBR Park.  Around 550 feeders tripped in the city due to thunderstorm in GHMC limits. Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) officials said that around 400 feeders were restored. “Most of the issues have been addressed. All complaints will be resolved by night” said a TSSPDCL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waterlogged-roads-uprooted-trees-leave-commuters-fuming/articleshow/76125705.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor smuggling: Report sought||Bathinda: To discourage owners to allow their vehicles to be used for liquor smuggling, the Punjab Police were directed nearly six months ago to start confiscating such vehicles from which more than a certain quantity of liquor was seized. Given that liquor smuggling has continued in the state unabated, the Ferozepur range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) has sought compliance report from the senior superintendents of police (SSP) of Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot and Moga about FIRs registered under the Punjab Excise Act where smuggled liquor is 36 bottles or more. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-smuggling-report-sought/articleshow/76125693.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||PAU bids ‘e-farewell’ to noted Punjabi actor satirist||CHANDIGARH: Noted satirist and Punjabi film actor Jaswinder Bhalla was given a warm ‘e-farewell’ by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana on his superannuation on Sunday. Bhalla was the head of PAU’s department of extension education. PAU vice-chancellor B S Dhillon led farewell felicitations for Bhalla and wished him a long and healthy life. He said the university would always look out for Dr Bhalla’s support and hoped he would stay in touch with the institution. Former PAU vice-chancellors Kirpal Singh Aulakh and Manjit Singh Kang praised Bhalla for the way he balanced his dual professions. Bhalla credited PAU with giving him a conducive platform and professional guidance to achieve his personal and professional dreams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pau-bids-e-farewell-to-noted-pbi-actor-satirist/articleshow/76125677.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Cops seized 2,179kg drugs in Haryana’||CHANDIGARH: Following an intensive crackdown on drug peddlers, Haryana Police seized 2,179kg of narcotic substances worth crores of rupees during the four Covid-19 lockdowns in the state. Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava on Sunday said police had a plan to keep a tab on all illegal and unlawful activities by enhancing night domination, intensive patrolling and laying check posts. “Restriction on public movement also gave our men opportunities to make targeted efforts which proved a strong deterrent for peddlers and their sympathisers,” he said. The Haryana Police chief said in the two months of lockdown, 326 cases were registered under NDPS Act and 506 accused arrested on the charges of possessing drugs between March 23 and May 23.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cops-seized-2179kg-drugs-in-haryana/articleshow/76125684.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Mumbai-connection ‘infects’ Sinnar taluka||NASHIK: Sinnar taluka is turning into a new hotspot for Covid-19 with one fresh case registered on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases to 22. The taluka has registered 32 patients so far. Of these 32 patients, 22 are active cases while the rest have been discharged after recovery. The taluka is leading in the number of active Covid-19 cases. Yeola, which once had 31 active patients, has currently reported only 10 active cases. Sinnar town had reported only two Covid-19 patients — both having recovered from the contagion — while the rest belong to rural areas. “Many people from Sinnar taluka are working in different parts of Mumbai. Most of the cases in the taluka have Mumbai connection,” health authorities said. While the first two cases registered in Sinna taluka had Malegaon connection, the recent eight cases that have infected more than 13 people so far are linked to Mumbai. “Those working in various parts of Mumbai returned to their hometown in SInnar taluka. Some might have contracted the infection in Mumbai and later passed it on to their family members, health authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mumbai-connection-infects-sinnar-taluka/articleshow/76125706.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU, RMLNLU rank in top 50 govt universities, Lucknow University 51st||LUCKNOW: King George’s Medical University (KGMU)) and Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University (RMLNLU) from Lucknow have figured in the top 50 of India’s 120 top government universities. The two universities were ranked 24 and 47 respectively in the recently released Education World India Government Universities Rankings 2020-21. The twin institutions were rated on 10 parameters, including competence of faculty, faculty welfare and development, research and innovation, curriculum and pedagogy, industry interface, placement, infrastructure and facilities, internationalism, leadership and governance and diversity of programmes offered. Lucknow University missed a place in the Top 50 by a whisker and was ranked 51, while central university Dr Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar University (BBAU) was way off the mark with a rank of 103. KGMU scored 920 marks of 1300, while RMNLU, LU and BBAU scored 858, 849 and 737 respectively. In the state-wise top university list, KGMU was at the fourth place after Banaras Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University, Indian Institute of Technology and Information, Allahabad. RMLNLU ranked was sixth, LU seventh and BBAU 10 in the list of top 12 state universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-rmlnlu-rank-in-top-50-govt-universities-lu-51st/articleshow/76126264.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In corona era, no contact a good idea at police stations||NEW DELHI: If one happens to enter any police station in south Delhi, he/she would have a touch-free experience as the cops have put in a four-step contactless system to deal with visitors. To avoid human interface, a video intercom device has been installed at the stations through which the duty officer will interact with and guide the complainant if he/she has to enter the station or not. Besides this, a UV disinfection box has been kept at the entrance of the stations to disinfect complaints and other documents. “In the times of Covid-19, South district police is employing technology to protect personnel and visitors by minimising transmission of the virus and ensuring safe and contactless visitor handling,” said Atul Thakur, DCP (South). The four steps include first reaching the touch-free sensor-based hand sanitisation machine. Every individual entering the premises will have to sanitise their hands. Next is an artificial intelligence-enabled thermal camera to check temperature of the individuals entering the station. The camera reads the temperature from a distance of two feet and displays the temperature on the screen. If the temperature is high, then a voice alert is generated. The device can also detect if an individual is wearing a mask or not. A video intercom device has been installed for distance communication. The device has a camera, microphone and speakers. The police official on the other side can hear and see the complainant. The officer will guide the individual if they need to enter the station premises or could leave their complaints and would be called later. For the purpose of documents, complaints and other papers a UV disinfection box has been kept at the entrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-corona-era-no-contact-a-good-idea-at-police-stns/articleshow/76126272.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Railways to close booking office in Nashik’s Palika Bazar||NASHIK: The railway authorities are planning to close their advance reservation booking office located at Palika Bazar, Sharanpur Road due to the increase in rentals of three Passenger Reservation System (PRS) by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). There are many PRS counters at various stations across the Bhusawal division which includes two in Nashik city out of which one would be closed soon. The rent of three PRS counters at Palika Bazar have now been increased from Rs 35,000 to Rs 3.45 lakh annually. The authorities have now extended the advance reservation period (ARP) from 30 days to 120 days. Only people with confirmed tickets will be allowed to travel in the trains that will be running from June 1. “People who can’t book their tickets online. Now have the option of PRS at Nashik Road railway station only,” said the railway sources. The increase in the rental is pinching the railway pockets hard as there is no other commercial activity apart from the normal services. “The new ARP at Nashik Road station is moved to new premises with ample parking space,” the officer said. The railway officials added they requested the NMC chief for a change in the decision. “The NMC has a single policy for all the people and hence it cannot put some officials in commercial and some other in the non-commercial category. Since the railways are selling tickets it has to be treated as the commercial activity only. Hence there is no way that NMC could give any type of concession to the railways,” a senior NMC officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/railways-to-close-booking-office-in-nashiks-palika-bazar/articleshow/76125726.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Survey of people of above 60 years of age in rural areas||NASHIK: The Nashik zilla parishad is conducting a survey of all citizens aged 60 and above in the rural parts of the district to check if they are suffering from any ailment. The aim of the survey is to find out the number of elderly people in rural areas as well as to check if any of them suffer from any kind of ailment which could make them prone to contracting Covid-19 infection. If any person showing Covid-like symptoms is found, they will immediately be provided with the necessary treatment. District health officer Kapil Aher said that elderly citizens are more susceptible in catching the infection of Covid 19. People from Mumbai and Pune are coming into the rural villages in large numbers which has increased the chances of the spread of infection among other villagers. “Considering that elderly people, who may be suffering from TB, hypertension would be even more vulnerable in catching the infection, the decision to get the survey done has been taken, under the guidance of ZP CEO Leena Bansod,” added Aher. The health officials said that the Ashas were doing survey of 30 to 50 homes on a daily basis in their respective villages. If they find any such senior citizen suffering from Covid 10 like symptom, he/she would be immediately brought under treatment. The Nashik rural district has a population of 40 lakh. More than 150 positive cases have already been found in the rural district. Health officials said that most of the cases in the rural district were due to the people who have come from Mumbai. The district health officer has also decided to put people coming from Covid 19 hotspots in institutional quarantine irrespective of whether they have any symptoms or not. Officials said that they had observed that spread of infection in places like Sinnar and Niphad were mainly due to people who had come from Mumbai and Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/survey-of-people-of-above-60-years-of-age-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76125716.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||As experts warn of more downpours in Telangana, citizens fret over WFH, power disruption||HYDERABAD: After recording maximum temperature of 43 degree Celsius earlier this week, heavy rainfall of upto 70mm in parts of city slashed the mercury level to 37.3 degree Celsius on Sunday. The heavy showers also brought with it, water-logging, power cuts and voltage fluctuations at many areas left residents irked. Rain also disrupted internet services, affecting work from home schedules of many. Citizens are concerned the situation will worsen as monsoon picks pace. “Govt has all the money to construct multiple flyovers in the same place but don’t have a plan to drain the rain water. Such an apathy. Water logging in this place (Hitech City) has the capacity to make traffic pile up till JNTU in the peak hours,” (sic) tweeted Vidyasagar Jagadeesan. The fears are not unfounded as meteorologists forecast that the pre-monsoon showers will continue in the state till June 3. Experts said entry of pre-monsoon showers in the state hinted at end of heatwave conditions and subsequent onset of southwest monsoon rainfall by June second week in Telangana. “We expect the thunderstorm activity to continue over the next few days following which onset of southwest monsoon can be expected by mid-June,” said Naga Ratna, director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad. He said that after June 3, temperature may increase yet again in Telangana but heatwave conditions may not prevail, hinting at an end to the summer According to Telangana State Development Planning Society, Shanthi Nagar in Patancheruvu recorded highest rainfall of 71.8mm followed by 67mm in South Hasthinapuram in Hayathnagar and 58mm in Hyder Nagar in Kukatpally. Many other areas such as Madhapur, Quthbullapur, Srinagar Colony, Amberpet among others received light to moderate rains of 20-40mm by 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-experts-warn-of-more-downpours-in-t-citizens-fret-over-wfh-power-disruption/articleshow/76125723.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Kin abandon migrant’s body on UP roadside over Covid-19 scare||PRAYAGRAJ: The family of a 35-year-old migrant abandoned his body on the roadside out of corona fear after he died at a hospital here on Saturday. He had returned to Pratapgarh from Mumbai four days ago, and was brought to SRN hospital in Prayagraj after falling ill on Saturday. The unattended body of the migrant, who was suffering from asthma and heart disease for years, was spotted by locals on the roadside at Damdam village under Raniganj police station on Prayagraj- Pratapgarh highway at around 11pm on Saturday. Locals informed police following which teams of cops and health officials rushed to the spot. The probe thereafter revealed the extent to which fear of coronavirus has invaded the psyche of people. The police identified the body and traced the family members and had a tough time convincing them to conduct the last rites. Deputy SP, Raniganj, Atul Anjan Tripathi told TOI, “The migrant had returned to Damdam village four days ago and was advised 21-day home quarantine after thermal scanning and medical examination. He had old history of asthma and heart ailment.” He fell ill on Saturday morning after which his family members took him to Swaroop Rani Hospital in Prayagraj for treatment. The doctors prescribed medication and told him to come for follow up or in case of emergency.” “While returning home, his condition deteriorated suddenly and he breathed his last. The family members suspected that he died of coronavirus, left his body on roadside outside the village and went home,” said Tripathi.  “The deceased was a resident of Damdam village,. When we took his body home, his family members refused to take it. We kept it on a cot outside the house,” he added. The health team carried out investigations and traced his medical history and said that he died of complications due to asthma and heart ailment. Senior police and health officials told the family that he did not die of corona and took a sample from body and sent it for test. Officials then convinced the family members to cremate the body and gave them PPE kits and sanitiser for cremation to allay their fears of contracting infection. The body of migrant was taken for funeral and finally consigned to flames at Phaphamau, Prayagraj, on Sunday afternoon. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-fear-family-abandons-migrants-body-on-the-roadside/articleshow/76126271.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Private buses return to Dakshina Kannada roads||MANGALURU: Familiar cry of ‘right poyee’ that reverberates on private buses in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district will have a muted ring to it when bus operations resume on Monday. Reason: only 20% of 3,000-odd private buses — city, mofussil, service, express buses — will restart operations on the day after more than two months of inactivity. Bus operators say people are unlikely to travel fearing Covid-19 infection. Canara Bus Operators’ Association (CBOA) president K Rajavarma Ballal, who has chaired a meeting with bus operators of DK and Udupi, told TOI that it will be a skeletal service to start with. “While Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators’ Association has indicated that 130 out of 330 city buses will ply, Udupi City Bus Operators’ Association will restart operations with 22 buses and CBOA with 500-odd buses. These 650-odd buses will cover all major routes,” Ballal said. Bus operators will have to first follow the RTO rule of spot inspection of parked buses, Ballal said, adding that operators have given a written undertaking that they have suspended operations for two months starting April 1. With operators facing various legal and financial issues, Ballal said it has become inevitable to raise fares and minimum fare for the first stage has been revised to Rs 10 (a hike of Rs 2). Fares on important inter-district routes – Manipal-Mangaluru, Udupi-Mangaluru, Karkala-Padubidri-Mangaluru, Kundapur-Mangaluru, Kundapur-Udupi, Karkala-Moodbidri-Mangaluru, Udupi-Hiriadka-Karkala have been hiked from Rs 5 to Rs 20, he said. Noting that the state government has given nod for 15% hike in fares, Ballal said although this revision is not enough to cover costs, the fares have been rounded off to avoid change-related issues. DKBOA has already launched an initiative to go cashless with its Chalo Card for passengers. CBOA has taken steps to convert the CCB passes (already issued to commuters) into cash card on the lines of Chalo Card. Ballal, who is also the president of Karnataka State Bus Owners’ Federation, said the government has met part of their demands, including waiving road tax for two out of three months. Operational cost will also go up with the need to sanitise bus after each trip, said Dilraj Alva, president, DKBOA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/private-buses-return-to-dakshina-kannada-roads/articleshow/76125296.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||Namesake lands in isolation ward||KALABURAGI: This was a sure recipe for mix-up: two siblings who had returned from Mumbai had given the same surname and the phone number as their contact details to health authorities. Because of this, the authorities took one of them — the one who was not infected — to the isolation ward here, albeit for a short time. The brothers had recently returned from Mumbai to their home at Devapur tanda in Chittapur taluk of the district. After their return, the duo is said to have given a common name and phone number to the health officials. One of the brothers tested positive for Covid, but the authorities reportedly took the one who was not infected to the ward. But realising their folly by Saturday evening, they brought him back to the tanda and picked up the right one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/namesake-lands-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/76124326.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hubballi||10 flee quarantine centre, nine test +ve two days later||KALABURAGI: Tension prevailed in Chittapur taluk’s Devapur Tanda after 10 people fled a quarantine facility here before the test results were out and nine tested positive for Covid-19. All the suspected patients had returned from other states/ abroad and were quarantined at Kasturaba Residential School at Karadal village in Chittapur taluk. Two days after they fled the facility, health officials received the test results of all the ten suspected patients and nine of them tested positive. The positive patients were traced to tanda and were shifted to Covid-19 ward, said officials. After coming to to know about the incident, Devapur Tanda residents have raised their concerns over the laxity of health department officials. Speaking to TOI, Kalaburagi DC B Sharath said all nine positive persons will be shifted to the quarantine centre at ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi and put under observation as they are asymptomatic. “If and when they start developing symptoms, they will be shifted to the Covid-19 ward at ESIC hospital,” the DC said. “Devapur Tanda has been declared containment zone and all the residents have been asked remain under home-quarantine,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/10-flee-quarantine-centre-nine-test-ve-two-days-later/articleshow/76125437.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mysuru||No blankets, linen for passengers in AC coaches, says SWR||MYSURU: Starting from June, traveling in air-conditioned coaches of South Western Railway will not be soothing and private as earlier as passengers will have to carry their own blankets and linen. SWR will stop providing blankets and linen and takeout curtains between compartments in AC coaches. Even the air-conditioning will be regulated to maintain temperature. Train journeys across all sections will be same barring the fare which is likely to remain same. Passengers in AC coaches were being provided washed and ironed cloths including a blanket and a pillow with cover on use and return basis. While the facilities are the same, the number of berths vary in 3AC, 2AC and 1AC coaches. In a bid to contain the spread of the pandemic, SWR has decided to stop providing blankets and linens besides removing curtains between the compartments from June 1, said E Vijaya, deputy general manager and chief public relations officer of SWR. There will be no change in fare, she added. “The decision was taken soon after the lockdown began but as train services were suspended until recently, it was not implemented. Now that the services have resumed in Karnataka following a directive from chief minister BS Yediyurappa, these measures have been taken to ensure safety of passengers,” said Vijaya. Since handling of used blankets is not safe, they have been removed from the facilities till further orders. Curtains used to be changed once in a few days, and there is every chance of passengers getting infected. Hence, they have also been removed, she said. Vijaya claimed almost all the AC coaches have been running full. SWR operates trains in most of Karnataka and parts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Maharashtra. Passengers using its trains will miss the luxury they used to enjoy in AC coaches earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-blankets-linen-for-passengers-in-ac-coaches-says-swr/articleshow/76125041.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 1, 2020||Noida||Noida: Job & house gone, retired Armyman spends two months under a tree||NOIDA: Job gone, savings gone and so is his brother’s flat where he stayed for days. His shelter from the sun and rain? The shade of a tree in Sector 61. A retired Armyman has spent almost two months under a tree ever since he had to leave his brother’s flat after an argument with him. Hari Singh (59), who had retired as a sepoy and since been working as a guard for a private company, lost his job during the lockdown. With this, his savings, too, dried up in a few days. After a brief stay at his brother’s flat, he set out on foot for home in Kannauj. But the harsh weather and the rough road exerted a toll on him. Hari could no longer walk, and the tree under which he stood became his home. The elderly man’s plight came to the fore after a few journalists and passersby shot videos of him and circulated them on social media. Residents recollected seeing him at the same spot ever since the lockdown began. How did he survive? On most days, NGOs distributing food came to his rescue. On other days, he went off to sleep on an empty stomach. “His brother stays in a flat in Sector 71, but nobody has come to take him back. He had got some ration a few days ago, but that, too, was taken away from him. He is not getting proper food here and keeps crying at times,” said a woman who stays in the same area. Hari has an Aadhaar card, which shows his permanent address in Kannauj. Other documents say he had retired from the Army in July, 1987. After his videos were posted on social media, Noida police admitted Hari to the district hospital in Sector 30 on Saturday. An injured foot has left him almost immobile. Though Hari can stand on his feet, he can’t walk. The retired Armyman spoke to reporters in a faint voice. Asked where he wanted to go, he only mumbled “Kannauj”. Dr Vandana Sharma, chief medical superintendent at the district hospital, said Hari had suffered an injury in the muscles. “He has been referred to an orthopaedic surgeon and admitted to the emergency ward. It should not take too much time for him to recover because he is able to stand up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/job-house-gone-retd-armyman-spends-two-months-under-a-tree/articleshow/76126410.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Malegaon weavers demand funds to start business||NASHIK: Though the state government has permitted opening of power looms outside the containment zones in Malegaon, majority of the owners are reluctant in doing so for the want of liquidity. Till date around 20,000 of the 3.5 lakh power looms in Malegaon have resumed operations. “We have started our unit. Some of the processing units in Rajasthan have also started. Hence, we believe things will soon start to become normal,” Mohammed Ansari, a power loom owner, said. District collector Suraj Mandhare, said that the government had allowed starting of power looms outside containment areas so that workers can start earning their livelihood. “If the workers are stuck in containment areas, the loom owners can arrange for their stay, food and other basic requirements and get permission from the administration to take the workers out of the containment area. Administration will cooperate on the issue as a special case,” Mandhare said. Malegoan Power Loom Bunkar Association, however, has said that the exercise of running the power looms at this point in time would be futile and demanded that the government should give some interest-free capital for starting the operations. “The entire process — procuring yarn, producing cloth, getting it dyed and processed and selling them — has been affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” Shabbir Degwala, the secretary of the association, said. “We have met the collector and presented our memorandum to the state government, seeking monetary benefits for the loom owners who have helped labourers during the Covid-19 crisis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-weavers-demand-funds-to-start-business/articleshow/76125737.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Rajeev Rahadari toll rates hiked||Hyderabad: The toll rates on Hyderabad to Ramagundam state highway, Rajeev Rahadari, have been hiked. The increased rates will come into effect from midnight of June 1, according to authorities, who said the toll fares are hiked every two years. The toll fare for a car has been hiked to Rs 58 ,for a single trip, while it is Rs 87 for a one-day pass and Rs 1,740 for a monthly pass. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rajeev-rahadari-toll-rates-hiked/articleshow/76125743.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Eluri Sambasiva quashes rumours of joining YSRC||Ongole: Ending the week-long speculation, Purchur legislator Eluri Sambasiva Rao of TDP has clarified he is not joining YSRC. He denied meeting any ruling party leader to negotiate his move. Speaking to reporters in Marturu on Sunday, Sambasiva Rao said a few people with vested interests are spreading rumours against him. The TDP has given him his political life; he explained that he had kept away from the constituency for few months only to allow the ruling YSRC to help the people with their own schemes. “Since our party had lost power, I thought it is wise to give little space to the YSRC leaders to do their best for the people and kept away from the constituency. But it was misconstrued,” said Rao. Rao held near two-hour-long meetings with party cadre from all mandals soon after reaching the constituency. He met key leaders in separate sessions and gauged the mood among the majority of the leaders. Rao announced that he was not joining the YSRC after seeing the strong opposition from party cadre and followers in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eluri-sambasiva-quashes-rumours-of-joining-ysrc/articleshow/76125105.cms||Samdani MN
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Ex-princy of Roshni Nilaya passes away||MANGALURU: Olinda Pereira, an eminent social worker and former principal of School of Social Work, Roshni Nilaya, passed away on Sunday. She was 95. Born on August 15, 1925, she did her BA from St Agnes College, Mangaluru, MA from Banaras Hindu University and PhD from Mysore University. Born into a Catholic family in Falnir at Mangaluru, as the youngest of three sisters, Rita Olinda Periera embraced the religious order of the Daughters of the Heart of Mary (DHM). She pioneered social work education in the state of Karnataka by setting up the School of Social Work Roshini Nilaya in 1960, under the auspices of the Institute of Social Service which offers BSW, MSW, and PhD degrees, apart from other courses affiliated to Mangalore University. She retired in 1984, after serving as principal of Roshni Nilaya for 20 years. Olinda Pereira promoted women’s education and development in several states. She has left an indelible mark in the state of Karnataka, India and overseas. She launched Vishwas Trust in 1999, during the International Year for the Elderly. Its objective was community work, setting up day centres, geriatric care services and field practice centres. Vishwas Trust, in collaboration with government and city police, tried to reach out to the elderly in need with its 24-hour service distress helpline 1090 and 2421190.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/olinda-pereira-passes-away/articleshow/76125116.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Gang selling spurious cotton seeds busted||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police busted a gang involved in the sale of spurious cotton seeds and seized Rs 22 lakh worth property from their possession. Acting on specific information, the sleuths of LB Nagar Special Operations Team (SOT), along with the police of Hayathnagar and officials of the agriculture department, raided at a godown in Bacharam village near Hayathnagar on Saturday evening. Police arrested M Devendar Reddy (52), businessman from Sai Nagar Colony in Vanasthalipuram, G Sagar Reddy (30), a private employee from Munogodu in Nalgonda, and M Venkat Reddy (20), a student from Vanasthalipuram. Cops seized 1.5 tons of spurious cotton seeds along with its processing and packing equipment from the accused. The offenders told police that they have been indulging in illegal sale of seeds, along with three absconding accused, Praveen Kumar, managing director of Akshara Seeds in Vanasthalipuram, Padmavathi of Vanasthalipuram and Ramesh of Chittoor. According to police, three years ago Praveen Kumar established Akshara Seeds company along with Devendar Reddy and Padmavathi as working partners. License was obtained in the name of Padmavathi to sell vegetable seeds. “But this year, instead of selling vegetable seeds, the accused hatched a plan to make easy money by selling spurious cotton seeds. Despite not having license to sell cotton seeds, they procured the material from Ramesh and stored them at their godown in Bacharam village, Hayathnagar, with a plan to sell them to gullible farmers,” Hayathnagar inspector M Surender said. A case was registered under section 420 of IPC and Seed Act 1966 at the Hayathnagar PS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gang-selling-spurious-cotton-seeds-busted/articleshow/76126280.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||2 booked in Malegoan for swindling grain||Nashik: The Nashik Rural police on Friday booked two people in Malegoan for allegedly swindling grain worth Rs 96, 000 from a public distribution shop (PDS) in the Pawar Wadi area of the textile town. The suspects have been identified as Mohammad Yunus Mohommad Yakub (46), a driver from Millat Nagar in Dhule and Navid Alam Mohammad Amin (40), a salesman working at the PDS shop. Police said that two more people were involved in the racket; however, they fled the scene. At around 11 am on Friday, the special squad of rural police found the suspects loading 60 kg grain in a pick-up vehicle. When the intercepted the vehicle, two others — the suspected owner of the vehicle and the buyer — managed to escape. However, the police managed to get hold of two others and booked them under various sections of Essential Commodities Act, 1955, Motor Vehicle Act and Epidemic Prevention Act. An offence against the duo has been registered at Pawar Wadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-booked-in-malegoan-for-swindling-grain/articleshow/76125765.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||6 Malkajgiri shop owners booked||Secunderabad: Six shopkeepers in Malkajgiri area were booked for not wearing mask and violating social distancing norms. According to the police, the shopkeepers were booked on Sunday under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-malkajgiri-shop-owners-booked/articleshow/76125763.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Trichy||2 test +ve in former Trichy containment zones||Trichy: A corporation employee and a vegetable trader from the city were among the four new Covid-19 positive cases reported here on Saturday. Of them, two cases are from former containment zones in Alwarthope and Kuppankulam, which has put the local body in a tight spot as norms were relaxed there only 15 days ago. A bill collector from Thiruvanaikoil employed in Srirangam zone of Trichy Corporation was among the two others who tested positive. The test was conducted for civic body employees a few days ago. After the result came, the local body temporarily shut the zonal office in Srirangam and disinfected it on Sunday. Officials said that the bill collector did not have any travel history. A vegetable trader from Ariyamangalam was the fourth person to test positive though he was symptomatic. As his house is in a colony comprising multiple houses, 23 samples were collected from the locality. The exact contact source of the corporation employee and vegetable trader is yet to be ascertained.  “The two cases include a 75-year-old man. We are distributing Kabasura Kudineer and multivitamin tablets in the vulnerable localities,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation added. Officials said that the two who tested positive did not venture out and that close relatives might have gone out and transmitted the infection. Contact tracing has begun and samples have been collected from the immediate family members and close contacts of the positive cases . The focus has now shifted to localities that were under containment last month. The disinfection process is under way near the houses of positive cases in Srirangam, K Abishekapuram and Ariyamangalam zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-test-ve-in-former-trichy-containment-zones/articleshow/76126284.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||‘MoUs a ploy to divert attention’||Lucknow: BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday hit out at the BJP for diverting people’s attention in the name of signing MoUs for giving jobs to migrants who returned to UP following the novel coronavirus induced lockdown. Mayawati’s attack comes two days after the Yogi Adityanath government signed MoUs with Industrial bodies to generate 11 lakh jobs for the migrants. Terming it as an attempt to grab media space, Mayawati questioned the state government about the fate of thousands of MoUs which it signed during the investors' summit. “Not taking any people centric steps would only lead to escalation in problems,” the former UP CM said. Mayawati said that the people hit by the lockdown are waiting for employment opportunities at local level. Mayawati also advised the UP government for initiating steps to become self reliant instead of just waiting for exodus of companies from China and inviting them to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mous-a-ploy-to-divert-attention/articleshow/76126282.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Four die after drinking surgical spirit in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Four persons died after consuming surgical spirit at Kasimkota in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as K Anand (48), V Nookaraju (61), P Appa Rao (45) and V Manikyam (62). Police said that on Saturday night Anand hosted a party at his home at Kasimkota and invited five friends. Four of them drank surgical spirit as they could not afford to buy liquor. Two others did not drink the liquid. Four of them fell ill in the wee hours on Sunday. L Himagiri, sub-inspector, Kasimkota, said Anand died at his home on Sunday while Nooka Raju died on way to NTR Hospital at Anakapalle. Appa Rao, who complained of vomiting and few other complications, was admitted to Anakapalle hospital initially and died on the way while being taken to KG Hospital. V Manikyam, who had consumed a small amount of the spirit, was admitted to KG Hospital but died on Sunday evening. Initially, the police suspected that the four died after consuming hooch. Later they found an empty bottle of surgical spirit. Police investigation on how the spirit was procured points to Anand, who working in the loading and unloading wing of a pharma firm at Parawada, and who likely gpt 2.25 litres of the spirit from the company illegally. Police said one P Dora Babu who also consumed the spirit with Anand, fell ill, and is availing treatment at KGH where his condition is said to be critical. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC (death due to consumption of unknown liquid).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-die-after-drinking-surgical-spirit-in-vizag/articleshow/76125120.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Trichy||Work on resizing roundabout begins||Trichy: The state highways department, on Sunday, launched the civil work to resize Anna roundabout in Melachinthamani on Chennai-Trichy-Karur National Highway (NH) after a long delay. The overall size of the roundabout will be reduced by 40% from the existing size to eliminate the traffic bottleneck between Srirangam and Chathiram bus stand. Due to the large size of the Anna roundabout, vehicles arriving from Srirangam and Chennai were often caught in traffic snarls, leaving vehicles piled up for at least 300 metres till Cauvery bridge. Though the vast size of the Anna statue roundabout was identified as the root cause and even a sum of Rs 40 lakh was sanctioned in March 2019 to resize the roundabout and widen the adjacent roads, the civil work was delayed. TOI had highlighted the inordinate delay in resizing the roundabout in a report published on May 17 this year. Following the report, the state highways department obtained permission from the district administration to go ahead with the civil work. On Sunday, the decorative plants inside the roundabout were removed to facilitate the demolition of the roundabout. “At present, the roundabout stands for a radius of 10 metres. It will be reduced to 4-6 metres. Resizing is much needed to streamline the vehicular movement,” an official with state highways department said. “We will establish road safety infrastructure such as speed breakers to streamline the traffic further once the roundabout was resized,” an official source with Trichy city police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-resizing-roundabout-begins/articleshow/76126290.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 1, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer: After NGT order, Shakti Sagar Lake to be revived||AJMER: Following directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the district administration has decided to renovate the Shakti Sagar Lake situated near Kharwa village under Masuda block on Ajmer- Beawar road. The lake was destroyed by constructing 40 unnecessary 40 anicuts (dams) and the water path was heavily destroyed by mining in the region. The result was that the lake went dry since the last decade. The NGT directed the district administration to bring back the original structure near the Shakti Sangar Lake which was once the main source of farming in Kharwa region and also helped to improve groundwater levels. District collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma recently inspected the sight and directed officials to remove the anicuts which were blocking the water flow to the lake. He also directed mines department to stop mining near lake and to fill the pits created by mining. Villager Ghanshyam Mali said previously there was a natural system of water flow in different lakes and ponds. After Shakti Sagar Lake overflow, the water went to nearby Gopal Sagar. But in last two-three decades, there were several anicuts which blocked the flow of water to the main lake from different directions. Another villager Shakti Singh Kumawat said the natural ecology was disturbed by mining in the region and there were pits all around the lake which blocked the water to flow from hilly regions. Since the last 10 years, the lake remained empty even during monsoon. The lake was the source of irrigation for farmers all round in different villages. The matter was reported to NGT and it issued directions to district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/after-ngt-order-shakti-sagar-lake-to-be-revived/articleshow/76126292.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 42 tankers deployed to provide water in 100 villages||NASHIK: The district administration has added 17 tankers to its existing fleet of 25 tankers for supplying drinking water to over 64,000 people in 100 villages and hamlets across Nashik. Owing to rising mercury and depleting water levels, in little over two weeks, the number of tankers have gone up from 25 to 42, while the number of villages have increased from 57 to 100. The situation in tribal areas is grim as people are forced to deal with the hilly terrains to get water from new sources after the wells in the villages have gone dry. Thus, the district administration after evaluation has provided the water tankers in several remote places across 15 talukas of Nashik district. “Drinking water is being provided via tankers to 62 villages and 38 hamlets,” an official from the scarcity branch of Nashik district collectorate said, adding that of the 42 tankers, 19 are owned by the government while the remaining 23 have been rented from private suppliers. Among all the talukas, Yeola is worst-affected with 19 tankers pressed into service to provide water to 28 villages and 37 hamlets. The district administration has also acquired 63 wells of which 12 are being used to refill the tankers supplying water to various villages. The remaining 51 wells have been acquired for villagers in that respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/42-tankers-deployed-to-provide-water-in-100-villages/articleshow/76125778.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Deadline set for Bundelkhand Expressway land acquisition||LUCKNOW: UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Sunday set August 31 deadline for land acquisition for the construction of 296-km Bundelkhand Expressway project. Presiding over a review meeting at Lok Bhawan, UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi said the electricity lines coming in the way of the expressway be shifted before the onset of monsoon. He added that UPEIDA had enough funds for the project and, therefore, companies should wrap up the work and put up bills for payment. The shortage of workers at the contruction site was also discussed in the meeting. Awasthi said more migrant workers should be engaged in the project so that the work could be expedited. Advisor to UPEIDA, Durgesh Upadhya, said the authority’s target is to complete 10% of the physical work by June-end. Awasthi said no objection certificates from other departments should be taken by June-end. The state government is constructing the four-lane expressway, expandable up to six lanes, to connect Bundelkhand with the national capital through the Agra-Lucknow expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deadline-set-for-bkhand-e-way-land-acquisition/articleshow/76126291.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mysuru||MUDA drags feet to take possession of its land||MYSURU: The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), that has been dragging its feet in safeguarding its properties from being gobbled up by land grabbers for long, has woken up following an RTI query. Concealing information that about 10 guntas (1/4 acres) of land in prime Hebbal locality area was acquired for layout development by MUDA way back in the 1980s, relatives of the land owners had taken over it. They had got the land alienated from agriculture to non–agricultural purpose nearly a decade ago and developed it into sites and sold them. MUDA employees have been lackadaisical in protecting the properties of government. According to sources, there is rise in number of cases of land grabbing especially in old layouts developed decades ago because of missing records. A section of MUDA employees have colluded with the land grabbers, they claim. RTI activist BN Nagendra said 10 guntas of land in survey number 266/3 in Hebbalu was acquired by MUDA in 1988 from its then owner Dasa at a compensation of about Rs 1.38 lakh along with two sites (40x60). A total of five acres and 22 guntas from four different survey numbers were taken into possession for layout development, but this bit of land was left without layout creation. Relatives of Dasa concealed the information and took khatha and developed sites now worth crores due to the boom in real estate here. Nagendra said DC has alienated the land following MUDA’s report that it hasn’t been acquired ever by MUDA, in 2011-12. Later, layout plan was approved for creation of sites. Urban development body are now in a fix after learning that the said property is government land, he explained. When contacted, MUDA commissioner DB Natesh confirmed that the disputed property belongs to MUDA. We are examining the records and if any anomaly is found suitable action will be initiated against the wrongdoers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-drags-feet-to-take-possession-of-its-land/articleshow/76125137.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Hospitality sector poised to reopen but stakeholders remain anxious||VISAKHAPATNAM: Restaurateurs in Andhra Pradesh have welcomed the new guidelines of the ministry of home affairs that allow hotel and restaurants and hospitality industry to function from June 8. They, however, said regaining customers’ confidence, running the eateries while maintaining social distance and with minimum staff will be the major challenges for them. Although the government has allowed reopening of the restaurants for dining from June 8, a majority of the owners of the restaurants are not in a position to reopen the dining service for a couple of weeks due to staff crisis and may stick to takeaway and home delivery services till the end of the June. Speaking to TOI, president of the Andhra Pradesh Hotel Association (APHA), T Satyanarayana said “The dine-out experience in cities and towns, including Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati will change post lockdown,” adding, “We have to take some measures such as rearranging the seating, digital menu cards or disposable single-page menu sheets, and a few others decisions before re-launching the dining facility from June 8.” “The reopening of the dining service is good news for us. Food choices will be reduced to cut wastage and we will not increase the prices of the dishes in spite of the increase in maintenance cost. If the government allows us to continue operations up to 10 pm instead of 9 pm, we may do good business,” Satyanarayana added. But some hotel owners are still apprehensive. Secretary of Vijayawada Hotel Owners’ Association, Sanjay Kumar Mehta told TOI, “But now we are not sure whether customers will prefer dining out. How do we regain the confidence of customers? We are waiting for the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) to re-launch the dining service.” He added, “The seating arrangements at most of the restaurants and hotels will be reconfigured to ensure safe distancing among guests who will be served by gloved and masked staff and we will allow a maximum of two persons at a table.” Moreover, a large number of the staff has gone to their home towns. It is difficult to start full operations unless the staff returns, said Sowmya Deepthi, owner of a restaurant in Visakhapatnam city. The managements of the hotels in the state are also chalking out plans to allow single occupancy rooms. The staff of the hotels will record the temperature of the guests, Sanjay Kumar Mehta added. It will take at least two to three months’ time to restore normalcy in the hotel industry, Mehta further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hospitality-sector-poised-to-reopen-but-stakeholders-remain-anxious/articleshow/76125134.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 1, 2020||Pune||Person travels to Lonikand from Thane without pass, tests +ve||Pune: The Pune Rural police on Saturday registered an offence against a 29-year-old man for travelling from Thane to Lonikand on May 25 without permission. The man later tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to a hospital for treatment. A police patil of his village lodged an FIR against with the Lonikand police. An officer from the Lonikand police told TOI that the man and his wife had come to Lonikand on May 25. He had not taken any travel pass from the Thane Municipal Corporation. He did not even inform the local authorities about his arrival. “On May 26 the man got himself tested after experiencing symptoms of coronavirus. The reports confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/person-travels-to-lonikand-from-thane-without-pass-tests-ve/articleshow/76126288.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Do not believe rumours on social media: Forest dept tells Nashikites||Nashik: Rumours of leopard sightings in various parts of the city are doing the rounds on social media since Saturday night. However, forest department officials have requested citizens to refrain from believing any such rumours. Officials said that rumours about the big cat being spotted in Tidke Colony and other areas of the city on Saturday night were being circulated on various social media platforms. Also, rumours about the leopard trapped in the cage at Gadkari chowk also went viral on Sunday morning. However, the forest department officials refuted the rumours on Sunday and said that people should not believe everything that is shared and posted on social media. Meanwhile, reports of two people being injured in leopard attack in the Indira Nagar area of the city on Saturday surfaced. The leopard was said to have fled towards the backside of the Khode farm area. “We have traced the pug marks of the leopard near airport in the Gandhinagar area and near a farm outside Indiranagar,” said forest department officials. On Friday morning, the same leopard had strayed into the College Road area and had injured a 55-year-old woman. Forest officials had searched the said areas for the big cat and had even deployed two drones in the College Road area, but were unsuccessful in locating the animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/do-not-believe-rumours-on-social-media-forest-dept-tells-nashikites/articleshow/76125787.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Locusts again enter Jaisalmer from Pak, farmers worried over crop loss||Jaisalmer: Swarms of locusts from Pakistan continue to enter various areas of Jaisalmer since Saturday. These insects are likely to reach different parts of the country. According to Border Security forces (BSF), locusts entered into Jaisalmer border on Saturday and Sunday from Sindh and Punjab areas of Pakistan. These locusts entered The presence of pests was reported from Shahgarh Bulj, Chandhan, Baandhewa and Pokhran on Saturday. This leaves farmers of Lathi and Chandhan areas, who have sown seeds recently, worried. Locusts too have further penetrated into Bikaner. A farmer Lale Khan of Chandhan said locusts had damaged crops last year and this year too, they have seen in large numbers in our areas. “We have informed government officials but no survey was done in our area. Farmers didn’t get any compensation. District collector should hold meeting with range officers and destroy the locusts,” he said. Meanwhile, in Bikaner, people beat drums to shoo away locusts. Locusts were seen at Shridungarpur, Derasar, Udarasar, Jhandeo and in many villages of Bikaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-again-enter-jaisalmer-from-pak-farmers-worried-over-crop-loss/articleshow/76126300.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: A ray of hope as Covid-19 cases stay steady in 19 mini-clusters in Peths||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 cases has stabilized over the last fortnight in 19 mini-containment clusters in the old parts of the city, including those under the jurisdiction of Khadak and Samarth police stations, and the Shivajinagar police station area, data compiled by the Pune police said. No fresh case has been reported from these 19 mini-clusters because of containment efforts implemented by the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune police, who are playing a key role in contact tracing. Localities such as Kachi Aali in Khadak had 102 cases on May 18, but did not report a single case thereafter. Similarly, Golden City and Chamade galli in Samarth area had 89 and 37 cases, respectively, on May 2 and April 20, but no fresh case was reported thereafter. In Shivajinagar, Rajiv Gandhinagar had 29 cases on May 19, but none later. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Swapna Gore said, “No shop was allowed to open in these areas. People were discouraged from gathering in groups. Measures like sealing of areas after a spike in cases, effective contact tracing, large-scale doorstep distribution of masks, sanitizers, food packets, grocery packets and gas cylinders helped police in containing the spread of the virus.” These areas had a high rate of infection. However, a coordinated effort by the police and the PMC has led to a reduction in cases, Gore added. “The staff of each of these police stations played a key role in maintaining 24/7 vigilance in these areas. Many have slum pockets like Kasewadi in Bhawani Peth and in Mangalwar Peth where police appointed a large number of special police officers, who not only maintain the law and order in the slums, but also cleaned up the common toilet, bathrooms with sanitizers.” Fixed timings of grocery delivery and vegetable delivery were maintained in these areas. “Social distancing norms were implemented by the police. All the directives of the government were in place in these areas and the results were good,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-ray-of-hope-as-ncov-cases-stay-steady-in-19-mini-clusters-in-peths/articleshow/76126286.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Former SEC urges Andhra govt to reinstate him||VIJAYAWADA: Former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Sunday expressed confidence that he will be restored as SEC since the constitutional post cannot remain unoccupied. The state government, however, was not keen to restore him as SEC and said that the high court judgment has not mentioned the restoration of his term. In a statement, Ramesh Kumar said that the state government had told the high court that he was not removed as SEC but ceased to hold the office consequential to the promulgation of ordinance 5 of 2020. “Now since the ordinance and the consequential GOs have been set aside by the high court, it means that the status quo has to be restored and the government need to notify the appointment again, as the high court said in the judgment that the earlier notification will stands good,” he said. After the high court order Justice V Kangaraj ceased to hold the office as SEC as his appointment deemed to be void ab initio and the office of SEC cannot remain unoccupied and the same cannot remain vacant, said Ramesh Kumar. “The high court also has recognised my vested right to continue as SEC for the reminder of the tenure,” he added. Referring to the unprecedented press conference by advocate general S Sriram on Saturday night, Ramesh Kumar said that the tone and tenor of the state government reveals its intention not to implement the directions of the high court by citing reasons which are untenable. Sriram said on Saturday that the HC has directed the government to restore Ramesh Kumar as SEC but did not say that he shall stand restored. As the HC observed that power to appoint SEC is vested with the governor and the council of ministers or the chief minister do not have power to advice the governor in the appointment of SEC, a question of law arises in case of Ramesh Kumar’s earlier appointment also as he was appointed on the recommendation of the then chief minister. He said the matter needs further adjudication for which they are moving the Supreme Court. Sriram said that when the HC has not mentioned any time period to implement its orders, the state by default will have two months to do that according to settled procedure. As the high court directed the government to restore the position of Ramesh Kumar, he cannot declare himself restored as SEC and the orders given by him to the officers need not to be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-sec-urges-govt-to-reinstate-him/articleshow/76125147.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mysuru||To generate revenue, Mysuru civic agency will auction premium sites||MYSURU: The downturn in the economy that has resulted owing to the Covid-19 crisis, and the lockdown, has prompted the Mysore Urban Development Authority (Muda) has decided to put up its premium sites across Mysuru city for sale to generate revenue and ensure there is liquidity. For the first time since the lockdown, the civic agency is putting up as many as 50 premium sites for auction. Meanwhile, two intermediate sites priced at Rs 2.6 crore each are also being put up for auction, while seven sites are being put up for sale with a base price of Rs 1 crore. Notwithstanding the prevailing economic condition, Muda has decided to sell them at the old prices, arguing that premium sites will definitely have their buyers. Business in the real estate sector has ground to a halt, the auction process has kindled some hope among Muda officials. “But all depends on the response from prospective buyers. In the earlier auctions, around 40 to 50% of the sites that went under the hammer were picked up by buyers,” a realtor said. The price of each site is decided based on the market value, which is around two-and-a-half times higher than the actual guidance value, a tactic that is expected to boost real estate prices. Meanwhile, four corner sites, each of a different dimension in the second, third and fourth stages in Vijayanagar, have been priced between Rs 1.3 crore to Rs 1.66 crore. Muda commissioner DB Natesh said that Muda was a financially independent agency, for which auction of its premium and corner sites was a huge source of revenue. “In case there are no buyers, we will seek the government’s nod to revise the rates. During the previous auction, only around 35 to 40% of the sites were sold. We are hoping the response will be better this time,” Natesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/to-generate-revenue-mysuru-civic-agency-will-auction-premium-sites/articleshow/76125162.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown in Uttar Pradesh: Misuse of benefits to attract 2-year prison term||LUCKNOW: Fresh guidelines issued by the state government on Sunday in view of coronavirus pandemic laid down punishment for various offences, the most stringent being a jail term of up to two years and fine if a person makes false claims to obtain any relief or benefit. The same punishment would apply if a person entrusted with any money or material meant for providing relief in any threatening situation, misappropriates or appropriates for his own use. The guidelines issued by chief secretary RK Tewari further laid down jail term of one year or fine for those raising false alarm leading to panic. Similarly, a person obstructs a government officer from performing his duty or refuses to comply with the directions of the Centre/state government, shall, on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or fine, or both. The guidelines also prescribe punishments for offences by government departments. According to guidelines, the head of the department will be deemed guilty of offence and be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercises all due diligence in preventing the commission of such an offence. Likewise, if any officer refuses to perform duties, unless he has obtained written permission of his official superior, will be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine. In case of an offence by a company or a corporate body, every person who was in charge and responsible for the conduct of the company at the time of commission of offence, shall be deemed guilty of contravention and be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/misuse-of-benefits-to-attract-2-year-prison-term/articleshow/76126310.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Pak failed in controlling insects: Min||Jaisalmer: Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary on Sunday alleged that Pakistan failed in controlling locusts. India as offered manpower, technical equipment and pesticides to control locusts, but Pakistan neither responded nor shared any information regarding locusts. It clearly shows that Pakistan is deliberately letting the locust problem aggravate, he added. He further said that the government has offered help to Iran which expressed that it had shortage of pesticide. Addressing reporters in Barmer, minister Choudhary said Pakistan lacks resources and India had offered help so that locusts are destroyed in Pakistan itself, adding that Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan have online meeting regarding the locust situation every Monday, but Pakistan does not share any information. He said tenders have been floated to acquire drones to destroy them. Helicopters from the UK are expected to come in the first week of June along with other machines. At present, the plan is to neutralise locusts using aircraft. Choudhary also accused the Rajasthan government of shirking its responsibility and blaming the Centre for all its failures. He said the state government even failed in sending back labourers to their states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-failed-in-controlling-insects-min/articleshow/76126303.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Teen sisters donate safety gear to cops using pocket money||Nashik: Setting an example for youngsters everywhere, two teenaged sisters have provided the city police with protective equipment worth over Rs 1.25 lakh, bought using their personal savings and pocket money. The protective equipment included 1,000 N95 masks, 100 face shields and 55 litres of sanitisers. The sisters — 16-year-old Adya Lonsane and Arya Lonsane (14) — are students of Fravashi International Academy. Their parents, Raj and Ruchi Lonsane, run a small software consulting firm in the city. “We contributed our savings and next 12 months’ pocket money, which we took from our parents in advance. Over the next 12 months, visiting restaurants, partying with friends or spending on anything would be close to impossible. We are fine with that,” said Adya and Arya. The sisters added: “We are proud to have taken an active part in this war against corona.” DCP (crime) Laxmikant Patil said, “I appreciate the social responsibility exhibited by these students. They are witnessing how hard the police are working. The donation would be very useful in the fight against coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/teen-sisters-donate-safety-gear-to-cops-using-pocket-money/articleshow/76125802.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Bharathidasan University gets HE department nod to appoint 56 regular teachers||TRICHY: Decks have been cleared for the appointment of 54 regular teaching staff in Bharathidasan University after it got the approval from the state higher education department. Only a few months ago, the higher education department had asked the university to mend its arithmetic in adopting the reservation policy for appointments, but it has now given its nod after getting clearance from the personnel and administrative reforms (P and AR) department. The university had called for applications in July last year for direct appointment of 54 faculty positions. It followed the Union government, which had in March last year brought an ordinance restoring 200-point roster for recruitment by considering the whole university as a single unit for calculating vacancies. While this was in contrast with the state policy, the then secretary, higher education department, Mangat Ram Sharma had pointed in a letter to the university that the ordinance by the Union government is applicable only to the central educational institutions and BDU, a state university, doesn’t fall in that category. The higher education secretary in a letter dated August 28, 2019 had asked all the 13 state universities to treat each department as single unit to reserve teaching posts of professors, associate professors, and assistant professors. Seeking exception from the state government for recruitment, the university chose to go ahead with the recruitment process than waiting for response from the state government. Coming under criticism even from political parties on the reservation policy adopted, higher education minister K P Anbalagan directed the university to get clearance from the personnel and administrative reforms (P and AR) department before going ahead with the recruitment. P and AR department has suggested the administrative department that the higher education department can take a decision on it, said higher education secretary Apoorva while speaking to TOI. We had allowed Anna University back in 2014-15 to consider the whole institute as a single unit for appointment. Therefore, we chose to do the same with Bharathidasan University, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-gets-he-dept-nod-to-appoint-56-regular-teachers/articleshow/76126305.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||No cash for treatment, patient ventures out of hospital on stretcher to bank in Jhalawar||Kota: Exposing the security measures at the biggest government hospital in Jhalawar, a patient admitted in the TB ward of SRG Hospital ventured out on a stretcher to withdraw money from the bank after he fell short of cash during treatment on Saturday. “The patient, identified as Dinesh, with his oxygen cylinder attached went out of the hospital on a stretcher carried by his brother till Mangalpura circle on Saturday following which constable Ravi Dubey posted in the area stopped him,” said Laxman Singh, circle in charge, Jhalawar city police station. On inquiry, Dinesh said that he was undergoing treatment for TB in SRG Hospital and fell short of cash so he was going to the bank or e-Mitra centre to withdraw money, he added. “Since the bank was closed at that time, the constable took out some money from his pocket and handed it over to Dinesh. Noticing this generous gesture, some other traders in the market contributed money and gave it to Dinesh and sent him back to the hospital,” he added. Dinesh is a TB patient and a resident of Pedawa town, which was recently a hotspot for Covid-19. He is undergoing medical treatment in SRG Hospital, which is Jhalawar’s biggest government hospital.  The officials of the hospital could not be contracted for comment on the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-cash-for-treatment-patient-ventures-out-of-hospital-on-stretcher-to-bank-in-jhalawar/articleshow/76126306.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Massive effort under way to track and treat at-risk citizens||PUNE: A huge exercise is now underway to prepare a list of at-risk individuals living in the containment zones of Pune Metropolitan Region. The list will include the elderly, diabetics, those with hypertension and a few other underlying conditions that put them at risk of developing severe Covid-19 complications and in need of special care.  Patients with comorbidities have made up nearly 89% of Covid-linked deaths in the PMR; 77% of them were above the age of 50, an analysis of 265 deaths has revealed. “The elderly and people with comorbidities are clearly more vulnerable. That’s why they need to be identified and monitored for symptoms,” said divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. Mhaisekar has suggested a seven-step plan to reduce Covid-19 deaths in the PMR. "First, we need to know how many elderly live in the containment zones. We can use data from electoral rolls and the public distribution systems,” he said. Second, he called for a list of people with underlying conditions living in the containment zones. "For this, the civic bodies could take help from doctors near these zones,” Mhaisekar said. The next two steps involve regular monitoring. A medical check-up will include looking for fever, blood pressure, blood sugar, blood-oxygen saturation and, if required, X-rays. Officials said people can also be tested for Covid-19, irrespective of contact history. “The fifth point on the list is special care. The health of these individuals should be monitored daily,” Mhaisekar said. The sixth rule, according to the divisional commissioner, was the deployment of volunteers to keep in regular touch with people on the list. “There should be one volunteer for for every 50 high-risk individuals. The volunteer should immediately inform authorities if someone shows symptoms. This will prevent delays in treatment,” Mhaisekar said. The seventh key point is helping at-risk individuals with daily living. The elderly and those with a history of illnesses or conditions are not supposed to step out of their homes. The volunteers and the civic administration will then have to ensure these citizens don’t have problems with essential supplies. Sanjay Patil, vice president of the Indian Medical Association in the state, said: “If implemented well, the seven-step programme suggested by the divisional commissioner can indeed help reduce deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massive-effort-underway-to-track-treat-at-risk-citizens/articleshow/76126298.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 1, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune accounts for 63% patients in Southern Command cantonments||PUNE: The cantonment area in Pune has accounted for 63% of the total 652 nCoV infections recorded so far in the 19 cantonments under the Southern Command. A report prepared by the office of the Principal Director Defence Estates for periodical monitoring of the situation in the cantonments under the Southern Command, has revealed that of the 416 cases, the Pune cantonment has seen 240 patients, the most, discharged after recovery. Pune, along with Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments, are part of the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). “This explains the high number of cases in Pune cantonment, which has 174 active cases,” an officer from the command headquarters said. Going by death count, Sagar cantonment in Madhya Pradesh has recorded five deaths as against two each by Pune and Khadki cantonments. A total of 11 deaths have been reported in the Southern Command area with Ahmedabad and Chennai (St Thomas Mount) recording one death each. Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments have three and one active cases. Khadki had recorded 32 nCoV cases and 27 patients have been discharged. The cantonment in Ahmednagar district has remained nCoV-free till date. Aurangabad and Deolali (Nashik) cantonments had 10 and three cases, but the patients have recovered. Amit Kumar, Pune Cantonment Board’s chief executive officer, told TOI on Sunday, “Of the 19 cantonments, Pune is the largest and most densely populated. It has now become a part of Pune city now unlike other cantonments that are still outside the city limits. Moreover, some of our congested localities are in the vicinity of the city’s worst affected areas like Bhawani Peth and other areas.” Kumar said the Pune Cantonment Board is treating Covid-19 patients from the PCB as well as Pune city limits. “This reflects in the high number of case count. Most of our cases are from New Modikhana, Modikhana and Bhimpura, all congested localities. We have intensified door-to-door survey for identifying people with co-morbidities and are testing people in high numbers. A dedicated ICU is also coming up at our general hospital.” A former senior defence services officer pointed out that Khadki cantonment which does not have big slum pockets managed to control nCoV cases by taking appropriate measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-accounts-for-63-patients-in-southern-command-cantts/articleshow/76126294.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Shrines in Delhi draw up safety plans to open||NEW DELHI: While it is still being debated whether opening of religious places from June 8 would be a good or a bad move, temples, gurdwaras, churches and mosques are gearing up to ensure that their premises do not turn into Covid-19 hubs. The committees of the holy places said now the visits won't be the same as earlier, and thalis, flowers, ornaments and other offerings would no longer be in the picture. They have started drawing up safety plans without waiting for the Delhi government's standard operating procedures.  The managements have also decided the best option would be to make visits "contactless". In place of prasad, people would be urged to carry sanitisers to use while entering and exiting the premises. Kalkaji temple has marked social distancing spots and attached sanitiser bottles on alternate pillars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shrines-in-delhi-draw-up-safety-plans-to-open/articleshow/76126724.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 1, 2020||Trichy||Four of Trichy family die in cylinder blast||Trichy: Three women of a family were among four people who were charred to death in an LPG cylinder blast on Sunday evening near Navalpattu in Trichy district. Police identified the victims as Jayagowri, 60, her daughters Vijayalaxmi, 32, and Vijayavani, 29, and son Vijayakumar, 28, who were staying on the first floor of a house at Bharathi Nagar in Poolankudi colony. Around 8 pm, neighbours heard a blast from the house. When they rushed in, all the four were found charred to death. Navalpattu police sent the bodies to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for postmortem. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Vijayakumar, who was working in Chennai, had returned to Trichy a few days ago after sustaining injuries on his leg in an accident. His health condition was said to have worsened in the evening and the family members were preparing to take him to a hospital. It was at this juncture that the LPG cylinder exploded. Investigations are on to ascertain whether the cylinder exploded accidentally or there was a suicide angle to the incident, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-of-trichy-family-die-in-cylinder-blast/articleshow/76126308.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Over 50% donors ready, Ghaziabad plans plasma trials||GHAZIABAD: The health Department in Ghaziabad is planning to start plasma therapy trials in the district after over 50% of recovered patients have shown willingness to donate plasma, said officials. The facility could be started at Santosh Hospital, which is an L3 Covid-19 hospital in the district. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said: “Positive results of plasma therapy are coming out...it will help a lot in treating serious patients. For this, a letter will be written to the government after discussion with the administrative officials. Many people are contacting the Health Dept. for donating plasma.” The therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from the virus and transfusing them into an active patient to help boost his/her immune system. “There are several reports of positive results of plasma therapy in Delhi along with many other states. We are also considering it. After discussion with senior officials, a proposal would be sent to the government for seeking permission from the Indian Medical Research Council and the required arrangements to be made in the district,” said an official. Arrangements for plasma can be made at the Blood Bank at MMG District which has the means to store the plasma, said officials. In the neighbouring district of Gautam Budh Nagar, a centre for plasma therapy was inaugurated at GIMS on May 11. Last week, a 65-year-old woman, who was the first COVID-19 patient in Noida, administered convalescent plasma therapy, made a full recovery and returned home. She was among the more critical patients to be admitted and was on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/over-50-donors-ready-ghaziabad-plans-plasma-trials/articleshow/76126312.cms||Aditya Dev
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Flights to Ahmedabad from today||Nashik: Private airline Trujet on Sunday said that it will start Nashik-Ahmedabad flights on all week days from June 1. The airline had started its flight operations from May 27 after the government relaxed lockdown norms to some extent. However, the airline has curtailed its flights operations by 50% as per the new guidelines issued by the Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA). However, the DGCA has now given its nod to the private airline to start Nashik-Ahmedabad flight on all week days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/flights-to-ahmedabad-from-today/articleshow/76125821.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Gangster’s post on SHO surfaces||Alwar: Notorious gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is currently lodged in Bharatpur’s Sevar Central Jail, has again stirred a controversy with his Facebook post about the suicide of Rajgarh SHO Vishnudutt Bishnoi. In his May 26 post, Lawrence has claimed that the politician involved in the cop’s suicide will have to face the consequences soon. Refuting media reports that the cop knew him, he writes that he never knew Vishnudutt and had no interaction with him but had heard that he was an honest and hardworking officer. Every person with the surname Bishnoi is not necessarily associated with crime. Meanwhile, the jail authorities are keeping a close watch on the gangster. Sudhir Prakash Bishnoi, superintendent, Sevar jail, said, “we seized a mobile phone from Lawrence a few days back and are continuously keeping a watch on him.” We are regularly searching not just his cell but also the jail premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangsters-post-on-sho-surfaces/articleshow/76126311.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP cadre booked for Chandrababu Naidu’s visit||VIJAYAWADA: Police booked cases against TDP workers including former MLA of Nandigama, Tangirala Soumya for violating lockdown norms during the visit of former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on May 25. Naidu had travelled by road from Hyderabad to Amaravati on May 25. While he was coming to Vijayawada, scores of TDP workers gathered on NH-65 to greet him. Former Nandigama MLA also participated in the gatherings. A petition has already been filed in the high court seeking directions to the cops to book cases against those who violated the lockdown norms. The high court directed the petitioners to approach competent authorities representing them to initiate action against the lockdown violators. Nandigama police have booked cases against Soumya and others who gathered at a junction on NH-65 without maintaining social distancing. Nandigama DSP G V Ramana Murthy said that they have registered a case under Section 188 of IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-cadre-booked-for-naidus-visit/articleshow/76125153.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||Cop plants saplings in empty water bottles||Nashik: A traffic constable attached with the unit III of the city traffic branch has planted saplings in more than 200 empty water bottles that were discarded by the migrant workers who were travelling on the Mumbai-Agra highway near Pathardi Phata from Mumbai side. A few weeks back, a large number of migrant workers were travelling on the highway. Some were on on cycles, some on foot and some on trucks.T hese workers were travelling without any food or water during the lockdown so many social organisations and individuals came in large number and distributed food and water among them. Since the water bottles were discarded on the road, Jadhav started picking up as many as he could from around the traffic office on the highway. Without hampering his his duty, Jadhav started planting medicinal herbs in the empty bottles. He said, “Having served for 16 years in State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), where the emphasis was always on not letting things go to waste, I decided to plant saplings in the empty water bottles after cutting them and putting soil inside them.” The saplings have been hanged from the barricades around the traffic unit office. Nashik commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil appreciated Jadhav’s effort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cop-plants-saplings-in-empty-water-bottles/articleshow/76125832.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||MIDC cops in a fix after netting murder accused from Gujarat||NAGPUR: MIDC police team risked their lives to bring back petrol pump robbery and murder case mastermind Sagarsingh Bawari who was caught in Covid-19 hit Gujarat on May 27. But now they are in a fix after Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) couldn’t test him for Covid-19 on Saturday due to administrative issues. One of the cops has already fallen sick while senior inspector Hemant Kharabe, who had interrogated Bawari, too has stayed put outside his residence for the last two days. “GMCH wanted three days of hospitalization for testing Bawari for Covid-19. They were also reluctant as cops and Bawari were asymptomatic. As Bawari’s custody is ending on Monday, we had to bring him back to our lock up,” said Kharabe. A highly placed source in GMCH said that Covid-19 testing is being done promptly than before. The MIDC cops had taken Bawari into custody after travelling 2,700km travel through several Covid-19 hotspots across various districts of Maharashtra and Gujarat. They also remained without food for around two-and-half days in Gujarat due to the lockdown. Bawari had sneaked into Surat’s containment zone area at Pandol. MIDC police followed him with bare minimum protection of good quality masks, sanitizers and gloves. After resting at Pandol, where 150 patients are known to have tested positive, Bawari fled the place just when the cops stepped in there. The accused was on the run after murdering 62-year-old Pandhari Bhandarkar at a petrol pump on Wanadongri bypass May 21. He had also robbed Rs one lakh from the place. MIDC team under assistant police inspector Ramesh Hattigote, sub-inspector Nitin Madankar, asst sub-inspectors Vijay Nemade and Arvind Mohod chased Bawari through Gujarat’s several red zones until they received information about his presence at Palanpur. MIDC Cops took help of Palanpur police to trap Bawari. Senior inspector Kharabe of MIDC police station said that Bawari had earlier brutally eliminated a college principal. “Bawari is a dreaded criminal and we cannot afford to let him go scot-free due to Covid fear,” said Kharabe. The operation, under supervision of zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, even earned the team a reward of Rs one lakh from city police chief BK Upadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/midc-cops-in-a-fix-after-netting-murder-accused-from-gujarat/articleshow/76126313.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||PM Modi delivered bold reforms, says Jyotiraditya Scindia||BHOPAL: Former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said that the one-year of NDA 2.0 government has delivered historic and bold reforms under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP is observing the anniversary as ‘Sewa Divas’ and has initiated several drives on social media platforms to promote the welfare schemes and decisions taken by PM Modi during NDA 2.0’s first year in office. “One year of Modi 2.0 has delivered historic bold reforms and new thinking under the able leadership of the Prime Minister,” tweeted Scindia on Saturday. He also highlighted the works taken up to generate employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) amid the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.  BJP state president V D Sharma also said that the second term of the NDA government was historic due to its development programmes. He also called upon party workers and public to follow the lockdown guidelines and social distancing norms during lockdown 5.0, which will also be seen as unlock 1.0.  “PM Modi has appealed to the public to become self-reliant, which is extremely relevant in the present context. We will encourage people to promote self-reliance in every field. We have also appealed to party workers and public to keep caution amid the coronavirus spread in the state and strictly follow the guidelines issued by the PM during the lifting of lockdown restrictions,” said Sharma.  “BJP has also launched an awareness campaign amid opening of markets and business establishments in green zones”, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/modi-delivered-bold-reforms-says-scindia/articleshow/76125864.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nashik||In Mann Ki Baat, PM Narendra Modi praises Nashik farmer’s tractor-mounted sanitiser spraying machine||NASHIK: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised 60-year-old farmer and welding professional Rajendra Jadhav for his innovative tractor-mounted sanitiser spraying machine used to disinfect roads, doors, walls etc.. Modi said some people, like Satana’s Rajendra Jadhav, are helping the fight against Covid-19 with innovations. Jadhav’s machine, that took him just 25 days to develop, has also received recognition from the National Innovation Foundation of the Ministry of Science and Technology. He spent Rs 1.75 lakh to develop the sprayer mounted on a tractor. The machine is capable of sanitising large areas like roads, societies, doors, compounds, walls etc. The sprayer is now being used by the Satana municipal council. Moreover, Jadhav also developed one, o request from his friend, for use in a village in Dhule district. “I got the idea to develop a tractor-mounted sanitiser sprayer after few residents of the town tested Covid-19 positive. I tried to develop a sprayer immediately after the lockdown. I had to try hard to get the components needed during the lockdown,” Jadhav said. The sprayer consists of two aluminium radial fans, moving opposite to each other. In terms of the mechanism, each fan sucks air from two opposite directions. The air is released through nozzles at high pressure with minute droplets. As the panel rotates 180 degrees, it can cover an area from the ground level up to 15 feet in height. Any 15 HP tractor can be used to operate the sprayer. This sprayer has a capacity to store 600 litre of disinfectant mixed water in the tanker. Jadhav has named his innovative sprayer ‘Yashwant’ and has applied for a patent. He has also sent his design to the National Innovation Foundation. Yashwant has been identified as a potential S&T-based innovative solution in India’s fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/in-mann-ki-baat-pm-praises-nashik-farmers-tractor-mounted-sanitiser-spraying-machine/articleshow/76125847.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Two brothers drown in pond while taking selfie in Andhra||VIJAYAWADA: Two brothers drowned while trying to take a selfie on the bund of a pond at Gudivada in Krishna district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Kolusu Harshavardan (21) and Prem (18), residents of Mandapadu in Gudivada. Harshavardan was a final year B.Tech student and Prem, a second year polytechnic student. On Sunday they were trying to take a selfie at Pampula Cheruvu, a storage tank used for drinking water needs. While standing on the tank bund, Harshavardan slipped and fell in the pond. Prem jumped in to the pond to rescue his brother but drowned. L Ramesh, inspector, Gudivada Two Town station said a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-brothers-drown-while-taking-selfie/articleshow/76125163.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Safaris will not start on June 1, tourism industry disappointed||Edited - 315 Jaipur: With permission awaited from the central agencies, including the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Central Zoo Authority (CZA), safaris at tiger reserves, sanctuaries and biological parks will not open from from June 1. Chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar on Sunday issued the orders for the same. The safari at these parks and sanctuaries across the state were closed since March to curb the spread of coronavirus. The decision to not open the parks has disappointed the business community which are facing major losses. A wildlife enthusiast and a hotelier at Ranthmabore, who wished not to be named, said, “The forest administration follows NTCA norms as per its whims and fancies. The RNP alone earns approximately Rs 28 crore, whereas grants received by NTCA for tiger conservation is negligible. The government should take a stand to open the industry, which provides livelihood to lakhs of people.” Many claimed that the government decision to open the park for one month could have given a push to recover the industry. “Parks will be opened during the monsoon. No business during the peak season has left owners and employers in lurch,” said a tour operator. On Saturday, in view of the preparations to reopen safari for tourists, the forest department officials also held a meeting with the representatives of drivers and guides to discuss the standard operating procedures (SOP). A senior official said, the safety guidelines have been laid and the department is all set for operations once directions are received. A senior forest official at RNP said, “As a precaution, all tourist vehicles will be sanitised before going and after coming from the park tour. Sanitisers will also be arranged for tourists.” As per the initial SOPs submitted to the government, safari vehicles with 50% capacity should be operated in the park. It will also be mandatory for the drivers, guides and tourists to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/safaris-will-not-start-on-june-1-tourism-industry-disappointed/articleshow/76126320.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Two cops assaulted at quarantine centre, pradhan booked||LUCKNOW: Two policemen were brutally assaulted and bundled out of a quarantine centre in Deoria late Saturday after they responded to an SOS call from inmates, in what was the 20th attack on cops in UP since lockdown was clamped, leaving 100 of them critically injured in a 68-day span. The situation was brought under control after injured constables dialled police control room for reinforcements and the accused gram pradhan and his five goons were brought to book. The incident occurred at Pahadpur Purani Primary School in Khampar area of Deoria district, when the cops were enquiring about problems faced by inmates. SHO Khampar, Sudesh Sharma, said, he dispatched two constables, Rajesh Kumar and Satendra Kumar, to a quarantine centre after a call on UP 112. “When they were talking to inmates, an altercation ensued with the gram pradhan, who was joined by five aides. They thrashed the cops and brutally dragged them out of the quarantine centre. We immediately dispatched a team to control the situation,” said Sharma. The pradhan and his aides have been booked for attempt to murder, causing hurt to public servant on duty and Epidemic Act. Last week, six policemen were attacked when they visited the Baldirai quarantine centre in Sultanpur. A police vehicle was also damaged. On April 17, a sub-inspector and three constables suffered injuries when they were attacked by the owner of a garment store in Beniganj locality of Hardoi. On April 19, a sub-inspector and his team were injured when they were attacked by local residents during a raid on hooch units in Kasturipur Kasturi village in Prayagraj district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-cops-assaulted-at-quarantine-centre-pradhan-booked/articleshow/76126314.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Nimbahera wins the battle against Covid within a mth||Udaipur: Nimbahera, a town with a population of about 70,000, which was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic a few weeks ago, was declared corona-free on Saturday. The recovered patients in the cement town also received a heart touching letter from the district magistrate himself. The officer wished each one of them good health with a rose, and advised them to maintain social distance, follow SUMAN-K handwash technique and to share personal experience with others so as to motivate them not to take life for granted. As Chetan Deora, collector, Chittorgarh declared the town corona-free on Saturday, people rejoiced with a sigh of relief. The town had lived under great fears as it was under curfew and containment simultaneously after the first positive case was reported on April 26. “It was a blind case since the trader had been meeting everyone for almost 10 ten days after being infected and within a few hours after he was tested positive, he had to be put on ventilator. His house was in a congested lane and we knew the virus had by then infected many,” Deora told TOI. The administration and police department worked on the ‘dug out theory’ to find and scan close contacts of the trader and as they feared, almost 90% of the cases turned out from the single source. One by one 162 people were found positive till May 19. Rigorous sampling was adopted as 5,542 samples were tested which constitutes almost 8% of the town’s population. “We did not hesitate in taking samples despite knowing that more tests would mean more turnout of positive patients,” he said. Initially, the patients were sent to Udaipur govt hospital, but when the latter refused to take in more cases due to overload, the Chittorgarh administration had to find other ways. “We created two Covid care centres (CCC) for infected patients. It was beneficial as the viral load was minimum on CCC which helped in speedy recovery,” Deora said. Every quarantined person in the town was given a special kit consisting of 20ltrs water camper, glass, sanitiser, mask, towel, bucket-mug, soap, tooth paste-brush, hair oil, and dustbin. Step Down Centre (SDC) was another innovative step that was only implemented in Nimbahera in Rajasthan. “We introduced the concept of SDCs where the Covid patients discharged from CCC, after two consecutive negative test reports were kept. Medically recovered persons were kept in these SDCs for seven days. The purpose was to provide them a stress-free atmosphere, engage them in creative activities and also ensure proper quarantine,” Deora added. Since May 19, no new positive case has been reported while two consecutive reports have been tested negative for all the infected patients. Of the 162 patients, two died whereas 160 recovered completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nimbahera-wins-the-battle-against-covid-within-a-mth/articleshow/76126322.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||Goyal hails railway staff, defends transport of migrant workers||NEW DELHI: Railway minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the public transporter, which is set to re-introduce several train services from Monday, transported nearly twice the amount of foodgrain as the corresponding period last year during the lockdown besides ensuring there was no shortage of coal to fire power plants or even milk and medicines. “You need to give full credit to the railway personnel who are corona warriors and worked hard to ensure there was no shortage of foodgrain or even coal to keep power plants running,” Goyal told TOI in an interview. He also strongly countered criticism over handling the transport of migrants, which has seen 54 lakh people move from their places of work to their hometowns on 4,040 Shramik Specials. “There were 80 deaths on these trains, which is probably less than what we see in the normal course. We can’t test each passenger, and in this case, states had to test the passengers before they boarded,” he said. Asked about the widely reported death of a 35-year-old woman in Muzaffarpur, the minister said the passenger of the train that covered the distance from Ahmedabad in 41 hours against the usual 43 hours, was attended to the moment the situation was brought to the attention of the railway police. He said the child in the photograph removing the sheet from her body was not hers. She was travelling with her sister’s family. Goyal said the doctor who attended to her declared her dead and her family members said the death had occurred a few hours earlier and they only contacted the policemen on the train after speaking to relatives on phone. “There was no delay after it was brought to our attention… There is not a single case of death due to starvation or hunger on trains. Some pregnant women delivered on the train, but they should have been checked before they were allowed to board. It was the responsibility of the states,” he added. The minister also dismissed criticism over delays, saying up to May 19, most trains reached their destinations ahead of time. “They were point-to-point trains with few stoppages and the average speed was 50-60 km per hour. Delays started from May 20 when states wanted more stoppages and it took several hours, resulting in bunching,” he said. With 83% of the 256 trains a day going to UP and Bihar, the railways found itself dealing with a situation where there was a pile-up around Kanpur and Mughalsarai as most trains started late in the evening, instead of being evenly spread out through the day, Goyal said. This prompted some trains to take alternative routes but the number, the minister insisted, was small. “Not a single train was lost. In all, 71 trains were diverted over five days and no train took seven or nine days to reach its destination,” he said. Goyal also blamed states such as Maharashtra for reserving trains but not running them, resulting in a “diversion of resources”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goyal-hails-railway-staff-defends-transport-of-migrant-workers/articleshow/76126726.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Heatwave claims just one life this summer||VISAKHAPATNAM: The AP State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA) has recorded only one death due to heatwave this summer, compared to 28 heatwave deaths in 2019 and 1,369 in 2015. The death was reported at Machilipatnam mandal in Krishna district on May 20, APSDMA has said. The drastic fall in numbers is attributed to the lockdown and residents staying at home for over two months, coupled with wide circulation of government alerts on the heatwave. “Thankfully, we have registered only one death due to heat waves this summer 2020. This is far less compared to previous years,” said a source authorised by APSDMA to TOI. Andhra Pradesh registered a maximum temperature of 48 degrees Celsius at several places in Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Anantapur districts in the last week of May following Cyclone Amphan. A marginally lower maximum temperature of 47 degrees Celsius was recorded at places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts on May 22 and 23. “We were worried about the severe heat conditions and its impact on the people, particularly women, children and senior citizens. But the severe heat conditions did not affect the people in the state,” a disaster management official said. An official in the Visakhapatnam district administration said the government had instructed collectors to provide temporary shelters and organised health camps to mitigate the effect of the heatwave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heatwave-claims-just-one-life-this-summer/articleshow/76125186.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Social worker demands expert docs’ panel to control Covid-19 situation in Amravati||NAGPUR: Blaming Amravati’s various administrative authorities for massive blunders while handling the Covid-19 pandemic that led to many fatalities, a petitioner appealed to the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to constitute an expert panel of doctors to control the situation and also to boost RT PCR testing of patients. An affidavit submitted in the HC by petitioner Shivaray Kulkarni through counsel Pankaj Navlani claimed that the civil surgeon in the district had made an incorrect statement to the judges’ on testing of Covid-19 contacts in the last hearing. “The high risk contacts are not tested on many occasions. Amravati Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) affidavit shows that on two such occasions the swab samples of high risk contacts were not tested. In all, about 55 high risk contacts were not tested. In a district like Amravati, where the number of deaths due to the pandemic is more, such blunders are causing irreparable loss of lives,” he mentioned. The affidavit was filed in Kulkarni’s plea pointing towards non-compliance of ICMR guidelines by the AMC. He contended that the district witnessed manifold rise in the positive cases with the highest mortality rate and the pattern being unique. While pressing for stringent measures to control the exponential growth of the deadly virus in Amravati, he prayed for directives to the respondents for activating the Disaster Recovery Task Force. In his latest affidavit, the petitioner contended that mistakes on the part of various administrative authorities are costing human lives. “The mistakes that are being committed on very first positive case can’t be compensated by any means. Therefore, an expert panel of doctors is needed for conducting testing on a war footing,” he said. In the last hearing, the HC had directed the AMC and the collector to file an affidavit explaining why all high risk contacts were not tested, and to fix accountability on the authorities. It also asked the AMC and other authorities to explore implementing the Bhilwara pattern in Amravati to contain the exponential growth of coronavirus. It further directed the government to forward AMC’s proposal for 10,000 rapid antibody testing kits to ICMR at the earliest. Lawyer moves court for building community hall on nazul land A social activist and lawyer moved the civil court demanding a piece of Nazul land in Indora (Buddha Nagar) for construction of a community hall in the name of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar or Mahatma Jyotiba Fule. The court issued notices to the respondents, including the government. According to applicant Priyadarshani Wankhede’s lawyer Nitesh Samundre, a big piece of Nazul land in the locality, which was earlier allotted to Laxmandas Bajaj and thereafter in favour of his son Girdhar, is lying vacant and not being used since last 40-50 years. “Considering the population of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes residing in Indora (Buddha Nagar), the land could be used to build a community hall for them,” he contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/social-worker-demands-expert-docs-panel-to-control-covid-19-situation-in-amravati/articleshow/76126324.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Medical college for Marathwada still on paper||AURANGABAD: Since its announcement in the state legislature two years ago, there has been no development activity at the proposed new medical college in Osmanabad, Marathwada. Earlier this year, the state directorate of medical education and research (DMER) had sought acquisition of 26.5-acre land for raising the facility, but things have failed to progress beyond that. The district planning and development council (DPDC) for Osmanabad has already approved the proposal for setting up the medical college. “The government machinery as a whole has been busy fighting Covid-19 in the past around months and, therefore, a certain delay has taken place in setting up the medical college. However, we are hopeful that the facility will become a reality soon as a necessary follow-up is on,” said Shiv Sena MLA from Osmanabad Kailas Ghadge Patil. This will become the fifth medical institution in Marathwada after Aurangabad, Ambajogai , Nanded and Latur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/medical-college-for-marathwada-still-on-paper/articleshow/76124442.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Job fairs, skill training for local youths: Satej Patil||Kolhapur: District guradian minister Satej Patil on Sunday said in order to fill the gap of workers across various sectors the local youths will be provided training and soon a job fair will be organised to fill in all the vacant spots. According to primary estimates around 1lakh unskilled and semi-skilled workers, mostly migrants, have left the district. After relaxtion in lockdown rules, various industries, textile companies, among others are struggling to get back to normal due to lack of workers. “I have spoken at length with representatives of all sectors. These are challenging times, but the local youths have been provided an opportunity to learn the skills and get employed. The industries are ready to provide training, we too will open up training modules in existing facilities. We have starte an email and a WhatAapp number through which youth seeking employment can reach to the prospective employer. We are going to hold job fairs by June end at Ichalkaranji and Kolhapur city,” Patil said. He claimed that such efforts to make jobs available is the first attempt by any district in the state. “CREDAI is ready to provide training for those seeking job at construction sites while the labour department of the government is going to design the modules and provide training as per the need. For textile sector, we need labour force of 20,000 people, in hotel industry 5,000 workers are required immediately. We are trying to develop infrastructure set up for attracting the software firms in coming months. I have asked the representatives of various sectors to provide details of the workforce they require urgently as well as after few months from now,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/job-fairs-skill-training-for-local-youths-satej-patil/articleshow/76125870.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolhapur||10 buses to ply along 8 routes in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The city bus service is going to start partial operations from Monday. In the first phase, a fleet of 10 buses will ferry passengers along eight major routes between 7am and 7pm. Market Yard, Sugar Mill, Kalamba, Bondrenagar, R K Nagar and Nana Patil Nagar are some of the major routes where the Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) will be running buses. The buses plying outside the city will start in the next phase. Only one passenger will be allowed in one seat. Senior citizens and children below the age of 10 years will not be allowed to board the buses. Buses will ply only if they have the required number of passengers, meaning no time table has been fixed to start the buses. Additional manager of KMT Subash Desai said, “Around 10 buses will ply in the first phase along eight major routes. The standard operating procedure has been fixed to ensure sanitisation and observe social distancing. It is compulsory for the passengers, drivers as well as ticket-collectors to wear masks. Passengers will be given hand sanitiser before and after boarding the buses. The buses will be sanitised before and after every service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-buses-to-ply-along-8-routes-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76125878.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||5.5 lakh migrants not willing to return||Jaipur: ‘No response’ from registered inbound and outbound migrants to return to their native places in Rajasthan and other states have reduced the financial burden on the state. Officials said out of 12.50 lakh inbound migrants registered for return, 7.5 lakh have returned. Most from the remaining 5.5 lakh migrants are either not responding or refusing to return leaving officials to revise their allocation of resources. Inbound migrants from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana are among the majority who didn’t want to return. Transport commissioner Ravi Jain said now for every 100 return calls to registered migrants, only 10% are responding. “The reasons respondents are giving is that they are expecting the opening of industries or manufacturing units at their host place and duplication of registration. It has reduced the number of homebound migrants and those heading out,” said Jain. The state had recorded 12.5 lakh and 11.5 lakh registrations for inbound and outbound migrants respectively on its helpline number. It appears that their decision not to return has reduced the financial burden on the state but also causing trouble to officials who have to revise the travel itinerary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-5-lakh-migrants-not-willing-to-return/articleshow/76126323.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Side-effects of corona: Fear of job loss, insecurity triggering anxiety, depression||LUCKNOW: Rakesh Sharma (31) has been struggling with generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) for over six months, but his problem aggravated in last one month after he lost his job due to economic slump triggered by coronavirus pandemic. “Earlier, I used to manage my condition by keeping busy but now sitting idle at home with bleak future, I am on the verge of nervous breakdown,” says Sharma, who used to work as regional manager for a publication house in Lucknow. As mental health issues are on the rise among youth due to the pandemic, the Indian Academy of Health Psychology (IAHP) has recorded 30-40% rise in cases of anxiety and 25% in depression in the country ever since lockdown came into force. A similar trend is being recorded in the city. The Academy has deployed over 200 mental health professionals, including eight in Lucknow, to provide counseling to people online or on call. According to psychologists, maximum cases of anxiety and depression these days are due to job loss or fear of unemployment in the age group of 18-35 years. President, Indian Academy of Health Psychology, Prof Anand Kumar, a resident of Varanasi, says: “Most cases are of panic and fear of an unforeseen situation of joblessness, low income, students worrying about their career and pending examinations.” Hemant Kumar, who works at a restaurant in Lucknow, has been taking free mental health counselling sessions due to hyper anxiety caused by possibility of a lay-off. “In March, we were asked to work on half of our salary for a few months. We haven’t received our salary for April. It has been difficult to pay house rent and school fee of children,” he says. “Joblessness and fear of unemployment is high among youth and middle-age people. In some patients, the anxiety level is so high that they are developing suicidal tendency,” says psychologist and professor Manju Agarwal. “A few days ago, a boy called late night. He was anxious about his future and asked what if his school doesn’t make adequate safety arrangements,” says psychologist Dr Jagriti Tripathi. Cases of adjustment problems have also increased manifold. Dr Neerja Pandey, rehabilitation psychologist, says: “A young girl called to share about domestic violence in her family. Earlier, she used to adjust to the situation but it became difficult for her with time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/side-effects-of-corona-fear-of-job-loss-insecurity-triggering-anxiety-depression/articleshow/76126331.cms||Aditi Singh
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: No. of recoveries double the no. of fresh infections in MP||BHOPAL: The number of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday were almost double the number of fresh infections. As many as 398 people recovered from Covid and on the same day 198 also tested positive. With this, the number ofcorona cases in the state cross the 8,000 mark and reached 8,089. In addition, nine deaths were also reported from different districts of the state — three from Indore and one each in Bhopal, Ujjain, Sagar and Sheopur districts. The death toll in the state is now 350. New cases were reported from Indore (55), Bhopal (45), Anuppur (12), Ujjain (10), Barwani (10), Sagar (8), Vidisha (7), Neemuch (6), Burhanpur (5), Jabalpur (5), Damoh (5), Panna (5), Sheopur (5), Sehore (4), Khargone (3), Betul (3), Chhatarpur (3), Rajgarh (2) and Gwalior (1), Dindori (1), , Chhindwara (1), , Umaria (1), and Guna (1). With 398 people recovering from the disease in a single day the tally of positive patients who have recovered so far increased to 4,842 in the state. This is close to 60% of the total patients who have tested positive so far in the state. At present there are only 2897 active patients in the state while 4842 have recovered. So far reports of 1.67 lakh samples have been received and of these 8,089 have tested positive. Administration has declared 936 localities across these 51 affected districts as containment zones and movement in these containment zones is strictly restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-of-recoveries-double-the-no-of-fresh-infections-in-mp/articleshow/76125886.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||2 ex-CICs demand Varavara’s release||HYDERABAD: Two former Central Information Commissioners (CIC) - Professor M Sridhar Acharyulu and Shailesh Gandhi, on Sunday wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking the release of jailed revolutionary writer and accused in Bhima Koregaon case, Varavara Rao, who is undergoing treatment at JJ Hospital in Mumbai. In their letter, the former CICs said that Varavara Rao should be immediately released and government should not oppose his bail plea. If that is not possible they should shift him to a Hyderabad hospital or permit his family to visit him in Mumbai. “Facilitate video conferencing between the writer and his family members in Hyderabad, disclose complete details of his medical conditions and diagnostic reports,’’ they said in the letter. Apart from these two CICs, Communist Part of India (CPI) leader K Narayana has also demanded the release of the poet. On Sunday, members of Forum Against Repression, demanded in a press conference that Varavara Rao be released and shifted immediately to Hyderabad for medical treatment in view of his age and illness. For last three days, the poet has been undergoing treatment after he suffered giddiness while in a Maharashtra prison. The writer’s bail plea is expected to be heard on June 2 by NIA special court in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-ex-cics-demand-varavaras-release/articleshow/76126325.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Weavers seek central bailout||AMARAVATI: Weavers in the state have urged the Centre to spare at least Rs 5,000 crore under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to the bail out the handloom sector that has been bit by Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown. The funds, weavers said, could be spent to supply dhotis and saris to 23 crore BPL families, which will ensure regular work to weavers through cooperative societies. While weavers will directly benefit to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore through wages, Rs 2,000 crore can be spent on raw material. The funds will also boost small-scale spinning units, said president of National Federation of Handlooms and Handicrafts, Macherla Mohan Rao. In a representation sent to principal advisor to the Union finance minister, Sanjeev Sanyal, Mohan Rao requested the Union minister announce a special package for weavers. “Recirculation of Rs 5,000 crore in the domestic market will be not less than four times in a year, which means a Rs 20,000 crore boost to the economy,” said Mohan Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/weavers-seek-central-bailout/articleshow/76125209.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Four injured in accident at CSTPS||CHANDRAPUR: Four contract labourers were injured, one of them seriously, in an accident at Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station on Sunday morning. The workers — Chhotelal Katare, Sachin Yerekar, Vinod Walke and Sandeep Lawade — fell from the nine-metre high scaffolding in generation unit no. 6, closed for overhaul, after clinker in the boiler started falling on them. The injured were rushed to a private hospital. Three of them, having minor injuries, were discharged after first aid, while fourth labourer Lawade having some serious injuries has been admitted to Chandrapur GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-injured-in-accident-at-cstps/articleshow/76126337.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based foundation helps needy, provides ration kits to 150 families||HYDERABAD: A city-based foundation vowed to continue its services to ensure that as much essentials as possible are made available to needy people in these challenging times. Almost 150 needy families were helped by the Healing Train Foundation, who distributed food essentials at Masab Tank area, in the wake of lockdown extention. At the time of distribution, the volunteers ensured social distancing, safety and sanitation of the people. Each ration kit will last a week for a family of four and contains a combination of basic staples such as rice, oil and pulses. Participating as a chief guest, Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of H.E.H late Nawab Mir Osman Ali Ali Khan Bahadur Nizam VII, said, “We must leverage our resources to support the community in these testing times. We must educate the community in various aspects like hand washing, social distancing and other measures they must adapt to avoid contamination.” Komal Swaroop, co-founder, Healing Train Foundation, said they had assisted needy people by distributing 5,000 food packets to migrants and slum dwellers, 2,000 ration kits to needy families who have lost out on employment in time of crisis, 5,000 masks to police department and daily wagers, 120 face visors to essential suppliers and 150 litres of sanitisers. They have also distributed food essentials to care homes & orphanages and water bottles & snacks to migrants walking home on highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-based-foundation-helps-needy-provides-ration-kits-to-150-families/articleshow/76126344.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||One dead, several hurt after two groups clash||VIJAYAWADA: Clashes between two groups left one dead at Patamata in Vijayawada. The incident took place on Saturday evening where nearly 30 youngsters, mostly students, attacked each other with sticks, knives and stones. While most of them sustained injuries, one person, identified as Thota Sandeep, died on Sunday while being treated. According to DCP, V Harshavardhan Raju, there was a dispute between Sandeep and a certain Manikanta over a property. On Saturday they met at an open land to settle the issue. However, both of them came along with their friends. They began with a verbal dual, which soon spiralled out of control. They attacked each other with sticks, knives, stones and bricks. The locals informed the police after the fight started and Patamata police rushed to the spot. They broke up the fight and shifted the injured to two separate hospitals. Many of them involved in the fight received grievous injuries but their condition is said to be stable. Harshavardhan said that they have registered a case against all the persons involved in the fight. He said six teams have been constituted to probe the issue and trace all the persons involved in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-dead-several-hurt-after-two-groups-clash/articleshow/76125221.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Aurangabad||No call on Marathwada Development Board’s fate||Aurangabad: Even if Marathwada Development Board stands dissolved for almost one month now, the state government has not taken any call regarding the revival of the statutory body. While the Opposition has already demanded extension for the Board, the state government has not responded to the call yet. State Congress delegate Jitendra Dehade said the ruling party leaders beting occupied with battling the Covid-19 pandemic might be the reason behind the delay in taking the official call. “Containing the current pandemic situation is the sole priority before the government. The Marathwada Development Board has a long standing history and expected to stay in future too. However, the alliance will unanimously take a formal call soon,” he said. Established with two other development boards — Vidarbha and Rest of Maharashtra on May 1, 1994 — the board got its term extended till April 30, 2020 by a presidential order five years ago. BJP spokesperson Shirish Boralkar accused the ruling alliance for politicising the issue.“The statutory body works under the purview of state governor by virtue of its constitution. The ruling alliance is not okay with such functioning of the Board and wants to curtail the powers of the governor. The Covid-19 outbreak is just an excuse and the government does not want to extend the tenure of the board in present circumstances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-call-on-marathwada-development-boards-fate/articleshow/76124452.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||One dies, 214 test positive on last day of Lockdown 4.0||Edited 262 (gfx mailed to deepesh) Times News Network JAIPUR: One person died here and 214 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday bringing the tally of infected persons to 8,831 and fatalities to 194. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (54), Jaipur (30), Bharatpur (18), Jhalawar (15), Kota (14), Udaipur (11), Nagaur (10), Pali (10), Dungarpur (9), Jhunjhunu (7), Dholpur (7), Rajsamand (6), Ajmer (6), Sikar (5), Bhilwara (3), Sirohi (2), Bikaner (2), Churu (2), Karauli (1), Pratapgarh (1) and Tonk (1). In all, 293 more persons have been cured of Covid-19 bringing the count of such patients to 6,032. Health department claimed that the recovery rate had touched new high on Saturday evening when 67% of the total cases had been cured. “It means that two out of three Covid-19 cases in the state have recovered,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). However, Since May 1, the number of migrants testing positive have increased to 2,518. In Jhalawar, where 264 persons tested positive till date, 193 were found infected in the last five days. In Jaipur, 22 different places reported 30 cases on Sunday. Three persons each were found infected in Kaladera and Hasanpura, while two persons each tested positive in district jail, Bhojpura of Phagi, Bagru Walon Ka Rasta and Jamwaramgarh. One person each was diagnosed with Covid-19 in Malviya Nagar, Jagannathpura, Kalyanpura of Bassi, Film Colony, Murlipura, Kachhi Basti of Jawahar Nagar, Green Park of Jhotwara, Kishanpole Bazaar, Shastri Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Vatika of Sanganer, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Baba Harish Chand Marg, Jawahar Nagar, Chaugan stadium and Amanpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-dies-214-test-positive-on-last-day-of-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/76126338.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||Tobacco users more likely to contract Covid||Bhopal: In a move to curb rising tobacco consumption, especially among youths and children, the National Centre for Human Settlements and Environment (NCHSE) has urged the state government to implement tobacco vendor licencing rules on World No Tobacco Day, here on Sunday. In the backdrop of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, NCHSE director Pradip Nandi reiterated that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has also warned that smokers are at a higher risk to get infected with coronavirus. “As per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) dated April 24, the state government through the districts magistrate of Bhopal had issued orders for completely prohibiting the use of tobacco and spitting in public places to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It stated that ban on tobacco products should continue even after the lockdown period”, Nandi said. The international research unit at the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids recently produced a factsheet on the evidence that justifies concerns about smoking and vaping amid the coronavirus pandemic. It highlights what is known about the effects of smoking and vaping on the respiratory system and immunity as well as the causal relationship between smoking and non-communicable diseases. It also highlights two strong study finding that smokers carry greater risk of experiencing more severe progression of Covid-19, including death. The theme of World No Tobacco Day 2020 is ‘Protecting youth from industry manipulation and preventing them from tobacco and nicotine use’. The aim is to sensitise and make youngsters aware of the harmful effects of tobacco use and expose the tactics employed by the cigarette industry to attract them. Through this campaign, the WHO encourages everyone to gain knowledge, spread awareness, and create a ‘tobacco-free generation’. *** DEADLY ADDICTION Gfx Prohibition on sale of tobacco and related products should continue even after the lockdown period to help save lives 13.5 lakh tobacco related deaths occur each year in India of which about 91,000 people die due to tobacco-related ailments in Madhya Pradesh alone In order to comply with Sections 4,5,6 and 7 of the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply, and Distribution) Act, 2003 (COTPA), the department of urban development (Madhya Pradesh) issued a circular on September 20, 2018 and directed all urban local bodies to develop a mechanism to provide permission/authorisation/ vendor licencing to retail shops selling tobacco products with restriction on sale on non-tobacco products such as candies, chips, soft drinks, etc. Law prohibits sale of tobacco to minors and within 100 yards of educational institutions The mechanism of vendor licencing is yet to be enforced||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tobacco-users-more-likely-to-contract-covid/articleshow/76125911.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Covid distancing to go for a toss in trains as RAC passengers allowed||Nagpur: Even as railway ministry will launch 100 pair of (200) passengers trains from June 1, social (Covid-19) distancing will go for a toss with the Railway Board allowing even reservation against cancellation (RAC) passengers. Earlier, when the Railway Board decided to run these trains, it had specifically said that only confirmed ticket holders will be allowed to board these trains. “Now even RAC passengers will be allowed. So, what about Covid-19 distancing? After train services resumed those who have been detected coronavirus positive in various districts were travellers who returned from other states. Under such circumstances, RAC passengers should not be allowed,” said Brijbhushan Shukla of Rail Yatri Sangh. On June 1, Hyderabad-Delhi and Secunderabad-Danapur trains will pass from Nagpur. TOI has already reported that with the announcement on May 20, berths in these trains were booked the next day. As per railways statistics, on Day 1, more than 1.45 lakh passengers are expected to travel in these 200 trains. Over 26 lakh passengers booked for advance reservation period from June 1 to June 30, 2020. These services will be in addition to ‘Shramik Specials’ and 30 AC trains being run from May 12. Senior railway officials, who did not want to be quoted, said, “It is true that in earlier advisory, RAC passengers were not allowed in these pair of trains, but there are always last minute cancellations and RAC get confirmed.” Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK) general secretary Basant Shukla said, “Even if RAC berths are meant for sitting during the day journey, what about night? Who will be responsible if such passengers, though look asymptomatic, are carriers of Covid-19.” These trains are on lines of regular trains and are fully reserved having both AC & non-AC classes. Even general coaches have reserved sitting accommodation. There will be no unreserved coach in the trains. On Sunday, total bookings of passengers was over 25.82 lakh. Booking of tickets for these trains is being done online, at reservation counters and through ticketing agents. The advance reservation period (ARP) of all 230 specials has been increased from 30 to 120 days. Current booking and tatkal quota allocation of seats to road side stations to be same as in regular trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-distancing-to-go-for-a-toss-in-trains-as-rac-passengers-allowed/articleshow/76125921.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda PSI attacked by liquor smugglers||CHANDRAPUR: A police sub-inspector was injured after liquor smugglers attacked him during a raid on Saturday. PSI Jeewan Lakde has suffered serious injuries on face and head. Sources informed that Lakde had a tip-off about liquor smuggler Amit Gupta carrying a consignment of booze into the city. The PSI along with a few cops followed Amit, who was carrying liquor boxes on a moped to his house in Mahakali ward. The cops intercepted Amit near his house and recovered four boxes of country liquor and detained him. While the cops were taking Amit to city police station, his parents and two others attacked the cops, freed the detainee and fled from the spot. Lakde suffered injuries on head and face. After Lakde filed a complaint, cops have arrested four people, including Amit’s parents. However, the main accused Amit is absconding. Cops have obtained three-day PCR of the four arrested accused. This is the second instance of attack on raiding authorities during the lockdown. Earlier, a shopkeeper involved in illegal sale of kharra had attacked FDA inspector during a raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-psi-attacked-by-liquor-smugglers/articleshow/76126348.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||BAMS, BUMS holders sulk as pay hike given only to MBBS docs||Nagpur: Denial of salary hike by the government on the lines of allopathic practitioners has irked the BAMS and BUMS practitioners. Government of Maharashtra, on May 29, issued a resolution and gave substantial salary hike to doctors working on contract (bond service) in state. But, the GR specifically mentions that the hike is exclusively for MBBS doctors working on contract. There are many BAMS (ayurveda) and BUMS (unani) doctors in state doing similar work in villages for years and even during Covid-19 crisis. They have been deprived of salary hike. National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA), Maharashtra branch, has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about this injustice and demanded that the benefit of salary hike should be extended to them too. “BAMS and BUMS degree holders are working in rural and tribal areas since years. They work at par with the MBBS doctors. In fact, in rural areas, BAMS doctors share more burden of public healthcare,” reads a statement issued by NIMA president Dr GS Kulkarni. “Non-MBBS doctors are working in all types of clinical establishments right from primary health centre to rural hospitals. As Covid-19 cases are now growing in rural areas, they are providing services in quarantine centres, Covid care centres, isolation wards, screening centres and also in OPDs. Their salaries are not revised since years,” said Dr Anil Bajare, general secretary of NIMA. In fact, in Maharashtra, all MBBS, MS, MD, diploma and super speciality doctors graduating from government and municipal medical colleges have to render mandatory service to the government for a stipulated period. This is called bond service. The present GR was issued to revise salaries of such bonded doctors. BAMS and BUMS degree-holders need not to go through such bond service. “We admit that BAMS and BUMS doctors are not asked for bond service. But, bonded doctors work for a year or two and go back to their cities. On the other hand, BAMS doctor posted in the same rural hospital remains working for years together and serves rural masses. Then why such discrimination?,” asked Dr Vishnu Bawane, member of press committee of NIMA. NIMA has also pointed out that doctors working in same hospital, serving same patients face same risks during Covid-19 period. “Government itself appoints BAMS and BUMS doctors on various posts, but when it comes to salary revision, we face discrimination. Our salaries are not even half of what the bonded MBBS doctors are getting for the same work we do,” said Dr Sampada Sawant, a BAMS medico serving in rural health centre in Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bams-bums-holders-sulk-as-pay-hike-given-only-to-mbbs-docs/articleshow/76125954.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Long queues, traffic: Normalcy returns in phases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Life in the City of Destiny is gradually returning to what it was before the lockdown was imposed after the state government allowed most shops and other commercial establishments to function. Long queues were spotted in front of electronic showrooms in Diamond Park and at garments store in Jagadamma on Saturday afternoon. Rythu bazaars and neighbourhood salons were overcrowded on Sunday morning. “After many days – on Saturday afternoon – we could see the same usual traffic snarls at Carshed crossing every time the signal went red. There were trucks and long-distance buses carrying migrant labourers, but local cars and autos could be spotted in large number in the queues. Vizagites have started hitting the road,” said a traffic constable on duty. Since March 22 – the day of the Janata Curfew – Visakhapatnam’s roads were deserted as city police imposed the lockdown. Residents would come out every morning to visit the local market and grocery stores for essential commodities. Many preferred home deliveries instead. It was on May 4 that people started coming out of their homes as the government allowed a fex relaxations and permitted liquor stores to carry out business till 7 pm. However, the city’s roads continued to remain free of traffic as apart from liquor stores and pharmacies, no other shops were permitted to remain open in the evening. “It was last Sunday that most shops were allowed to start operations and most of the shops are open till 4 pm. The first few days there were hardly any customers. But, on this Saturday and Sunday, we have got some customers. Hopefully, this is the beginning of a fresh start,” said S Sanmukh Rao, owner of an electronic showroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/long-queues-traffic-normalcy-returns-in-phases/articleshow/76125235.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 33% shops to open from today, public transport after a week||BHOPAL: As lockdown 4.0 came to an end on May 31, several more relaxations are likely in the state capital from June 1. The guidelines were issued in this regards by the state home department late on Sunday night. Bhopal district administration, however, did not issue any fresh orders on Sunday and it will be decided by officials on Monday. As per the home department orders, from June 1, 33% shops may be opened in Bhopal Municipal Corporation limits as per the rosters. It is noteworthy that district administration has already prepared a roster and has fixed days for categories of shops to remain open in the markets for six days a week, barring Sunday, since May 26. Sources said that in the light of the fresh directions by the state home department number of shops that are opening now may be increased. So far only government offices with 50% attendance were allowed in the state capital, but now with the directions from the home department, private offices may also be allowed to operate with 50% attendance. Home department’s directives say that public buses and other public transport will not be allowed in state capital till June 7, however it is also instructed that buses and transport vehicles run by factories and organisations for transporting workers and employees may be allowed in the state capital. Till now, district administration had imposed night curfew between 7 pm and 7 am, the timings of this curfew may be extended between 9 pm and 5 am. Instructions of the home department say that though schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed, the examinations that were announced by the Madhyamik Shiksha Mandal will be conducted as per the schedules. Sources from the district administration said that the ward-wise situation would be assessed by district collector and district crisis management committee in the light of the home department’s instructions and then decision would be taken on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/33-shops-to-open-from-today-public-transport-after-a-week/articleshow/76125935.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam, minister spar over farmers||Hyderabad: Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy and Congress MP Uttam Kumar Reddy had a heated argument at a meeting on Sunday with the former asserting that TRS was pro-farmer and the latter accusing the TRS of cheating farmers. The argument began when Uttam objected to Jagadish’s claims on crop loan waiver, Rythu Bandhu and procurement of farm produce. Uttam said Rs 1 lakh crop loan waiver promise is yet to be implemented. He said 50% of the farmers did not get Rythu Bandhu sop in Yasangi season. The minister shot back stating Congress is against the welfare of farmers. “While previous government’s did nothing to make agriculture profitable, now Congress does not even want TRS to do it,” he said. Mild tension prevailed as supporters of the two leaders raised slogans, however, the situation was brought under control. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-minister-spar-over-farmers/articleshow/76125944.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Minor gang-raped at knifepoint||NAGPUR: Four persons, including dreaded goon Rohit Ramteke, were booked on Saturday for gang-raping a 16-year-old at knifepoint on May 4. The goons had picked up the girl — a student of standard XI — while she was on her way to a relative’s place, and dropped the survivor at her residence the following day. Police said four persons, including Rohit, had whisked away the girl on two bikes and went to an apartment in the outskirts of the city. They had gang raped her for the whole night. She had earlier approached police but her complaint was registered after probing her version. Apart from Rohit, the others who have been booked are Akash, Saurabh and Chandu. An offence has been registered at Ajni police station. Ramteke has been booked for cases of gang rape in the past too. He is now lodged in Nagpur Central Jail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-gang-raped-at-knifepoint/articleshow/76126340.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's SMS Hospital will treat non-Covid patients from today||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, which was converted into a Covid-19 centre, will now handle others patients. RUHS Hospital at Pratap Nagar will be the new Covid-19 treatment hospital in the city. In an effort to make SMS Hospital free from Covid-19 patients, the last 61 patients were shifted to RUHS Hospital by ambulances on Saturday. “From Monday, SMS Hospital will treat all kinds of patients. In the initial period, the OPD, IPD and emergency services for such patients was available at SMS Hospital,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. Sharma said Covid-19 experts from SMS Hospital will take care of patients at RUHS Hospital. However, OPD for influenza-like illness patients will continue at Charak Bhawan, which will be shifted to Pharmacy College soon. Mahila Chikitsalaya will continue treating Covid-19 patients, while Zanana hospital will provide services to non-Covid-19 patients. Recently, Jaipuria Hospital has also been made non-Covid-19 institute. With the increase in pandemic cases in the city, the state government had converted SMS Hospital into a Covid-19 centre in March. In the past two months, the OPD registration at SMS Hospital suffered badly and it came down to 10% to 20% as non-Covid patients, due to fear and apprehension of getting infected, did not come for treatment. “We have completed all the preparations to treat non-Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-hosp-will-treat-non-covid-patients-from-today/articleshow/76126354.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital in red zone, US Nagar in green, rest 11 districts of U’khand orange||Dehradun: Chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh on Sunday issued new zone categorisation of districts across the state. As per the new categorisation, Nainital has been placed in red zone while Udham Singh Nagar is now in green zone. The remaining 11 districts, including Dehradun, are in orange zone. As per the guidelines, offices and other services in red zone will remain operational from 7 am to 4 pm and public vehicles will remain suspended apart from those picking and dropping people to railway stations or airports. The government offices in red zone, too, will operate till 4 pm. People would need proper registration and valid pass to entry and exit Nainital district. The district magistrate will decide the containment zones and buffer zones in their respective areas, as per government protocol. All non-essential activities in orange and green zone will remain suspended from 7 pm to 7 am. People will have to get mandatory registration at Dehradun Smart City Ltd portal in case they are travelling to any district within the state, the directions said. “Those coming from other states via road in personal or commercial vehicles will have to get mandatory pass from Dehradun Smart City portal. Those taking trains and flight to come to the state will have to follow the standard protocols set up by disaster management authorities,” stated the press release issued by the chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-in-red-zone-us-nagar-in-green-rest-11-districts-of-ukhand-orange/articleshow/76124485.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Man hacks brother to death in Maharashtra's Beed||AURANGABAD: A 30-year-old man has been arrested by Beed police on Sunday for killing his brother with an axe — the ninth murder to be reported in the district within a fortnight. The murder spree is keeping the police on their toes with Beed superintendent of police (SP) Harssh Poddar issuing directives, asking all police station chiefs to treat every complaint and piece of information seriously and initiate appropriate preventive action. The latest incident took place in Dindrud of Majalgaon tehsil sometime on Saturday night. According to preliminary probe, the suspect, Gajanan Dashrath Kale, was in an inebriated state and got into an altercation with his 26-year-old brother Laxman. The altercation soon turned violent following which Gajanan picked up an axe and attacked Laxman. “Based on the complaint lodged by their mother an offence was registered at Dindrud police station and the suspect was arrested,” a police officer said. As per police record, on May 14, three members of a tribal family were lynched over land dispute in Mangvadgaon village of Kej tehsil of Beed district. This was followed by a man killing his wife and two sons in Shukrawarpeth area on May 24. The remaining two incidents also involved killing of a two women by their respective husbands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-hacks-brother-to-death-in-beed/articleshow/76124476.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown hits admissions in vernacular schools||NAGPUR: Private-aided vernacular schools in Nagpur say the lockdown has hit their admission drive, something which is vital for their institution’s survival. In aided schools, salaries of teachers are paid from state coffers and the validity of their post is directly connected with the number of students enrolled. Principal of Methodist High School (Marathi medium), Sundeep Gaikwad, said they travel to far off places to get students. “Last year I went to small villages near Pench to find students. Our school has a hostel too so we can accommodate them here, all without any charge,” said Gaikwad. He added that ultimately it has become a matter of survival for all. “The number of students determine the number of teachers in a school. If the numbers drop then teachers will be categorized as ‘excess’ and taken off duty. If no other position is found for them then it could mean no-work, no-pay and possibly losing retirement benefits like pension,” said Gaikwad. At least two staff members must be allowed in the school to start basic paperwork, feels Madhusudan Mude, principal of Major Hemant Jakate High School (Marathi medium). “Our condition is not like the big brand private schools where people themselves line up to take admissions. Here we have to go out and scout for admissions in slums and far flung areas. So schools must be allowed to open up even for non-board exam-related work so that we can try to get new admissions,” said Mude. Teachers of Anjuman School (Mahal), an Urdu medium institution, started survey for prospective students from March itself. “Teachers visited the outskirts of the city to find students. We pay for their transportation to school. Obviously books and uniforms are also given free of cost,” said principal Nazra Patel. The admission rate will take a hit this year, feels Premlata Tiwari, principal of Bhola High School. “I think admissions will be down by 50% this year as students from the outskirts won’t come due to the Covid-19 fear. I think parents will prefer to enrol them in neighbourhood schools,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-hits-admissions-in-vernacular-schools/articleshow/76126353.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Wife strangles alcoholic man to death in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A woman strangled her alcoholic husband at their house in Dubba area of Nandipet mandal of Nizamabad district on Sunday. The deceased, G Ramesh (42), was a mason. “Ramesh used to harass his family members in an inebriated condition. On Saturday night, he came home drunk and started assaulting his wife Padma and abused his three children using foul language. During the altercation, in the early hours of Sunday, Padma strangled Ramesh using a rope, and Ramesh died on the spot. We are also verifying if her teenage sons were involved,” Armoor (Rural) CI Vijay Kumar said. Police booked a murder case and took Padma into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wife-strangles-alcoholic-man-to-death/articleshow/76125972.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||Religious places of Bhopal chalk out plan to reopen temples from June 8||BHOPAL: Places of worship in the city are all set to open from June 8. However, the religious leaders say they are awaiting government guidelines to ensure social distancing and sanitization. While a few temples and churches have already started chalking out the plans for reopening, rest will hold a series of meetings from June 3, after receiving the guidelines. Some temples have decided to do away with ‘prasad’ and flowers in offerings to further minimize the risk of infection. K K Pandey, member of the management committee of Birla Mandir, said, “We have decided not to let devotees bring flowers and prasad after reopening of the temples. We will also ensure that devotees sanitise their hands before they enter the temple premises. No one will be allowed to enter without masks on.” Churches of the city have asked people not to bring kids and elderly citizens for the mass. Father Maria Stephen, PRO of Bhopal Archdiocese said, “We have asked the church managements to allow only two people to sit at opposite ends of the benches. Churches can decide the maximum number of the people. We are also planning to increase the number of masses to ensure social distancing.” Sheher Quazi Syed Mushtaq Ali Nadvi said that the mosques of Bhopal are waiting for the guidelines. “Once the guidelines are out, we will chalk out the future course of action and ensure that people coming to pray maintain a six-foot distance, wear masks and follow rules regarding sanitization to ensure the safety of their own selves as well as others while praying. We will strictly abide by all the guidelines,” he said. PRO of Bittan Market Gurudwara, Gurucharan Singh Bhatti said, “The Gurudwara committee will take a decision after the guidelines are released. We have so far only discussed that we will only let a small number of people, say 10, enter the Gurudwara at once so that social distancing can be easily maintained. As people are aware themselves, we are sure they will also cooperate with us and follow the guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/religious-places-of-the-city-chalk-out-plan-to-reopen-temples-from-june-8/articleshow/76125966.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Paddy major agricultural commodity in surplus in Telangana: ICMR report||HYDERABAD: Telangana has surplus in production of four agricultural commodities— paddy, fruits, chillies and turmeric— by 1 crore 3 lakh tonnes, as per the assessment report on the recommended consumption per year by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It said the major agricultural commodity in surplus in the state was paddy. According to the report, during the year 2019- 20, the state produced 1.98 crore tonnes of paddy. As per the ICMR’s dietary guidelines, each person is recommended to consume 225 kg of rice per year. ICMR recommends that each person should consume 45 kg of fruits, and the state produced 41 lakh tonnes of fruits with a surplus of 23 lakh tonnes. The fruit that is mostly consumed by people in the state was banana. In view of the export of agricultural produce to other states in the country and the Middle East, the state government has decided to increase production of agricultural commodities that are in demand. While paddy is grown by most farmers as the government has fixed Minimum Support Price (MSP) for it, turmeric farmers have been demanding the government to raise the MSP of their produce. However, the government has not fixed MSP for fruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paddy-major-agri-commodity-in-surplus-in-t-icmr-report/articleshow/76125963.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Machine tools & machinery manufacturers face 70% labour shortage||Ludhiana: Labour shortage is pinching the machine tools and machinery manufacturers very hard and the industry is missing the opportunity to cater to bulk orders. Ludhiana is the biggest hub of machine tools and machinery manufacturing in India and has a variety of manufacturers who make products ranging from power presses, hammers, CNC machines, lathes machines, forging presses, etc. Ever since the factories have been allowed to re-open, the machine tool and machinery manufacturers have been getting orders for supply of the machines but due to huge number of migrant workers leaving Ludhiana for their home states, the industry is struggling to complete their orders. According to the industrialists they are facing shortage of 70% labour and situation seems to be deteriorating daily. According to Manjit Singh Matharoo, general secretary of FICO’s mega machine tool cluster, said, “Machine tools manufacturing industry is in a very serious problem right now due to huge shortage of workers. As of now we are experiencing 70% labour shortage. Unlike other industries we still have some orders in hand but it seems impossible to process these due to non-availability of labour. This unprecedented problem has occurred due to exodus of workers from Ludhiana in the wake of lockdown. Industrialists tried their best to hold the workers back but all our efforts, be it supporting workers financially or doing anything else turned unsuccessful. The government has not done its homework well by allowing everyone to go back from Ludhiana, at least the workers who are earning money by working in the factories and are facing no problems should have been stopped.” According to Sukhdial Singh Basant of the Association of Ludhiana Machine Tool Industry, “Already, we faced many hardships to open our units, which remained closed for more than 50 days and now this labour shortage is making matters even more worse. As all other sectors of the industry, be it fastener, sewing machine parts or bicycle parts, are dependant on us for their machinery requirements, we have been getting orders from these units for supply. But due to huge shortage of labour we are unable to process the orders for machinery and their parts.” Major Singh, treasurer of Association of Ludhiana Machine Tool Industry, “Our industry has already suffered huge losses after remaining shut for almost two months and now we are even losing out on precious orders, which is adding to our woes. Due to this situation we are under a huge threat of losing out the business to our competitors based in other states, where the labour availability is better than in Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/machine-tools-machinery-manufacturers-face-70-labour-shortage/articleshow/76125242.cms||Mohit Behl
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Malls set to open with strict safety measures, say officials||BHOPAL: Managers at the local malls say they have been preparing for over two months to provide a safe environment to their customers as and when the shopping complexes open up. Now that the Union hone ministry has declared a tentative date for it (June 8), they are ready with their ‘dossier’ of dos and dont’s for the staff/ retailers as well as customers. Rahul Kumar, who has prepared such a ‘dossier’ for Capital Mall, told TOI: “We were giving training to our staff on safety protocol for Covid-19 because if they won't be aware of what to do in this situation and how they would get the customers follow the protocol. We also wanted to tell them.that personal hygiene and cleanliness in the mall would be of paramount importance now. We have seen to it that there is maximum safety for the customers staff and retailers when they come to the mall — from using sanitisers to disinfecting a place.” He said Capital Mall, which has a huge open space and more than enough dustance among its 23 stores, will not create much of a problem when it comes to following the social.distancing norms. Rahul Kumar said that in his opinion, malls should open up before the market because it is managed by a “professional team” and if they decide that not more than 1,000 people have to be allowed inside the mall at a tine, they can close the entry any time , something which cannot be done in a market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/malls-set-to-open-with-strict-safety-measures-say-officials/articleshow/76125950.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||No money, no hope: Waiting for the train to Ranchi||Nagpur: Sitting in front of a closed eatery just across the railway station, Ranganath Mishra breaks down while talking on cell phone. Mishra, who can barely walk, was discharged from Government Medical College (GMC) a day ago after three months of treatment. Showing a crumpled medical report, Mishra says he had met with an accident on March 7. It took more than three months in the hospital. Soon the lockdown happened and the restaurant where he worked closed. After reaching the railway station penniless, there is nowhere to go, he says. He hopes to board a train for Ranchi in Jharkhand where he comes from and visited every year while working in Nagpur. Estranged from his family members, Ranganath was in two minds to whether call them or not. The hardships due to lockdown increased his emotional trauma. The call he got was from a co-worker in the restaurant who phoned to ask if Ranganath had reached home. As passengers slowly get inside the station to board the Shramik Special or other special trains passing through Nagpur, there are many who are clueless and waiting outside hoping to get a seat. At present, only those who have registered to board the Shramik Specials or those with a reserved ticket for other trains can board. Bookings for another 14 trains passing through Nagpur will open from Monday. However, workers and other stranded persons continue to reach the station hoping to get a berth in Shramik Specials. TOI came across two groups of workers from Bihar who had walked from Kinwat and Hinganghat. “This year our agent in the village got us a job in a cotton ginning mill at Hinganghat. The employer was kind enough to feed us but the work did not suit us and now we want to go back,” says Prashant Sada in a group of six heading for Darbhanga in Bihar. Another group of road construction workers had walked down from Kinwat and waited outside hoping to get some directions. A spokesperson from Central Railway explained, apart from the Shramik trains there were eight trains passing from Nagpur in which one could book a ticket online or at the counters. Only passengers with a reservation are allowed. Another 14 will start from Monday. The trains passing through Nagpur will connect destinations like Patna, Kolkata, Secunderabad and Delhi, he said. However, there will be no booking for destinations within the state. Registrations for shramik trains are done through local administration or police. The workers waiting outside said they had around Rs1,000 each and may buy the ticket. Back at the shop, Ranganath sat helplessly. I have no money for the tickets he said. Pravin Madankar in his twenties said he’s been living outside the station for two months. He had to go to a village near Katol town but no bus or train was there. A railway source said such persons are advised to go to the government shelter home by the police so that they can go in a Shramik Special or bus. Yet people keep coming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-money-no-hope-waiting-for-the-train-to-ranchi/articleshow/76126008.cms||Shishir Arya
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Face recognition tool helps nab two wanted criminals||PATIALA: Leveraging technology in their fight against crime, the Patiala police on Saturday nabbed two wanted criminals evading arrest, using a high-end facial recognition tool. SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said Shiva, a resident of Roshan Colony, Rajpura, who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act earlier this month, and his accomplice Vishal, also from the same locality, who had also been booked on similar charges in 2018, had been evading arrest. However, their free run came to an end on Saturday evening when cops at a check-post in Rajpura city stopped the two for not wearing mask. As the two criminals lost their nerve on being stopped, the policemen became suspicious. They clicked their pictures from a mobile phone and ran a search on the Police Artificial Intelligence System (PAIS) app. The app immediately identified both accused and displayed their past records, and they were taken into custody. Further inquires revealed that both were proclaimed offenders. SSP Sidhu said the PIAS app has been designed for use by police officers to search and recognise persons with criminal records, and it is the first instance when it has been brought into an effective use. In a bid to make the force more technology-enabled and data-driven, the Punjab Police had recently appointed Dhruv Singhal as its chief technology officer (CTO) to develop and design tech solutions to combat all kinds of crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/face-recognition-tool-helps-nab-two-wanted-criminals/articleshow/76125982.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD for action against seed companies involved in scam||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday demanded immediate cancellation of the licences of two seed companies accused of engineering the “multi-crore inter-state seed scam” which had affected farmers of Punjab and neighbouring states. Senior Akali functionaries Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Sikander Singh Maluka said following complaints and protests by farmers in Jalandhar and other places, the state agriculture department had started taking action against few seed stores for selling spurious seeds of PR-128 and PR-129 paddy varieties to farmers. “However no concrete action has been taken against Ludhiana-based and Dera Baba Nanak-based stores despite the fact that their involvement in the multi-crore seed scam had come to light on May 11 when the agriculture department got a FIR registered in the case. It is clear that that the accused are being given political shelter and this is why the police are not taking action against them,” alleged SAD leaders Bhundur and Maluka demanded immediate suspension of the licenses of both the stores and also demanded the custodial interrogation of the proprietors of both managements to unravel the seed scam and expose those who had patronised the scamsters. They alleged that cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s name had cropped up in the scam and “his proximity to proprietor of the seed stores had been highlighted”. “The government was yet to order an independent inquiry into the case. In fact, the way the government is proceeding in the matter it seems the accused are being given ample time to move incriminating evidence out of their premises as well as doctor their records,” SAD alleged. The opposition party questioned chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for not intervening in the matter despite the fact that people were openly claiming that no action was being taken against the scamsters because they enjoyed political patronage. “The chief minister should forward the case to the CBI for an inquiry or entrust its probe to a sitting judge of the high court,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-for-action-against-seed-companies-involved-in-scam/articleshow/76125992.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gultekdi market opens on muted note after 50 days||PUNE: The wholesale market for vegetables, fruits, onions and potatoes in Gultekdi reopened on Sunday, on a subdued note after a gap of 50 days. A total of 5,889 quintals of the produce arrived in the market, compared to the previous average daily arrival of 18,000 quintals. This was primarily because the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) allowed only 450 of the 900-odd wholesale outlets to operate, as part of the precautions against heavy crowding and violation of social distancing norms. A total of 202 vehicles carrying produce from different parts of the district and state were allowed to enter. Balasaheb Deshmukh, the chief administrator of Market Yard, said, “The opening of limited number of wholesale outlets had a direct impact on the total intake at the market today (Sunday).” “As the market has reopened after a long gap, it will take a few days to go back to the usual routine,” Deshmukh added. The APMC authorities had put restrictions on arrival of vehicles, said Vilas Bhujbal, the president of Commission of Agents Association of the Market Yard. “A commission agent can sell only up to one vehicle of produce. As a result, there was less arrival today. Also, those farmers who are in contact with commission agents, will bring their produce only on the day their agents are open. This too will have an overall impact on the daily total arrival,” Bhujbal said. Deshmukh said that they had taken adequate measures to avoid crowding and had also disinfected open areas and measured the temp erature of each person at the gate. “Our teams are working in tandem with the police to monitor the situation at the market and manage vehicular traffic,” he said. The Gultekdi Market Yard had earlier closed down on April 10, in view of the Covid-19 scare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gultekdi-market-opens-on-muted-note-after-50-days/articleshow/76126355.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Locust swarms: Survey conducted||Hyderabad: Members of a State level experts committee carried out an aerial survey to inspect the locust situation in Adilabad and Nirmal on Sunday. The aerial survey was conducted along the borders of Telangana and Maharashtra and Penganga to check the possibility of entry of locust swarms into the limits of erstwhile undivided Adilabad district. The committee members said the government was taking stock of the situation of locust swarms. They urged the farmers not to believe in rumours being spread on social media platforms. An action plan has been chalked out to tackle the invasions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locust-swarms-survey-conducted/articleshow/76125989.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM extends lockdown till June 30, but unlocks services||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh government has decided to extend the lockdown in the state till June 30, as per the recommendations of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. However, keeping in line with the unlocking guidelines, the state government will be extending greater relaxations and facilitating opening of malls, business establishment and temples and religious centres from June 8.  Making the announcement in an address to the state, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that all government and private offices in the state except for those in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain districts will function at 100% strength. For offices (govt and private) in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain they will function at 50% strength for now. Chouhan also announced the scrapping of check posts on borders and need for passes for travel in and out of the state. Public transport facilities in the state would be started at 50% capacity while markets would be allowed to open in phases at 33% strength. Referring to schools, colleges, coaching centres and educational institutions, the chief minister said that a decision would be taken after consultation with all stakeholders including parents and guardians of the children. Under no circumstances these institutions would open before June 30. The government would decide on opening these institutions as per the prevailing situation in July after review, he said. He however said that schools and colleges would open for conducting examinations as per the schedule announced by the boards and universities and advised for maintaining social distancing norms and proper sanitisation facilities at these centres. Meanwhile, in a relief to the industry, Chouhan announced that fixed charges on electricity consumption for establishments would be suspended from April, May and June. He also announced 50% relief for three months to domestic electricity consumers by providing relief to those getting bills under Rs 100 per month while those who received bill of Rs 100 in Match and later received higher bill in April and May will have to pay on Rs 100 per month. Use of mask will be compulsory at public places while farmers will be extended loan facility at 0% interest and procurement of wheat and pulses where ever is remaining would be extended, said Chouhan. He also announced creation of a portal having details of unskilled and skilled workers from where industry can pick them up as per their needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-but-unlocks-services/articleshow/76125997.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Home delivery of liquor in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: District collector Uday Choudhary has allowed home delivery of liquor in Aurangabad city while people in rural parts have been told to purchase liquor directly from the wine shops. The order would be implemented from Monday and the shops have been told to deliver the liquor only between 10 am and 5 pm within the city limits. The shops have been told to make the necessary arrangements without charging anything over the maximum retail price. The orders are not for the Cantonment area. Several liquor shops in the city limits have started circulating their WhatsApp numbers for accepting online orders. The order stated that all the liquor shop owners should ensure that all precautions are taken for the health of the staffers. They should also keep a check on the body temperature on a daily basis for early detection of any symptoms. “The staffers with any symptoms of cough, fever should be stopped from coming to work,” the order stated. While those doing home delivery of liquor should ensure social distancing, covering their faces with masks, headgear, hand gloves, ensure personal hygiene with special attention to the cleaning of hands. Authorities maintained that every staffer employed with the liquor shop will have to obtain an identity proof from the excise department for carrying out the home delivery. Each liquor shop has been asked to limit the number of delivery boys to 10, with each of them being allowed to carry not more than 24 units of liquor at a single go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/home-delivery-of-liquor-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76124493.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers worried over no migrant farm workers in paddy season||Ludhiana: As the migrant farm workers from UP and Bihar haven’t returned to the district because of Covid-19 threat, it has increased the per acre expenditure of the farmers on transplanting paddy. They are worried about the profitability of growing paddy this time. Every year, migrant farm workers from UP and Bihar come to Ludhiana district around this time and help the farmers in transplanting paddy. “Last year, we had paid between Rs 2,700 to Rs 3,000 for transplanting paddy to the migrant farm workers but this time around there is acute shortage of such labour. We are ready to even pay Rs 5,700-Rs 6,000 per acre but till now we have failed to get labour for this job. It is a very difficult situation for us,” said Gurdeep Singh, a farmer from Machhiwara area, who is growing paddy on 20 acres. The farmers say that their input cost increases significantly if they pay high rate for getting transplanting of paddy done. “Due to shortage of migrant farm workers, the rate for getting transplanting has almost doubled. Earlier, we would have to spend Rs 25, 000 to Rs 27,000 per acre that included labour, fertilisers, chemicals (herbicides etc), cost of diesel for pump water, harvesting, etc, but now we might have to invest around Rs.30, 000. Because of this our profit per acre decreases significantly as we earn around Rs 40,000 to Rs 45,000 if the yield is good. So, definitely we will have to suffer losses because of labour issue,” said Manjeet Singh, a farmer from Khanna. He added that earlier a large number of migrant workers used to come to their village but this time around not even 20% of such farm workers have come for paddy transplantation operations. The agriculture department officials also confirmed that absence of migrant farm workers might affect paddy transplantation. An agriculture department official said that as less number of migrant farm workers were there to carry out paddy transplanting, so obviously the money being charged by the farm workers will be more. He added that farmers were helping each other to tide over the labour crisis this year, which is because of the fact that most of the migrant farm workers didn’t come to the state because of Covid-s19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-worried-over-no-migrant-farm-workers-in-paddy-season/articleshow/76125244.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Eatala: Tobacco affecting non-smokers too||Hyderabad: It’s not just smokers but even non-smokers are being affected by indiscriminate use of tobacco, said Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender during an interview with Voluntary Health Association of India on the occasion of World tobacco Day on Sunday. He said, “The young must be aware of the health effects of tobacco and should not get addicted to smoking, gutkha, etc through advertisements.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-tobacco-affecting-non-smokers-too/articleshow/76125983.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Tax mop-up down 85%, Delhi seeks Rs 5,000 crore from Centre||NEW DELHI: With its revenue falling drastically due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and restrictions, Delhi government has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet official expenses.  Addressing a digital press conference on Sunday, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that the lockdown had affected the economy and Delhi's tax collection was 85% lesser than the usual monthly targets. "The major crisis before us is how to pay salaries of our employees, so I have written to the Union finance minister for urgent assistance of Rs 5,000 crore," added the minister, who also holds the charge of finance department.  Sisodia said Delhi government didn't get anything from the disaster relief fund that was given to other states, thereby causing financial problems. "It is about time we received some financial relief from the Centre to pay salaries of our employees - teachers, doctors, engineers, civil defence personnel and those involved in coronavirus relief work," he added.  Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter and requested the Centre to help people of Delhi "in this hour of disaster".  Delhi government needs about Rs 3,500 crore every month to pay salaries to its employees and meet other expenses. This fiscal, it has earned about Rs 1,735 crore, including GST and VAT of Rs 494 crore in April and Rs 536 crore in May (till 27th), Rs 160 crore as special corona fee and Rs 150 crore as excise duty on the sale of liquor. "We actually need at least Rs 7,000 crore," said Sisodia.  To increase its revenue, Delhi government in the first week of May had levied 70% special corona fee on MRP of liquor, while increasing VAT on diesel and petrol to 30%. The state legislative assembly had passed a Rs 65,000 crore budget for FY 2020-21, of which Rs 35,500 crore was kept for committed expenditure towards establishment, devolution to local bodies and interest and loan repayment, while Rs 29,500 crore was set off for welfare schemes and infrastructure projects.  "Due to the extraordinary situation, there is a valid need for immediate help from the Centre. The one-time grant of Rs 5,000 crore will help Delhi tide over the immediate crisis," the deputy CM said in his letter, adding that it would facilitate the state government to release grants to civic bodies to pay salaries and meet other expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tax-mop-up-down-85-delhi-seeks-rs-5000-crore-from-centre/articleshow/76126746.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Daily train to Bihar begins but many on tenterhooks||PUNE: The Pune railway station is set to start one out of the 200 trains in the country from Monday and many passengers said they were anxious about their travel. Of the 200 trains that will start from different stations across the country, the Pune rail division will ply just the “Pune-Danapur Express” to Bihar. “The train will leave Pune at 8.55pm and will run daily. The Centre has issued guidelines and the passengers need to follow them sincerely. We will make sure the passengers are properly screened,” Pune rail division’s public relations officer Manoj Jhawar said. A passenger Ravish Kumar said, “I am making sure there are no loose ends from my side. However, it is worrying me if I will be sent to institutional quarantine once I reach my destination or not. I cannot get a concrete answer. I work as an assistant at a shop. I am forced to travel as my father is ill.” Raghvendra Pratap Singh, who lives in Pune and will be travelling till Mughalsarai on the train on Monday, was clear about the guidelines. “I will be getting down in Uttar Pradesh. According to the state government’s guidelines, I will have to be in mandatory home quarantine. My wife and child are in UP from February and I am travelling to get them back here. But, I will be there for some time and will travel back by late June only. Life needs to start and we have to adapt to the new normal. I hope the train journey is pleasant,” he said. “Passengers should bring their own food and water. There will only be provision of packed items, ready to eat meals, packaged drinking water and beverages such as tea, coffee on payment-basis,” an official from the Central Railway, under which the Pune division falls, said. Another passenger Samar Kumar Mishra was worried about transportation to the railway station. “I have asked some of my friends to help but they haven’t responded. The guidelines say that one has to reach the station 90 minutes before departure. It is going to be a hectic evening until I board the train. I am trying to book an autorickshaw via the ‘dial-an-autorickshaw’ service,” Mishra, who works in a private company in Pune, said. A railway official said the advance reservation period for booking tickets in these special trains was increased to 120 days instead of 30 days. “Booking of parcel and luggage will be permitted in these trains,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-train-to-bihar-begins-but-many-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/76126364.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 1, 2020||Goa||Use eco-friendly material to repair breached bunds, coastal regulator tells WRD||Panaji: Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has told Water Resources Department not to use concrete for repair and reconstruction of breached bunds and instead look for eco-friendly alternatives. The use of concrete affects marine biodiversity, the GCZMA said, after deliberating over the issue at its regular meeting. The coastal regulator said that locally available material like laterite stones and modern options like geotextiles should be looked at as a replacement for material like hay in bunds. Coastal authority members deliberated on restoration of bunds based on the amendment carried out in the CRZ notification 2011 issued by the Union environment ministry on May 5, 2020. “In so far as CRZ for Goa is concerned, the high-tide lien (HTL) shall be restricted up to the line along the bund or the sluice gate. At many places, there have been breaches to the bund which have resulted in inundation of saline water in khazan lands. These bunds have to be protected and/or restored in such a manner as was otherwise traditionally done by means of use of clay, hay, rubble stones etc.,” the GCZMA has noted in its meeting. Members said that over the years new technology has evolved which is synonymous to the traditional methods such as use of geo-textile material instead of hay etc. “These bunds cannot by far and large be constructed by use of concrete because it can result in destruction of the marine bio-diversity,” the authority has stated. The coastal body has said the Goa state biodiversity board should be consulted by the WRD when carrying out bund repairs. “Conservation is one of the primary functions of this authority. As a part of proactive conservation measures, members felt that on a pilot basis WRD should undertake the task of constructing traditional type bunds at any of the on-going works running over a span of 100 mts or so, to check its viability and porosity so that, such bunds could be permitted for construction all throughout the state in CRZ areas,” the GCZMA members said. After carrying out such measures, the expert members of GCZMA along with the members of the Goa state biodiversity board will conduct a joint inspection. “And only then a final call would be taken because the authority has got the mandate to protect coastal environment as well as to take anti-erosion measures,” members informed in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-eco-friendly-material-to-repair-breached-bunds-coastal-regulator-tells-wrd/articleshow/76126435.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||NWR gears up for regular train services||JAIPUR: As the train services resume from Monday, the authorities of various divisions of North Western Railway (NWR), including Jaipur division, were discussing and finalizing the SOPs to be followed. Be it the operating staff, signaling staff or passengers, safety conditions will apply to all. Passengers who were tested positive for Covid-19 and have not got fitness certificate will not be allowed to board the train. Besides, those having influenza-like illness symptoms would also not be allowed to travel. TOI on Sunday spoke to the authorities to get the low-down on rules to be followed by the passengers while starting their journey from Monday onwards. “There would be designated entrance only for the passengers. At Jaipur, the passengers would be allowed entry only through Parshuram Circle, which is the main entrance,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. Jaipur railway station has three entry points including one from Hasanpura, one from Gopalbari and one from Parshuram Circle. The authorities have been asked to arrange touch-free hand wash facilities for the passengers boarding various trains. “We would ensure that the luggage of the passengers is sanitized before they enter the platform area. Also, every nook and corner of the railway station would be sanitized after regular intervals,” said an officer. All the passengers will undergo thermal scanning and only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to board the trains. Authorities have been asked to continuously sanitize various touching points including the entrance gates, gates of waiting rooms, wash rooms, etc. The trains will connect Jaipur to cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata directly. Within Rajasthan, the trains will travel to Jodhpur, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh and Udaipur Guideline for passengers Passengers who are not allowed to travel · Persons who have tested Covid-19 positive and have not been declared medically fit. · Persons who have for various reasons been placed under home/institutional quarantine. · Persons who have influenza-like illness symptoms. General instructions · All passengers shall be screened at the station. · Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter the station. · All passengers must wear face cover/mask at the station as well as during the journey. · Passengers shall reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance and not earlier than 120 minutes from the scheduled departure of train. · All passengers must download and use Aarogya Setu application. · Passengers shall observe social distancing both at the station and in the train. · No linen, blanket or curtain will be available in the train, if necessary, bring your own linen for the journey. · Travellers are advised to travel light with minimal baggage. · Passengers shall maintain hygiene and shall not spit here and there. · Passengers are advised to carry their own food and water during the journey as limited eatables will be provided on payment basis only in trains having pantry cars. · Passengers will follow social distancing on platforms. Distancing marks are provided on surface of the platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-gears-up-for-regular-train-services/articleshow/76126375.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||As personal & small biz loans crash, bank lending in April shrinks Rs 1.1 L cr||Mumbai: Bank lending has shrunk by Rs 1.1 lakh crore during the four weeks ended April 24 to Rs 91.5 lakh crore. While such a decline is not unusual, this year the drop was entirely because of loans to individuals in the personal segment shrinking by nearly Rs 63,000 crore and to micro and small enterprises by nearly Rs 50,000 crore during the period which coincided with Lockdown 1.0 and the first half of Lockdown 2.0. In percentage terms, the sharpest drop was in the personal segment, with middle-class borrowing through credit card outstanding and advances against fixed deposits and shares falling by over 10%. Most Indians stayed home, unable to go out and spend or order anything online. The personal loan segment saw outstanding advances decline by Rs 62,861 crore to Rs 24.9 lakh crore. According to data released by the RBI, the total bank credit as on April 24 stood at Rs 91.5 lakh crore — a dip of 1.2% from Rs 92.6 lakh crore on March 27. Loans to micro and small enterprises in the priority sector shrunk 4.2% in four weeks to Rs 11 lakh crore from Rs 11.49 lakh crore. While the lockdown has clearly brought down demand, many private banks, which were active in the retail and personal loan segments, turned risk-averse by tightening credit standards and reducing exposure. The Rs 11,116-crore drop in credit card outstanding is largely explained by the closure of all non-essential retail outlets, including online ones, during the lockdown. Credit card outstanding, which had crossed Rs 1.08 lakh crore in March 2020, has declined to Rs 96,978 crore in April. The drop in loan against shares and FDs also appears to be reflecting a decline in consumption. Loans against FDs fell 14% to Rs 60,975 crore while loans against shares dropped 10% to Rs 4,818 crore in April 2020. The sectors which saw an expansion in bank credit included large industry, where banks lent an additional Rs 8,900 crore, retail trade where loans grew by nearly Rs 7,000 crore and, surprisingly, non-banking financial companies, where banks lent an additional Rs 5,000 crore. Loans to the services segment did reasonably better, shrinking only 0.8% to Rs 25.74 lakh crore from Rs 25.94 lakh crore a month earlier. In the services sector, transport operators were the biggest borrowers in April. Loans outstanding to this sector grew 3% to Rs 1.48 lakh crore. The demand for loans was the lowest in the wholesale trade segment, where outstanding loans fell by 5% to Rs 2.49 lakh crore. To help banks overcome their risk aversion, the government has come out with a scheme to guarantee loans to businesses that have an outstanding credit limit of up to Rs 25 crore. This will include MSMEs and other small businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-personal-small-biz-loans-crash-bank-lending-in-april-shrinks-rs-1-1-l-cr/articleshow/76126399.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR, FCI have secret pact: BJP||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleged that there could be a secret understanding between chief minister K Chandresekhar Rao and Food Corporation of India (FCI) after the latter announced that Telangana is the number one state in the country from where FCI procures record quantity of paddy. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, he said that Punjab is much ahead of Telangana. “ How can FCI announce that Telangana is number one,” he said. He further said that KCR is trying to threaten the farmers asking them to cultivate only those crops that have been suggested by the government.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-fci-have-secret-pact-bjp/articleshow/76125998.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Provide mid-day meals to students’||Hyderabad: Members of the Students Federation on India (SFI) on Sunday demanded that the Telangana government should provide mid-day meals or dry ration to students studying in government schools until the schools reopen. They said children from economically backward families and their parents are struggling to get food during the lockdown. “While the Kerala government has successfully delivered dry ration to students during the lockdown, students here in Telangana received nothing. Except for the 12kg rice distributed to poor families, students were not given any ration,” said T Nagaraju, state secretary, SFI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/provide-mid-day-meals-to-students/articleshow/76126010.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrant crisis: Asad takes jibe at BJP||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi took a jibe at the Centre’s handling of migrant workers during the lockdown. “@PMOIndia ’s unplanned lockdown forced migrant women to risk their lives & walk home for 1000s of kilometres. He did nothing for them Many, including our Bhabhi from Gujarat had to face the indignity of husbands who simply fled from marriage. But no relief for them in 6 years,” tweeted Owaisi. He also called criminalisation of Triple Talaq by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a draconian and communal law.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrant-crisis-asad-takes-jibe-at-bjp/articleshow/76126019.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Patients hit hard with blood banks in hospitals running dry||Ludhiana: During the Covid times, reports are coming in from everywhere about blood banks running dry, leading to a huge crisis, especially for patients who need regular transfusion. Patients are a harried lot when they visit the blood bank as they have to return empty-handed. The authorities claim that lockdown, curfew, people avoiding visiting hospitals and no camps due to summer are the reasons for the blood crunch. Gurwinder Singh, blood transfusion officer at the civil hospital here said, “Most of the private hospitals are facing issues but at the civil hospital we have stock of nearly 138 units and all blood groups are available. In such a situation donors should approach hospitals. We have received permission from additional project director-cum-member of Punjab State Blood Transfusion Council that keeping in view the lockdown we can depute blood mobile bus anywhere in the state for organising voluntarily blood donation camps as per request received from blood banks on first come, first serve basis.” Heenakshi Sharma, blood transfusion officer at Fortis Hospital, said, “There is a crisis as we have only 64 units in the hospital. Most of the donors are hesitant as they are assuming that they will acquire disease from hospital and hesitant to visit. To overcome this issue, more camps should be organised at regular interval. We have received new guidelines for the same from the government.” Sahil Bansal, blood transfusion officer at Raghunath Hospital, said, “Role of voluntary blood donor organisations can be critical in ensuring that there is a sufficient blood supply. Though the hospitals have tied up with NGOs but it is not the same as camps. People should step forward to work closely with health authorities for donation.” Blood transfusion officer at GTB Hospital Arvind Khurana said, “It is correct that consumption is less and supply has also been reduced, but it may improve. Earlier, we used to organise camps at schools, colleges and villages but now there is no such gatherings due to lockdown. Small camps at village level can be held to manage the shortage.” Yogendra Awadhiya, director from Oswal Hospita,l said, “ We are just pitching in with NGOs as there is acute shortage of blood in blood banks. Earlier, in camps we used to collect 40 units but now we are just collecting 15 units.” What the guidelines say  For managing blood centres and blood transfusion services the National Blood Transfusion Council, ministry of health and family welfare, Government of India has issued guidelines. These say for patients depending on blood transfusions it is essential that supplies of safe blood is maintained at licensed blood centres in the country. Activities for blood collection and voluntary blood donation therefore are required to be continued judiciously during this period to meet the blood requirements. Keeping in view the present peculiar situation due to Covid-19 the following measures may be taken to ensure adequate availability of blood in the blood banks. Some recommendations Exclusion of at-risk donors to maintain safety. Based on the history of the exposure of a blood donor to coronavirus, individuals should be deferred from donating blood for 28 days — after the date of departure from a country with Covid transmission in the community or had the last possible close contact exposure to a person who is confirmed or suspected case or till the time there is complete recovery from the disease. Management of blood collection to ensure adequacy. In-house blood donation as well as outdoor blood donation activities may be continued while ensuring compliance with social distancing norms, infection control guidelines and biomedical waste disposal rules. This is to be ensured not only by the staff of the blood centres, but also by organisers, potential blood donors and all other stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/patients-hit-hard-with-blood-banks-in-hospitals-running-dry/articleshow/76125254.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Liquor vend worker beaten up, robbed of Rs 9,000||Ludhiana: Posing as a customer, two motorcycle-borne miscreants thrashed a liquor vend worker and robbed him of Rs 9,000 at gunpoint at Mianwal village of Meharban in Ludhiana on Saturday evening. While escaping, the accused also locked the worker inside the vend. On the complaint of Gurmeet Singh of Behlolpur village of Machhiwara said he was working as a salesman at a liquor vend of Sohan Lal Kundra and Dhillon group in at Miyanwal village. On Saturday evening around 5.30pm two miscreants turned up at the liquor vend to buy a bottle of beer. As he turned around to get the bottle, the accused barged into the vend. He added the accused thrashed him and demanded for money. When he fought back, one of the accused brandished a gun and threatened to shoot him. Thereafter he did not resist. The accused robbed him of Rs 9,000 and fled. Before fleeing, the accused locked the shop from outside. After the accused left the spot he immediately informed the police. Investigating officer ASI Sanjiv Kumar said an FIR under Section 379-B (snatching) of the IPC has been registered against the unidentified accused and investigations initiated. The police have been scanning CCTVs installed in the area to identify the accused. Box: Earlier cases of attack on liquor vends On May 27, four assailants beat to death the owner of a liquor tavern at Kaddon village of Doraha over a petty issue and fled. The Doraha police had lodged an FIR against the accused and initiated investigation. On April 1, A salesman of a liquor vend was hacked to death at Chapki village. The assailants fled after locking the vend from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/liquor-vend-worker-beaten-up-robbed-of-rs-9000/articleshow/76125248.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops ensure Shramik train makes unscheduled stop for workers||Aurangabad: The Beed police made a special Shramik train make an unscheduled stop at Purna junction so that 12 migrant workers from West Bengal could board the train and return to their homes.The humane gesture of the Beed police led by SP Harssh Poddar was appreciated by many.These workers were left stranded in the district due to the lockdown. They carrying out pole pole installation work under a contractor who had brought them to BeedWith no way to go, the Pimpalner police station’s assistant inspector Sharad Bhutekar provided them with dry ration for over a month. The workers could not make to the list of passengers to be travelled in a state transport bus heading to the Nanded railway station.The Shramik train was scheduled to leave Nanded railway station for West Bengal at around 4pm on Friday. When they could not start their journey till noon, they reached out to the police. API Bhutekar immediately informed his seniors. The police realized that even in a private vehicle they will not be able to reach Nanded railway stationSo, a couple of private vehicles were arranged for these workers to drop them at Purna junction in Parbhani.Poddar reached out to Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar and superintendent of police Vijaykumar Magar, who readily agreed to his plea of making the train take an unscheduled stop at Purna, so that these workers could board the train. The police team that went to drop the workers, also arranged food for the workers for their journey..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-ensure-shramik-train-makes-unscheduled-stop-for-workers/articleshow/76124498.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Badals have traded fed govt ideals for political interest’||CHANDIGARH: Senior Punjab Congress ministers lashed out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership for its alliance with the NDA government, which is interfering in the borrowing rights of states, they alleged. Congress leaders said the Badal family is party to dismantling of the federal structure of the country. In a joint statement, cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Bharat Bhushan Ashu said Parkash Singh Badal, who had been advocating a federal structure of government all his life, is silent on his son and daughter-in-law joining hands with enemies of the federal structure. “Did the Akali Dal president not remember his own party’s Anandpur Sahib resolution? The Akali Dal, which calls itself champion of the rights of states, today is not only silent on the action of the Union government for the sake of preserving the political office ,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badals-have-traded-fed-govt-ideals-for-pol-interest/articleshow/76126016.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Two Covid Warriors among 26 +ves; 403 cases in May||NAGPUR: A medical officer and a paramedical staffer contracted Covid-19 while working at MLA Hostel Institutional Quarantine Centre over last two months. They became the first health staffers in the district to test positive while serving corona positive and suspect patients. Also, 24 others from the district tested positive, taking the district’s total cases to 541 on Sunday. The month of May has registered the highest number of cases at 403, including nine deaths. There were 122 cases including two deaths in April, and 16 cases in March. The district had recorded the first Covid-19 case on March 11. The medical officer (40), a resident of Narendra Nagar, and paramedical personnel (43), a resident of Nandanwan, were admitted at isolation ward of AIIMS. The medical officer works with zilla parishad at Kondhali, and was engaged with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for Covid-19 duty. The paramedical personnel works as multipurpose worker with state’s health department and was also under NMC for Covid-19 service. Their duty was to treat suspect and negative persons at the institutional quarantine centre and shift persons from the centre to isolation wards if they tested positive. Recently, the health staff at MLA Hostel gave their swab samples, of which these two came positive. Apart from them, 13 more persons from the city tested positive, including a 27-year-old man from Chhoti Masjid area, Sadar. He was working with a company in Aurangabad and returned home on May 25. He had fever since May 28 and took treatment from NMC’s UPHC and got admitted at IGGMCH on May 30. Part of Sadar, famous for commercial market, will be new containment zone. Six more from Naik Talao-Bangladesh area in East Nagpur tested positive, taking total from the city’s fourth hotspot to 32. A NMC team led by Dr Minakshi Mane quarantined 166 more persons from this area for a total of 276. Two more persons from Tandapeth were admitted at IGGMCH for fever and cough, and tested positive. On Saturday, a woman from this area situated adjacent to Naik Talao area had tested positive. Three persons from Golibar chowk under Mominpura containment zone, city’s second hotspot, also tested positive, taking tally of this zone to 250. A female from Akola tested positive at IGGMCH. She had accompanied her mother, who tested positive in Akola, and a cancer patient for treatment here. Her mother passed away during treatment at IGGMCH on Sunday. In Nagpur rural, 11 persons tested positive on Sunday. Six are family members of Covid-19 deceased from Lekchand Nagar at Digdoh, Hingna. Three family members of a car owner-cum-driver from Mahadulla, who tested positive a couple of days ago, also came positive. Samples of a man from Kelwad in Saoner tehsil, who was quarantined after his family member tested positive at Saunsar, MP, came positive. A man from Khapa in Saoner tehsil was admitted at IGGMCH following fever and tested positive. He had returned from Chennai on May 26. Total number of cases from Nagpur rural have increased to 28. As per new guidelines, 11 corona positive persons were discharged, 8 from GMCH and 3 from IGGMCH, increasing total number of discharged persons to 385. With eleven deaths, district’s active cases are at 145. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe reduced Satranjipura containment zone, city’s first hotspot, to 25%. The area around residence of latest deceased has remained a containment zone. Similarly, area of Jawahar Nagar containment zone was also reduced. Sangam Nagar containment zone was denotified as there were no new cases in last 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-covid-warriors-among-26-ves-403-cases-in-may/articleshow/76126038.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 1, 2020||Vadodara||Rare black squirrel spotted in Vadodara||VADODARA: Almost all of you might have seen ‘Bageera’, the fictional melanistic panther made famous by The Jungle Book. Now, a melanistic squirrel has been spotted in the city. A teacher at city-based Navrachana University and wildlife enthusiast Dr Karan Rana has spotted this squirrel and even recorded its first photographic evidence of its presence in Gujarat. Melanism is a universal phenomenon in the animal kingdom. It is development of dark coloured pigment - melanin - in the skin or its appendages. Due to melanism, the coat of the animal becomes dark in colour. The opposite of Melanism is leucism, where there is a total lack of pigmentation in the whole body due to an inherited defect in the pigment transfer process. This results in white or whitish hair, pale skin but normal coloured eyes in animals. “During this Covid times, when biodiversity is reviving itself, I was surprised to spot a fully-black coloured Indian palm squirrel (funambulus palmarum) near my residence,” said Rana, a resident of Bhayli area of the city. “I noticed it for the first time on May 22 which co-incidentally was International Day of Biological Diversity. It was foraging for food on the ground in parking area of our apartment but I could not capture its pictures,” he said. Rana got a chance to collect photographic evidence of its presence on Friday. “I was amazed to see this squirrel right in front of me, through the window, seated on the canopy of ‘sevan tree’. So, I captured images of this rare rodent and also a small video,” he said. Last year, a zoology teacher M Jayashankar based in Bengaluru had sighted a melanistic squirrel in Devanahalli taluka, a Bengaluru rural district in Karnataka. “The common commensal squirrel of peninsular India is adapted to living close to human settlements but melanism is a rare phenomenon to be noticed,” he said. “Historically, melanism was also the medical term for black jaundice. Concentration and distribution of melanin pigment results in such colour aberrations,” added Jayashankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rare-black-squirrel-spotted-in-city/articleshow/76124858.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 1, 2020||Pune||Two airlines set to begin operations from Pune on Monday||PUNE: GoAir and Alliance Air will start domestic flight operations from the city airport on Monday. GoAir said it would fly passengers from Pune to Delhi, while Alliance Air — a subsidiary of the state-run Air India — will start a flight from Pune to Belagavi. GoAir currently has only one flight operating out of Pune. “The flight will take off at 9.10am from Delhi and arrive here at 11.05am. ON its return leg, the flight will take off at 11.55am and land at 2.10pm,” a GoAir spokesperson told TOI. The flight will run four days a week. “The (Alliance Air) flight is scheduled to depart from Pune to Belgaum around 12.10pm. The flight will be arriving to Pune from Hyderabad,” an Air India official said. GoAir’s flight schedule for Pune airport shows five flights connecting the city to Delhi, Nagpur, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Chennai. “The other flights will be resumed in a phased manner,” a GoAir official said. The Lohegaon airport currently witnesses 17 departures and 17 arrivals daily basis. The new flights will take the number to 38. Since flight operations resumed last Monday, more than 4,300 passengers arrived in Pune, while about 8,400 left for other cities. On Twitter, meanwhile, many passengers who had booked GoAir flight tickets vented their frustration over a plethora of problems. “My father is booked for a flight from Chandigarh to Pune tomorrow afternoon by GoAir, but till now, we have not been able to web check-in ... Customer service not attending calls ... No information from airlines,” Rajendra tweeted. Many others too complained that despite bookings, they were not able to do web check-ins, had no clue about the flight status and no confirmation of their flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-airlines-set-to-begin-operations-from-pune-today/articleshow/76126376.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||AP slashes fee of PG medical courses in private colleges||HYDERABAD: Contrary to Telangana’s decision to effect a steep hike in fee of PG medical courses in private colleges, AP has slashed the existing fee drastically, bringing cheer to both students and parents.  AP Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission, headed by Justice V Eswaraiah, found that the existing fee was very high and recommended a significant reduction. The state government approved it in toto and issued GO Ms No.56 on May 29. Justice Eswaraiah made it clear that education cannot be allowed to be imparted for profiteering by commercial elements. “Management quota fee allows colleges to run on ‘no profit and no loss’ mode and this should be the norm,” he said. The fee reduction came as a huge relief for students and their parents. Now, it would be easy on the purse for MBBS graduates, who secure seats in AP, to pursue PG courses in both convenor and management quota as the fee was much less in AP compared to Telangana, where the fee hike sparked a major row and the High Court intervened in the issue. Scores of parents thanked the AP government for curtailing education traders in the medical education sector. They said that MBBS graduates from the middle class and poorer sections of society too could pursue their PG dreams as the fee fixed by the state for A and B category seats was significantly less in AP compared to the neighbouring Telugu state. Aggrieved students in Telangana had moved the HC in past few weeks. The HC gave an interim order directing private colleges to admit students by collecting half the enhanced fee and said it would examine the rationale behind steep hike in the final hearing. For PG BDS, the fees for category-A convenor quota for clinical degree in AP is Rs 2,97,000. In Telangana, the figure ranges anywhere between Rs 5,15,000 and Rs 6,00,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-slashes-fee-of-pg-med-courses-in-pvt-colleges/articleshow/76126036.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Padarayanapura corporator who tested positive booked for putting lives at risk||BENGALURU: Police have booked Padarayanapura corporator Imran Pasha under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for defying regulations that required him to be admitted in a designated Covid-19 hospital after he tested positive for an infection. Ramesh Banoth, DCP (west), on Sunday said a case has been registered against Pasha and several of his supporters at JJ Nagar police station under IPC sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience of quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and some sections of the Disaster Management Act. Police said on being informed that Pasha had tested positive on Friday night, BBMP officials had tried to get in touch with him, but the corporators had switched off his mobile phone. On Saturday morning, when BBMP officials went to his house to shift him to Victoria Hospital, Pasha refused to co-operate with them. Drama ensued as several of his supporters refused to allow BBMP’s health officials to enter the house. The corporator kept the ambulance waiting for more than an hour. Finally, at around 12:45pm, he stepped out of his home in a PPE and boarded the ambulance, which took him to Victoria Hospital. Banoth said a huge gathering in front of Pasha’s house defied social distancing norms and obstructed officials from carrying out their duties. At least 19 people — 18 from his own family and a BBMP special commissioner — have been identified as primary contacts of the corporators, while 21 others are secondary contacts. Pasha and BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan, the local MLA, were to visit the BBMP commissioner’s office on Friday to discuss measures to halt the spread of the virus in Padarayanapura, a containment zone. “He coughed multiple times when we were talking on the phone. Worried, I asked him to get a test done and postpone the BBMP visit,” Khan said. Before this, Pasha had visited BBMP once and met several officials, including commissioner BH Anil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/padarayanapura-corporator-who-tested-positive-booked-for-putting-lives-at-risk/articleshow/76125409.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress stir from June 2 against TRS govt||HYDERABAD: In a series of agitations beginning on June 2 coinciding with the Telangana State formation day, the Congress will protest against failures of the TRS government on irrigation, agriculture and other sectors in the last six years. State Congress leaders will hoist the national flag at party offices in all districts and pay homage to Telangana martyrs on June 2, while reiterating their indebtedness to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi for granting statehood to Telangana. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy told TOI that Sonia Gandhi gave statehood to Telangana after she was really moved by youth sacrificing their lives for the cause of statehood, but that the TRS has failed to fulfil the aspirations of the people of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-stir-from-june-2-against-trs-govt/articleshow/76126028.cms||Roushan Ali
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||5 booked for firing at man, thrashing son||Ludhiana: A group of miscreants opened fire at a man and also thrashed his son in Mayapuri area of Tibba on Saturday night. It is alleged that the boy had an argument with the accused over some monetary issue a few days ago. Thereafter, they were holding a grudge against him. Fortunately, nobody sustained bullet injury in this incident. On the compliant of Jaspreet Singh (23) of Mayapuri, Tibba, the Tibba police have registered a case against a notorious criminal Jatinder Singh Jindi of Rahon Road, Pamma of Meharban, Jindi’s nephew Sunny of Rahon Road, Mani Bains of Ghora Colony and Gaurav Dang of Kailash Nagar. The FIR has been lodged under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder), 452 (trespassing), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and the Arms Act. In his compliant to police Jaspreet said on Saturday night, around 9pm, he had gone to a dairy in his locality to buy milk. When he reached near the dairy, the accused reached there in a car. The two accused Jindi and Mani Bains were carrying guns while other accused were having sharp-edged weapons. The stopped him in his way and started thrashing him. To escape, he rushed inside the dairy and locked the gate. However, the accused barged inside the dairy and dragged him out. He added that the accused were attacking him with sharp-edged weapons. Meanwhile, someone informed his father Kuldeep Singh, who rushed there to rescue him. However, the accused opened fire at him. Luckily, his father escaped unhurt. On hearing the gun shot, more people gathered there. When his father tried to catch the accused, they over powered him and escaped. On being informed the Tibba police also reached there and initiated investigations. Kuldeep said the residents had told him that the accused had been doing a recce of the area since afternoon. He also checked the CCTV installed outside his house and saw that around 7pm one of the accused had come there on a motorcycle. It seemed that they were waiting for his son to come out of the house. Inspector Sukhdev Raj, SHO at Tibba police station, said the police had also recovered a bullet shell from the spot. A case has been registered and police are trying to arrest the accused. The initial inquiry revealed that the accused had criminal background. The SHO said Jindi was a local gangster. He has about 10 criminal cases filed against him, which included murder, kidnapping, illegal arms, dacoity bid, etc. Besides, Mani Bains is wanted by the Moti Nagar police station in am attempt to murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-booked-for-firing-at-man-thrashing-son/articleshow/76125258.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Amaravati||AP slashes fee of PG medical courses in private colleges||HYDERABAD: Contrary to Telangana’s decision to effect a steep hike in fee of PG medical courses in private colleges, AP has slashed the existing fee drastically, bringing cheer to both students and parents.  AP Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission, headed by Justice V Eswaraiah, found that the existing fee was very high and recommended a significant reduction. The state government approved it in toto and issued GO Ms No.56 on May 29. Justice Eswaraiah made it clear that education cannot be allowed to be imparted for profiteering by commercial elements. “Management quota fee allows colleges to run on ‘no profit and no loss’ mode and this should be the norm,” he said. The fee reduction came as a huge relief for students and their parents. Now, it would be easy on the purse for MBBS graduates, who secure seats in AP, to pursue PG courses in both convenor and management quota as the fee was much less in AP compared to Telangana, where the fee hike sparked a major row and the High Court intervened in the issue. Scores of parents thanked the AP government for curtailing education traders in the medical education sector. They said that MBBS graduates from the middle class and poorer sections of society too could pursue their PG dreams as the fee fixed by the state for A and B category seats was significantly less in AP compared to the neighbouring Telugu state. Aggrieved students in Telangana had moved the HC in past few weeks. The HC gave an interim order directing private colleges to admit students by collecting half the enhanced fee and said it would examine the rationale behind steep hike in the final hearing. For PG BDS, the fees for category-A convenor quota for clinical degree in AP is Rs 2,97,000. In Telangana, the figure ranges anywhere between Rs 5,15,000 and Rs 6,00,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-slashes-fee-of-pg-med-courses-in-pvt-colleges/articleshow/76127745.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Bittu wants flights from Maha stopped||Ludhiana: Worried over the rise in number of Covid cases in Maharashtra, MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has now demanded suspension of flights from the state to Punjab and other parts of the country as well. Bittu has also approached civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Twitter and demanded the same. In his tweet to the minister, Bittu has said, “Respected Hardeep S Puri ji it is my request that pls suspend flights from Maharashtra to other parts of India in lieu of the high number of corona cases and mortality rate in the state. At least, spare Chandigarh & Punjab as our corona numbers are low and we plan to keep it this way.” Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Bittu said, “Maharashtra has more than 60,000 cases of Covid-19, out of which 28,000 are still active and more than 2,000 people have died so far in the state, which is the highest in the country. Moreover, unlike other states ,the cases are on the rise and state’s capital Mumbai is the worst affected, having the largest cases of Covid-19. But inspite of all this the Union government has allowed operation of flights from Mumbai and other cities of Maharashtra to other destinations in the country, which has now put other states like Punjab at very high risk with regard to spread of Covid-19.” Bittu added, “Regardless of huge challenges, Punjab has been successfully battling Covid-19 and we have managed to bring down the number of active cases significantly by joint efforts of our health and frontline workers. But if the flight service from the cities and states, which are the epicentre of this pandemic will continue like this, then it is very likely that we will see rise in cases in our state as well. Therefore, I have requested Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to immidiately stop the flight service from Maharashtra to other parts of the country. If that is not possible, at least the service should be stopped for Chandigarh and Amritsar airports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-wants-flights-from-maha-stopped/articleshow/76125267.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Police constable who rescued migrant workers felicitated||BENGALURU: City police commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Sunday felicitated a 27-year-old police constable who rescued migrant workers and their children on Friday, after a tree collapsed on their makeshift shelter at Palace Grounds. GN Ravikumar, who was the lone policeman deployed at the spot, pulled out migrant labourers including women and children, who were trapped under the tree and shifted them to a safe zone. Ravikumar joined the force three months ago and is yet to complete his training "After the tree fell, I saw a woman who pleaded for someone to help rescue her child stuck inside the shelter. With the help of other workers, we found three kids trapped under one portion of the tent. We managed to save all those children including an infant,” Ravikumar said. He said many migrants sought to salvage their belongings from under the fallen tree, but he managed to dissuade them from doing so since they were putting their lives at risk. A gold medallist from Kuvempu University in Shivamogga, Ravikumar holds an MBA in Travel and Tourism Management. He worked as a guest faculty in the varsity before joining police force. While the state government and police have been stressing on social distancing norms, the city's top cop and his staff failed to adhere to norms while felicitating Ravikumar. Shivajinagar was declared a containment zone, but Rao and his staff stood rubbing shoulders inside the police station during the felicitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-constable-who-rescued-migrant-workers-felicitated/articleshow/76125395.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Bajwa takes on Centre over sectoral reforms||JALANDHAR: Accusing the Centre of trying to push through its agenda by forcing sectoral reforms on the states in the middle of a serious financial crisis, Congress Rajya Sabha member has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider such a structural adjustment approach during this economic crisis induced by Covid-19 pandemic. “The ministry of finance accepted multiple requests from different state governments to raise the borrowing limits, from 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 5%... The central government has asked states to accept specific sectoral reforms as announced by the finance minister for the states to be able to access this higher amount of funding,” he has said in a letter to the PM. Pointing to the specific issue of power subsidy to farmers, Bajwa said to avail higher borrowing limits, the Central Government has declared that power subsidies must be reformed in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bajwa-takes-on-centre-over-sectoral-reforms/articleshow/76126034.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolhapur||1 dead as pre-monsoon rain lashes Kolhapur & Satara||Kolhapur: Rain with thunder and gusty winds lashed the Kolhapur and Satara districts of south Maharashtra on Sunday.In the Takala chowk area of the city, 50-year-old Suresh Mahadev Kesarkar died after a tree, uprooted by the strong winds, fell on him. The city fire department confirmed the accident. Another tree was uprooted at the panchayat samiti office in Siddharth Nagar. No damage to property or life took place in this case.The pre-monsoon showers also caused the temperature to dip to about 33 degress celsius, providing relief to people. In the past couple of weeks, the daytime temperature was between 36 and 38 degrees celsius. Dark clouds covered the sky the entire day and there were loud thunderclaps. IMD in Mumbai has predicted thunderstorms with gusty winds for districts in south Maharashtra over the next few days. The intense low-pressure belt created in the Arabian sea led to the rain in these parts. According to the experts, these are pre-monsoon showers which are accompanied by thunder and gusty winds. As per the normal cycle, the monsoon rain arrives in the region in the first and second week of June. Currently, the monsoon is near Kerala. The rain advanced from south of Kolhapur city and was heavy in the Ghat sections. The thunderstrikes were audible at long distances and they got louder as the system advanced to the north of the city. Meanwhile, an advisory has been issued by the district disaster management to not go out to soak in the rain. A lightning may strike and lead to fatality. The irrigation department officials have been asked to keep a watch on the water levels in the dams as heavy rainfall has occured in the hilly areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-dead-as-pre-monsoon-rain-lashes-kolhapur-satara/articleshow/76124531.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Demand to hold RBSE exams in home districts||JAIPUR: Objections are being raised over RBSE’s decision of conducting board exams in the same centres which were allotted before the pandemic. Teachers and students say that like CBSE has allowed students to give board exams from their home districts, RBSE should follow suit for students’ convenience. On Sunday, RBSE announced that remaining exams of classes X and XII will be conducted in June and the government has started search for exam centres to conduct exams while maintaining social distancing. Meanwhile, thousands of students who were studying in various coaching institutes in the state and preparing for college entrance exams had opted for exam centres other than their hometowns. Due to the pandemic, they have all gone back to their hometowns and travelling back for exams will be risky. Vimlesh Meena, a Class XII student from Barmer, was studying in Kota for IIT entrance exam. After the outbreak of the pandemic, she came back to her home. She is now planning to go back to give her exams. “I came home after the situation became difficult in Kota. I do not have enough money to hire a taxi so I have to take public transport which is still not secure. It would have been better if the exam centre was in our district. At least, short distance travel would have made it easier,” Vimlesh said. A senior RBSE official on the condition of anonymity said that it was not possible for RBSE to conduct exams in home districts like CBSE. “CBSE has 30 lakh students in board classes all over India but we have 20 lakh students in Rajasthan. Infrastructure of CBSE schools is better for organizing exams as compared to RBSE. The lockdown has been relaxed allowing people to travel as per their convenience. Hence, in such a situation, it is not feasible for us to conduct exams in home districts and students can travel back,” said an RBSE official. Reacting on the issue, vice president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Education Teachers’ Association said, “It is better to conduct exams in home districts so that students do not have to travel back to different cities”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-to-hold-rbse-exams-in-home-dists/articleshow/76126383.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Moderate to heavy rain in store for Pune until June 4||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate to heavy rainfall till June 4 even as parts of the city, including Sinhagad road as well as Bhor and Velhe tehsils in rural Pune, received rainfall on Sunday. An IMD officer said, “Moderate rainfall, between 15.6mm and 64.4mm, may occur in the city on June 1, 2 and 4 and heavy rainfall, between 64.5mm and 115.5mm, is likely on June 3.” Anupam Kashyapi, IMD Pune’s head of forecast division, said, “An associated cyclonic circulation is very likely to concentrate into a depression over east central and adjoining south east Arabian Sea during next 24 hours and likely intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Later, it is very likely to move northwards and reach near north Maharashtra and Gujarat coast by June 3. This condition will bring rain to the state mainly over parts of Konkan and Goa region and Madhya Maharashtra.” Kashyapi added, “The impact of heavy rain on consecutive days may inundate low lying areas so preparedness is very important along with proper drainage system.” Monsoon onset over Kerala“The current conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of the south Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, southwest and southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours. As declared, the monsoon onset over Kerala is very likely to be around June 1,” said Kashyapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/moderate-to-heavy-rain-in-store-for-city-until-june-4/articleshow/76126381.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: In 100th year, Pune Red Cross Society to expand its plans for social work||PUNE: From ensuring uninterrupted and free-of-cost help for Thalassemia patients since 2009, running a mobile medical unit, distributing ration among the needy to running an ambulance during the lockdown period, The Indian Red Cross Society’s Pune district branch has been helping citizens since 1921. The organization, locally headquartered in Rasta Peth, will enter its centenary year this month. On the cards for the ancient institution is a school for hearing- and speech-impaired children as well as a Disaster Management Centre to provide training in first aid and disaster mitigation activities. Vikram Phatak, branch chairman, said, “Apart from the Thalassemia centre, we have an OPD and we provide services such as X-ray, sonography, pathological tests, ART treatment for people living with HIV, H1N1-Swine Flu awareness program, diabetes centre, and so on at a subsidized cost. Red Cross School for the deaf was established in 1976 as there was no special school in the vicinity for the lower socio-economic groups of society.” Coordinator for the Thalassemia centre Gaurav Thakkar said that even during the lockdown, the number of people coming for blood transfusion has not been affected. During the lockdown, the group has worked on the ground with economically weaker sections of the society, using its two ambulances for the public cause, distributing ration kits and serving breakfast at two shelter homes. It also ran a mobile medical unit that reached out to 3,500 patients, gave medical certificates and medicines to migrant workers, and distributed chappals. Recently, the group started providing vitamin tablets at old age homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-100th-year-pune-red-cross-society-to-expand-its-plans-for-social-work/articleshow/76126378.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 1, 2020||Amritsar||Elderly Canadian couple found murdered in Phagwara home||PHAGWARA: A Punjabi Canadian couple has been found murdered at their home in Onkar Nagar here, the police said on Sunday. The deceased had come to India in November last and were supposed to return on April 8, but were stranded due to the lockdown. While the neighbours came to know about the murder on Saturday evening, the police suspect that the couple — Kirpal Singh Minhas (67) and his wife Devinder Kaur Minhas (65) — was killed on Friday night. However, their valuables were found intact. A tenant living in the upper portion of the house has been missing since Saturday morning and the police are trying to track him. The couple was living in Canada with their children, who would daily call them up around 6pm. Their neighbour Gurcharan Singh told the police that on Friday evening, his wife and Devinder Kaur were together at gurdwara and they had returned around the same time. “When I was going back to home, I first thought of checking if my wife had gone to their home. But, as I walked up to their house, I found that lights were off. When I knocked, one person, probably the tenant, said they were asleep and I returned to my home,” he said. He clarified that he did not actually see the tenant — Jaspal Singh, alias Jassi Dholi, — but assumed that it was his voice. He said their daughter had called up around 6pm on Saturday. But, when she did not get any response, she called up at his wife’s phone, saying that her parents and the tenant were not reachable on their phones. “When I and another neighbour went to their home, there was no response from inside while the gate was bolted from inside. We informed their daughter about it,” he said. In turn, the couple’s daughter informed their relatives that something was wrong, and the relatives informed the police, who entered the house and found that both were lying dead in their bedroom. “The man had been repeatedly stabbed with kirpan, while the woman seemed to have been strangulated to death,” Phagwara City SHO Onkar Singh Brar said. Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh, who also visited the spot, said they had named their tenant Jassi Dholi as an accused in the FIR after preliminary investigation and a police team had already been sent to arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/elderly-canadian-couple-found-murdered-in-phagwara-home/articleshow/76126040.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Locusts sense moisture, moved away before it rained||NAGPUR: A locust swarm has moved closer to Nagpur and was spotted at Suklikalar village of Hingna tehsil. Another swarm was found at Kohdi village in Kalmeshwar tehsil The swarm that reached Kalmeshwar escaped the rains well in time. Rains could have been a natural ‘pesticide’ from the pests. The locusts’ mobility is hit when it rains. The pest cannot fly and is also drowned or washed away if it rains heavily. Moisture also affects its metabolism, said Manoj Rai, director of Centre of Sericulture and Biological Pest Control. Rai specializes in locusts. He said the locust can also sense moisture and moves to drier areas as it cannot survive in highly moist areas. An official of the agriculture department said the locusts had left the areas where it rained. The teams are preparing to spray pesticide at the villages in Hingna and Kalmeshwar said joint director agriculture (JDA) Ravindra Bhosle. Bhosle said rains will also hamper spraying of pesticides as the chemical can get washed away due to rain water. Even otherwise, spraying is not done when strong winds are blowing, he said. Throughout the day, it was expected the locusts may enter Narkhed tehsil, but they ended up reaching Kalmeshwar instead. The swarm appeared to have split, due to which the size of the swarm has reduced. Locusts were also seen in parts of Saoner, the source said. State home minister Anil Deshmukh visited the affected areas in Katol, where there was a locust attack on Saturday. Deshmukh directed agriculture department officials to take necessary steps and also asked villagers to remain alert and make a noise so the pests can be shooed away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locusts-sense-moisture-moved-away-before-it-rained/articleshow/76126060.cms||Shishir Arya
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: What’s the new normal? Some dos, several don’ts||CHENNAI: Some lockdown relaxations have been allowed even in Chennai, which remains the hotspot in the state, accounting for nearly 70% of the fresh cases every day. The easing will be in two stages, one from June 1 and the next from June 8. From Monday, barring in containment zones, showrooms and jewellery shops can re-open and more employees can attend all offices. Though shopping malls, theatres, bars and public halls will remain shut across the state, salons and beauty parlours can open even in Chennai. E-commerce companies can deliver both essentials and non-essentials across Tamil Nadu other than in areas under Greater Chennai police limits. Highlighting the steps taken by the state government in its battle against Covid-19, chief minister Palaniswami said essential goods through PDS has been offered free of cost to 2.01 crore families for the months of April, May and June. Also, 35. 65 lakh workers and drivers from informal and unorganized sectors were paid Rs 1,000 each twice. “Each conservancy worker in Greater Chennai police limits will be paid an honorarium of Rs 2,500,” he said. Since poor people in containment zones and those living in slums may not be able to maintain social distancing, a special drive will be carried out to screen them for the infection. “Affected people in Greater Chennai Corporation limits will be kept in quarantine zones for seven days and on discharge will be paid Rs 1,000,” the CM said, seeking support and cooperation of people in controlling the infection. Restaurants can open across the state from June 8, but with 50% occupancy, in whole of Tamil Nadu. But religious places will remain shut and congregations banned till June 30. Large retail showrooms can operate, throughout Tamil Nadu, with 50% staff, but can permit only five people at a time. Air conditioning systems cannot be operated. IT and ITeS service companies can operate with 100% employees, outside Greater Chennai police limits. But, 20% employees should be encouraged to work from home. As for Chennai, IT sector can employ only 20% of employees, but not more than 40 people. International air travel, other than those flights operated under Centre’s orders, will remain shut. Lockdown will be implemented strictly in containment zones, the statement said. Crowd restrictions on funeral and weddings will remain with 20 and 50 people being permitted. Section 144 barring assembly of more than five people too will remain in force across the state. The CM said schools, colleges and research institutions will remain shut but online classes would be allowed. Tourists entry will remain banned into the hilly Nilgiris district and Kodaikanal and Yercaud towns, while hotels and resorts, except for accommodating health and police personnel and government staff for quarantine purpose, will be closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/whats-the-new-normalsome-dos-several-donts/articleshow/76126056.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Wildlife census to be held in Rajasthan on June 5||JAIPUR: The state forest department will carry out a waterhole census of wildlife in all the forest areas on June 5. The 24-hour exercise is an annual affair wherein forest staffers, nature enthusiasts and organisations participate by observing and counting wildlife species that visit each waterhole. The exercise was earlier scheduled for May 7 but, for the first time, it had to be cancelled because of the pandemic. A forest official said, “The census will begin at 8am and will be carried for 24 hours. The volunteers will count number of animals and their type that visit each waterhole. Each animal needs to consume water at least once in a 24-hour period. Hence, all the wildlife in the area will be covered through this activity. It will help determine the concentration of wildlife species in the particular area.” Sources in the department said this time volunteers may face difficulty to sit in forest for 24 hours as meteorological department has forecast heavy rainfall on the same day. “Since it is easier to spot animals on full moon night in summer, the census is conducted annually on Buddha Poornima when forest officers and volunteers keep vigil on waterholes atop machans . But, it was cancelled this year. Rain might play spoilsport as per the predications,” said a source. Explaining the survey process, an official said the forest department will begin the activities of collecting animal droppings as well as pugmarks to determine what species are to be found in a particular area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wildlife-census-to-be-held-in-raj-on-june-5/articleshow/76126393.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Murder accused jumps off roof, lands in Yamunanagar hospital||YAMUNANAGAR: Yamunanagar police on Saturday arrested a man from Morinda town of Punjab for the murder of Bal Chappar village sarpanch’s husband, Rishpal Singh. Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukhi, of Bal Chappar was booked for murder and criminal conspiracy on May 22, on a complaint by Rishpal’s father, Jagdish Singh. When he was trying to escape the police, he jumped off a rooftop on to an empty plot, hurting his ankles in the process. He is now under treatment at a hospital. Yamunanagar CIA-I in-charge inspector Rakesh Matauria said Sukhwinder was produced in court, which remanded him in judicial custody. “On Saturday, we received a tip-off that Sukhwinder was residing in a rented room in Morinda. We formed a team and raided the hideout in Sunder Nagar area of Morinda. Though the accused attempted to flee from the house and he jumped from the rooftop on to an empty plot, we nabbed him,” said the official. While jumping from the rooftop, Sukhwinder hurt his ankle joints. “He is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Yamunanagar. Investigations are on and some arrests are pending,” added Rakesh. Sukhwinder, Bal Chappar residents Varinder and Bhagat, and two unidentified people have been booked under sections 34 (common intention), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Rishpal, husband of Bal Chappar sarpanch Satnam Kaur, was allegedly murdered over a dispute related to panchayat land. On May 22 morning, Rishpal was gunned down when he was working in the fields. Bal Chappar police station SHO Satpal Singh had said Rishpal wanteded to construct a sports track for village youth on the disputed land, but his rivals were against it. “For this, Rishpal had got illegal possession of panchayat land vacated, which triggered the violence,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/murder-accused-jumps-off-roof-lands-in-hospital/articleshow/76126051.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Pune||Nitin Gadkari assures MSMEs of help in securing loans||PUNE: Union small and medium industries minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said small units facing difficulties in getting banks loans should approach him through his office. He said this while addressing a gathering of over 300 entrepreneurs. The minister said Rs3 lakh crore has been sanctioned as collateral-free loans to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and a “lot of MSMEs are also getting that money”. Gadkari said, “A committee headed by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh is looking into implementation of this facility. However, if there is any difficulty, please write an e-mail to me through my office.” A recent survey of 155 MSMEs by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), revealed that 107 of them said cash flow was a “major concern”. On delayed payments, Gadkari said his ministry was considering reducing the credit cycle for payments from big industries to small to 30 days from 45 days. The MCCIA survey found that the average amount owed by big companies to an MSME is Rs2-3 crore. MCCIA president Pradeep Bhargava urged the minister to help reduce the credit cycle to 30 days from 45 days for at least six months. “The MSMEs can complain on Samadhaan, a portal, against big companies for delayed payments,” Gadkari said.  On labour shortage, Gadkari said, “It is not true that the industry is totally dependent on migrant labourers. They constitute only 20% of the labourers on an average for the industry... When the labourers return, industries also have to make sure that they take care of the workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gadkari-assures-msmes-of-help-in-securing-loans/articleshow/76126387.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Showers bring respite from heat||Jaipur: Sporadic rain and dust storm on Sunday brought down the mercury by 5°C to 6°C across the state after a few days of heat wave conditions. Jaisalmer was the hottest clocking 39.7°C, the Met report said. Attributing the dip in the mercury to active western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said in the next couple of days, hailstorm, dust storm and rainfall would occur at many places. “Hail, dust storm and rainfall will lash many places in the eastern and western parts of the state in the next couple of days,” said a Met official. People in Pink City woke up to a rainy day on Sunday morning. The city clocked a minimum temperature of 23.5°C, almost six degrees below normal. It was followed by pleasant afternoon when a maximum of 35.2°C was recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/showers-bring-respite-from-heat/articleshow/76126382.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Enhance Covid-19 testing to 20,000 per day by June-end: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Escalating preventive measures ahead of Unlock 1.0, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to increase Covid-19 testing capacity in the state from existing 10,000 to 20,000 per day by the end of June. Presiding over a meeting to review the situation during the ongoing lockdown, Chief minister Yogi said: “The state has attained the status of having the highest number of 1 lakh Covid beds across the country spread out in level-1 and level-2 hospitals in all districts of the state.” He further instructed the officials to conduct exhaustive screening of passengers boarding the trains which are scheduled to operate from June 1. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also stressed on deployment of district administration, police and health department officials at the railway station. The CM said the officials should contact the railway board and request it to provide handbills to labourers providing information about precautions to check the spread of coronavirus. “The next phase of food grain distribution will start from June 1,” chief minister Yogi said.“A transparent mechanism, including use of geographical positioning system (GPS), should be put in place between go downs and public distribution supply (PDS) shops,” Yogi said, underlining the requirement of a nodal officer to ensure transparency. He said every needy family should be provided food grain. On Saturday, the CM had announced Rs 1,000 to the families of migrants who have come to UP following lockdown. Yogi said watch committees should be strengthened to contain the spread of coronavirus infection and also emphasised on rigorous police patrolling to check gatherings. He said sanitization exercise should be carried out regularly. Meanwhile, the CM said the state disaster management authority (SDMA) should chalk out a plan of action to check deaths of people and animals due to thunderstorm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/enhance-covid-testing-to-20k-per-day-by-june-end-yogi/articleshow/76126394.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As corona snips at livelihoods, barbers also likely to take a cut||NEW DELHI: For even the dourest amongst us, a haircut, often accompanied by a shave and a head massage, is an indulgence and perhaps a short window of 'me time' in our otherwise busy lives. That was, of course, before Covid-19. Now, even if Delhi government allows the neighbourhood barber shop to open, things will never be the same again. People are now wary of visiting a salon because the intimacy between their hair and the barber's hands seems like an invitation to infection. Many have started trimming their hair at home, with the help of family members. According to e-retailers, trimmers are, in Delhi, among the highest searched items on online shopping portals after masks, sanitisers, gloves and face shields. For barbers, the future looks bleak. “Many of my regular customers are not comfortable with the idea of coming back to my salon for a haircut,” said Mukesh Kumar, 41, in Janakpuri. “I can’t blame them as I’m myself afraid of being infected by customer.” Once open, Kumar will only allow one person into the salon at a time. He has also asked the young man he was mentoring at his barber shop not to return immediately from his village in UP. Well-known hairstylist Jawed Habib said the salon culture of a relaxed wait and conversations among customers and hairstylist is probably over. “People will just get what they want, primarily a basic haircut, and leave once it’s done,” he said. “The sweet-talking hairdresser will have to become a fast performer, which needs skilling.” This is not as easily said as done, as shown by the story of Abdul Kadir Salmani, 50, popular as Babu Bhai in the east Delhi’s Shahdara area. He learnt the tricks of the trade from his father in a village near Bijnore in Uttar Pradesh. “I had set my eyes on bigger things and arrived in Delhi in 1985,” he said, “but soon learnt that my father’s skill was good enough for the village, not for Delhi.” From demands for styling like movie stars in the 1980s and TikTok stars now, Salmani has always been forced to adapt. Constant change allowed his business to grow, even if slowly, and then within a matter of weeks after the Covid-19 outbreak, the life he built for his family is close to disintegration. “The future looks bleak at the moment. I had employed four others at my salon, but don’t think I can retain more than two when we reopen,” he said. Salmani added that income from just haircuts, as appears probable from now, will not be enough for him to sustain his family or pay even half his employee salaries. As another barber, Abdul Sabir, 52, explained, “The real income for salons come from facials, highlighting, hair straightening and grooming services. But unless it’s to attend a wedding, I don’t think customers will want a facial now.” Sabir worries that barbering being the only skill he and four brothers have, their livelihood from their salons in different parts of NCR is uncertain. Both barbers and their customers have to take the situation in their stride. “Though I have heard it is uncomfortable to work in them, we will don protective suits,” said Salmani. “We will also disinfect the work space, use sanitisers and disinfect our tools thoroughly after each use.” Habib believes that a positive fallout of Covid-19 will be a more organised industry. “People are so scared that they will only trust reputed salons,” he said, adding that this applied equally to beauty parlours. “Beauty parlours will shrink. Threading and facials may not find takers. People will buy wax and learn to use it themselves,” he predicted. What is more, services could move out of salons. Mukund K, senior vice-president (beauty vertical), Urban Company (Urban Clap), said, “We have seen a solid ramp-up of demand in Delhi-NCR for our salon-at-home services. More than 1.2 lakh customers signed up for a wait-list option prior to our launching the service.” said Though disallowed in Delhi currently, home grooming services are available in other NCR areas. “The initial demand has been for basic services such as waxing and threading for women and haircut for men,” Mukund said. He said the home-visiting professionals wear medical grade PPE suits, use the Aarogya Setu app, meticulously disinfect appliances, getting their body temperature checked daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-corona-snips-at-livelihoods-barbers-also-likely-to-take-a-cut/articleshow/76126403.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown 5.0 opens up Tamil Nadu: Buses can ply, firms to work with 100% strength||CHENNAI: The state government has announced extension of the lockdown in containment zones across Tamil Nadu till June 30, with partial opening of public transport and nod for more employees at workplaces in tandem with the Centre’s lockdown 5.0 guidelines issued on Saturday. In a statement on Sunday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami sought to drive home the need to continue restrictions while taking steps to facilitate revival of economic activities. “Our fatality rate is low, while the number of people being cured of Covid-19 and getting discharged from hospitals is the highest in the country, ” he said. As per the new norms, all industries and private enterprises outside Greater Chennai police limits can function with 100% employees and workers. Public transport will become operational in the state with 50% fleet strength and 60% occupancy. The 37 districts in the state have been divided into eight zones for the purpose. Ban on public transport, however, will continue in Greater Chennai police limits (Zone VIII) and Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur districts (Zone VII). Movement of people and transport can resume within the zones without e-pass. Interstate and interzone movement of buses remains banned; people can avail e-passes for such travel. While restaurants can open across TN from June 8 with 50% occupancy, religious places will remain closed and congregations will be banned till June 30. Cabs, taxis, autos and cycle rickshaws can operate across the state, including Chennai, subject to restrictions on number of passengers. Buses to run within zones, but only 60% seats availableBus services of state-run transport corporations and private operators will on Monday resume across the state barring Chennai and its neighbouring districts. There will be no change in fare charts and passengers need not apply for e-passes to travel in these buses. Around 50% of buses will be operated in the state that has been divided into eight zones, said an official release. To maintain social distancing norms, only 60% of seats will be used – 30-35 passengers in a mofussil bus and 20 passengers in a town bus. Given that more private firms are set to reopen on Monday, some conductors and drivers said the demand might be high. “Passengers waiting for a long time at bus stops will not listen to us and will push to get inside. This will lead to chaos,” said A Arunagirinathan, a conductor from Coimbatore. A TNSTC (Coimbatore) official said they would operate 1,019 buses including town buses – 375 from Coimbatore city, 148 from Nilgiris, 299 from Erode and 197 from Tirupur. Passengers will be allowed to pay for tickets in cash and no additional charges will be levied. Everyone will have to wear a facemask and fleets will be disinfected on reaching the destinations. Passengers will have to board through the rear entrance and disembark from the front, said an official of TNSTC Trichy which will run 330 buse. In Madurai, after an inspection on Sunday, stickers were pasted on seats that can be use. Private operators, however, are in no hurry to resume operations as their buses are not ready. “We may resume city and mofussil operations in a week,” said D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of bus operators association of Tamil Nadu . Hundreds of TNSTC workers protested at several depots, demanding full salary for May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-5-0-opens-up-tamil-nadu-buses-can-ply-firms-to-work-with-100-strength/articleshow/76126065.cms||D Govardan
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Asia’s largest wheat procurement’ operation over: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: After “successful” procurement of 128 lakh metric tonne (LMT) of wheat, Asia’s largest wheat procurement operations, despite the Covid-19 challenge, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday lauded farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and all government agencies. The chief minister complimented the departments of agriculture and food and civil supplies, along with their agencies, including Markfed, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, Punsup, as well as the FCI. The chief minister also appreciated food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for successfully accomplishing the massive task of wheat procurement, besides prompt lifting and ensuring timely payment to the farmers for their produce. He lauded the concerted efforts of deputy commissioners and police personnel as well as other government staff involved in the procurement process. ACS, development, Viswajeet Khanna said that to facilitate the pre-harvesting necessities during lockdown, the department of agriculture had successfully coordinated the tracking, screening and supervision of all combine operators entering Punjab borders, till the completion of the harvesting operation. Medical check-up of such combine operators was ensured before the start of work, and sanitization of combine harvesting machines and straw reapers was ensured by department, apart from enforcing social distancing, face masking and hand washing measures. ACS said that Punjab Mandi Board provided Covid-19 safety stations in every mandi, each of which was equipped with a hands-free hand washing unit and sanitiser, in addition to free distribution of 1.6 lakh masks and 35,000 litres of sanitiser. Principal secretary food and civil supplies K A P Sinha disclosed that of the wheat sown across 35.08 lakh hectares, 127.62 LMT had been procured by the agencies during this difficult phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-asias-largest-wheat-procurement-operation-over/articleshow/76126064.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur to go tobacco-free, offenders will be punished||JAIPUR: On the occasion of World No Tobacco Day 2020, district collector Joga Ram said efforts would be made to make the city tobacco-free by strictly adhering to Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) and its effective implementation. Moreover, in view of Covid-19 pandemic, implementation of the Act will be closely monitored and offenders will be dealt with strictly. In Jaipur, tobacco use will be prohibited in and around public places, workplaces, educational institutions their surroundings and public health institutions. Transport commissioner Ravi Jain, who was present during a function at the collectorate said, “The ban on the use of tobacco becomes even more necessary during the pandemic. Consumption of tobacco in public places is a punishable offence even now,” he said. In October, the collector had asked officials to formulate an action plan to make Jaipur tobacco-free in collaboration with Vaagdhara institution. Secretary of NGO Vaagdhara Sudeep Sharma said, “For the last two years, the campaign was run in various government institutions, colleges, schools, public places in the direction of tobacco-free Jaipur.” “As per the survey conducted by the us and the government, currently, there is 90% COTPA compliance in the city,” he said. According to the Vaagdhara Institute, more than 70,000 people die annually in Rajasthan due to consumption of tobacco and the state government has to spend about five times more than the revenue received for the treatment of tobacco-related diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-to-go-tobacco-free-offenders-will-be-punished/articleshow/76126396.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Salem||Lockdown 5.0 opens up Tamil Nadu: Buses can ply, firms to work with 100% strength||CHENNAI: The state government has announced extension of the lockdown in containment zones across Tamil Nadu till June 30, with partial opening of public transport and nod for more employees at workplaces in tandem with the Centre’s lockdown 5.0 guidelines issued on Saturday. In a statement on Sunday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami sought to drive home the need to continue restrictions while taking steps to facilitate revival of economic activities. “Our fatality rate is low, while the number of people being cured of Covid-19 and getting discharged from hospitals is the highest in the country, ” he said. As per the new norms, all industries and private enterprises outside Greater Chennai police limits can function with 100% employees and workers. Public transport will become operational in the state with 50% fleet strength and 60% occupancy. The 37 districts in the state have been divided into eight zones for the purpose. Ban on public transport, however, will continue in Greater Chennai police limits (Zone VIII) and Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur districts (Zone VII). Movement of people and transport can resume within the zones without e-pass. Interstate and interzone movement of buses remains banned; people can avail e-passes for such travel. While restaurants can open across TN from June 8 with 50% occupancy, religious places will remain closed and congregations will be banned till June 30. Cabs, taxis, autos and cycle rickshaws can operate across the state, including Chennai, subject to restrictions on number of passengers. Buses to run within zones, but only 60% seats availableBus services of state-run transport corporations and private operators will on Monday resume across the state barring Chennai and its neighbouring districts. There will be no change in fare charts and passengers need not apply for e-passes to travel in these buses. Around 50% of buses will be operated in the state that has been divided into eight zones, said an official release. To maintain social distancing norms, only 60% of seats will be used – 30-35 passengers in a mofussil bus and 20 passengers in a town bus. Given that more private firms are set to reopen on Monday, some conductors and drivers said the demand might be high. “Passengers waiting for a long time at bus stops will not listen to us and will push to get inside. This will lead to chaos,” said A Arunagirinathan, a conductor from Coimbatore. A TNSTC (Coimbatore) official said they would operate 1,019 buses including town buses – 375 from Coimbatore city, 148 from Nilgiris, 299 from Erode and 197 from Tirupur. Passengers will be allowed to pay for tickets in cash and no additional charges will be levied. Everyone will have to wear a facemask and fleets will be disinfected on reaching the destinations. Passengers will have to board through the rear entrance and disembark from the front, said an official of TNSTC Trichy which will run 330 buse. In Madurai, after an inspection on Sunday, stickers were pasted on seats that can be use. Private operators, however, are in no hurry to resume operations as their buses are not ready. “We may resume city and mofussil operations in a week,” said D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of bus operators association of Tamil Nadu . Hundreds of TNSTC workers protested at several depots, demanding full salary for May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/lockdown-5-0-opens-up-tamil-nadu-buses-can-ply-firms-to-work-with-100-strength/articleshow/76126840.cms||D Govardan
June 1, 2020||Erode||Lockdown 5.0 opens up Tamil Nadu: Buses can ply, firms to work with 100% strength||CHENNAI: The state government has announced extension of the lockdown in containment zones across Tamil Nadu till June 30, with partial opening of public transport and nod for more employees at workplaces in tandem with the Centre’s lockdown 5.0 guidelines issued on Saturday. In a statement on Sunday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami sought to drive home the need to continue restrictions while taking steps to facilitate revival of economic activities. “Our fatality rate is low, while the number of people being cured of Covid-19 and getting discharged from hospitals is the highest in the country, ” he said. As per the new norms, all industries and private enterprises outside Greater Chennai police limits can function with 100% employees and workers. Public transport will become operational in the state with 50% fleet strength and 60% occupancy. The 37 districts in the state have been divided into eight zones for the purpose. Ban on public transport, however, will continue in Greater Chennai police limits (Zone VIII) and Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur districts (Zone VII). Movement of people and transport can resume within the zones without e-pass. Interstate and interzone movement of buses remains banned; people can avail e-passes for such travel. While restaurants can open across TN from June 8 with 50% occupancy, religious places will remain closed and congregations will be banned till June 30. Cabs, taxis, autos and cycle rickshaws can operate across the state, including Chennai, subject to restrictions on number of passengers. Buses to run within zones, but only 60% seats availableBus services of state-run transport corporations and private operators will on Monday resume across the state barring Chennai and its neighbouring districts. There will be no change in fare charts and passengers need not apply for e-passes to travel in these buses. Around 50% of buses will be operated in the state that has been divided into eight zones, said an official release. To maintain social distancing norms, only 60% of seats will be used – 30-35 passengers in a mofussil bus and 20 passengers in a town bus. Given that more private firms are set to reopen on Monday, some conductors and drivers said the demand might be high. “Passengers waiting for a long time at bus stops will not listen to us and will push to get inside. This will lead to chaos,” said A Arunagirinathan, a conductor from Coimbatore. A TNSTC (Coimbatore) official said they would operate 1,019 buses including town buses – 375 from Coimbatore city, 148 from Nilgiris, 299 from Erode and 197 from Tirupur. Passengers will be allowed to pay for tickets in cash and no additional charges will be levied. Everyone will have to wear a facemask and fleets will be disinfected on reaching the destinations. Passengers will have to board through the rear entrance and disembark from the front, said an official of TNSTC Trichy which will run 330 buse. In Madurai, after an inspection on Sunday, stickers were pasted on seats that can be use. Private operators, however, are in no hurry to resume operations as their buses are not ready. “We may resume city and mofussil operations in a week,” said D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of bus operators association of Tamil Nadu . Hundreds of TNSTC workers protested at several depots, demanding full salary for May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/lockdown-5-0-opens-up-tamil-nadu-buses-can-ply-firms-to-work-with-100-strength/articleshow/76126839.cms||D Govardan
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown 5.0 opens up Tamil Nadu: Buses can ply, firms to work with 100% strength||CHENNAI: The state government has announced extension of the lockdown in containment zones across Tamil Nadu till June 30, with partial opening of public transport and nod for more employees at workplaces in tandem with the Centre’s lockdown 5.0 guidelines issued on Saturday. In a statement on Sunday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami sought to drive home the need to continue restrictions while taking steps to facilitate revival of economic activities. “Our fatality rate is low, while the number of people being cured of Covid-19 and getting discharged from hospitals is the highest in the country, ” he said. As per the new norms, all industries and private enterprises outside Greater Chennai police limits can function with 100% employees and workers. Public transport will become operational in the state with 50% fleet strength and 60% occupancy. The 37 districts in the state have been divided into eight zones for the purpose. Ban on public transport, however, will continue in Greater Chennai police limits (Zone VIII) and Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur districts (Zone VII). Movement of people and transport can resume within the zones without e-pass. Interstate and interzone movement of buses remains banned; people can avail e-passes for such travel. While restaurants can open across TN from June 8 with 50% occupancy, religious places will remain closed and congregations will be banned till June 30. Cabs, taxis, autos and cycle rickshaws can operate across the state, including Chennai, subject to restrictions on number of passengers. Buses to run within zones, but only 60% seats availableBus services of state-run transport corporations and private operators will on Monday resume across the state barring Chennai and its neighbouring districts. There will be no change in fare charts and passengers need not apply for e-passes to travel in these buses. Around 50% of buses will be operated in the state that has been divided into eight zones, said an official release. To maintain social distancing norms, only 60% of seats will be used – 30-35 passengers in a mofussil bus and 20 passengers in a town bus. Given that more private firms are set to reopen on Monday, some conductors and drivers said the demand might be high. “Passengers waiting for a long time at bus stops will not listen to us and will push to get inside. This will lead to chaos,” said A Arunagirinathan, a conductor from Coimbatore. A TNSTC (Coimbatore) official said they would operate 1,019 buses including town buses – 375 from Coimbatore city, 148 from Nilgiris, 299 from Erode and 197 from Tirupur. Passengers will be allowed to pay for tickets in cash and no additional charges will be levied. Everyone will have to wear a facemask and fleets will be disinfected on reaching the destinations. Passengers will have to board through the rear entrance and disembark from the front, said an official of TNSTC Trichy which will run 330 buse. In Madurai, after an inspection on Sunday, stickers were pasted on seats that can be use. Private operators, however, are in no hurry to resume operations as their buses are not ready. “We may resume city and mofussil operations in a week,” said D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of bus operators association of Tamil Nadu . Hundreds of TNSTC workers protested at several depots, demanding full salary for May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-5-0-opens-up-tamil-nadu-buses-can-ply-firms-to-work-with-100-strength/articleshow/76126838.cms||D Govardan
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man’s funeral stopped over suspicious death||JAIPUR: Police had to a stop the funeral of a 52-year-old man who died on Saturday night in Bapu Nagar after being informed by his friends that his death occurred under suspicious circumstances. The family claimed he died due to consumption of alcohol and sleeping pills but did not inform the cops. Police took the body for autopsy, the report of which is awaited. The deceased was identified as Ramavatar whose body was taken by Gandhi Nagar police after they received information about his death. Anil Jasoria, SHO, Gandhi Nagar police station said, “Ramavatar died on Saturday night and his family took his body to the crematorium on Sunday when few of his friends informed us that there was something suspicious about his death as the family did not inform the local police despite being told to so.” The cops reached the cremation ground and stopped the funeral midway to take the body for autopsy. “They had already started the last rites when we reached the crematorium but fortunately we were in time and reached before the pyre could be lit,” said the SHO. According to the family members, Ramavatar died because of a heart attack due to combination of alcohol and sleeping pills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mans-funeral-stopped-over-suspicious-death/articleshow/76126398.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Villages in dark after dust storm lashes border dists||Jaisalmer: Severe dust storm lashed the Indo-Pak border on Saturday night which spread to many areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer. Raging at a speed of 40-50kmph, the storm knocked down four big towers of 400kv at Ramgarh, Akal sub grid near Khinvsar village. As a result, the electricity supply has been disrupted in many villages. Dozens of electricity poles fell down and power lines snapped. The electricity department is working at war footing to restore them. Power supply was affected in BSF border outposts and they had to use generators. Besides, even water supply has been disrupted in the rural areas. There is forecast of heavy rain and hail in some parts of Chandhan area of Jaisalmer. Jodhpur Discom SE Narendra Kumar Joshi said that electricity department has suffered a loss worth lakhs of rupees. Electricity poles fell down at Ramgarh, Mohangarh and Myazlar areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villages-in-dark-after-dust-storm-lashes-border-dists/articleshow/76126406.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two acquitted 2 days before 10-year jail term gets over||NEW DELHI: With just two days left for them to finish their ten-year jail term, two foreigners were acquitted by Delhi high court that ordered their immediate release earlier this month. In an order that once again highlights protracted delays in the system leading to miscarriage of justice, Justice Vibhu Bakhru acquitted Philippines national Laya Emilyn and Nigerian Okafor Chukwuka Ugochukwu who were booked under various provisions of the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The high court found that the duo had been in jail ever since their arrest on May 15, 2010 and were due to be released after finishing ten-year sentence. They were convicted by a trial court in 2015. Justice Bakhru allowed their appeals challenging a trial court order, which had convicted and sentenced the two under several sections of the NDPS Act, including criminal conspiracy, possession of commercial quantity drugs and illegally importing commercial quantity drugs. Dissecting the trial court verdict that went in favour of Narcotics Control Bureau, the high court noted that “In order to sustain an allegation of conspiracy, it must be established that there was some meeting of minds of the co-conspirators. Clearly, examination of call record details would indicate whether Laya was in touch with Okafor. However, the fact that no such material or evidence has been brought on record raises considerable doubt whether they were ever in touch with each other.” It said the prosecution failed to establish there was any conspiracy and set aside the trial court order. As per the prosecution, Laya was caught with a huge quantity of cocaine in her bag from the Delhi airport in May 2010 and upon questioning told the Narcotics Control Bureau that it was to be delivered to one Okafor. Further probe led the raiding team to the co-accused and both were arrested. But the defence maintained that apart from the statement of Okafor and Laya, there was no material to establish any conspiracy between Laya and Okafor. “There was no follow-up investigation which would corroborate any of the facts as disclosed in the statements made by Laya and Okafor,” the court further noted while acquitting the two. “In the circumstances, the prosecution failed to establish that there was any meeting of minds between Okafor and Laya to sustain an allegation of conspiracy,” it concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-acquitted-2-days-before-10-year-jail-term-gets-over/articleshow/76126397.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Fitness industry stares at uncertainity||KOLHAPUR: With the gym operations coming to a grinding halt with the imposition of the lockdown two months ago and many turning to exercising at home, the future of the fitness industry in Kolhapur, known for producing the finest body builders, looks bleak. Such is the demand among citizens to remain fit that the 110-odd gyms in the city remain overcrowded on any given day. The period from May to July and the winter season are the periods when the gyms are considered to be raking in maximum business.  It is unlikely that the fitness freaks will return to the gyms anytime soon owing to the fear of the spread of Covid-19. Many have already started exercising and muscle toning at home and plan to stick to this course. Viraj Sonsurkar, owner of a gym in Rajarampuri and also a fitness trainer said, “Those who require higher weights and machines will immediately join the gym after the lockdown. We are also planning to focus only on personal training to ensure minimum people on the floor. We have fixed some standard operating procedure to ensure no one gets infected.” Sonsurkar added that most of the gyms were being run in rented properties. “Rents are piling up. However, we are ensuring no trainer or gym assistant faces any inconvenience in these times of crisis,” he said. Many clients are approaching the gym operators seeking advice to buy the necessary equipment to exercise at home. One of the gym operators said, “I am managing our regular clients who can afford to get the equipment from authentic vendors. In such circumstances, we have to find ways to sustain in this business. One of the ways is to give clients online training which will help them remain disciplined and ensure their muscles are toned in a proper way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fitness-industry-stares-at-uncertainity/articleshow/76124560.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Notice to 4 hospitals for delay in reporting deaths||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its highest single-day spike with 1,295 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total count to 19,844, while the death toll reached 473, the authorities said. The previous single-day highest spike was 1,163 on Saturday.  Delhi government, in its daily bulletin, said the cumulative death figure referred to the fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19 on the basis of case sheets received from hospitals. "A total of 57 deaths were declared on May 30. These deaths took place throughout May, and not on a single day," a senior official said. On Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 18,549, including 416 deaths.  Delhi government has issued show-cause notices to AIIMS, Lok Nayak, RML and Safdarjung hospitals to explain reasons for the delay in reporting death cases. While Lok Nayak Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility run by the state government, the other three are under the central government.  "Show-cause notices have been issued to AIIMS, LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital to explain the reasons for delay in reporting death cases and for violation of the directions issued by the Delhi health department, as well as by DDMA under the Disaster Management Act," the health department said in a statement.  Besides, memoranda have been issued to Baba Saheb Ambedkar, GTB and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospitals to explain the reasons for "delay in reporting death cases and for violation of directions" issued by the health and other authorities.  The statement also said an advisory had been issued to Lok Nayak Hospital "to be careful in the future" and follow the orders and guidelines issued by the department in letter and spirit so that "no anomaly" was reported in death figures by the government.  Facing criticism for "under-reporting" Covid-19 deaths, Delhi government recently issued a standard operating procedure for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to the novel coronavirus infection.  The government also issued orders regarding additional guidelines for better management of bodies of Covid-19 patients/suspects at the mortuaries at various state-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-notice-to-4-hospitals-for-delay-in-reporting-deaths/articleshow/76126752.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||CS counsels panchayat officials to sort issues||Jaipur: The turf war within state’s panchayati raj department over the order issued by ACS rural development Rajeshwar Singh, which stated that all files pertaining to monitoring and implementation of Central and state government-run panchayati raj schemes must be sent directly to him and not through panchayati raj department special secretary Arushi Malik, seems to have been settled with chief secretary D B Gupta counselling both the senior officers and asking them to follow business rules, according to sources.  Malik was also debarred from attending and holding meetings or video conferences related to the schemes. Meanwhile, the decision related to transfer of the special secretary or taking any action in the matter still lies with the chief minister’s office (CMO), as per sources. However, the chief secretary has counselled the officers and asked them to resolve the issue by talking it out during this crisis situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cs-counsels-panchayat-officials-to-sort-issues/articleshow/76126417.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Coastal districts record 24 +ve cases, 26 discharged||Mangaluru/Udupi: Returnees from Maharashtra contributed to 18 of the 24 positive cases that the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi recorded on Sunday, a day that Karnataka saw its single largest spike in Covid-19 cases at 299. Incidentally, the districts with close ties to Maharashtra and Mumbai, shared 18 cases equally among them, while three of them being international returnees, and the rest due to coming in contact with a positive case. The state too witnessed a similar phenomenon in the largest spike for the day, with returnees—domestic and international—contributing to 262 of them, including 255 from within the country. While Dakshina Kannada recorded 14 positive cases, Udupi accounted for 10 cases that the respective district administrations announced in the bulletins. The day’s development left Dakshina Kannada with 70 active cases and Udupi with 122 active cases as on date. Incidentally, 9 out of Dakshina Kannada’s 14 positive cases were from among those who arrived from Mumbai on May 18 – one set in a group of three, and the rest in pairs of two each, from three families. The others, P-3183 and P-3185, respectively, returned to the city from Bengaluru via Qatar and Malaysia on May 22, and were subjected to 7 days of institutional quarantine here. Their swab sample reports tested positive on Saturday and Sunday, said Gayathri Nayak, district bulletin in-charge. A total 12 patients were discharged on Sunday, including a 76-year-old, who had returned from Dubai on May 12. Only one patient, designated P-1437, out of the 71 patients undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, is in the ICU. In a related development, Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has notified Kapikad in Boliyar village in Mangaluru taluk, which has 28 households, as an active containment zone, with reference to a patient designated P-2868. In Udupi, 9 out of 10 positive cases were from among those who returned from Maharashtra, and one was a returnee from Qatar. A total 14 patients were discharged in Udupi on Sunday, taking the total number of patients discharged to 64, said Dr Prashanth Bhat, nodal officer for Covid-19 cases for the district. The district is still awaiting test reports of 7,257 samples, and these could add to the number of total positive cases of 187, that the district reported as on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coastal-districts-record-24-ve-cases-26-discharged/articleshow/76123151.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||No fresh tax on people in near future, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that the state government would not impose any fresh tax on people in near future. Addressing a virtual press conference from his official residence in Lucknow, Yogi said that the revenue of the state improved in May in comparison to April which in turn has helped the state government to take measures in the interest of the people. The government had imposed cess on liquor and petrol last month when its revenue plummeted due to coutnrywide lockdown. Yogi also announced that the state government would start the inter-state bus services which had remained suspended because of the corona pandemic. “Adequate precautions, will, however, have to be taken by people while moving from one state to another,” he said. Yogi said that the restrictions, will be in place in the containment zones and people will have to follow the rules of social distancing and other measures which were taken during the lockdown period. He said that the danger of spread of corona wasn’t over as yet and this demanded more precautions,” he said. To a query on gathering in religious places from June 8, Yogi said that the religious gathering will have to be restricted to arrest the spread of corona virus. Likewise, he said, the social gathering including marriage functions and cremation will be required to have a restricted gathering. The state government, he said, hopes of getting adequate funds for the Micro Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs) from the PM relief package. No industry, he said, can say it suffered discrimination during the crisis period. He said that the state government has also ensured that 94% of the small and medium industries give salaries to their workers. “The state government is also helping by providing food packets to workers,” he said. Yogi said that the state was all prepared for fresh investments after the corona crisis. The CM claimed the state government has been working towards the goal of bringing the MoUs signed with the industrial sector on the ground. “A number of projects for which we entered into an agreement with various companies have already been executed. The two ground-breaking ceremonies bear the testimonies of the state government commitment in turning proposals into reality,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-fresh-tax-on-people-in-near-future-says-yogi/articleshow/76126423.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Solapur records 44 Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Solapur district recorded 44 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 949. Meanwhile, five people, all above 70-years-old, succumbed to the infection on Sunday. The death toll in the district stands at 88. As many as 31 fresh Covid-19 cases emerged in Satara, taking the total number of positive cases to 516. Kolhapur district is just 10 short of the 600-mark as 28 new cases were reported on Sunday. The death toll in the district has reached six with one more person succumbing to the viral infection. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai said soon 50 beds with attached oxygen supply system would be fitted in the Covid health centres and 10 such beds in Covid care centres to treat more patients infected by the viral infection. Meanwhile, an 81-year-old man from Shirala tehsil and a 67-year-old man who came from Mumbai in an ambulance tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangli district on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-44-covid-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/76124568.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram Central ready for passengers as regular services resume today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The central railway station authorities are gearing up to receive large number of passengers as regular trains services will resume from June 1. Arrangements are made following guidelines issued by ministry of railways adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Thiruvananthapuram central railway station will handle four pairs of trains including Jan Shatabdi trains to Kozhikode and Kannur from June 1. Railway authorities have made a set of instructions for passengers boarding train or arriving in train at the station. All entry and exit points will remain closed three hours before the departure. Passenger movement through entry and exit points at the station will be regulated and are directed to report at the station 90 minutes before the departure. There will separate entry and exit points at station premises. And only confirmed reserved passengers will be permitted on the platform. The service of porters will be available to help elders or those with the luggage. Information counter will be open with minimum staff according to train schedule. Both ends of the platform will be monitored regularly to prevent unauthorised entry. Commercial staff will check tickets of passengers before boarding. Passengers should maintain social distancing at the platform. State health department will conduct thermal screening of passengers and only passengers who are found asymptomatic will be permitted to travel. Entry of passengers will be closed 15 minutes before the scheduled departure of train, also, passengers will not be allowed to stay at platform for more than 30 minutes after the arrival of train. Commercial staff have been asked to wear mask, gloves and face shield during passenger interaction as precautionary measures. Also, the railway ticket counters will be closed on Sunday .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tvm-central-ready-for-passengersas-regular-services-resume-today/articleshow/76124615.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Two more Covid deaths, 242 fresh cases in Bihar take tally to 3807||PATNA: Two more Covid patients died while 242 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in state on Sunday. The two deaths, one each in Begusarai and Bhagalpur, took the Covid toll to 23 while the number of positive cases in Bihar reached 3807. Eleven fresh positive cases were reported in Patna, including Sampatchak, Parsa Bazar and Bikram in the district. Begusarai reported the maximum 47 cases on Sunday and 278 in the district so far. As per the state health department, 1520 patients, including 209 in the past 24 hours, had been discharged from hospitals so far while 2,264 corona positive people were still undergoing treatment in the state. A 65-year-old man from the Begusarai town died on Saturday, but his test report came positive for the Covid-19 early Sunday morning. The district authorities said the man was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, an inflammatory lung disease that causes obstructed airflow from the lungs. “The man was admitted at Begusarai Sadar hospital on May 28 after his condition deteriorated. As a precautionary measure, the doctors collected his swab samples the next day. He died on Saturday while his report came on Sunday morning. We are tracing his infection trail,” a hospital source said. The two other persons, who accompanied the deceased to the hospital, have been quarantined. Their samples have been collected for test. The health team was in the process of collecting samples of his family members and the staff of the hospital which he had visited earlier. The second man who died was 42-year-old. He had returned from Mumbai to Bhagalpur on May 25. He was quarantined and later admitted to the Sadar hospital after showing symptoms of Covid-19. He died on May 28. His test report came positive on late Saturday evening. Meanwhile, Begusarai reported the maximum 47 cases on Sunday, followed by 34 in Bhagalpur. There were 21 fresh cases in in Kishanganj, followed by 17 in Madhepura, 13 each in Purnea, Jehanabad and Supaul, 11 in Muzaffarpur, eight each in Saran and Sheikhpura. A health department bulletin stated that altogether 2,569 migrants, who returned from other states during the lockdown period, were tested positive till Sunday morning. Most of the migrants who tested positive returned from Maharashtra (648), Delhi (559), Gujarat (377) and Haryana (220). Altogether 75,737 samples have been tested at several testing facilities across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-more-covid-deaths-242-fresh-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-3807/articleshow/76124731.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Wife, paramour saw online videos for tips to kill accountant||JAIPUR: The murder of the accountant in Bagru last week planned by his wife and the man that she was in relationship with has unveiled startling revelations including the fact that the couple looked at YouTube videos to find the ideal way to kill the woman’s husband. The two planned the murder during the lockdown as they were unable to meet. The two accused knew each other since 1998 and rekindled their relationship couple of years back. The accused admitted that they were inspired by television shows. Suresh Sharma’s (43) body was found dumped on the roadside under Bagru police station area on Tuesday night. The deceased had multiple injuries on upper part of his body. Cops arrested his wife Kusum Sharma (35) and her paramour Puran Mahavar (40) who are currently in judicial custody. During interrogation, cops found that the two accused had known each other since 1998 when and after Kusum got married, they got in touch again through social media. “Kusum and Puran rekindled their relationship and during the lockdown started planning Suresh’s murder. On the day of the incident, Puran called the victim and claimed that he had some information about Kusum. When Suresh reached the decided spot, Puran first thrashed him and then ran him over with his vehicle to ensure that he died,” said Brij Bhushan, SHO, Bagru police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wife-paramour-saw-online-videos-for-tips-to-kill-accountant/articleshow/76126430.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||PM Modi’s vision six-year ago helped tackle the crisis: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Giving full credit to PM Narendra Modi-led central government in tiding over the corona crisis, CM Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said schemes started by the Centre six years ago came to the rescue when they were needed most during this pandemic. “Today when India is struggling with corona, we have been able to tackle it as the preparation started six years ago,” Yogi said. He cited the example of opening of Jan Dhan account, Swacch Bharat Mission for construction of toilets, Ujjwala Scheme aimed to provide free gas connections, and Saubhagya scheme of free electricity connection which, Yogi said, helped UP give relief to the people hit by the Corona-induced lockdown. Yogi said that UP has benefited the most by the Central scheme as well as the Centre relief package. “We are completely satisfied with the PM relief package, which helped up maximum number of people in the country back to the state,” he told reporters at a virtual press conference. He also took a swipe at the Congress saying that scores of lives would have been in danger had the state government went by the list of vehicles by an opposition party. Yogi said that the Central leadership has been able to elevate the status of the country as well as change the political axis which was restricted to slogans. The slogans are now being changed into reality. The first five years, he said, was dedicated to various sections of society and helped in formation of a `Naya Bharat’. The six years of the BJP rule has given new identity to the people of India and helped them regain confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-vision-6-yr-ago-helped-tackle-the-crisis/articleshow/76126437.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||2 wagons of goods train derail near Wardha station||WARDHA: Two wagons of a goods train heading to Ballarshah derailed near Wardha railway station around 6pm on Sunday. According to information, the eight-wagon train departed from Wardha station at around 6pm. After crossing some distance, a wheel and spring of a wagon broke down near Bajaj Square bridge leading to derailing of wagon number 5 and 6. The derailment did not disrupt rail traffic as the train was on fourth line and was moving at a slow speed. Repair work has been started on a war footing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-wagons-of-goods-train-derail-near-wardha-station/articleshow/76126079.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lakshmi-Ganesh terracotta idols from Gorakhpur to slay dragon this Diwali||LUCKNOW: To hit China on economic front, the UP government has decided to promote the art of making terracotta idols of Laxmi-Ganesh not only in the state but across the country. This Diwali state authorities would ensure that quality idols of Laxmi-Ganesh prepared by local artisans capture Indian markets, putting an end to the practice of importing the ones from China. Artistes and sculptors from all across the country would visit Gorakhpur soon to master skills of making terracotta idols and statues from local craftsmen and take the technology to their states. Gorakhpur has got GI (geographical indication) tag for its terracotta craft and the Yogi government is out to market the local talent at the national level. Talking to TOI, principal secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said that “on the initiative of CM Yogi Adityanath, who has wished that this Diwali people should buy idols of Ganesh-Laxmi made by local artistes and craftsmen, a national level workshop under aegis of the Mati Kala Board would be organised in Gorakhpur. “The aim of the workshop would be to transfer technology to artistes, craftsmen and potters of other states for making idols and statues of Ganesh-Laxmi, he said. Sehgal said that the CM has asked to strengthen the Uttar Pradesh Mati Kala Board to give maximum employment to the rural people, artistes and the skilled migrants and he has also laid emphasis on the promotion of indegenous products in festivals .“It has been noticed that during Diwali the market is flooded with Chinese lights and idols of Ganesh-Laxmi. Now, to ensure that imported articles do not marginalise domestic products in festivals, we have decided to hold a national workshop in Gorakhpur to impart training to artistes, sculptors and potters. At the workshop they would master the technique of making terracotta idols, he said adding that it would also help in achieving the PM's call for being 'atma nirbhar” (self reliance). The workshop is likely to give employment to over 50,000 people, mainly the skilled migrants, Sehgal said adding that the Mati Kala Board is leaving no stone unturned to make the workshop a great success. The Mati Kala Board is affiliated to the State Khadi Vikas Board which is also headed by Sehgal. In order to give employment to potters, the Mati Kala Board has been inviting them to make earthen lamps which would be used Deepotsav in Ayodhya. In 2019, five lakhs earthen lamps had lit the temple town of Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lakshmi-ganesh-terracotta-idols-from-gorakhpur-to-slay-dragon-this-diwali/articleshow/76126452.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 1, 2020||Dehradun||Valley of Flowers to not open as per schedule on June 1 due to Covid-19 threat||DEHRADUN: The Valley of Flowers National Park — a UNESCO world heritage site located in the upper reaches of Garhwal — will not be opened for tourists from June 1 as was earlier scheduled. The decision has been taken in view of the Covid-19 threat. It is for the first time in the recorded history of the valley when it won’t be opened for tourists on the due date. Speaking to TOI, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said, “Before we take any final call on our protected forests, sanctuaries and reserves, we would first consult with wildlife experts and scientists. We are not opening the Valley of Flowers to avoid the threat of transmission of Covid-19 to the animals there. They must be protected from the virus as well.” The minister added that before reaching any decision regarding the opening of Valley of Flowers for tourists, the Uttarakhand government will consider Centre’s lockdown guidelines that will kick in post June 8. “Our decision on opening of Valley of Flowers will be based upon the directions from the Centre regarding national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, and tiger reserves and the suggestions of scientific experts from Wildlife Institute of India and Forest Research Institute,” added Rawat. Nested in the lap of western Himalayas, the valley is open for tourists from June 1 to October 31 and remains snow covered in other months. Last year, it was visited by more than 15,000 tourists and the state forest department earned Rs 27.60 lakh from the visits. Notably, the pristine valley undergoes a pre-opening ritual every year in the month of May in which snow and weeds are cleared from the tracks for visitors but the processis still underway this year. “We removed polygonum, commonly known as knotweed, from around 60 hectares last year. This time, our target is to clear 100 hectares but the valley is still covered with snow at some places as it received the last snow spell on May 21,” said Brijmohan Bharti, range officer of Valley of Flowers. Meanwhile, the forest officials have cleared internal routes of the valley for patrolling as there is a potential risk of poaching. “Our staff members are patrolling the park despite a snow layer. However, the park can’t be used by tourists yet,” added the range officer. Interestingly, the camera traps installed by the forest department in the valley have captured images of monal and musk deer this year indicating the rich biodiversity of the valley. The valley is known for its vast variety of alpine flowers as well as rare and endangered animal species like snow leopard, musk deer and Asiatic black bear. It was discovered by British mountaineer Frank S Smythe who stumbled upon the beautiful alpine meadows of the valley after losing his way while returning from an expedition to Mount Kamet in 1931.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/valley-of-flowers-to-not-open-as-per-schedule-on-june-1-due-to-covid-19-threat/articleshow/76124632.cms||Shivani Azad
June 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||IAS officer who quit over threat attacked in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: A Haryana cadre IAS officer who had resigned as the director of the archives department citing “threat to personal safety” was allegedly attacked with an iron rod outside her house in Ghaziabad’s Panchvati Colony on Saturday night. Rani Nagar said she managed to duck for cover, but her sister was hit in the left leg and suffered serious injuries. The senior bureaucrat uploaded pictures and videos narrating the alleged attack on them on social media. Her brother, Sachin, lodged a complaint at Kotwali police station, following which a man from the neighbourhood, Vishnu Varshney, was arrested. He has been booked under IPC sections 352 ( assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 506 (criminal intimidation. Although police said that the alleged attack on Nagar and her sister was related to feeding stray dogs in the locality, the IAS officer claimed that the “same people” who had been harassing her during her stint in Haryana were behind it. “My life is in danger and they are the same people who committed several crimes against me when I was on my duty. I had already filed a case against them in a Chandigarh court in 2019. However, there are many others whose names are not in the court case. I am going to file another case in this matter as well. I have been able to save my life till now, but I am not sure how long I’ll be able to do that. If anything happens to me, please submit all the information I have shared on my Facebook page in court,” Nagar told reporters. The 38-year-old officer alleged that between August and October 2016, when she was on deputation with the central government in Delhi, an auto-rickshaw driver had attempted to abduct her while she was on her way home to Ghaziabad. Nagar alleged “police inaction” in that case. She claimed that despite an FIR lodged at Sihani gate police station, she was never apprised of the action taken in the case. Speaking on the alleged attack on her, Nagar said she and her sister Reema were standing outside her house around 9pm on Saturday when a man they didn’t know walked up to them with an iron rod. By the time they could react, the accused had attacked them with the rod, she alleged. The swinging blow missed Nagar, but hit Reema in the leg, the IAS officer said. “The accused is in custody and an inquiry has been initiated. During questioning, he told us the matter is related to stray dogs of the area. We are trying to get further details on that,’ circle officer I (city) RK Mishra said. In June 2018, Nagar had accused an additional chief secretary-level bureaucrat in Haryana of harassing her. She had also filed a complaint before the state women commission, alleging that her senior officer would hurl “double meaning words” at her and even threatened to tamper with her annual confidential report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ias-officer-who-quit-over-threat-attacked-in-ghaziabad/articleshow/76126456.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Despite lockdown, over 80% Covid-19 cases from Vidarbha reported in May||NAGPUR: Despite lockdown, Vidarbha recorded nearly 1,400 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths in May, accounting for more than 80% of the total cases (1,711) and total deaths (67) since March 11 when the first patient was reported in the region on March 11. On May 31, the region recorded 54 new cases and two deaths. While both the deaths were of patients from Akola, the worst-hit in Vidarbha, the highest 26 cases came from Nagpur. Now, Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 cases have surpassed the 1,700-mark. The day began with death a woman Covid-19 patient from Akola, who was referred to Nagpur two days ago in a critical condition. A cancer patient, the elderly woman was tested positive in Akola and brought to Nagpur for dialysis and treatment on May 29. She died on Sunday morning. Another death was reported from Akola GMCH. The deceased was a 38-year-old community health officer from Tarubanda under Semadoh Primary Health Centre in Chikhaldara tehsil of Melghat. Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer, Amravati, told TOI that the deceased was not on duty since May 2 and contracted the virus in Akola itself. He was taking treatment at GMCH Covid Hospital and breathed his last on Sunday. Now, out of the total 67 deaths in Vidarbha, Akola alone accounts for 32. Among the 26 new cases recorded in Nagpur, two are ZP doctors who were taking care of quarantined people at MLA Hostel. Amravati recoded six new cases, while nine came from Akola. Mumbai and Pune returnees tested positive in Buldhana, Gadchiroli, Gondia and Bhandara. On the other hand, no new case was recorded from Wardha, Washim and Chandrapur. In some relief, more number of patients are recovering. With 30 on Sunday, total 1,154 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in Vidarbha. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 67.44% which is more than state’s 43.35% and India’s 47.76%. In Yavatmal, driver of the ambulance in which a Covid-19 patient died while being shifted from Mumbai to Yavatmal tested positive. The total active positive patients in GMC Yavatmal isolation ward now stands at 19. There were five persons including the deceased, Rajesh Rathod, in the ambulance that reached Yavatmal on May 30. The district administration has sought case papers of the deceased from the Ghatkopar-based Rajawadi hospital run by the Bombay Municipal Corporation. The administration is not ready to accept it as a death from Yavatmal though the deceased was a resident of Aarambhi village in Digras tehsil, which is a part of the assembly segment represented by guardian minister Sanjay Rathod. Swab samples of the remaining three who were in the ambulance, including two drivers and brother of the deceased, tested negative. They are now in the GMC institutional quarantine. Show cause to Umarkhed SDO, others Yavatmal’s guardian minister Sanjay Rathod has ordered the district administration to serve show cause notice on the Umarkhed SDO, BDO, talathi, taluka medical officer and others to explain as to why action should not be taken against them. The order was given following written complaint to the SDO Swapnil Kapadanis alleging total failure in keeping vigil over people patients housed in institutional quarantine and Covid-19 care centres. Sarpanch Gajanan Kadam, APMC director Atmaram Jadhav and a social worker Indel Ade alleged that the 43-year-old Mumbai returnee woman died in the GMC isolation ward on Saturday due to neglect of the officers concerned and lack of prompt medical treatment. The woman’s husband is a positive patient who is admitted in the GMC isolation ward and could not attend her last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-lockdown-over-80-covid-19-cases-from-vidarbha-reported-in-may/articleshow/76126448.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC workers accused of throwing bodies of Covid victims into graves||NAGPUR: In two cases, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) sanitary workers allegedly threw bodies of Covid-19 victims into the graves, instead of laying them to rest in a dignified manner, during burial at Mominpura Qabarstan. On Sunday, an Akola woman died in the city. Her body was taken for last rites by NMC officials. Relatives of the woman shared a video of the burial with TOI. The video shows an NMC official guiding the workers on the burial procedure, yet they abruptly released the long cloth used to lower the body into the grave as per rituals. The relatives alleged the officials didn’t allow them to go near the grave (pit) till a portion of it had been filled with soil. “The body wasn’t laid to rest properly, and it landed inappropriately on being thrown from the top. As she was a Covid victim, the grave too was dug deep, so the impact made a disturbing sound. As per Islamic custom, the body’s face has to be turned towards west (Mecca side). Before and after burial, short prayers have to be offered to God. Ablution is must for persons handling the body,” the relatives said. On May 25, the body of a woman cancer patient from Mominpura too allegedly met the same fate. TOI has a video of this incident too, where the body is seen being flung into the grave from the long cloth. Three more bodies of Covid patients have been buried by NMC. In the first two cases, NMC had ensured compliance with religious sentiments while disposing of bodies of positive patients. The civic body had also video recorded the burials. After the controversy broke out, Jamiat Ulema Hind (JUH) approached NMC top officials and offered to volunteer for burials of Covid victims from their community. Reportedly, NMC allowed them to assist in the burials. “In the first two deaths, two volunteers from the community had closely assisted NMC workers and therefore there were no issues,” JUH member said. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said JUH had NMC complaining that rituals are not being followed while carrying out the funeral. “We have allowed a limited number of volunteers to guide our staff in the last rites. The chances of infection are very high from a positive body. The body can’t be handed over to anyone. A couple of family members are usually there, and two to three volunteers can come. We will also provide PPE kits for them,” he said. Regarding disrespect to bodies, Joshi said, “The body can’t be touched, so it is lowered with a long cloth.” JUH member Dr Sarfaraz Ahmad said despite assurance, they were not informed about Sunday's burial. “We will follow all religious as well as WHO guidelines for burial. We are ready to take the body from hospital itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-workers-accused-of-throwing-bodies-of-covid-victims-into-graves/articleshow/76126457.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyber crooks pose as bank employees, clean up a/cs in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With online transactions being the preferred mode of payment during the lockdown, cyber frauds related to digital payment wallets and credit card services have also increased. It has been observed that fraudsters are using the pretext of updating the KYC details of unsuspecting consumers to dupe them of cash in their bank accounts. In a recent incident, a 45-year-old employee of a private firm received a call from a person claiming to be a credit card service provider, asking him to update his KYC documents or else the service will be blocked. He was sent a URL, where he filled in his bank account details. Soon, Rs 1 lakh was debited from his account. “The moment a caller says that their card or bank account will be blocked, the consumers panic as they are relying on these services during lockdown. The fraudsters take advantage of that and lure victims to install remote access applications like Team Viewer, Quick Support, Any Desk or similar services on their phones to gain access,” said ACP S Harinath, cybercrime, Rachakonda. In some cases, the accused send a link to update the KYC details and ask them to transfer an amount between Rs 1 and Rs 100. A 23-year-old private teacher from Hafez Babanagar lost close to Rs 1 lakh in one such incident. A person posing as a Google Pay customer executive lured her by saying there will be a charge of Rs 9,000 every month for using the UPI service. They asked her to deactivate the application. As instructed by the fraudster, she entered her debit card number, CVV and later an OTP. Soon after, money was deducted from her account. But the fraudster assured her that the amount will soon be refunded. She later realised that she had been cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-crooks-pose-as-bank-employees-clean-up-a/cs/articleshow/76126094.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 1, 2020||Patna||Public transport set to resume in Bihar from Monday||PATNA: The Bihar government on Sunday announced the extension of lockdown in containment zones in the state till June 30. It has, however, also announced more relaxations in areas outside the containment zones such as the opening of public transport and allowing more employees at workplaces from Monday. In his order, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani said the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued on May 30 would be followed in the state. Transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said intra-district and inter-district public transport movement would be allowed from Monday. “Decision on interstate public transport would be taken in a day or two. E-rickshaws, autorickshaws and taxis will not be allowed to ply in containment zones across the state,” he added. Agarwal said all public transport, including government buses, would ply in such a way that they will terminate at their respective destinations by 9pm. “The odd-even concept for three-wheelers and e-rickshaws will no longer exist,” he said. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the district administration would follow all the fresh orders of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) as far as lockdown is concerned. Ravi said lockdown would be strictly enforced in the containment zones where only essential services will be allowed. “There are 19 containment zones in Patna as of now. Movement of people will be restricted in these areas,” he said. The DM said shops outside containment zones would be allowed to remain open till 9pm from Monday. “Offices will also be allowed to function normally. However, movement of people and vehicles will not be allowed from 9pm to 5am, except in emergency cases,” he said. He said interstate and intra-state movement of cars would also be allowed without passes. “The condition of allowing only two passengers and a driver in cars will also be lifted from Monday,” the DM said. He said the administration would wait for standard operating procedures from Union ministry of health and family welfare for opening religious places, hotels, restaurants and malls from June 8. “Schools, colleges and coaching institutes will remain shut till June,” he added. The DM said cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, auditoriums and assembly halls would also remain shut till further orders. “Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious events will not be allowed for the time being,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/public-transport-set-to-resume-in-bihar-today/articleshow/76124783.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Air India doctors protest against promotion, transfer of doctor accused in harassment case||MUMBAI: An Air India doctor, currently under investigation in a sexual harassment case, was recently transferred to the Delhi headquarters with a promotion to head the airline’s medical department. In the past two weeks, a number of AI doctors from its medical departments across the country, including Mumbai, have written to the airline management to protest against this move. “At a time when workload of the AI medical department has increased workload due to Covid pandemic, the management, without consulting AI executive director (medical), issued a notification order transferring him (the said doctor) to Delhi which is the nerve centre of operations. It’s stressful working under him. He has a sexual harassment case (lodged against him) that is currently under investigation. He is known to intimidate witnesses,’’ said an AI source. Early this year, former AI CMD Ashwini Lohani and ED (Medical) had declared him unfit to head a major base like Mumbai or Delhi following general harassment complaints against him by patients, crew, pilots, pharmacists, among others. In February, the then CMD transferred the doctor from Mumbai to Shamshabad. “Now, he will be empowered to further intimidate witnesses. Doctors don’t want to work under him because of his threatening and vindictive nature,” said another source. AI spokesperson did not comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ai-docs-protest-against-promotion-transfer-of-doc-accused-in-harassment-case/articleshow/76126459.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Udaipur||Lockdown 5.0 in Rajasthan: Dos and don'ts from today||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Sunday issued guidelines for Lockdown 5.0 for the June 1-30 period, with no relaxations in the containment areas of hotspots and clusters. While all religious places, shopping malls and hotels will remain closed for the public till further orders, all government offices will function with full strength. Private offices can also operate with full strength, but should encourage ‘work from home’ to the extent possible, the guidelines stated. On Saturday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued an order stating that religious places/places of worship, shopping malls, hotel and restaurants will be allowed to open for public from June 8. Except in containment zones, buses will continue to ply interstate and within the state on approved routes, but city buses shall not operate. The bus operators will be held accountable for ensuring safety measures. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to open with complete safety precautions. The government has also done away with coloured zones and, now, only demarcates containment and non-containment zones. “The state governments can take a decision on this (opening of religious places and shopping malls). We will examine the situation in the state and take a decision at the appropriate time,” said ACS (home) Rajeeva Swarup. “The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities is strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am across the state,” it added. “All commercial passenger transport vehicles — buses, taxis, cab aggregators (Ola/ Uber, etc.) autorickshaws, cyclerickshaws — are also permitted to ply subject to ensuring proper sanitisation of the seat and touch points before and after each journey and other safety precautions prescribed,” the order further stated. “Passengers travelling in any vehicle (personal or commercial) shall not exceed the permitted seating capacity of the registered vehicle,” it said. “Selling of food items through shops, stalls, thelas, kiosks, including juice, tea and chaat, is allowed. But they have to maintain the required standards of cleanliness, hygiene and garbage disposal and ensure that social distancing is maintained.” “Municipal authorities will ensure the compliance of safety standards and precautionary measures adopted by them,” it stated. There shall be no restriction on interstate and within the state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission or pass will be required for such movement. District magistrates and other authorized officers have been empowered to enforce the common safety prescriptions through fines and penal action as prescribed in the Disaster Management Act, 2005/The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. “Any unit/shops found not observing the safety conditions shall be shut down and penal action taken. Strict legal action will be taken against any unit that is in the prohibited category and found to be open,” it read-.The government will launch a massive community awareness drive at state and district level to educate people on essential precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-pvt-offices-in-raj-canoperate-with-full-strength/articleshow/76133134.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Fraudsters use fake URLs to lure victims||HYDERABAD: Fraudsters, who are finding new ways and tools to cheat people during the Covid-19 lockdown, are luring victims with fake URLs and claiming to provide either free or credit card services. There have been at least 15 complaints with city cybercrime cells across the city, where the fraudsters have sent links asking victims to share their details suggesting credit card limit payment dues or e-commerce marketplace offers. Last month, a 35-year-old private employee working in Malkajgiri lost close to a lakh as he believed that the credit card will be blocked and shared his details after clicking on a link. “The spoof link will have an initial of bank account in the link to make it look genuine,” said S Harinath, ACP cybercrime, Rachakonda. There are a considerable number of registered domains on the Internet that contain the terms Covid-19 or Coronavirus. “While some are legitimate websites, cybercriminals are creating thousands of new sites every day to carry out spam campaigns, phishing or to spread malware,” said Cyberabad cybercrime officials. In some cases, the fraudsters claiming to provide free services such as Netflix subscription and are cheating the victims. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fraudsters-use-fake-urls-to-lure-victims/articleshow/76126106.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||New normal: IAS officer probably first in Maharashtra to complete online PhD viva||NAGPUR: Setting an example for its counterparts as well as traditional universities amid the lockdown, the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) probably held the state’s first viva-voce for doctorate of philosophy (PhD) on a social media application where unlike the offline mode, a whopping 35 examiners grilled the candidate. The other universities are yet to decide on holding the PhD viva which is a culmination of an aspirant’s years of research. It’s held before the coveted degree is awarded. Atul Patne, an IAS officer (1999 batch) who served as Nagpur ZP CEO as well as Gadchiroli district collector (2009-2011), defended his thesis in an over two-hour online sessions with YCMOU panel members from Delhi, Chandigarh, Nashik and Nanded. Patne, who hails from Nagpur, also presented 123 slides before the panel. He took leave to complete his research and other assignments. Patne is yet to get a posting. YCMOU registrar Dinesh Bhonde said this could be the way forward even after the lockdown is lifted. “The viva was held on May 23 as per the UGC norms. This was the first online viva in Maharashtra. Not only did it save the university’s funds (travel and dearness allowances), it also facilitated a range of jury members. At times, external examiners are unable to join. The online format allows more people to ask the candidate questions. It makes it more transparent,” he said. Patne said he was excited to answer so many queries from examiners, university officers and students. “I was told that this would be the first online viva. Hardly, anyone gets this opportunity. I had pursued this research purely for study purpose and wasn’t after the ‘Dr’ title as such,” he said. Patne thanked YCMOU vice chancellor E Vayunandan who permitted re-registration of his PhD. “Initially, I couldn’t find time and so, the first registration lapsed. Around 2016, I restarted my research by dedicating whatever time I could manage after official work,” he said. The title of Patne’s thesis is ‘Role and importance of innovation in development administration’ with special reference to Rajiv Gandhi Prashan Gatiman Abhiyan. Bhonde said the university’s viva will be open for online participation. Meanwhile, others such as Nagpur University and IGNOU are yet to take a call on vivas. IGNOU regional director P Sivaswaroop told TOI that the New Delhi headquarters will take a call on PhD vivas as it is a national university. However, Sivaswaroop himself has been appointed as an external examiner for an online viva to be held by a Visakhapatnam university this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-normal-ias-officer-probably-1st-in-state-to-complete-online-phd-viva/articleshow/76126463.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Youth dies after car rams stationary mini-truck||MANGALURU: A youth died and four people were injured when a car rammed a stationary mini-truck near Jeppinamogaru in the early hours on Sunday. The occupants in the car were returning home after attending a mehendi function at Thokkottu, said police. The deceased is Chethan, 20, a resident of Gandhinagar, Kavoor. Police said that the incident took place around 5am. On reaching near Jeppinamogaru, the driver failed to notice a parked mini-truck and rammed it from behind. Motorists who were present, rushed to the spot and tried to pull the occupants out from the mangled car. Police said that Chethan succumbed to his injuries at the hospital, while the four others have sustained minor injuries. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru South traffic police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-dies-after-car-rams-stationary-mini-truck/articleshow/76123997.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown 5.0 in Rajasthan: Dos and don'ts from today||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Sunday issued guidelines for Lockdown 5.0 for the June 1-30 period, with no relaxations in the containment areas of hotspots and clusters. While all religious places, shopping malls and hotels will remain closed for the public till further orders, all government offices will function with full strength. Private offices can also operate with full strength, but should encourage ‘work from home’ to the extent possible, the guidelines stated. On Saturday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued an order stating that religious places/places of worship, shopping malls, hotel and restaurants will be allowed to open for public from June 8. Except in containment zones, buses will continue to ply interstate and within the state on approved routes, but city buses shall not operate. The bus operators will be held accountable for ensuring safety measures. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to open with complete safety precautions. The government has also done away with coloured zones and, now, only demarcates containment and non-containment zones. “The state governments can take a decision on this (opening of religious places and shopping malls). We will examine the situation in the state and take a decision at the appropriate time,” said ACS (home) Rajeeva Swarup. “The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities is strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am across the state,” it added. “All commercial passenger transport vehicles — buses, taxis, cab aggregators (Ola/ Uber, etc.) autorickshaws, cyclerickshaws — are also permitted to ply subject to ensuring proper sanitisation of the seat and touch points before and after each journey and other safety precautions prescribed,” the order further stated. “Passengers travelling in any vehicle (personal or commercial) shall not exceed the permitted seating capacity of the registered vehicle,” it said. “Selling of food items through shops, stalls, thelas, kiosks, including juice, tea and chaat, is allowed. But they have to maintain the required standards of cleanliness, hygiene and garbage disposal and ensure that social distancing is maintained.” “Municipal authorities will ensure the compliance of safety standards and precautionary measures adopted by them,” it stated. There shall be no restriction on interstate and within the state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission or pass will be required for such movement. District magistrates and other authorized officers have been empowered to enforce the common safety prescriptions through fines and penal action as prescribed in the Disaster Management Act, 2005/The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. “Any unit/shops found not observing the safety conditions shall be shut down and penal action taken. Strict legal action will be taken against any unit that is in the prohibited category and found to be open,” it read-.The government will launch a massive community awareness drive at state and district level to educate people on essential precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-pvt-offices-in-raj-canoperate-with-full-strength/articleshow/76126461.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Meerut||After a lull, encounters back in west UP, cow slaughters targeted||Meerut: Trigger-happy policemen in crime -infested western Uttar Pradesh are back in action with encounters being reported from various districts of the region. Two suspects allegedly involved in several cases of cow slaughter were held in Mawana area in Meerut after a brief encounter on Saturday. Both assailants sustained bullet injury in the leg.In Muzaffarnagar, an assailant, claimed to be history-sheeter from Meerut, was shot at in the leg in an encounter Khatauli area on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.A few days ago, a constable was critically injured after he was stabbed multiple times in an encounter with alleged cow slaughters in Saharanpur, where an assailant was also killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-a-lull-encounters-back-in-west-up-cow-slaughters-targeted/articleshow/76124658.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Lockdown 5.0 in Rajasthan: Dos and don'ts from today||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Sunday issued guidelines for Lockdown 5.0 for the June 1-30 period, with no relaxations in the containment areas of hotspots and clusters. While all religious places, shopping malls and hotels will remain closed for the public till further orders, all government offices will function with full strength. Private offices can also operate with full strength, but should encourage ‘work from home’ to the extent possible, the guidelines stated. On Saturday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued an order stating that religious places/places of worship, shopping malls, hotel and restaurants will be allowed to open for public from June 8. Except in containment zones, buses will continue to ply interstate and within the state on approved routes, but city buses shall not operate. The bus operators will be held accountable for ensuring safety measures. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to open with complete safety precautions. The government has also done away with coloured zones and, now, only demarcates containment and non-containment zones. “The state governments can take a decision on this (opening of religious places and shopping malls). We will examine the situation in the state and take a decision at the appropriate time,” said ACS (home) Rajeeva Swarup. “The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities is strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am across the state,” it added. “All commercial passenger transport vehicles — buses, taxis, cab aggregators (Ola/ Uber, etc.) autorickshaws, cyclerickshaws — are also permitted to ply subject to ensuring proper sanitisation of the seat and touch points before and after each journey and other safety precautions prescribed,” the order further stated. “Passengers travelling in any vehicle (personal or commercial) shall not exceed the permitted seating capacity of the registered vehicle,” it said. “Selling of food items through shops, stalls, thelas, kiosks, including juice, tea and chaat, is allowed. But they have to maintain the required standards of cleanliness, hygiene and garbage disposal and ensure that social distancing is maintained.” “Municipal authorities will ensure the compliance of safety standards and precautionary measures adopted by them,” it stated. There shall be no restriction on interstate and within the state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission or pass will be required for such movement. District magistrates and other authorized officers have been empowered to enforce the common safety prescriptions through fines and penal action as prescribed in the Disaster Management Act, 2005/The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. “Any unit/shops found not observing the safety conditions shall be shut down and penal action taken. Strict legal action will be taken against any unit that is in the prohibited category and found to be open,” it read-.The government will launch a massive community awareness drive at state and district level to educate people on essential precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-pvt-offices-in-raj-canoperate-with-full-strength/articleshow/76133139.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ajmer||Lockdown 5.0 in Rajasthan: Dos and don'ts from today||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Sunday issued guidelines for Lockdown 5.0 for the June 1-30 period, with no relaxations in the containment areas of hotspots and clusters. While all religious places, shopping malls and hotels will remain closed for the public till further orders, all government offices will function with full strength. Private offices can also operate with full strength, but should encourage ‘work from home’ to the extent possible, the guidelines stated. On Saturday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued an order stating that religious places/places of worship, shopping malls, hotel and restaurants will be allowed to open for public from June 8. Except in containment zones, buses will continue to ply interstate and within the state on approved routes, but city buses shall not operate. The bus operators will be held accountable for ensuring safety measures. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to open with complete safety precautions. The government has also done away with coloured zones and, now, only demarcates containment and non-containment zones. “The state governments can take a decision on this (opening of religious places and shopping malls). We will examine the situation in the state and take a decision at the appropriate time,” said ACS (home) Rajeeva Swarup. “The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities is strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am across the state,” it added. “All commercial passenger transport vehicles — buses, taxis, cab aggregators (Ola/ Uber, etc.) autorickshaws, cyclerickshaws — are also permitted to ply subject to ensuring proper sanitisation of the seat and touch points before and after each journey and other safety precautions prescribed,” the order further stated. “Passengers travelling in any vehicle (personal or commercial) shall not exceed the permitted seating capacity of the registered vehicle,” it said. “Selling of food items through shops, stalls, thelas, kiosks, including juice, tea and chaat, is allowed. But they have to maintain the required standards of cleanliness, hygiene and garbage disposal and ensure that social distancing is maintained.” “Municipal authorities will ensure the compliance of safety standards and precautionary measures adopted by them,” it stated. There shall be no restriction on interstate and within the state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission or pass will be required for such movement. District magistrates and other authorized officers have been empowered to enforce the common safety prescriptions through fines and penal action as prescribed in the Disaster Management Act, 2005/The Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. “Any unit/shops found not observing the safety conditions shall be shut down and penal action taken. Strict legal action will be taken against any unit that is in the prohibited category and found to be open,” it read-.The government will launch a massive community awareness drive at state and district level to educate people on essential precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-pvt-offices-in-raj-canoperate-with-full-strength/articleshow/76133143.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Meerut||West Bengal's skilled artisans leave another gold-jewellery making hub of Meerut||Meerut: On a day newspapers announced gradual reopening of economy, over 2,500 gold jewellery artisans from West Bengal thronged Meerut railway station on Sunday to grab the “first opportunity” to leave the city after waiting for over two months. They toed the line taken by over lakhs of other gold artisans from their state who have already left jewellery hubs in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka.In Meerut-- a large jewellery manufacturing hub -- over 25,000 artisans form the backbone of the industry. Of them, 20,000 are from West Bengal and 5,000 locals.Like other sectors during the lockdown, this market with annual turnover of Rs 2,000crore has also taken a massive hit. Now, after waiting for two months and hoping for things to improve, a large chunk of skilled labourers is now returning to home.“I came here as a teenager 10 years ago. I work for a contractor who gets orders from jewellers. Now we are left with no option but to head back home as there is no work. Our survival has become very difficult,” said Faraz Ahmed one of the workers waiting at the platform.Another worker, Suleman, a resident of Hooghly, told TOI, “Right now, a train is going to West Bengal and we have an opportunity to leave. We do not know what future holds for us. We cannot wait for the worse to happen. There is no work for the last two months. I cannot say if I will come back or not. Things are too unprecedented and unpredictable.”Meanwhile, jewelry industry is keeping its fingers crossed due to the labour migration. Speaking to TOI, vice president of Meerut Bullion Traders Association (MBTA), Akash Manglik said, “The migration of the skilled labour will hit the market no doubt. We tried to convince them not to leave as things will be better soon, but they wouldn’t listen. We also cannot assure them of anything concrete. We cannot undermine any one’s problems.”Meerut is a large gold manufacturing hub that houses 2,000 jewellers and 3,500 suppliers. “The traditionally manufactured jewellery is supplied to all the states and overseas, mostly to Dubai, Singapore, Taiwan, the US, Spain, etc. Even 70% of jewellery supply to Delhi is from Meerut,” claimed Vijay Anand Agarwal, General Secretary MBTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/west-bengals-skilled-artisans-leave-another-gold-jewellery-making-hub-of-meerut/articleshow/76124665.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 1, 2020||Meerut||Meerut’s wholesale veg market inundated after rain, vendors wade though knee-deep water||Meerut: A video footage of vegetable vendors selling farm produce in city’s Jagriti Vihar market while standing in knee-deep water of early morning rain was shared widely on social media platforms on Sunday, raising question mark over administration’s arrangements.The wholesale vegetable market was shifted there from Naveen Sabzi Mandi after over 24 vendors or their contacts tested positive there in the beginning of May. “I am Shekhar Saini from Jagriti Vihar sabzi mandi. After rainfall, stock of the farmers and vegetable traders has been damaged. The market should be transferred back to Naveen Sabzi Mandi and Lohiya Nagar,” said a man recording the video, which took rounds on the Internet.When contacted, Meerut’s additional district magistrate (city) Ajay Tiwari, said, “The waterlogging at the vegetable market in Jagriti Vihar was due to the sudden rainfall on Sunday morning. The water has been removed from the site and area will dry up further on Monday afternoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-wholesale-veg-market-inundated-after-rain-vendors-wade-though-knee-deep-water/articleshow/76124662.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 1, 2020||Goa||No interstate public transport for another month: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: A day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that Goa would not permit interstate public transport for at least another month. He also said that bars in the state would not open, and that a decision on hotels is yet to be taken. Malls and restaurants, however, will open from June 8, he said. “We will not allow interstate public transport for at least a month (more),” Sawant told TOI, adding that detailed state guidelines would be issued on Monday. The CM said that the state would follow most of the guidelines issued by the MHA. “When bars are not mentioned in the MHA guidelines, why should we (permit them to) open?” he asked. “We have to strictly follow MHA guidelines.” As per the MHA guidelines issued on Saturday, religious places/places of worship, hotels, restaurants, malls, hotels and other hospitality servies will be permitted to open. Last week, Sawant had requested the Union government to allows the state to open malls, gyms and restaurants if the lockdown continues beyond June 1. Sawant made the request to the Centre during a telephone conversation with Union home minister Amit Shah. “We want the Union government to consider our request, but let us see what relaxations they give,” Sawant had said. Sawant had said that though the government wouldn’t allow hotels in the state to open, the proposal to open restaurants is in the interest of the public. “When most establishments are open, where will they (staff, employees, etc) eat? Hence, we want to allow restaurants and tea shops to open but follow social distancing norms.” Bars and pubs, however, will not be allowed to open, he had said Before Lockdown 4.0, the state government had suggested to PM Narendra Modi that the interstate movement of people should continue to be restricted. He said that if interstate public transport is allowed, there is a possibility of many Covid-19 positive cases entering Goa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-interstate-public-transport-for-another-month-goa-cm-pramod-sawant/articleshow/76126464.cms||Murari Shetye
June 1, 2020||Goa||‘Farmers not given compensation for Taleigao land’||Panaji: A day after seven activists were arrested by Panaji police for allegedly obstructing work of filling of a field in Taleigao for construction of the new village panchayat ghar, the activists said that their arrest was abrupt and was made while they were only carrying on a verbal discussion with the officials. Advocate Albertina Almeida said that she first noticed the land-filling being carried out on May 28, when she saw the women who till the land were objecting to it. “After I intervened, the activity stopped and everyone dispersed, only for the filling to resume on Saturday. Seven of us had not organized ourselves to protest, we only joined in to help the farmers who were objecting to the filling. We asked the officials to show the documentation which allows them to begin work on the project and the refrain over and over again was that we should go to court if we have any objections,” said Almeida. The activists were released on bail by the SDM only late on Saturday night. Almeida said the activists asked that a case of trespassing be booked instead against those who brought in the trucks for filling of the fertile agricultural land. “The farmers had the necessary documents, including a copy of the resolution submitted by the Taleigao panchayat to the BDO to withdraw the proposal to build a panchayat ghar in this land adjacent to the Taleigao community centre. But as the discussions progressed, the mamlatdar arrived and she showed us a resolution which states that the earlier resolution calling for cancellation of the project had been withdrawn. If that was the case, then how is that all other conditions of award of the land like providing compensation to the farmers has not been completed?” said Almeida. Panchayat officials claim that all the necessary documentation has been carried out for the project. Almeida said that as the farmers had not received compensation for the land and they had not been approached for any further documentation for transfer of land for the project, they had no reason to think that the panchayat ghar project stands abandoned. “Seven of us were still carrying out the discussion with the officials on Saturday afternoon and I was on a call, when suddenly I saw the policemen approaching and then they detained us. The seven of us had not even come there to protest, but we had come there as individuals seeing the women protesting. The land is these farmers’ only source of livelihood,” said Almeida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-not-given-compensation-for-taleigao-land/articleshow/76126470.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Goa||Can’t assure Goa will host Nat’l Games next year: IOA chief||Panaji: Goa’s decision to postpone National Games 2020 without consulting the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) has angered the national body, which is now threatening to take away the multi-discipline event from the state. “Goa never discussed anything with us. They took a unilateral decision to postpone. I don’t know what is going to be the situation. Do we give it back to Goa (for next year), or do we now tell the other states to go ahead? IOA president Narender Batra told TOI on Sunday. He said it has created confusion as other states are waiting to host the Games. “I will have to take this to our executive board and subsequently to the general assembly. There are commitments with other states for 2021 (Chhattisgarh), 2022 (Uttarakhand) and 2023 (Meghalaya),” he said. “Just because Goa is not doing it (this year), we cannot tell the others that you do it later. Why should other states agree?” he said. Goa was scheduled to host the 36th edition of the oft-postponed National Games from October 20 to November 4 this year. However, the state government decided to postpone the event due to coronavirus pandemic. Postponements have been a regular feature since the Games were allotted in 2008. Batra has previously made an exception for Goa and allowed it to host the National Games in the year of the Olympics. Kerala hosted the last edition of the National Games in January 2015 and it’s now more than five years that Goa is struggling to prepare the infrastructure. The state has sought six official postponements in the past five years, angering not just IOA officials, but many of their own. During the National Games Organising Committee (NGOC) meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant in attendance last week, Goa Olympic Association (GOA) secretary Gurudutta Bhakta told members that IOA should at least be consulted. His pleas were brushed aside by high-ranking officials, at least three times. Instead, a decision was taken to consult the Union sports ministry, which has no control over the National Games. “The Covid situation is unusual and we understand that. I know this is not in anybody’s hand. I am not blaming Goa (for the postponement) or anyone else. But announcing this without consulting the stakeholders is wrong. We could have discussed with other states,” Batra said. He said Goa should have followed the “basic courtesy” of consulting IOA before deciding to postpone the Games. “They cannot decide and throw things at us. That is not the proper way of doing things,” he said. While the state government said the coronavirus pandemic had forced them to seek another postponement, it is no secret that Goa has missed several deadlines to complete infrastructure. Last month, IOA officially complained about five projects which were lagging and said a Plan B would be needed. The swimming pool (Campal), tennis facility (Fatorda), hockey turf-ground (Peddem), squash courts (Chicalim) and lawn bowl facility (Chicalim) have all seen substantial delays. Goa signed the Host City Contract with IOA in 2008 and were originally scheduled to host the National Games in 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-assure-goa-will-host-natl-games-next-year-ioa-chief/articleshow/76126468.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
June 1, 2020||Jaipur||Kota institutes get ready to reopen by June-end||JAIPUR: The state government is all set to reopen coaching centres in Kota by the end of June, and has offered all help to institutes to bring back students who had left for their respective states due to the pandemic. The lockdown has seen the coaching town reel under one of the worst economic crisis as the sector alone provides direct employment to over one lakh residents in multiple sectors. Making the first move, UDH minister and Kota MLA Shanti Dhariwal has suggested to the local administration to put coaching areas into separate zones or categories while imposing restrictions on unnecessary movement of vehicles and local residents. Kota has six areas with a high density of coaching institutes, hostels and related facilities. These are Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Kunhari, Bara Road, Talwandi, Jawahar Nagar and Indra Vihar. They witness a very heavy movement of students throughout the day. “It’s most important for us to send a strong message to students and their parents across the country that we care for them. We will take utmost precaution for their safety and security,” Dhariwal said. He suggested some tough measures for reopening the coaching town. “Every coaching centre should maintain the required distance between two students. A class with a capacity of 120 students must be reduced to 40-50 students to win the confidence of parents,” he said. Higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati too has assured all help to stakeholders — coaching centres, hostel, catering and transport providers — to create a safe and healthy ecosystem for students and help the the sector. “We have been holding talks with coaching majors and other stakeholders, taking their advice on reopening. We have declared holidays in institutes till June 15 and would want a blueprint to be ready before mid-June,” Bhati said. Another view that’s doing the rounds in the government is a rotational class system wherein one-third of the actual strength of a class will attend centres for two days each in a week. About 46,500 students have left for their respecrector of Allen Coaching Institute, has given a list of dos and don’ts for coaching institutes across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-institutes-get-ready-to-reopen-by-june-end/articleshow/76126466.cms||Shoeb Khan
June 1, 2020||Goa||Temples to reopen in Goa from June 8||Margao: With the government having relaxed the lockdown to remove restrictions on access to religious places from June 8, temple doors in Goa, will be opened for the public after over 10 weeks. However, major events that usually witness large congregations will either be rescheduled or cancelled. ‘Koul prasad’ which is also currently closed will be resumed, multiple sources from important temples of Goa said. Shrimad Vidyadheeraj Teerth Shripad Vader Swami, the chief pontiff of Gokarn Jeevottam mutt, Partagal, Canacona, had in a recent order banned celebration of any religious festival and mass congregation for any type of ritual in any of the temples of the Saraswat samaj. Though most of the temples of the Saraswat samaj are affiliated to the Partagal mutt, two major temples of Goa — Shree Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, and Shree Mangesh Devasthan, Mangeshi, are affiliated to the Kavlem mutt. As reported earlier, the guidelines issued by the Dharma mandal of the Partagal mutt state that Vaikunth chaturdashi and Poornima of the Kartik month be postponed to Krishna Paksha of Margshirsh, and that the bhajans generally held on Ashadh Shukla ekadashi be now held in the Kartik month. Ganesh Chaturthi, which falls in Bhadrapad, will now be celebrated in Magh, on Ganesh Jayanti day. ‘Makarotsav’ of all kuldevasthans during Navratri have been cancelled. Instead of Annasantarpan (mass serving of meals), only panchakhadya naivadya will be distributed in the temples, the order states. Nevertheless, the managing committee of the Shantadurga Devasthan has issued a notice to all mahajans and devotees that the Partagal mutt’s order is not applicable to it. “…We would like to clarify that directions, guidelines or instructions if any, related to our devasthan will be issued by our Kaivalya mathadhish HH Shivanand Saraswati swami maharaj under whose jurisdiction our devasthan’s rituals, various utsavs, etc, are taking place,” the notice read. Sources in the Partagal mutt said that the order was warranted as the temples witness large crowds, mostly from neighbouring districts of Karnataka, during special occasions or for ‘prasad koul’ rituals. “On some days, people numbering 500 to 1,000 congregate in some temples, which necessitates cooking meals for them within the temple complex. Such events will either be cancelled or rescheduled to further dates. The managing committees have been advised to put a system in place where only a limited number of ‘koul prasads’ will be conducted on certain days only, and restricted access will be given to devotees on those days,” a source associated with the Partagal mutt administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temples-to-reopen-in-goa-from-june-8/articleshow/76126469.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||CIC raps govt’s top labour officer over lack of migrant data||NEW DELHI: With fresh stories of migrant distress being reported every day, and no clear data on the exact number of migrants still stranded in different parts of the country, the central information commission has asked the chief labour commissioner (CLC) to make all information on migrant workers public and to update it periodically. In early May, the government had acknowledged that efforts to help migrant workers stranded or walking across the country were stymied by the lack of extensive and reliable data on them. To plug the gap, it launched a ‘National Migrant Information System’ under which it directed all states to register migrants’ details on the online portal. On May 5, however, after the third extension of the lockdown, the labour ministry’s CPIO denied information to transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak when he sought data on stranded migrants on grounds that no information was available. Quoting observations on the migrant issue made by the Supreme Court and different high courts, the information commissioner Vanaja Sarna intervened and said, “The Commission is pained to see such a callous and non-serious attitude of the CPIO while handling the RTI application, more so, during such times of pandemic when every citizen is worried about the frayed lives of the country’s poor and has precipitated an unprecedented humanitarian crisis for migrant workers.” Granting one week to the labour commissioner to ensure compliance in an out-of-turn hearing on the matter on May 27, Sarna invoked sections of the RTI Act and said, “An advisory is issued to the Chief Labour Commissioner, to suo-moto upload maximum data as available with them in relation to the migrant workers stranded in relief camps or shelters organised by governments or at the workplace of their employers or generally clustered in any district...”. The commission also acknowledged that placing the information in public domain can “deepen public confidence on the intent and ability of the concerned authorities...to take resolute action to alleviate the enormous suffering that migrant workers as a category are facing due to the lockdown...”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cic-raps-govts-top-labour-officer-over-lack-of-migrant-data/articleshow/76126761.cms||Swati Mathur
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Disturbances welcome: Relief till June 4 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Overnight rain, accompanied with gusty winds, brought the mercury down in Delhi on Sunday morning. Later in the day, thunderstorm with light shower and lightning winds were witnessed.  Till around 5.30pm on Sunday, Safdarjung had recorded 2.2mm rain, Palam 10.2mm, Lodhi Road 2.7mm and Ayanagar 35.1mm. "The maximum wind speed recorded during the day at Safdarjung was 32 km per hour while it was 60 km per hour at Palam. Sunday's rain took place under continued influence of western disturbance affecting Northwest India and easterly winds in lower levels from Uttar Pradesh," a Met official said.  The maximum temperature at Safdarjung, considered the base station for the city, on Sunday was 34.6 degrees Celsius, six notches below the normal, while the minimum was 20, seven degrees Celsius below the normal. Palam, meanwhile, recorded a maximum of 36.1 degrees Celsius, while Lodhi Road and Ayanagar both recorded 33.8 degrees Celsius.  Earlier this week, Delhi got relief from the prevalent heatwave conditions on Thursday with partly cloudy sky during the day and light rain in some parts of the city in the evening.  Monday's forecast suggests partly cloudy sky with a possibility of light rain. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 38 and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively.  According to a Met official, the effect of the current western disturbance will reduce significantly after Sunday. "A rise in maximum temperature by 2-4 degrees over NCR is expected around June 1 and June 3. However, at most other places across Northwest India, the maximum temperature will remain below 40 degrees and heatwave conditions will not return. From the night of June 3, a fresh western disturbance will affect the region," the official added.  According to him, this disturbance will lead to thunderstorm with light rain activity over NCR and Northwest India between June 3 and June 5 with peak activity on June 4. In terms of air quality, it was a "satisfactory" day on Sunday in the capital with an AQI of 72, according to Central Pollution Control Board.  As per SAFAR, satisfactory AQI is forecasted for Monday. "The AQI may marginally deteriorate from 'satisfactory' to the lower end of 'moderate' category by Tuesday," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/disturbances-welcome-relief-till-june-4-in-delhi/articleshow/76126762.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kochi||Case on Ramesh Chennithala for violating social distancing||ALAPPUZHA: The Ambalappuzha police on Sunday registered a case against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and 19 other Congress workers for violating social distancing norms while attending a protest against mineral sand mining at Thottappally. Chennithala had visited Thottapally estuary and the venue of relay satyagraha on Sunday. He was accompanied by KPCC general secretary A A Shukur, DCC president M Liju, former MLA Babu Prasad and other local leaders. Shukur said that the police was dancing to the tune of CPM and its leaders. “LDF leaders and their ministers attended many meetings in Alappuzha violating social distancing norms under the nose of police. But the police did not do anything. The law applies to all and the case against Ramesh Chennithala is a deliberate move of the police and LDF,” he said. Even as strong protests were staged by fishermen, environmentalists and locals, at least 550 trees, mostly casuarina, close to the Thottappally estuary were felled on government orders. The KMML also started removing sand deposits from the estuary. According to the Alappuzha district administration, the trees were cut and mineral sand was being removed based on government decision to ensure the flow of floodwaters from the Kuttanad region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/case-on-chennithala-for-violating-social-distancing/articleshow/76124719.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Faced with an influx, North Karnataka is testing more than state average||BENGALURU: A dozen districts in North Karnataka, which together account for 1,451 of the state’s 3,221 Covid-19 cases until Sunday, have been seeing a massive spike in infections from the second week of May, coincidentally when Karnataka began issuing passes for inter-state returnees. In fact, five of these districts account for 80% of the total number of cases reported on Sunday in the state. Raichur had the highest at 83, followed by Yadgir (44), Bidar (33), Kalaburagi (28) and Vijayapura (26). The number of cases on Sunday alone in these 12 districts — Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Bidar, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Ballari, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Koppal — accounted for 16% of their total cases. As on Sunday, the cases in these districts account for 45% of the total number of cases, and 51% (1,005) of the total number of active cases (1,950) in the state. While experts and government officials say the primary reason for this is the increasing number of returnees, especially from Maharashtra, government data accessed by TOI also shows that many of these districts have also been testing far more samples than the rest of the state. Data from the state Covid War Room shows that while 3,990 and 3,509 tests per million people were carried out in Raichur and Bidar respectively in the last 10 days, it was only 1,217 and 486 in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts (see graphic). Seven of the 12 north Karnataka districts have tested more than the state average, which stood at 1,506. Dr MK Sudharshan, chairman, Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, said: “Of course, more number of tests will increase the probability of positive cases, but it also indicates that most of these people are carrying the virus.” However, data from the government shows that barring Yadgir and Belagavi, the infectivity rate in all other north Karnataka districts, as on Sunday, remained the same as that of the state average, or lower. Further, in the last five days, six of the 12 districts have reported an average compounded daily growth rate that’s higher than the Karnataka average. While it was 6% in Karnataka, the figure was 18.5% in Haveri, 15.2% in Raichur, 13.8% in Yadgir, 10% in Koppal, 8.9% in Bidar and 6.5% in Kalaburagi. “While it is a fact that northern districts -- which are the ones that send out labourers and the working class to cities like Mumbai and Hyderabad -- are seeing a more number of returnees, even places like Bengaluru are seeing people return. But testing has surely increased in the northern districts,” another official said. Sudharshan, while defending the decision to conduct more tests in those districts, said that the concern should not be about the number of cases, but the number of deaths. “If you look at the number of deaths, I think these districts have done well so far. But, as the influx of people increases, we may see a stress on infrastructure, which we need to strategize about,” Sudharshan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/faced-with-an-influx-north-ktaka-is-testing-more-than-state-average/articleshow/76125376.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 1, 2020||Nagpur||Panic in Maharashtra CBSE schools due to fraudulent email||NAGPUR: An email that claimed to be from CBSE’s academics department created panic among Maharashtra schools as it mandated purchase of an online exam software from a private firm within seven days. The allegedly fraudulent email mentioned that conditions in Maharashtra were “pitiable” and hence schools needed to start focusing on online teaching and exams. CBSE soon issued a strongly-worded note declaring the email to be fake and added the board will now take action. The email was sent in the name of ‘Dr. Sahil Gehlot’ who claimed this communication had the approval of CBSE chairman. It was sent from dir.academics.cbse@mail.com at 7.52PM on Sunday. It went on to say the board had “successfully tested an online examination system called ePariksha-Online Examination and Test Software developed by VH Softwares/VS Studies Pvt Ltd”. It added that the software effectively prevented cheating and was able to detect audio-visual movements of students. The email then directed all schools in Maharashtra to “get in touch with the company and purchase digital examination system within a period of seven days”. Such an outright promotion of a private company raised eyebrows and CBSE senior officials were informed about it. Late evening, the board’s director (academics) Joseph Emmanuel issued a public advisory that set the record straight. It said, “CBSE has neither endorsed any private agency for the conduct of online classes nor recommended any for the conduct of online exams and there is OSD (academics) appointed in CBSE. VH Softwares/VS Studies Pvt Ltd is fraudulently misleading schools to advance its agenda to make money or simply cause havoc”. A source in the union HRD ministry told TOI CBSE will be lodging an FIR soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panic-in-maha-cbse-schools-due-to-fraudulent-email/articleshow/76126471.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Six injured in AC blast in Steel City, house caves-in||Jamshedpur: Six persons, including two minors, sustained burn injuries in an air conditioner (AC) blast at their home in Barigora under Pursudih police station limits in the wee hours of Sunday. The fire from the AC spread to the adjoining rooms and gutted furniture, curtains and other belongings of the family. Two fire engines were pressed into service to douse the flames. As an impact of the blast, a portion of the three-storeyed house collapsed and adjoining houses felt mild tremors, sources said. Officer in-charge of the police station Ajay Tiwari said two persons sustained 40% burn injuries while the remaining have received lesser injuries. All six are undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital. The family of four and their two relatives were asleep when the blast occurred around 4am. The head of the family, Sanjit Singh (40), an employee of Tata Motors, his wife, Khushboo (36), daughter Ayushi (5), son Ayaan (3), and their two relatives, including a 25-year-old niece and an elderly woman, received injuries. Speaking to TOI, mukhiya Sunita Nag said, “The noise of the blast shook us up from our sleep and we rushed out of our homes. When the neighbours noticed the fire, they rushed to rescue the family members and took them to the hospital.” A local, sensing foul play, on condition of anonymity, said, “An AC blast cannot cause such massive destruction. Sanjit’s nephew is a drug addict and is not of sound mental health. Cops should interrogate him to ascertain the cause of fire.” Police said prima facie it seems to be an accidental blast, but a detailed investigation is underway to know the exact cause. “The injured persons are the first eye witnesses to the incident and we have to wait till they give their statement. All the family members are currently undergoing treatment,” Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/six-injured-in-ac-blast-in-steel-city-house-caves-in/articleshow/76125079.cms||B Sridhar
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Contained in Ranchi, coronavirus now spreads in eastern India’s steel hub||JAMSHEDPUR: As the number of coronavirus cases continues to surge in East Singhbhum district, which has its headquarters in the steel hub of Jamshedpur, the industrial capital of eastern India is on edge with the Centre allowing several relaxations under Lockdown 5.0, which comes in force on Monday. Early in the evening on Sunday, a day after the district detected 43 Covid patients, another 10 fresh cases were confirmed taking the district’s tally to 106 positive cases (105 active) in just 19 days since May 12, until when Jamshedpur was the largest urban cluster in the country untouched by the virus. The district had also reported 15 cases on Friday. While the Jamshedpur urban cluster had at least 51 active cases, Ranchi, where the outbreak started on March 31, detected 35 cases in the same period and now has just 21 active cases. The Jamshedpur urban cluster includes Jamshedpur, Tata Nagar Railway Colony, Mango, Jugsalai, Baghbera, Chhota Govindpur, Haludbani, Sarjamda, Gadhra, Ghorabanda, Purihasa, Adityapur, Chota Gamarhia, and Kapali localities. The Steel City, where has large factories belonging to Tata Group and its subsidiaries and ancillary units, has a population of nearly 20 lakh. On Saturday evening, East Singhbhum had 14 containment zones and the ones in Jamshedpur are Jawaharnagar Road 14 in Mango locality, and Birsanagar Zone 8 and Barinagar near Telco area. The containment zone in Chakulia in Ghatshila — which saw the first two Covid-19 cases — has been been declared healed. Jamshedpur UA, which recorded its first Covid case 42 days after the viral outbreak in Jharkhand on March 31, is now a major concern for the state health authorities and the Centre’s decision to go for Unlock 1.0 from Monday has generated a mixed reaction from the residents of the Steel City. Talking to TOI on Sunday, a noted doctor and Indian Medical Association (IMA) member based in Jamshedpur, expressed grave concern over the Union government’s decision to open malls and religious places in non-containment zones in the coming days. Requesting anonymity, he said: “The first Covid-19 patient was from Chakuila, around 90km from the city, but with 43 cases emerging in just one day near the city, the plans to open up the economy can backfire and lead to an explosion in Covid figures here." While he agreed that a strict, all-encompassing lockdown cannot continue forever, he emphasized that the process of opening up has to be smooth, rational and must not be taken in haste. “On paper, social distancing norms makes a lot of sense. But on the ground, who will ensure that all safety protocols are followed inside shops, malls, temples, mosques etc. The government at the Centre and in the state should think twice before restarting public transport. Making a reference to the large number of migrants testing positive in the district, the senior doctor expressed his disappointment with over state government for “ignoring medical rationale and taking a populist decision of bringing them back even as the virus was spreading rapidly”. More than 80% of the patients in the district are those — workers, students, professional etc — who have returned home from various red zones across the country. The rate of transmission is so high among migrant workers that the state health department recently had to create a dedicated column in its daily Covid-19 bulletin only for data related to migrants testing positive. Noted orthopaedic surgeon Dr Indranil Bhaduri voiced his support for the Centre’s move to bring the economy back on track, but said he does not believe that the decision to open religious places and malls is a wise one. “The Covid-19 crisis will not be resolved until we get a vaccine. Even after one is found, it will take time for it to reach all the people who need it. A full-fledged lockdown obviously cannot go on indefinitely and it is the government's duty to ensure people follow social distancing at all public places.” Bhaduri also cautioned the government that children are extremely vulnerable to this viral disease and decision to reopen schools and other educational institutions must be taken with care and in consultation with public health experts. Former principal Jamshedpur Public School and noted educationist Lalitha Sareen, meanwhile, flayed the Centre for “confusing the common people with its whimsical decisions on the lockdown”. Accusing the Centre and state government of crumbling under pressure from political and business class and taking populists decisions, she said, “In March, the lockdown was imposed across the country when several states, including Jharkhand, did not have a single case of Covid-19. But now, with the infection spreading rapidly, the authorities for some reason have decided to open up everything. (PM Narendra) Modiji had laid emphasis on ‘Jaan hai toh jahan hai’ on March 24, but it seems that the value of human life has fallen quite a bit in the last two months.” Meanwhile, politicians, industrialists, traders and businessmen have supported the decision to reopen the economy. Tapeshwar Mahato, who owns an industrial unit in Adityapur industrial area (a part of Jamshedpur urban cluster with several ancillary units feeding the Tata Motors plant here), said he was happy that government has decided to open factories and business establishments. Responding to a TOI’s query on precautionary measures at his plant, Mahato said social distancing norms cannot be implemented to the tee on the floor of his unit once starts functioning. “I fear factory inspectors and administration officials will abuse the guidelines to harass owners of factories and industrial units,” he said. Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Rai, who resigned from BJP and contested the state polls in December as an independent candidate, also supported the government’s decision to provide relaxations from June 1. “If the unlocking process is not started immediately, lakhs will lose jobs and the unrest and discontent among the people will be difficult to control,” the former food and civil supplies minister said. Meanwhile, as the district tally nears the 100-mark, sources at Tata Main Hospital (TMH), the largest healthcare facility in the city, said they have 513 isolation beds and 77 critical care beds with invasive and non-invasive ventilators. Officials at the government-run MGM Medical College and Hospital has said earlier this month that the facility has a 100-bed Covid ward equipped with one ventilator. The hospital has developed a system of providing oxygen through a pipeline to the ward, to compensate for the shortage of ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/contained-in-ranchi-virus-now-spreads-in-eastern-indias-steel-hub/articleshow/76125108.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Power staff to wear black bands against amendment Bill||Ranchi: Power engineers and workers under Vidyut Diploma Abhiyanta Sangh (VDAS) in Ranchi will wear black bands to work on June 1 as part of the nationwide protest against the draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020. In a letter addressed to the chairman-cum-managing director of the state-run Jharkhand Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (JUVNL), VDAS general secretary P K Jaiswal, said the Centre is pursuing a “secret agenda to privatise the power sector” and the sangh will launch a public awareness programme against the draft Bill. The proposed amendment, which gives more power to private players, comes at a time when the country is combating the menace of COVID-19 pandemic. On April 17, 2020, the Union ministry of power notified the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeking public comments within three weeks. The Bill proposes some policy and functional amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003. These have been made in the name of addressing some “recurring issues”, and to promote further commercial incentive for private players to enter the market in the generation, distribution and transmission of electricity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/power-staff-to-wear-black-bands-against-amendment-bill/articleshow/76125187.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 19 fresh cases, count crosses 600 mark||Ranchi/Gumla/Ramgarh: Jharkhand on Sunday crossed the 600-mark of Covid-19 cases as the state reported 19 new infections from seven districts. The state touched the 100-mark in 28 days since the first patient was reported on March 31. The figure steadily rose to 500 with the return of migrants but jumped to the current total of 613 cases in only a few days. The infection scare also reached close to chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence on Kanke Road here after a staff of IIM-Ranchi tested positive. IIM-Ranchi is located just opposite to Soren’s residence. The state has now 351 active cases while 257 patients had recovered. Five had died from the viral infection. Of the fresh 19 cases, East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number at 10 while Hazaribag detected three and Sahibganj two while Ramgarh, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Lohardaga reported one case each. All of the new patients are migrants who had returned from various Covid hotspots across the country. Notably, East Singhbhum count has crossed the 100-mark and the total cases in the district stood at 106 on Sunday. In Lohardaga, a pregnant woman, who had returned from New Delhi three days, ago tested positive at a private lab. “The 26-year-old pregnant woman continues to be asymptomatic and she has been shifted to the Covid hospital in Lohardaga,” DC AkankshaRanjan said. In Ranchi, contact-tracing exercise of the IIM-Ranchi staffer began, following which screening was conducted in Chutia area, where the patient live, and in Suchana Bhavan, where the institute is located. SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “A 32-year-old resident of Ketari Bagan area under Chutia police station limits has tested positive for Covid-19 and he is a staff of IIM-Ranchi.” He added, “Soon after we got the information, a health department team has traced the patient and shifted him to the integrated Covid hospital at Rims. Other employees who have come in contact with him are sent to home quarantine and their samples are collected.” Till the time of filing the report, samples of around 35 people collected in the contact-tracing exercise. The IIM-Ranchi offices in Suchana Bhavan will remain closed for next two to three days for sanitization exercises. An official said, “We will continue to remain closed for next few days as sanitization has to be done after which admission and interview work will resume.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-19-fresh-cases-count-crosses-600-mark/articleshow/76125096.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Locust alert in all 24 Jharkhand districts, farmers warned of attack||Ranchi/Garhwa: The state agriculture department has issued an advisory to all the districts, asking them to be vigilant in view of the locust attacks. Palamu, Garhwa, Latehar and other adjoining districts which share borders with Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh could be vulnerable as reports suggest that locusts have attacked parts of Rajasthan, MP and UP. Sources in the agriculture department said that an alert has been issued to all the districts on Saturday, asking them to make the farmers and other stakeholders aware of the dos and don’ts to curb the impending threat. On Sunday, Deoghar district administration came up with a detailed advisory for all the stakeholders and issued helpline numbers for those seeking further guidance regarding the safety measures. Deoghar’s district agriculture officer Rama Shankar Prasad said, “On Saturday, the government asked us to prepare a plan to deal with the locust attack and on Sunday, we issued detailed guidelines for the farmers.” Prasad added that they are preparing an estimate for making mitigation plans for 10,000 hectare crop area. “With help from the block and village-level agricultural officials and volunteers, we are reaching out to the farmers with on dos and don’ts to tackle the threat. They can also call our helpline number (18001801551) to seek further guidance,” he said. A senior scientist, identified as P K Sannigrahi, who works at the Deoghar Kirshi Vigyan Kendra, said that Jharkhand will be in danger if the swarm of locusts reaches Bihar or in those areas of UP and MP which are close to the state. “It hasn’t reached Bihar yet or in those areas of UP and MP which share their borders with Jharkhand. Everything will depend on the wind speed and the weather conditions but since the government has issued an alert, it’s always good to be prepared in advance. We are helping out farmers with the technical know-how. The locusts have a tendency of moving in large groups, at a speed of 150-200km, and they can eat crops equal to the food of 35,000 people at one go.” In Garhwa, the district administration has directed its farmers to take be prepared to face the likely attack from the swarm of locusts. The district agriculture officer, Laxman Oraon, said, “We have instructed all dealers of fertilizers and seeds to keep a stock of pesticides ready in case there is a locust attack. The BDOs have been asked to take precautionary measure to save the crops.” Kamlesh Narayan, the sub divisional officer at Banshidhar Nagar, said, “Alerts have been issued to all block development officers, farmers, seed and fertiliser stockists.” The Union Agriculture Ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation, headquartered in Jodhpur, said that the threat of locusts this year is expected to be bigger in comparison to the crop damages it caused last year. The swarm of locusts this time has originated from Pakistan and crossed over to India in April. Till now, Dausa in Rajasthan, Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh and the Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh are the three major regions where the locusts have predominantly attacked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/locust-alert-in-all-24-jharkhand-districts-farmers-warned-of-attack/articleshow/76125063.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 1, 2020||India||Could tackle this crisis as Modi started readying 6 years ago: Yogi||LUCKNOW: Giving full credit to PM Modi-led central government in tiding over the corona crisis, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the schemes started by the Centre six years ago came to the rescue when they were needed most during this pandemic. “Today when the country is struggling with corona, we have been able to tackle it as the preparation started six years ago,” Yogi said. He cited the example of opening of Jan Dhan accounts, Swacch Bharat Mission , Ujjwala Scheme aimed to provide free gas connections, and Saubhagya scheme of free electricity connection which, Yogi said, helped the state government provide relief to the people hit by the Corona-induced lockdown. Yogi said that UP has benefited the most by the Central scheme as well as the Centre relief package. “We are completely satisfied with the PM relief package,” he said. He also took a swipe at the Congress saying that scores of lives would have been in danger had the state government went by the list of vehicles by an opposition party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/could-tackle-this-crisis-as-modi-started-readying-6-years-ago-yogi/articleshow/76126765.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 1, 2020||India||Gujarat HC: Don't use court orders to politicise Covid||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Sunday said that had it not been for the state government’s actions all would have been dead by now. Hence, court orders, in which it lambasted the government for inadequacies in its response to Covid-19 pandemic, should not be made basis to criticise the government and politicise Covid-19 issue. In an order released on Sunday, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said, “We request one and all to be very careful from now onward before commenting or entering into any debate with regard to court orders that are being passed from time to time in public interest. Our message is loud and clear. We need not further elaborate on this issue.” In line with what the solicitor general submitted before the SC earlier this week on the migrants’ crisis, the bench further said, “All those who cannot extend their helping hand in these difficult times and do anything good for the people at large, have no right to criticise the functioning of the state government. If the state government would not have been doing anything, as alleged, then probably, by now, we all would have been dead.” Ending public agony over government control on Covid-19 testing which is alleged to be causing either delays or denial in diagnosis and treatment, the HC said private hospitals will not need to get approval for Covid testing before surgery. Significantly, it also put a deadline of 24 hours for government to grant approval for Covid test to laboratories. The HC also warned the principal health secretary of action if any patient is refused admission by Civil Hospital. For past one month, the HC has posed various questions and made adverse observations about management of healthcare facilities in Gujarat and state government’s response to the plight of migrant workers and the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-hc-if-state-had-not-acted-all-wouldve-died/articleshow/76126768.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Take leap of faith, with sanitisers and social distancing measures||NEW DELHI: To maintain social distancing among devotees, the Kalkaji temple has marked spots and attached sanitiser bottles on alternate pillars. "We will be opening the temple on June 8 and taking care of social distancing inside with designated spots marked for devotees," said Deepak Bhardwaj, president of the temple.  At the Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place, the management has installed a sanitising tunnel and barricaded the area to only allow 20 people at a time. Other devotees would be allowed to enter only after the first group exits the temple. Mahant Suresh Sharma said they have not only marked circles for devotees to stand in for paying obeisance to God, but also in front of shops to buy prasad and sweets. "The shops will also have sanitisers. Apart from installing a sanitising tunnel, we have asked police to barricade the area so that entry is restricted. We will start operations once we get a nod from the government," said Sharma, adding that the cloth used by people to cover their head would have to be left at a specific point so that it could be washed immediately.  Similar rules are being put in place at mosques. Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid Syed Ahmed Bukhari said that social distancing would be strictly followed and only small groups would be permitted inside. "Namaz is offered at the mosque five times a day, but we expect most people to turn up for the evening and night prayers since the weather is better at that time. We are well-prepared to handle the crowd. As soon as the government declares the SOPs, we will make social distancing markings and place sanitisers inside the mosque," the Imam said.  Bukhari added that he expected a larger crowd to visit the mosque as people have been cooped up at home for long. "But we will make announcements so that they are aware about how to go about in public and how they should behave inside the premises," he said. Mufti Mukarram, Imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, said, "Offering namaz five times shouldn't be a problem as not many people may turn up. We will make the plans for Fridays when at least 5,000 people could arrive to pray." Strict measures have also been put up at gurdwaras. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, said to ensure the least amount of waiting time at gurdwaras like Bangla Sahib and Sheesh Ganj Sahib, where the largest footfall is recorded, exits have been turned into entry points.  "We have taken this step to ensure that more people can enter with the least amount of contact. Markers have been put up to ensure social distancing. Regular announcements will be made to ensure the safety of visitors," added Sirsa. The Defence Colony gurdwara has decided to sanitise the entire complex daily and open only a small gate for entry and exit of devotees. Maj Gen (Retd) PS Malhotra, president of the gurdwara, said, "There will be automatic hand sanitisation machines installed at the entrance. We are placing cushions in the darbar hall at a distance of six feet so that social distancing is automatically maintained. Not more than 20 people will be allowed inside at a time. We have 25 workers and have developed a quarantine facility for them in case they get infected with the novel coronavirus." The churches have decided to wait for the government to issue SOPs. Father Savarimuthu Sankar at Sacred Heart Cathedral near Connaught Place said, "We will ensure that every person who visits the church is provided sanitiser. The seating arrangements will be made following social distancing norms." Sanjay Rana of Greater Kailash-II RWA said they are talking to the managements of the Sanatan Dharm and Arya Samaj temples, two gurdwaras and two churches in the area to ensure their complexes are sanitised regularly. "We have asked the committees to depute staff to ensure people leave within 10-15 minutes of their visit," he added. Watch Delhi gets ready for leap of faith with social distancing measures in place||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-take-leap-of-faith-with-sanitisers-and-social-distancing-measures/articleshow/76126769.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Another safai worker of SDMC dies of Covid-19 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A sanitation worker of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) died on Sunday. SDMC officials confirmed that the worker, who was posted in Badarpur, was diabetic and had tested Covid-19 positive.  "He was initially admitted to Lady Hardinge medical college and was subsequently shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital for dialysis and treatment. Our staff were constantly in touch with him. Though the hospital is yet to confirm the reason, he was Covid-19 positive," said the SDMC spokesperson. The corporation will extend all possible help to the family of the deceased, he added. SDMC had lost another sanitation worker to the pandemic earlier.  Under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, another teacher working at a hunger relief centre has tested positive. Nine others in close contact with her have been advised home quarantine.  The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) also reported nine more employees as corona positive till 10pm on Sunday, taking its count to 29. Most of these employees work at the accounts and commercial departments at Palika Kendra. Four of them have recovered.  Since May 27, NDMC has sealed the complex for sanitisation. As per the central guidelines, the operations will resume after taking all precautions, said an official. "On Friday, two floors were sealed and sanitisation was done. All infected employees are in hospital or home isolation," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-safai-worker-of-sdmc-dies-of-covid-19-in-delhi/articleshow/76126774.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 1, 2020||India||Did not refer to journalists as vultures in SC: Solicitor general Tushar Mehta||NEW DELHI: Stung by the controversy over his “vulture” argument in the Supreme Court, solicitor general Tushar Mehta on Sunday said it never even remotely crossed his mind to refer to journalists as vultures and clarified that his reference was to "speech warriors" in certain NGOs and activists, who did nothing to help migrant workers but focussed only on a few dark spots. Asked by TOI about the controversial remark, Mehta said his outburst against them was mainly because they resorted to unfair criticism without even acknowledging the efforts of the entire nation, which included the central and state governments and all corona warriors. Mehta said these "speech warriors" kept bombarding the SC with PILs from day one without having any knowledge of the ground situation, which was and is being handled by central and state government officials round the clock to the best of their abilities. When the SC, after being satisfied with the status reports submitted by the Centre, dismissed their PILs, suddenly these "speech warriors" turned against the court and started tarnishing reputation of the institution by becoming examiners to give grades to judges and the institution. "They raised the bogey of ADM Jabalpur (Emergency era) even though the Supreme Court has on several occasions struck down important policy decisions and legislations of the government, like the National Judicial Appointments Commission. The strategy is, if the court does not entertain their petitions, then the court is bad. If it entertains, then it is a great court, deserving a better report card," Mehta said. Asked against whom he made the "vulture" remark while citing the 1993 Pulitzer Award winning photograph of a famished Sudanese child watched by a vulture, Mehta said, "It was against certain NGOs and so-called activists who filed a slew of PILs and intervention applications before the courts to look into migrant workers and other problems. These were the same people who contributed nothing to mitigate the problems of any section of society during this pandemic. Filing petitions and applications cannot be treated to be contributions in times like this. "We welcome the Supreme Court's suo motu intervention. We are confident of satisfying the court with the enormous amount of work done by governments at ground level to ameliorate the condition of migrant workers. There are many genuine NGOs and true activists who also tirelessly worked day and night to help the migrant workers and others. But some armchair intellectuals, NGOs and activists get energised by a few aberrations that caused difficulties for some migrant workers and do not see the gigantic work done by the governments and officials on ground. That was my grievance before the Supreme Court." Mehta said his argument before the SC was being twisted out of context by some vested interests to spread the canard that not only journalists, but the “vulture” remark was also aimed at the 22 advocates who had written a letter to the Chief Justice of India and his companion judges a day before the SC decided to initiate suo motu proceedings. "I have great personal and professional respect for senior advocates Janak Dwarkadas, Aspi Chenoy and Iqbal Chagla and others. I am fully aware of their immense contributions and could never even remotely think of making any such reference to them. The said letter was surely not in my mind while making my submissions," Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/did-not-refer-to-journalists-as-vultures-in-sc-mehta/articleshow/76126772.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 1, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Community transmission of Covid-19 certainly on, say experts||NEW DELHI: The government insists that there is no community spread of Covid-19 in India, but associations of epidemiologists, public health practitioners and experts in preventive and social medicine have issued a joint statement that “community transmission is already well-established across large sections or sub-populations in the country”. The statement added that the “draconian lockdown” was “presumably in response to a modeling exercise from an influential institution which presented a worst case simulation”, which was shown to be way off the mark by subsequent events. “Had the Government of India consulted epidemiologists who had better grasp of disease transmission dynamics compared to modelers, it would have perhaps been better served. From the limited information available in the public domain, it seems that the government was primarily advised by clinicians and academic epidemiologists with limited field training and skills,” said the statement. Unlock 1.0: Live updatesIt added that India was paying a heavy price both in terms of a humanitarian crisis and disease spread because of policy makers “having relied overwhelmingly on general administrative bureaucrats”, instead of engaging with expert technocrats in the areas of epidemiology, public health, preventive medicine and social science. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news In a hard-hitting statement, the three associations — the Indian Public Health Association (IPHA), Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) and Indian Association of Epidemiologists — pointed out that open and transparent data sharing with scientists, public health professionals and the public, was “conspicuous by its absence till date”, and that this ought to be ensured at the earliest. Noting that most Covid-19 cases were either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, the associations recommended treatment of most cases at home instead of hospitalisation. They also stated that if migrants had been allowed to go home at the beginning of the epidemic when the spread was low, the current situation of returning migrants taking the infection to each and every corner of the country could have been avoided. The associations noted with concern that the migrants were mostly returning to rural and peri-urban areas, in districts with relatively weak public health systems and lacking in facilities for clinical care. The associations also said that the lockdown could not be enforced indefinitely as the deaths attributable to the lockdown, primarily because of the shutting down of routine health services and disruption of the livelihood of the entire bottom half of the population, may overtake lives saved due to slowing of Covid-19 progression. They recommended control of the pandemic at the state and district level using evidence-based interventions while simultaneously “ensuring optimal provisions for the livelihood of the poor and marginalised”. The associations made 11 recommendations including replacing lockdown with cluster restrictions, scaling up diagnostic facilities to test, trace, track and isolate, sentinel and active surveillance to identify hot spots or clustering, avoiding social stigma, and protective gear for health workers. Watch Covid-19: Community transmission of Covid-19 already on, assert experts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/experts-community-transmission-of-covid-19-certainly-on/articleshow/76126777.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 'Bat deaths may be due to heatwave'||NEW DELHI: After receiving complaints of dead bats being found on the roadside at Motilal Nehru Marg early this week, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) stepped in to determine its exact reason.  Though officials said this could be due to brain haemorrhage caused by excessive heat in the first part of the week, the veterinary department of NDMC picked up the remains for tests as residents suspected that the bats might have died due to the novel coronavirus infection and had even demanded pruning of trees.  A senior official of the horticulture department said they received the complaints following which staff visited the spot. "We found carcasses of eight bats. But on Janpath and Motilal Mehru Marg, bats have been living on trees for decades," he said. People may have got scared as bats are suspected to have links to the origin of the virus, but there is no scientific basis or report supporting it, he added.  "These mammals are also part of the ecosystem. So we declined the demand for pruning trees," the official said. Former CM Sheila Dikshit developed nature trails around her bungalow that housed bats, butterflies and birds, said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-bat-deaths-may-be-due-to-heatwave/articleshow/76126778.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 1, 2020||India||Govt ‘socially distancing’ itself from citizens: Congress||NEW DELHI: Congress accused the Modi government of “socially distancing” itself from the citizens which it said was evident in the rise in hunger in the country and absence of any development during last six years, as it questioned the claims made by the PM in his radio address. Congress’s Kapil Sibal said the BJP’s agenda before lockdown was Article 370, Ayodhya, CAA, NRC, which had resulted in rise in poverty and collapse in healthcare system. “According to the Global Hunger Index, India ranks 102 out of the 117 countries. Has this government in the last 6 years concentrated on the real issues of the people of India? At least now, change the way you are handling the future of this country,” Sibal told reporters, adding, “The government tells the court that we are prophets of doom … future history books will recognise these 6 years as harbinger of doom.” Sibal alleged the solicitor general’s statement about high courts running a “parallel government” was aimed at browbeating the courts, citing how some judges and benches have been changed in recent months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-socially-distancing-itself-from-citizens-congress/articleshow/76126779.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||Israeli co claims 7m users’ data breached at service centres||MUMBAI: Israeli cybersecurity firm vpnMentor has said it discovered a data breach of personal records of around 7 million individuals, which were used for onboarding them to the BHIM app, lying in an unsecured server. The information includes in some cases images of Aadhaar cards and UPI identifiers onboarded by associates of CSC e-Governance Services India, which maintains the government common service centres (CSCs) across the country. The unsecured data was detected by Noam Rotem and Ran Locar, who are part of vpnMentor’s research team. “We detected the breach on April 23 and contacted India’s CERT (central emergency response team) on April 29, and until last week the data continued to be available,” Rotem told TOI. Responding to the vpnMentor’s statement, CSC e-Governance Services said, “Data points like merchant virtual payment address (VPA) were kept public for larger transparency of the system. The project portal & data have been hosted on Indian servers located within the country. Static pages of the portal, including e-text content, PDF files, pictures, awareness videos, etc were kept public. The project did not involve taking Aadhaar data of any merchant, therefore there is no question of any personally identifiable information such as Aadhaar data to be made public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/israeli-co-claims-7m-users-data-breached-at-service-centres/articleshow/76126781.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 1, 2020||India||Lockdown: Old age homes stare at closure||The national lockdown has dealt a severe blow to old age homes across the country, many of which are now gasping for breath as their fund flow has shrunk to a trickle with most corporates remaining shut and benevolent donors staying home amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Even basic functioning of elderly homes has come to a halt due to lack of financial resources. If this continues, we may have to close down our home,” says Jai Vardhan Bhardwaj, who assists a shelter for the elderly in Jaipur. In Pune, a few homes are on the verge of collapse. “Even self-funding inmates are unable to pay. As a result, 20%-30% homes have closed in Pune, while some that have an average 50% occupancy are not admitting new people,” says Amar Shinde, founder of two care centers in Pune and Mumbai. According to administration officials of old age homes in UP, funds have declined by as much as 75%-80% during the lockdown. Bhavneshwar Sharma, Help Age India head for Punjab, Haryana, J&K and Chandigarh said: “Usually, we get a substantial amount of donations in April; but this year it’s nil. Our local branches tried to contact a few corporates, but got no response,” he says. His units are drawing funds from Help Age India’s central pool to meet recurring expenses. “Our rental income, with which we used to run our home, has stopped due to the lockdown… Still there are people who are regularly donating and the rest we are managing from our own resources,” says Balwinder Singh Chahal, who runs Amritsar’s oldest home, Bhai Kanhaiya Ji Birdh Ghar. With lack of food, medicines and funds, several shelter homes in Patna are in a terrible condition. For most free-of-cost old age homes in Tamil Nadu that run on charity, the lockdown has wiped off a chunk of donations due to which maintenance, upkeep and supply of resources like food and medicine have been hit. “Now, we are cutting down on food varieties to save money for regular medication, such as BP, diabetes drugs, painkillers and dressing material,” says Edgar Jones Paul, Little Drops founder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-old-age-homes-stare-at-closure/articleshow/76126786.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||AP records 1,191 Covid-19 cases during fourth stage of lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: Lockdown 4.0, which ended on Sunday, saw the state register the highest number of Covid-19 cases among all four phases of the lockdown— 1,191 cases. Andhra Pradesh, which recorded its first Covid-19 cases on March 12, had only five cases till the day of the Janata Curfew on March 22. Subsequently, even before the Union government declared the first lockdown, Andhra Pradesh voluntarily initiated a lockdown from March 23 to March 31. Then, the nationwide lockdown was imposed which allowed only essential services to function. During the first phase of the lockdown, the administration was primarily focussed on augmenting healthcare capacities and testing footprint. The augmentations were happening through new modalities validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Markaz-related outbreak in the first phase had kept state officials on their toes. The administration was busy tracing attendees, testing them, then tracing their primary and secondary contacts and putting them in quarantine. Between March 22 and April 14, lockdown phase one, Andhra Pradesh registered 478 cases. Then, the focus shifted from detection of Covid-19 cases to containment. The second phase of the lockdown saw the state register 1,100 Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths. The sudden spike in cases made the administration rethink its strategy, especially for patients with comorbidities. In order to address the spike, beds got oxygen lines and pulse oximeters were supplied to every dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The state government also came out with new guidelines with regard to more vulnerable sections of the populace. These new guidelines included shifting both confirmed and unconfirmed cases to Covid-19 hospitals after stabilising them and then transferring them on dedicated advanced life support (ALS) ambulances. Further, the government decided to treat patients above 60 years of age and those with comorbidities only at government-run Covid-19 hospitals which are believed to have advanced facilities. This move seemed to bear results and the death rate went down in subsequent phases. During lockdown phase three, testing was ramped up further. More viral research and diagnostic laboratories were set up. The state also lined up a second rung of Covid-19 hospitals in districts and recruited specialists in anticipation of a spike. The third and fourth phases of the lockdown opened the doors for migrant workers from other states and foreign returnees. This led to a spurt in cases. Of migrants coming in from other states, 418 tested positive for Covid-19. Among foreign returnees, 111 tested positive. Nearly 220 cases linked to Chennai’s Koyambedu market added to the state’s tally. The magnitude of the spurt in cases among people from the aforementioned groups can be gauged from the fact that in earlier phases, only 42 people from other states and 21 foreign returnees had tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-records-1191-covid-19-cases-during-fourth-stage-of-lockdown/articleshow/76125110.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Unicef gives out food kits to stranded migrants||ViSAKHAPATNAM: The United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) is working with the Andhra Pradesh government and civil society organisations to help migrant workers stranded on the national highway and the Visakhapatnam railway station for the last two months. A monitoring mechanism has been set up to relay real-time information on buses and trains to aid migrants in returning to their hometowns. At boarding points, passengers, especially women and children, are being provided with kits. The kits of adults contain drinking water, fruits, bread, biscuits, other food, soap and sanitary napkins. The kits being given to children contain oral rehydration solution (ORS), bananas, chikkis and glucose biscuits. For the initiative, Unicef’s Hyderabad field office is working to AP state commission for protection of child rights, the department of woman and child development and Nature— the nodal NGO for Covid-19 relief measures in Visakhpatnam. Nature executive director, SB Balaraju, said, “We appeal for a national policy national policy and activation of a state migrant commission to make social security and safety-net linkages accessible to such vulnerable sections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/unicef-gives-out-food-kits-to-stranded-migrants/articleshow/76125122.cms||---
June 1, 2020||India||‘Remove Chinese apps’ calls get louder amid LAC standoff||NEW DELHI: It’s a straight pitch with an unsubstantiated claim: “Chinese apps are not secure you can scan and select Chinese apps that you want to uninstall.” That was enough. There are now over 10 lakh downloads in exactly two weeks since the app ‘Remove China Apps’ was launched. It is also the top downloaded Android tool in India with a 4.8 rating as of Sunday. The app, with the icon of a dragon and two brooms crossed behind it, offers to identify all “Chinese apps” in one click and uninstall them. The Covid-19 outbreak had started what the recent LAC standoff has reinforced — circumspection about China — and the battleground is an app store. Growing interest in “Indian apps” has meant Google search interest shooting up from 31 in the first week of May to 100 in the third week.  The top trending Android app — ‘Bharat Messenger’ — and two of the top 10 trending communication apps in India on Sunday had the “India-made” connect. Another app, ‘Indian Messenger’, had been dormant for about a year since it was launched. But on Sunday, it started trending at number 8 and went straight to a 4.4 rating. “Indian apps very good,” a reviewer wrote. The third app, strangely also called ‘Indian Messenger’, has been downloaded over 10 lakh times and has a 4.6 rating. Driving these apps are three touchstones of China-centred rhetoric — data security (“Chinese apps are unsafe”), national supremacy (“China funds anti-national agents”) and Covid-19 (“China spread the virus”) — that come together to spur a need for virtual retribution. “Every Indian knows that China has a big market capture in India with its products. China makes a lot of money and uses the same money in anti-India activity.” said the co-founder of OneTouch App Labs, the Jaipur-based startup that launched Remove China Apps, who did not want to be named. “China should pay for this.” But these apps demand anywhere between 10 and 30 permissions — including full network access and modifying contents of memory card. And not all may even have the “India-made” connect. On Saturday, ‘Mitron’ had displaced Aarogya Setu as the most downloaded Android app in India, according to Apptopia, a US-based app analytics platform. But the app, downloaded 70 lakh times over the past month and used by 2,20,950 people every day, could be a rebranded app from Pakistan (reports said the source code was sold to an Indian startup for Rs 2,500).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/remove-chinese-apps-calls-get-louder-amid-lac-standoff/articleshow/76126804.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Trains back on track at Vizag rly station from today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam railway has made arrangements to resume train service from June 1. On the first day, Visakhapatnam-New Delhi Andhra Pradesh Express Covid Special is scheduled to depart at 10 pm on Monday, and Godavari Express Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad will depart at 5.25 pm, according to a railway official. “Nearly 600 to 800 people from the city have booked tickets for the AP Express train from Visakhapatnam to Delhi on June 1. Overall, 5,000 passengers have booked tickets for the next one week,” the railway officer said. The rakes for Godavari Express have arrived from Secunderabad, he added. The Godavari Express rake is owned by Secunderabad-based South Central Railway. The two rakes of the Godavari Express were stranded at Secunderabad during the lockdown period. To operate the train on June 1 from Visakhapatnam, its rakes were sent to Visakhapatnam from Secunderabad on Sunday, the official added. Nearly 1,000-1,200 people book tickets for the Godavari train from Visakhapatnam. The number of passengers will increase from the middle of next week, the railway officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/trains-back-on-track-at-vizag-rly-stn-from-today/articleshow/76125132.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||With offices set to open, rush begins at salons||VIJAYAWADA: With barbershops and salons closed during the lockdown, many people had started to shave their own heads. The bald and buzzcuts trended on social networking platforms. Moreover, the news of a barber testing positive for coronavirus at Khargone in Madhya Pradesh only added to people’s fears. It was hence of little surprise that barbershops and salons, which opened from in lockdown 4.0, remained deserted. But the picture was different on Sunday. With the government confining lockdown 5.0 to containment areas and offices and business establishments in non-containment areas set to function from Monday, barbershops and salons were crowded on Sunday. Speaking to TOI, one of the many people who had lined up at a barbershop in Gurunanak Road said, “Covid-19 has changed my life. I used to visit a salon every month. But during the lockdown I groomed myself at home. But now my office is going to open from Monday and I need a haircut by a professional,” said K Nagur who works at a private firm. Meanwhile, owners of barbershops and salons said they are focused on the safety of consumers and the employees. They are sanitising all equipment after use. “People were avoiding haircuts in salons fearing that they would contract Covid-19. But we are using PPE suits and all safety gear to minimise the risk of Covid-19. Many people who tried haircuts at home during lockdown have come to us now to get a proper haircut. Expenditure has increased owning to safety gear but we are not charging more from our consumers,” said K Satish Babu, who runs a salon at Gunadala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-offices-set-to-open-rush-begins-at-salons/articleshow/76125145.cms||Venu Lanka
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Spitting out chewed tobacco may increase risk of Covid-19 spread||VISAKHAPATNAM: Apart from the well-known harms of tobacco consumption, doctors and health experts now say that tobacco consumption could lead to the spread of Covid-19. Since the virus spreads through saliva, among other droplets, people spitting out chewed tobacco on the road could prove dangerous. Further, smokers are more at risk of getting very sick if they get Covid-19 since their lungs and respiratory systems have suffered long-term damage. This May 31, on World No-Tobacco Day, health experts opine that spitting of tobacco in public places should stop immediately and heavy fines should be imposed on those violating the rule. Dr KS Phaneendra Kumar, consultant pulmonologist at Kims Icon Hospital, said, “Smokers are more prone to develop serious Covid-19-related complications. Besides causing cancer, smoking hampers blood circulation and lung function, increase carbon monoxide levels in blood, escalate risk of heart disease, hypertension and stroke.” “When a smoker with any of these comorbidities gets infected by the novel coronavirus, the risk to life of these patients goes up,” he added. Dr Kumar informed that in India, nearly 120 million adult males are active tobacco addicts. Of these, nearly 70 per cent consume smokeless tobacco. Dr Murali Krishna Voonna, chief surgical oncologist and MD of Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute said, “Tobacco users are prone to spitting after consuming chewing tobacco . The spit contains saliva and the novel coronavirus can spread easily through saliva.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spitting-out-chewed-tobacco-may-increase-risk-of-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76125151.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 1, 2020||World||Nepal govt tables bill on new map in House||NEW DELHI: With the opposition parties coming round to the K P Oli government’s call that Nepal unanimously legitimise its new map by approving a proposed constitutional amendment, Nepal is likely to press India further for dialogue. Diplomatic sources said it’s in the interest of both countries to talk and resolve the issue without delay. While there was no official reaction yet from India, sources said the government will wait to see how the situation develops in the next week or so. Assured of support from the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, the Oli government Sunday finally tabled the bill for constitutional amendment required to revise the map in Nepal’s national emblem. The support from Nepali Congress was never in doubt though. It had maintained that it supported the territorial integrity of the country and also supported the release of the map. It had sought time though to facilitate a discussion over the issue by its central working committee. While the Madhesi parties had demanded that their concerns on issues like demarcation of provincial boundaries be addressed at the same time, Nepali Congress decided to register a separate constitutional amendment bill for the purpose. While India is open to dialogue with Nepal, it has been taken aback by what an Indian official described as a sledgehammer approach to a sensitive border issue. India had said last week that an environment of trust was required for dialogue. The new map will be used in all official documents including the coat of arms after the amendment bill is endorsed through parliament. The ties between India and Nepal came under strain after India inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road to the Lipulekh Pass in the disputed Kalapani area. Nepal’s K P Oli later said this was the reason why his government issued a new map of Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/nepal-govt-tables-bill-on-new-map-in-house/articleshow/76126811.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Kanaka Durga temple set to open doors from June 8||VIJAYAWADA: The Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri hill is set to open the temple to worshippers from June 8 as per the relaxations given by the Union government. Temple authorities are eyeing to introduce time-slot darshan for the devotees to prevent rush. The engineering wing of the temple, on directions of executive officer MV Suresh Babu and trust board chairman P Sominaidu, have started making arrangements to queue up devotees while following social distancing. Temple authorities are likely to stop ‘antharalaya darshan’ considering the safety of devotees. While stairway to the temple will remain closed, devotees have to enter via the Ghat Road. Officials are eyeing to provide darshan only to 200 devotees per hour. Masks will be mandatory for every pilgrim and thermal screening will be done. “Safety of the devotees is our top priority. We have already fixed sprinklers on the roofs to sanitise the devotees in queues. Darshan will be designed in such a way that there will be at least three-feet gap between each devotee,” the temple EO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanaka-durga-temple-set-to-open-doors-from-june-8/articleshow/76125159.cms||Venu Lanka
June 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Panic in villages over swarms of insects||TIRUPATI/VISAKHAPATNAM: Tension gripped farmers living along the Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu border following rumours of locust attack on social media on Sunday. Similarly, people of a tribal village in the Visakhapatnam-Vizianagaram border also claimed to have noticed a species resembling locusts. In Chittoor district, following up on concerns raised by farmers of Vepanapalli and Vepenjeri village in Tamil Nadu, agriculture department officials swung into action and reviewed the situation. They ruled out a locust attack and maintained that the farmers and villagers of both Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh mistook grasshoppers for locusts. Speaking to reporters, joint director (agriculture) N Vijay Kumar said a special team of officials, who were deployed to look into the issue, inspected the border villages in Chittoor district and confirmed that they have noticed a large number of grasshoppers and villagers mistook them for locusts. “There is no need to panic as they are ordinary grasshoppers and not locusts as rumoured on social media for the last two days. These grasshoppers cannot fly for longer distances like the desert locusts and farmers need not worry ,”an official said.  Meanwhile, in Visakhapatnam, agriculture department officials are yet to confirm the species of the insects seen in the area. Speaking to TOI, M Asha Devi, joint director agriculture of Vizianagaram district said that a group of scientists would be sent to the village to verify. “Grasshoppers are quite common this season. We cannot confirm the species without a detailed study. We will only be able to comment after a report from out scientists,” Asha Devi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/panic-in-villages-over-swarms-of-insects/articleshow/76125169.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Second Covid-19 death reported in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: A second Covid-19 death was reported in Chittoor district after a 48-year-old patient succumbed to the disease in Tirupati. The patient who belongs to Vayalpadu had relocated to Tirupati recently and was selling fruits and vegetables at the rythu bazaar before he was admitted to the state Covid-19 hospital with symptoms of coronavirus. On May 24, the vegetable vendor tested positive, said district medical and health officer Dr M Penchalaiah. Penchalaiah said that the patient was shifted to the ICU and was placed on ventilator for the last three-four days. But, his condition further deteriorated and he passed away at Sri Padmavathi state Covid hospital in Tirupati in the late hours on Saturday. Meanwhile, with two more coronavirus positive cases being reported in the district, the overall coronavirus tally in Chittoor district shot up to 279 cases on Sunday. But, with 191 patients successfully treated and discharged and with two deaths reported so far, the number of active cases in the district is now 86.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/second-covid-19-death-reported-in-chittoor/articleshow/76125188.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Guard injured in firing outside politician's house in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A security guard deployed at the residence of Shakeel Saifi, national president of the minority wing of Republican Party of India, was shot at on Sunday morning. Police said the security guard sustained two bullet wounds on his leg and was undergoing treatment at a hospital. Saifi was sleeping when the incident occurred. As many as five rounds were fired. According to police, a call was received around 9:15am about firing at the security guard of Saifi Farmhouse in Nihal Vihar. A team of police officers reached the location and found blood stains on the floor near the main gate. "The victim identified as Hari Nath (50) was rushed to a hospital. He was hit in both legs with one bullet in each. A case under sections of Arms Act and attempt to murder was later registered at the Nihal Vihar police station. We are investigating the case from all angles," said A Koan, DCP, Outer.  The guard later told the cops that a man knocked at the gate and asked for Saifi. Suddenly, the assailant started firing rounds. Two of the bullets hit the guard below his knees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/guard-injured-in-firing-outside-politicians-house-in-delhi/articleshow/76126816.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Protest in Delhi's Dwarka over water shortage||NEW DELHI: On Sunday afternoon, the local authorities in southwest Delhi's Dwarka were in trouble when around 200 residents hit the road protesting against water supply shortage in the area.  The protesters held placards with slogans like 'Please maintain social distancing', but very few kept the 6ft distance. Finally, police intervened to disperse the crowd near the power house of Sector 2 and Mahavir Enclave.  Residents claimed that despite complaining to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on several occasions, this long-standing problem hadn't been solved. Govind Sharma, general secretary of a Residents welfare association, said there was hardly any water even during this corona lockdown for the past two months. "It's our demand that DJB officials should come here right away and assure us of providing water supply," he said.  The local authorities don't pick up their calls, alleged residents. "We run around with utensils to collect water," a protester said. "Tankers are provided but nobody checks if that water is enough," said another.  A DJB official said the area was at the tail end of the distribution network and because of the high temperature, consumption was more. "Water tankers are sent regularly and on demand as per availability," he ad ded.  The work to supply water every alternate day has been held up due to the lockdown but will start soon, the official assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protest-in-delhis-dwarka-over-water-shortage/articleshow/76126817.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Experts call to limit screen time for children||AMARAVATI: With schools shifting to online classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, experts are worried that young children are spending too much time in front of screens, which can have an adverse impact on their health. Recently, private schools, especially located in cities, have switched to online classes for primary and secondary grade students. Children are spending a lot more time in front of screens and online classes have become a method to continue with coursework. Dr Mallika Bitra, an assistant professor of Garden City University of Bangalore, who carried out a research on the impact of online classes said that the American Academy of Paediatrics (AAP) advises that children below the age of 18 months should restrict their use of electronic gadgets to calls. Children between 18-24 months of age can co-watch things with their parents for smaller durations. Children between two to five years of age should limit screen-time to one hour per day, while those above six should limit to two hours per day. Dr Yashodhara, head of department of paediatrics at the government general hospital (GGH) in Guntur said, “I am worried about young children spending too much time in front of the screen and its impact on their health.” But now, a secondary school student has to spend at least four hours on online classes. Further, children also spend additional time on screen for homework and projects. The WHO has raised a concern about prevalence of neck pain and other musculoskeletal diseases among children now. 28.6% children between the ages of 11 and 14 report neck and shoulder pain, Dr Mallika Bitra informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/experts-call-to-limit-screen-time-for-children/articleshow/76125207.cms||Samdani MN
June 1, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Fulfilled most poll promises’||AMARAVATI: The YSRC government has decided to seek feedback on the fulfillment of poll promises in its one-year rule. Party volunteers will go door-to-door to take first-hand accounts from the people. Speaking to the media here on Sunday, minister Botcha Satyanarayana said that they are going to seek feedback and suggestions from the public for better implementation. “We have made 129 promises in the  manifesto of which we have already implemented 76 and announced timelines for implementation of another 36,” said Satyanarayana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fulfilled-most-poll-promises/articleshow/76125217.cms||Samdani MN
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra lifts many curbs, but extends lockdown||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government has announced a calibrated easing of restrictions in red zones like Mumbai starting June 3 even as it extended the lockdown till the month-end. The step-by-step ‘unlocking’ has been dubbed the ‘Mission Begin Again’ programme for resumption of day-to-day activities in the worst-affected urban zones. From outdoor pursuits such as jogging and cycling to opening up shops and accessibility to services offered by electricians, plumbers and cab drivers, the latest curtailing of curbs reflects a growing confidence in the state’s ability to control its Covid-19 numbers. “We are doing away with the term ‘Lockdown’ and restarting again and while we do that, I hope we set an example for others with our self-discipline so that we are not forced to revoke any of these relaxations,” said CM Uddhav Thackeray. However, a night curfew will remain in force from 9pm to 5am till June 30. The concessions will apply to 19 municipal corporations classified as red zones, except for containment zones in these jurisdictions. In the first phase, walking, cycling and jogging in open spaces will be permitted between 5 am and 7pm starting June 3. Self-employed workmen like plumbers, electricians and garage mechanics will also be allowed to resume work from this day, with prior appointments. In the second phase starting June 5, shops and markets except those in malls and shopping complexes will function on alternate days; shops on one side of the road will open on one day and those on the other side the next. In the third phase starting June 8, private offices can resume with 10% staffing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-lifts-many-curbs-but-extends-lockdown/articleshow/76126820.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kaali-peelis allowed to ferry people to and from five stations||MUMBAI: With 23 pairs of long distance trains operating in phases from June 1 from CSMT, Dadar, Mumbai Central, Bandra Terminus and LTT, there will be a rush of passengers trying to reach or leave the stations. The transport department on Sunday issued a statement allowing kaali-peelis to pick up and drop passengers at these railway stations. An RTO official said that there will be a 'point-person' from taxi unions at all stations. "You can book a taxi at the station, or call or WhatsApp the point-person to book a ride," he said. The contact person for CSMT, Mumbai Central and Dadar is Chandrashekar Nair (9821640498), for LTT Shashi Dube (9833080800), and for Bandra Terminus Ravi Devadiga (9029885938). Not including the driver, a five-seater taxi can carry two passengers only, and a seven-seater taxi can carry four passengers only. Passengers must wear masks and sanitize compulsorily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-kaali-peelis-allowed-to-ferry-people-to-and-from-five-stations/articleshow/76126828.cms||Somit Sen
June 1, 2020||World||SpaceX capsule delivers Nasa astronauts to ISS||CAPE CANAVERAL: SpaceX delivered two astronauts to the International Space Station for Nasa on Sunday, following up a historic liftoff with an equally smooth docking in yet another first for Elon Musk’s company. With test pilots Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken poised to take over manual control if necessary, the SpaceX Dragon capsule pulled up to the station and docked automatically, no assistance needed. It was the first time a privately built and owned spacecraft carried astronauts to the orbiting lab in its nearly 20 years. Nasa considers this the opening volley in a business revolution encircling Earth and eventually stretching to the moon and Mars. The docking occurred just 19 hours after a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket blasted off Saturday afternoon from Kennedy Space Center, the nation’s first astronaut launch to orbit from home soil in nearly a decade. Thousands jammed surrounding beaches, bridges and towns to watch as SpaceX became the world’s first private company to send astronauts into orbit, and ended a nine-year launch drought for Nasa. A few hours before docking, the Dragon riders reported that the capsule was performing beautifully. Just in case, they slipped back into their pressurized launch suits and helmets for the rendezvous. The three space station residents kept cameras trained on the incoming capsule for the benefit of flight controllers at SpaceX headquarters in Hawthorne, California, and Nasa’s Johnson Space Center in Houston. Gleaming white in the sunlight, the Dragon was easily visible from a few miles out, its nose cone open and exposing its docking hook as well as a blinking light. The capsule loomed ever larger on live Nasa TV as it closed the gap. Hurley and Behnken took over the controls and did a little piloting less than a couple hundred yards (meters) out as part of the test flight, before putting it back into automatic for the final approach. Hurley said the capsule handled “really well, very crisp.” SpaceX and Nasa officials had held off on any celebrations until after Sunday morning’s docking — and possibly not until the two astronauts are back on Earth sometime this summer. Nasa has yet to decide how long Hurley and Behnken will spend at the space station, somewhere between one and four months. While they’re there, the Dragon test pilots will join the one US and two Russian station residents in performing experiments and possibly spacewalks to install fresh station batteries. In a show-and-tell earlier Sunday, the astronauts gave a quick tour of the Dragon’s sparkling clean insides, quite spacious for a capsule. They said the liftoff was pretty bumpy and dynamic, nothing the simulators could have mimicked. After liftoff, Musk told reporters that the capsule’s return will be more dangerous in some ways than its launch. As always, Musk was looking ahead. “This is hopefully the first step on a journey toward a civilization on Mars,” he said Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spacex-capsule-delivers-nasa-astronauts-to-iss/articleshow/76126825.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 74-year-old doctor electrocutes self, no suicide note found||NEW DELHI: A 74-year-old ENT doctor allegedly committed suicide by electrocuting himself at his residence in west Delhi. Police said that the doctor had wrapped electrical wires around his fingers and plugged the other end into an electric socket. The doctor lived alone as a tenant in Delhi while his family lived in Australia. He worked part-time at private clinics. Police said they received a call on Saturday evening from a resident of Vikas Kunj Society that a senior resident was answering the door since the morning. "A team of police officers has rushed to the location, who found that the door was bolted from the inside. The cops cut the iron net of the main door to open it. The body of Dr Ahulwalia was found lying in the bedroom. It is suspected that the victim has committed suicide by self-electrocution," said Deepak Purohit, DCP (west). Police said that Ahluwalia's relatives from Punjab are on their way to Delhi. No suicide note has been recovered from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-74-year-old-doctor-electrocutes-self-no-suicide-note-found/articleshow/76126830.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Delhi||Gharial death: Five Delhi zoo staff found guilty||NEW DELHI: The Delhi zoo administration has found five of its employees guilty of negligence in the death of a female gharial last month, the findings of an inquiry report stated. The animal died on April 24 and its putrefied carcass was found three days later. "The opinion of experts that the carcass was three days' old was supported by collateral and scientific evidence of observation of maggots in the carcass, its putrefaction and the foul smell emanating from it," a three-member panel said in its report. The inquiry committee found five employees - assistant keepers Deep Kumar and Vinod Kumar, head keeper Rajbir Singh, biological assistant Manoj Kumar and veterinary officer Abhijit Bhawal - guilty of negligence and dereliction of duty.  A zoo official said Rajbir Singh has been placed under suspension and action is pending against the others. Former CZA member secretary D N Singh said it was a major lapse on the part of all zoo staff responsible for care and upkeep of animals.  "Everyday, all of them are mandated to personally observe each and every wild animal in the zoo. It is their duty to see whether each animal has taken its entire feed offered, whether it is displaying normal behaviour, etc. In case of any aberration, it is mentioned in the records and medical care is provided to the animal," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gharial-death-five-delhi-zoo-staff-found-guilty/articleshow/76126835.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu 1-day count tops 1,000; seniors badly affected||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid numbers are rising unchecked with 13 deaths and 1,149 fresh cases reported on Sunday, the first time the daily count touched four figures. Now the state’s case tally is 22,333 and death toll 173. With 804 fresh cases, Chennai continued to worry officials and doctors. The city also had cascading effects on its neighbours. While Chengalpet logged 85 cases, Kancheepuram had 16 and Tiruvallur reported 47 cases on Sunday. The remaining 101 cases where spread among 18 districts including 45 from Tiruvannamalai. Infection rates among natives and guest workers continued to increase at a high rate, leading to fresh outbreaks in districts. The state had 95 returnees from other states and countries testing positive for the viral infection on Sunday. The number of patients reporting sick to hospitals and the number of people dying within the first 24 hours of admission have also increased. “In the beginning, most people who tested positive were the young and active. They have now taken infection into their homes. A large number of elderly and the vulnerable are now being affected,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. IN THE REDBe prepared for spike in complications and deaths, say expertsThree weeks ago, on May 10, 503 (5%) people of 7,204 Covid19 patients were above the age of 60. This increased to 812 (7%) out of 1,124 cases on May17 and1,358 (8.3%) out of 16,277 on May 24. On Sunday, it touched 9% with 2,052 patients in the same age group. In addition, there was a huge increase in patients with heart, lung, and kidney ailments and cancer testing positive. Four people who died on Sunday did not have comorbidities and an equal number of them were below 60 years of age. “We should be prepared to see an increase in the number of complications and death in the coming days,” warned infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, who treats Covid-19 patients at the Apollo Hospitals. On Saturday nearly a quarter of his patients required intensive care including ventilator support, he said. Statehealth minister CVijayabaskar said government hospitals were also seeing an increase in number of people reporting sick. About a fortnight ago, when there were1,600 cases in the four medical college hospitals in Chennai, about 2% of them required high flow oxygen or ventilator. On Sunday, this figure shot up to 4%. The state has decided to limit permissions for people opting for home care because they infect family members and report too late to hospitals when they develop complications. Over all, the number of people dying in the hospitals within 24 hours also went up from 35 cases on May 23 to 67 cases on Sunday. The bulletin on Sunday said that a 49-year-old man from Namakkal died on Friday 16 minutes after admission following respiratory failure.Hedid nothaveco-morbidities. On Saturday, a 39-year-old woman, who had kidney failure, died 34 minutes after admission. The state is also drafting policies and standards of care for people above the age of 40. But the challenge has been increasing as the state has been consistently losing people in the 30s. On Sunday, the youngest patient to succumb to the disease on was a 37-year-old man from Kancheepuram,, admitted to a private hospital on May 16 with complaints of breathing difficulty. He died on Friday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. He too did not have any co-morbidities. “Our old strategies of active quarantinehaven’tbeen working. Wehave notbeen abletocontain casesin zones such as Royapuram and Pulianthope,” said Greater Chennai Corporation nodal officer Dr J Radhakrishnan. “We will now chase, track and aggressively test close contacts. Those tested positive will be sent to Covid care centres or hospitals. In crowded areas, we will encourage people to go the quarantine centre, where they will be given Rs 1,000 at the end of quarantine period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-tamil-nadu-1-day-count-tops-1000-seniors-badly-affected/articleshow/76126849.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana govt's data on families breached||CHANDIGARH: In a major data breach, highly confidential and sensitive information of Haryana residents gathered by the state government under its much-touted schemes, 'Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)' and 'Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojna (MMPSY)' was recently compromised. It is, however, not clear whether the data was stolen after the breach, which was confirmed by a senior bureaucrat. According to available information, the data gathered by the state government under these two schemes was allegedly accessed in Ukraine last week after the authorities 'experienced' a security issue linked to a breach or unauthorized access into the MMPSY/PPP portal and database. The 'compromised' data comprised vital information including names, family details, Aadhar number, bank account numbers and phone numbers of lakhs of residents of the state. After the breach, Haryana's citizen resources information department (Crid) requested the state's IT department to "invoke necessary protocols" to investigate the incident and to ensure that no further security breach takes place. The Crid also requested that a security audit of the application as well as infrastructure and process should be initiated and prepare secure storage for Aadhar details in a vault. Khattar had launched schemes to provide benefits to farmers Except for requesting the IT department of the state, neither was any FIR lodged and nor was the matter reported to police. When contacted, V Umashankar, principal secretary, Crid Haryana, denied that the data had been breached but described the unauthorized access as an "ethical hacking." "It was accessed by an Ukrainian who had informed the department through email after noticing that a large data regarding families and other persons. He claimed to be an ethical hacker. After the incident, we have done a comprehensive security audit of the data and I can say that only a part of the data was exposed, not the entire database. Remedial measures have been taken and the applications have been shut down," claimed Umashankar, who is also additional principal secretary to the CM of Haryana. The Parivar Pehchan Patra scheme was launched by Manohar Lal Khattar government in July 2019 under which the data of entire family is gathered and a unique ID is provided to the family like an Aadhaar number is given to an individual. For this, the citizens of the state had to register themselves by providing their personal details on the portal, including their Aadhaar number. Those registered with this portal are also entitled to get various benefits, including social security pension. The state had aimed to register the data of 54 lakh families under this scheme. Although information of exact data of citizens registered under this scheme could not be ascertained, sources claimed that a significant amount of data has been registered.Similarly, the MMPSY scheme was launched by the Haryana government in February this year to provide financial benefits and social security to farmers and unorganised sector. To avail of the benefits, they have to register themselves on the portal by providing bank accounts, Aadhaar number etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-govts-data-on-families-breached/articleshow/76126851.cms||Ajay Sura
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Sipcot can develop estates in JV with private land owners||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has permitted state-owned Sipcot to develop new industrial estates in joint venture with private land owners, owning 100 acres and above. The move is to overcome the problems of land acquisition that the state-owned agency faces, as well as escalating cost of real estate, to expand its land kitty to meet the requirements of industrial investors. While the state government has been pushing barriers to attract new investors, it is also gearing up to expand the available land bank with state-owned agencies, especially Sipcot. Recently the state government extended benefits including 50% exemption of stamp duty among others applicable to Sipcot industrial estates, to be applicable for such joint venture estates too. Sipcot board took it on record at its meeting on Friday, May 29, 2020. "We hardly have land in and around Chennai, with most of developed industrial land having been allotted to industries. Some of the vacant land, already allotted by Sipcot to industries are under litigation due to various reasons, including the allottees pledging the lease rights to banks to raise money. It is taking time to recover them," official sources in the state government said. "But, there are several private land owners, who own large tracts of vacant land parcels. Sipcot will enter into a joint venture with such private land owners, who are keen to develop industrial estates and it will pick up 2-11% equity stake in the joint venture company. We have already received a few proposals and are in the process of finalizing them," N Muruganandam, principal secretary - Industries, Tamil Nadu government told TOI. The state's intent, to permit Sipcot to enter into such joint ventures, was announced by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in the state assembly last July. The move will facilitate better coordination between the state and industrial investors from abroad, while focusing on optimizing established industrial clusters like Chennai and creating balanced industrial growth across the state. Sipcot has so far developed 21 industrial estates in 12 districts across the state. It is now gearing up to establish several more industrial estates as well as industrial townships across the state including Hosur, Manallur near Chennai, Thindivanam, Manaparai as well as in the western region, besides Tuticorin in south Tamil Nadu. In addition, it is in the process of establishing five food parks, with each coming up over 150 - 200 acres of land, spread across the state. Further, existing industrial units have unutilized land, which they have kept for future expansion. Sipcot is now permitting these allottees to establish 'plug & play' industrial sheds and warehouses. The agency has reduced the sub-leasing charges to encourage more companies come forward to utilize their unutilized land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-sipcot-can-develop-estates-in-jv-with-private-land-owners/articleshow/76126852.cms||D Govardan
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Partha Chatterjee blames migrants’ plight on Centre||KOLKATA: Days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee blamed the Centre for unplanned movement of migrant workers throughout the country, Trinamool Congress secretary general Partha Chatterjee on Sunday alleged that the central government also lacked planning and coordination in enforcing the lockdown. The deaths and sufferings of people, including those of migrant workers, were an obvious fallout of that hasty decision, he added. “Like demonetisation and GST, the lockdown was totally unplanned. There was no mechanism. The central government should have allowed some time so that migrant workers and other people living in different states could return to their home state. But they did it all in haste. Who will take this responsibility? They are responsible for the plight of the people,” he said. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said: “Trinamool always prefers to put the blame on others. Their suppression of facts has been exposed and now to hide their fault, they are blaming the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partha-blames-migrants-plight-on-centre/articleshow/76126517.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown extension or unlock 1.0? J’khand-specific guidelines today||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government will come up with detailed state-specific guidelines on Monday on the fate of the lockdown in the state after an advisory was issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday. The latest MHA guidelines, which will come in force from June 1, is primarily aimed at relaxing the lockdown in three phases, starting with the reopening of religious places, restaurants and others from June 8. Sources in the state government on Sunday hinted that while the state machinery isn’t inclined on immediately opening all sectors, it may provide more relaxations in comparison to lockdown 4.0. The state information and public relations department said the detailed guidelines will be announced by chief minister Hemant Soren. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “The state government will take a judicious call on time considering the on ground situation. The Union government, which has announced lockdown 1.0 in March in just four hours’ notice without even consulting the state governments, has now passed the ball to respective state governments. We are keeping an eye on the situation and the government will take an appropriate decision in public interest.” Meanwhile, Hemant or his office is yet to react on the situation, but in a conversation with the media two days back, he had said, “If cases continue to rise, we may go for an extension of the lockdown. Safety of our people is more important than everything else at this stage.” Meanwhile, the state rural development department on Sunday announced an extension of the CM Didi Kitchens till June 30. A communiqué from the department said so far they have fed 2.25 crore plates of healthy meals to the poor and needy in the state. The state education department in an order to all the district education officers have asked to defer reopening of government schools, earlier slated to begin from June 1, till further orders. However, the department has asked officials to continue with the mandatory non-teaching works at the schools. Meanwhile, Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Auto Chalak Sangh appealed to the state government to permit plying of autos and e-rickshaws in view of the central government advisories. President of the outfit, Ram Kumar Singh, said, “Auto and e-rickshaw drivers are in abject poverty due no income for the last two months. We want to hit the streets to sustain our families. On Monday, a delegation will meet Hemant to press for our demands if the state government doesn’t allow public transport.” Sources in the state transport department, however, said the government is considering resuming public transport in limited areas to assist mobility. A source unwilling to be named said, “Since offices have already resumed and some are in the process, the state government is considering resuming transport in public interest in non-risky areas, but talks on the way to go about it is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-extension-or-unlock-1-0-jkhand-specific-guidelines-today/articleshow/76124904.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant bitten by snake in Chatra quarantine centre||Ranchi: A 22-year-old migrant, who returned to Chatra district from Mumbai almost a week ago, was bitten by a snake in a government-run quarantine centre early on Sunday morning. The man, identified as a native of Lem panchayat of the district, was lodged at an isolation centre in Chatra block. He was taken to sadar hospital where his condition is stable now. Chatra BDO Ranthu Mahto said, “The man was in isolation at a community centre since May 21. On Sunday morning, he woke up to go to the washroom when he complained of a sharp pain on his leg. Upon closer look, he found a snake wrapped around his leg.” As soon as the victim raised an alarm, an inmate came to his rescue who removed the snake from his leg and called the village’s deputy mukhiya for help. “The man was immediately taken to Chatra Sadar hospital in an ambulance,” Mahto said. While Chatra civil surgeon could not be contacted, a doctor at sadar hospital said, “The man was brought here around 5:30am. He was administered anti-venom and bottles of glucose. He is in a stable condition now.” Meanwhile, Mahto said disinfectants have been sprinkled around the quarantine centre’s compound to prevent any snake or insect from entering the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-bitten-by-snake-in-chatra-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76124879.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal labourer dies on train from Bikaner||MALDA: A labourer died on a Shramik Special from Rajasthan to Bengal, triggering panic among Covid-wary passengers. His body was sent for post-mortem after the train reached Malda on Sunday morning. Budhu Porihar (50) from Harishchandrapur had been working at a hotel in Bikaner for more than 30 years and had taken his brother-in law Sarju Das with him a few years ago. After losing their jobs during the lockdown, they took the Shramik Special on Friday. Porihar was unwell and died near Mughalsarai station. Co-passengers reportedly did not inform anyone until the train reached Malda around 6am. Police sent the body to Malda Medical College, where a swab sample was taken. Porihar was not known to have any chronic disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-labourer-dies-on-train-from-bikaner/articleshow/76126513.cms||Subhro Maitra
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool, BJP workers clash in 2 West Bengal districts||BARRACKPORE/HARIPAL/GHATAKPUKUR: Clashes be-tween Trinamool and BJP workers and intra-party violence were reported from three districts over Saturday and Sunday. A day after houses of two BJP workers were ransacked allegedly by TMC supporters at Halisahar in North 24 Parganas, the area turned violent again when BJP wo-rker Raju Dey’s house was raided. His family members too were beaten up allegedly by Trinamool backers. Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, who was on Saturday stopped on his way to the spot by TMC supporters, lodged a fresh complaint with Bijpur police station. The day before, too, he had filed a complaint there. Police started a suo motu case against the MP for allegedly violgting lockdown norms. It was alleged that he was accompanied by men who breached distancing norms. “A number of cases are registered against me since I became an MP. What bothers me is the increasing violence on our party workers,” Singh said. TMC North 24 Parganas observer Nirmal Ghosh, who is chief whip in the assembly, alleged Singh was trying to regain ground. At Khamarchandi in Haripal, Hooghly BJP and TMC clashed on Sunday mo-rning when the former tried to submit a deputation to the police station. BJP workers were trying to complain against Asutosh gram panchayat pradhan Sumit Sarkar, who had allegedly not allowed a BJP worker to return home. Ghatakpukur in South 24 Parganas saw clashes between supporters of Kaizer and Arabul Islam on Saturday night. Arabul’s men were allegedly attacked with bombs from a rooftop when returning home after distributing Amphan relief. Seven were injured; one of them is battling for life in hospital. “Those who were BJP supporters a few days back have suddenly joined TMC. They are trying to create a division in the party’s district unit,” Kaizer said. Arabul said the attackers were known faces and had been identified by his supporters. Three persons were arrested for the attack. ENDS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-bjp-workers-clash-in-2-bengal-districts/articleshow/76126492.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Nurse breastfeeds baby after mom can’t||KOLKATA: A young nurse at a city hospital demonstrated a new meaning for the phrase “the milk of human kindness” when she nursed a newborn with her own breast milk after the baby’s mother could not. Uma Adhikary (her name is being published with her consent) — herself a new mother, on night duty at the labour post-operative ward (LPOW) of RG Kar Medical College and Hospital on Thursday — says she couldn’t bear to see the few-hours-old newborn crying out for milk. The baby’s mother, who had undergone a C-section, could not feed her herself as she was yet to start lactating. There were approximately eight more mothers who had just given birth at the ward. The general practice, when a mother cannot start feeding her baby, is that the other mothers pitch in. But, due to Covid-19 fears, no one was ready to step forward this time. “It was a hectic night, and the baby was crying out of hunger,” says Uma. “I could not keep myself away from the child. So, I decided to breastfeed her myself.” The other new mothers’ fears were not without reason. All major hospitals have had their share of Covid-19 scares, with pregnant women testing positive, including at RG Kar Hospital, that has had at least three such cases. There have been 30-odd cases of pregnant women testing positive across Medical College Hospital, NRS medical College and Hospital, KPC Medical College and Hospital, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan and a few private hospitals in the city. Just when Uma started feeding the newborn, her husband, Shantanu Maity, called her up as their eight-month-old would not go to sleep without seeing her mother on video call. But Uma did not take the call and texted him back, saying she was breastfeeding a baby. “Shantanu was a bit worried, as I would be breastfeeding our son the next morning,” Uma says. “But I assured him that I was following all hygiene protocol.” In fact, she even took a selfie to prove her point. Doctors at the hospital said that none of the women who are allowed to deliver babies in the main OT show any symptoms, and are all from non-containment zones. The mother of this baby, too, had undergone the C-section in the main OT. While the women themselves are not tested for Covid-19 as they do not show symptoms, doctors and nurses take all precautions to minimise risk, said hospital sources. Tulika Jha, associate professor of gynaecology and obstetrics at the hospital, says while wet-nursing is not uncommon, she has never seen an on-duty nurse do it. “Kudos to the young nurse, whose maternal instinct came to the hungry newborn’s rescue,” she says. Doctors said that even if a mother, or the newborn, or both were Covid-19-positive, the baby could be breastfed after taking all hygienic precautions, like wearing a mask. Uma, who is a reserved nurse, was posted in a different ward from the next night. Since the LOPW is a place to temporarily keep mothers under observation for a short period, the baby’s mother, too, has been shifted to another ward. Ironically, Uma was one of the dedicated healthcare professionals who had to undergo harassment from locals at the beginning of the pandemic, as they objected to her daily commute to and from the hospital from her house in Tetulata, in Lake Town. The nurse, who had been on maternity leave, had gone back to work days before the pandemic reached India. Even as she had the option of staying on the hospital premises, she had a son, who she wanted to breastfeed. She, thus, had to seek the help of the local police station and produced a doctor’s certificate. “Apart from me, my elderly mother, husband and my son had to undergo thermal screening to prove to the locals that none of us had symptoms,” Uma recounts. The photo of Uma nursing the baby has been shared by some RG Kar doctors. “Despite harassment of healthcare workers from some sections of the society, what this nurse has done is laudable. This was not part of her duty,” sayd Kingshuk Karmakar of the West Bengal Medical Students Cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nurse-breastfeeds-baby-after-mom-cant/articleshow/76126545.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||7 new containment zones come up in Steel City||Jamshedpur: East Singhbhum authorities have increased the number of containment zones in the district with the surge in Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, seven such zones came up in Jamshdepur alone. There are now 16 zones in the district which has reported 105 total coronavirus cases so far. The city also saw the highest single-day surge of 43 cases on Saturday. Two of the containment zones here are set up in Purana Basti in Jugsalai and Daigutu in Mango where two migrants in home quarantine tested positive. In Jugsalai, a migrant coming back from Kolkata on May 20 tested positive and the other, who returned to Mango from Mumbai on May 22, was also found infected. District civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said, “The 16 containment zones in the district so far have come up in residential areas as the positive cases are mostly detected among those who are in home quarantine.” Officials said two more zones are set up Telco area, where an elderly man, a resident of Prakashnagar, and a priest from N-Type quarter area tested positive. The Prakashnagar resident tested positive after he visited the Tata-run hospital here for non-Covid related treatment on May 21. The priest arrived from Ranchi on May 20 and tested positive on May 29. While he has been shifted to Rims in Ranchi, his wife and daughter have been shifted to institutional quarantine. Three other containment zones are in Birsanagar, Barinagar (Telco) and Barigora (Pursudih). District health authorities have deployed volunteers in the new containment zones to provide essential items to the residents. Besides, police are also posted at newly set up check points to prevent movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-new-containment-zones-come-up-in-steel-city/articleshow/76124921.cms||B Sridhar
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Crowds swell at RMC to pay taxes on last day of payment||Ranchi: Scores of residents thronged the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) office on Sunday, as it was the last day for payment of municipal taxes for financial year 2019-20. In view of the lockdown, the state government had extended the last date for submission of municipal taxes to May 31 from March 31. Notably, there was no facility for thermal screening of visitors entering RMC premises and social-distancing norms were also flouted. Many visitors said they did not want to come to the RMC office risking their health, but they had to as the civic body’s online payment gateway was defunct and the collection agents had stopped visiting houses fearing Covid-19 infection. “I tried to pay the taxes online but could not as there was a problem with the payment gateway. So I had to come to the RMC office to avoid incurring 11% penalty on the total amount,” Mahaveer Sahu, a trader from Upper Bazar area, said. Some complained that there was no provision of payment by debit or credit cards either. “At a time when the government is pushing for digital payments, RMC doesn’t even have a POS machine to receive payment. I even had to leave the queue to withdraw cash from an ATM,” Anup Jalan, a resident of Kanke Road, said. RMC’s city manager Vikash Chandra conceded that there were glitches marring online payment and he promised to resolve the issue soon. Asked about the flouting of social-distancing norms, Chandra said, “I already put up notices around the counters requesting the visitors to maintain social-distancing norms.” The RMC collected taxes to the tune of around Rs 32 lakh on Sunday. “We collected nearly Rs 32 lakh on Sunday,” said Shailendra Pandey of Sparrow Software Private Limited, which collects taxes on behalf of the RMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crowds-swell-at-rmc-to-pay-taxes-on-last-day-of-payment/articleshow/76124864.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 1, 2020||Ranchi||Delayed monsoon onset over Jharkhand this year||Ranchi: Southwest monsoon is likely to make a delayed onset over Jharkhand this year, weathermen at the Ranchi office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. “This year’s monsoon currents are likely to set in over Kerala on June 5, four days behind its normal schedule. It usually takes 15 more days for the monsoon currents to reach Jharkhand. So, it is expected that monsoon will set in over Jharkhand on June 19,” IMD Ranchi director S D Kotal said. In 2019, monsoon set in over Jharkhand on June 21, 11 days behind its schedule. In 2018, monsoon set in on June 25, 15 days behind schedule. In the monsoon months between June and September, Jharkhand receives 1,092 mm rain on average. However, the delayed onset and erratic rainfall pattern have deprived the state of its share. In 2018, the state’s cumulative rainfall deficit was around 28% while in 2019, the deficit was a little over 21%. In 2018, 129 blocks of the state were declared drought hit by the erstwhile government. This year, IMD revised the official onset date of monsoon over Jharkhand. “Until 2019, June 10 was considered as the onset date. But this year, after studying onset and rainfall data collected for over a period of 30 years, the onset date has been revised to June 15,” Kotal added. Meanwhile, IMD Ranchi office on Sunday predicted light to moderate showers over parts of Jharkhand in the next 72 hours. “After Amphan, Jharkhand was under the effect of westerlies blowing in from western India. After May 28, the wind pattern has changed to easterlies. As a result, the atmosphere is getting moisture from the Bay of Bengal,” Kotal said. Chatra recorded 31.5 mm rain, the highest in Jharkhand overnight. Daltonganj and Bishrampur received 20mm each, while Pathargama, Ramgarh, Barhi, Hunterganj, Bokaro and Chas received 10mm each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/delayed-monsoon-onset-over-jharkhand-this-year/articleshow/76124847.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Shramik Specials drive up Covid count in north West Bengal districts||KOLKATA: Fresh Covid-positive cases have been reported from north Bengal districts that have received migrant workers over the past couple of days. Cooch Behar, which had on Friday reported 32 cases straight away from a hitherto blank slate, added 37 more positive cases on Sunday. The north Bengal district turned into a containment zone overnight after 32 cases were reported on Saturday. The district administration is worried at the spike that registered immediately after Shramik Special trains began arriving. The 37 fresh cases, apart from the earlier 32, were all returnee migrant workers who were stranded in other states. “Some are in institutional quarantine and others in home quarantine. Collection of second swab samples and all primary contact tracing are being done right now,” said district magistrate Pawan Kadyan. “We will declare containment zones where applicable,” he added. Over the past few days, six Shramik Specials on an average have been arriving in Cooch Behar carrying thousands of migrant workers. On Friday, six trains from states such as Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, and Delhi had arrived. Five more reached Cooch Behar on Sunday from states such as Gujarat and Kerala. Another north Bengal district, Alipurduar, too reported five fresh cases, all migrant workers returning from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday, the Bengal health department recorded fresh cases in districts such as South Dinajpur (9), Murshidabad (11), Nadia (18), Birbhum (27), Purulia (6), Bankura (8), Howrah (47), Hooghly (43) and North 24 Parganas (60). Incidentally, each district has received hundreds of migrant workers over the past five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shramik-spls-drive-up-covid-count-in-n-bengal-districts/articleshow/76126508.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
June 1, 2020||Business||Retailers threaten to exit malls||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: The battle between mall owners in India and their tenants, retailers across 350 brands, is set to take an ugly turn, with most threatening to shutter outlets in these shopping centres if their demands for rent-waivers and new rental agreements are not met. The move, which comes against the backdrop of the Centre allowing malls to reopen, is expected to help retailers — from Future Group and Arvind Brands to Lenskart and Bata — tide over nine to 12 months of less-thanusual footfalls. “We cannot survive without collaboration,” Rakesh Biyani, MD of Future Retail told TOI. “If not, there will be further job losses in the sector.” A CEO of a large global apparel brand said retailers have requested several mall owners, for instance, to adopt a revenue-sharing model for three months, followed by a combination of revenue-sharing and minimum guarantee for the subsequent period of six months. “Some of the big ones with deep pockets will sustain without cashflow but what about the small ones,” he said. TOI has seen a copy of the ultimatum being sent to malls such as DLF, Ambience, Nexus, Pacific, Phoenix Group, Oberoi and Mantri. This comes after several instances of retailers requesting mall owners to re-draw rentals, keeping in mind Covid-19’s impact on the business. Since the lockdown started on March 25, these stores have been shut. Through industry associations, retailers and mall owners have been requesting the government to allow shopping malls to restart operations. “...in the absence of the above-mentioned arrangement, it will be unviable and impossible for any of us to resume operations in your mall,” the letter sent out on Friday said. “We can’t open until we have a clear deal. This is an ultimatum of a sort. So far, only Forum Mall in Bengaluru has given some rent relief. Most large malls have remained non-committal,” said one of the steering committee members of this group that has penned the communication to these malls. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, malls are expected to see a lower footfall than before as consumers would want to avoid crowds, and move further towards online platforms, a recent study by McKinsey India showed. This is making retailers anxious about the near-term sales from these outlets in malls. Fashion and apparel sales are being projected to be most-hit among non-essential purchases. “Retailers and brands have to additionally deal with massive accumulation of inventories, unprecedented disruption in manufacturing and supply chain, and the huge shift of customers to e-commerce, among other things,” the letter said, explaining what retailers see as a “humongous task” going forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retailers-threaten-to-exit-malls/articleshow/76126898.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Stranded man steals bike to get home, couriers it back to owner||COIMBATORE: A 30-year-old man stranded due to the lockdown, in desperation, stole a motorcycle to get home to Thanjavur. But when Prasanth reached his Mannargudi home, he was told that the bike's owner had sniffed him out. So to avoid any trouble, Prashanth sent the vehicle back via courier.  Around 1pm on May 18, V Suresh Kumar, 34, of Pallapalayam in Sulur, realised that the bike he had parked near his lathe workshop at Kannampalayam Pirivu was missing. After a brief search, he lodged a complaint with the Sulur police. "But policemen told me that they were busy with the Covid-19 prevention work and would start investigation only after the lockdown," Kumar told TOI . The hapless man decided to take matters into his own hands. To stay out of trouble, man returned bikeCombing through the CCTV camera footage he collected from the area, Kumar came across a man riding away on his bike. “I transferred the video to my cellphone and approached my neighbours to find out the whereabouts of the thief. Someone identified him as Prasanth, of Mannargudi in Thanjavur district, who worked in a bakery at Kannampalayam Pirivu and was staying in the area with his family. I came to know that he had gone back to his native place,” Kumar said. Prasanth, who was stranded in the city with his family after the lockdown began, was desperate to return home and had stolen Kumar’s bike. After reaching Mannargudi, he learned that the owner of the vehicle had identified him. To stay out of trouble, he couriered the vehicle to the address on the registration certificate. Kumar was surprised when he received a call from a courier firm in Sulur on Saturday afternoon. “I am really happy to get back my motorcycle. Though I had to shell out 1,400 as transportation charges, the vehicle is in good condition. I also informed police about the development. I have decided not to pursue the matter further,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-stranded-man-steals-bike-to-get-home-couriers-it-back-to-owner/articleshow/76126950.cms||A Subburaj
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal logs highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases||KOLKATA: Bengal recorded the highest single-day spike in number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday, when 371 fresh cases were reported, an increase by 54 from Saturday’s 317 cases. The state has also ramped up testing and crossed the 2-lakh mark — at 2,03,751 tests — till Sunday. Experts contribute the surge to arrival of migrant labours and the breaking of social distancing norms in many places in the aftermath of Amphan. They fear the rise to get higher in the coming days. Even as Kolkata continues to be the highest contributor to the total Covid-19 tally, districts, including Cooch Behar that did not record a single case even three days ago, are seeing a sudden spurt in number. Apart from Murshidabad, East Midnapore, Malda, East Burdwan, districts like Purulia and Bankura, that were ‘Green Districts’ a week ago, are seeing an increasing in cases. “With the arrival of more people in the state, especially the migrant labourers, we can expect a surge in number of cases,” said internal medicine specialist Arindam Biswas. Kolkata recorded 72 fresh cases, North 24 Paganas 60, Howrah 47, Hooghly 43 and Cooch Behar 36. With the spurt in number the positivity rate too has started climbing up steadily. It had came down to as low as 2.5% on May 27. It rose to 2.7% on Sunday. Of the total 5,501 Covid cases in the state so far, about one fourth has been recorded in the past four days. “With ramped up testing, the rate of positive cases had started declining. But now a good chunk of people, specially migrant labourers, coming back from other affected states are testing positive, triggering a rise in positive cases. But that will not stop us from testing more,” said a health department official. The state has ramped up the testing and did 9,354 tests on Sunday. Despite more cases being detected, the number of people cured and discharged has also been rising — number of daily discharge being more than 100 for about a week. On Sunday, 187 more were sent home from various hospitals after they were cured. Currently, the discharge rate in Bengal is 39.2%. “Some labs are working to raise capacity. Hopefully by middle of this week or towards the end, some of them should be in a position to take in more samples. We are also expecting a couple of more labs to get licence,” said a health official. Meanwhile, a sub inspector of New Alipore police station and his wife have tested Covid positive on Sunday. Total number of Kolkata Police personnel getting affected now stands at 93. A 50-year-old pharmacist attached to the Railways Orthopaedic Hospital in Howrah died at Sanjiban Hospital during treatment for Covid infection. Doctors said he was diabetic, suffered from hypertension and had been on ventilation from Day One due to acute Covid pneumonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-logs-highest-one-day-spike-in-cases/articleshow/76125465.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 1, 2020||Business||Govt rejects Flipkart’s plan to enter food retail||NEW DELHI: The government has rejected Flipkart’s proposal to enter the food retail business, citing regulatory issues. Last week, almost a year after Flipkart FarmerMart filed its application, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) wrote to the Walmart-controlled company that it cannot be allowed into food retail — which was carved out as a separate category for foreign direct investment (FDI) — as an entity that runs a marketplace, or has equity from it, and will not be allowed to sell product on its platforms. Flipkart FarmerMart had proposed to retail food products made or produced in India through Flipkart and other online and mobile platforms. Besides, the department has said that Flipkart Farmer-Mart’s memorandum of association does not permit it to undertake food retail. A few year ago, the government had allowed 100% FDI in food retail, to sell produced or made-in-India goods, through the approval route as it sought to push tieups with domestic manufacturers as well as farmers. The latest move will come as a setback to Flipkart, which was hoping to tap into farms to source goods directly from growers and sell it through its platform. The plan was not just to boost food and grocery sales, which is a large chunk of the retail business, but also help farmers produce in line with the demand and assure a certain level of income by sourcing at the farm gate. The move was also seen as a window to enable to Flipkart to enter the physical stores format. There are several e-commerce players such as Amazon and Grofers, which had got government approval to enter the food retail business almost three years ago. Since then the government has tightened the FDI norms to ensure that e-marketplaces — the window through which Flipkart and Amazon operate in the country — do not turn into inventory-based models and remain a platform where third-party sellers directly engage with buyers. DPIIT has put Amazon under special scanner, while Flipkart and its associates have also come under the lens, prompting the Walmart-owned outfit to tweak its operations. Allowing FDI in retail has been a taboo for the government as it has blocked repeated moves to allow giants like Walmart, Carrefour to enter multi-brand retail, while also seeking to restrict Amazon and Flipkart from violating the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-rejects-flipkarts-plan-to-enter-food-retail/articleshow/76126956.cms||Sidhartha
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Police mark 288 premises as containment zones, south Kolkata continues to worry officials||KOLKATA: With Unlock 1 set to begin from Monday, Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police have identified 288 premises as containment zones. The south and its suburbs have continued to show a significant rise in number of containment zones throughout May and the trend continues even in the beginning of June. While some parts of central Kolkata have maintained status quo, there’s a dip in number of containment zones in Burrabazar, Beniapukur and Belgachhia. Alipore Road now has as many as five containment zones, equal to Kidderpore in the Port area and Entally in central Kolkata. “The most important takeaway is that while the city has barely 15 wards that are still unaffected by Covid, the outbreak is now as much a concern for the posh neighbourhoods, standalone buildings, apartments or slums. Hence, even as economic activities resume in a larger scale, it’s important that each one remains vigilant,” said a KMC official. An IPS officer stated how cases have risen in other south Kolkata areas like Sarat Bose Road — at least in two blocks of Lake Gardens and in Bijoygarh. But, with a new policy in place, which classifies only a big house or a small lane as the containment zone instead of mapping the entire area, both agencies have asked residents to keep themselves updated on the status of their dwelling place through the two websites — Egiye Bangla (Government of West Bengal) and KMC. Civic sources said testing has been ramped up across the city in the past 72 hours. “We have a healthy testing rate and the random testing is proving to be effective,” said a senior ward coordinator from the Mukundapur area. The police also explained why status quo is being maintained as far as number of containment zones are concerned. “There have been new cases, but people are recovering too. Total number of containment zones, thus, have not seen any major surge,” said an officer. Atin Ghosh, a member of board of administrators (BOA) that governs KMC, said special teams were deployed in containment zones. Meanwhile, with 70% traffic resuming in the city, the traffic police too have decided to change its way in containment zones like Park Circus or Mukundapur. “Besides special night checks, we are also using our CCTVs to find out vehicles moving after 9pm. We are sending them SMSs asking them to explain their movement,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-mark-288-premises-as-containment-zones-south-kol-continues-to-worry-officials/articleshow/76125477.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 75 flights lined up from Monday||KOLKATA: With food kiosks opening up, retail outlets undergoing clean-up, pre-paid taxi counters reopening, app-cabs back in the bay and AC buses outside terminal gate — Kolkata airport is trudging towards normalcy as the flight count will shoot up from just 11 to 75 from Monday. Flyers have been asked to report three hours prior to the flight. “We are in the process of getting back to normalcy with all necessary precautions. Large scale sanitization works are underway at the airport throughout the day and passengers are being advised to stick to social- distancing protocols,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director. Kolkata airport resumed domestic flight operations with handful of flights from Thursday. It hosted 11 arrivals and 11 departures on the first two days. On Saturday and Sunday, the numbers increased to 13 and from Monday, it will climb up to 75, exactly a third of the 225 domestic flights that operated from Kolkata before lockdown. IndiGo will operate the highest number of flights followed by SpiceJet, Air India, GoAir, Air Asia and Vistara. Together, they will offer direct flights to 24 cities and towns. With more passengers, the amenities, too, will increase at the airport. The pre-paid taxi counters, both inside and outside the terminal, are already operational and Bidhannagar Commissionerate authorities are increasing the number of personnel deployed at the counters from Monday. “We will ensure more yellow cabs are available at the stands. We are also in touch with app-cab operators inside the airport to ensure there are enough app-cabs available,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. “We had asked the state government for additional thermal checking points at the arrival gate. From Monday, there will be 14 thermal guns with additional manpower to cut down on congestion,” said a senior airport official. An airport official, however, said that they are asking passengers to avoid trolleys for now. “Trolley use is being limited to the elderly, specially-abled and single parent carrying babies,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/75-flights-lined-up-from-today/articleshow/76125483.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Fresh concern in Punjab over rapid rise in home-grown Covid-19 cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has recorded a steep rise in number of people coming in contact of infected people with no travel history testing positive, indicating home-grown cases. Besides this, there are 55 cases for which the state's health department has not been able to trace the transmission history till date. Expressing concern over the trend, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday had hinted at possibility of community spread. From May 11 to May 31, over 35% of total positive cases were contacts of infected patients. A total of 164 people, who tested positive during the period had got infected by their local contacts, of which 106 tested positive for the virus in last one week. Most of these cases were reported from big populated districts like Amritsar, Jalandhar, Pathankot and Ludhiana. On May 24, a total of 15 positive cases surfaced in the state of which 12 were contacts of positive cases while on May 26, 19 cases out of 25 were contacts of positive cases. Similarly, on May 28 out of 19 cases, 12 people got infected by their local contacts and on May 31, 14 out of 30 cases were contacts of infected people. The trend has left health experts worried and they fear more people will get infected with easing of restrictions as it will be difficult to maintain social distancing, especially in bigger cities. Dr KK Talwar, Punjab government’s adviser on health issues, said authorities are worried about spread of virus in populated cities. “Social distancing is difficult in populated cities. It’s not that people don’t want to follow norms, but they might not be able to due to population,” said Dr Talwar. Citing Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad, Dr Talwar said many cases have been reported from densely populated areas. The Punjab government will now have to focus on catching infected people early so they can be isolated, he said. The state government is all set to launch door-to-door home surveillance across districts with the help of Asha workers and women in the community. The health department has developed a mobile application for tracing and tracking symptomatic cases, who do not report to authorities. To counter the threat of spread of virus, the health department has revised its strategy. Besides testing all symptomatic individuals and asymptomatic direct, high-risk contacts of confirmed positive cases and patients with respiratory illnesses, the health department has started testing vulnerable population where there is high probability of spread of infection. Random sampling is being done of non-symptomatic high risk persons and households in vulnerable areas. High risk persons working in congested and high contact areas such as vegetable and fruit market, retail stores etc. Punjab has also initiated surveillance for influenzalike illnesses (ILI) in the community to identify any person having flu-like symptoms at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fresh-concern-in-punjab-over-rapid-rise-in-home-grown-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76126964.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: These brothers return from Northen Ireland to provide meals, ration kits to daily wage workers||CHENNAI: When news of the coronavirus pandemic broke, Mohammed Abdul Salam, 21, and Sultan Abbas, 19, both students of Queen's University, Belfast, Northern Ireland, decided to get back home to their home in Chennai. The brothers managed to get on the last commercial flight to Chennai before the national lockdown began. Since then, the siblings have been helping daily wage workers in and around Thousand Lights. "We wanted to do our best to help the needy even while sticking to the safety protocol recommended by the government," says 21-year-old Salam. So, once their self-isolation period was over, with the help of their father, the brothers launched 'Feed The Needy'. "We pooled in money to prepare meals for 1,000 people every day," says Salam, adding that they had discussions with the Chennai corporation as well as NGOs before they started their initiative. With the help of a caterer they knew, they have been providing tomato rice, vegetable rice, curd rice and nilavembu to the needy. They also approached family and friends and started a campaign on GoFundMe to raise funds for the initiative. "Since we are finding it difficult to prepare meals due to lack of funds, now we are providing ration kits comprising rice, pulses, oil, tea powder, and spices. We distribute them every two weeks," says Salam, adding that they have distributed 2,000 ration kits in the last one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-these-brothers-return-from-northen-ireland-to-provide-meals-ration-kits-to-daily-wage-workers/articleshow/76126966.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Apartments draw up fresh relaxation list in last weekend before Unlock 1||KOLKATA: During the last weekend before Unlock 1, residents of most housing complexes in Kolkata held meetings regarding the nitty-gritties of Centre and state guidelines to finalize the entry of outsiders, including maids and drivers, and relaxation on movements of residents inside the complex to ensure normalcy with all precautions. A south Kolkata residential complex, Genexx Valley, meanwhile, is dealing with a complex issue where the family members of a resident, who was recently tested positive for Covid-19 and is under treatment now, is allegedly roaming inside the complex without maintaining home quarantine protocols. “We have even approached the officers of Haridevpur police station for help. The family members, especially the son, refuses to stay home,” said a resident. At Urbana, where part-time maids were banned during lockdown, the authorities held a poll following which they are finally allowing them inside. “We held a poll between May 28 and May 30 seeking residents’ opinion on entry of part-time maids and 60% voted in favour of it. So, we checked MHA and state guidelines and are following all protocols before allowing entry of maids. We are also allowing drivers inside but are asking the employers to call them inside only when they are ready to leave so that they spend minimum time inside our complex,” said Debjani Mukherjee, senior VP of Urbana residential project. Entry of maids has also been allowed inside Panache residential complex in Sector V, where most of residents were against it earlier. South City Residential Complex has allowed entry of outsiders. In fact, post Amphan, they even had to allow a number of outsiders to clear the fallen trees inside the complex. “We restored one such tree — the huge banyan tree — that has been there even before the complex was constructed. As for maids and drivers, we are allowing them inside the complex with adequate precautions,” said Sunil Agarwal, a senior resident of the complex. At Silver Spring Housing, residents had a meeting on Sunday on fresh list of relaxations. “We have allowed maids and drivers. Milk vendors and e-commerce delivery men can also enter till certain levels. But we are not allowing guests and friends, beauticians, hairdressers, gardeners and car washers,” said Ashok Baid, senior member of residents’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/apartments-draw-up-fresh-relaxation-list-in-last-weekend-before-unlock-1/articleshow/76125490.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 1, 2020||Kolkata||In Covid season, surveyors drive from Delhi to Kolkata to help Amphan victims||KOLKATA: In Covid season, a group of three surveyors from a leading surveyor firm in Delhi drove over 1,500 kilometres in an SUV from Delhi to Kolkata to help Amphan victims. They came to assess the damages done by the cyclone. The trio drove almost non stop, covering the entire distance in 36 hours. An assessment by qualified and registered surveyors is a must for settlement of property claims with insurance firms as per IRDA guidelines. After Amphan, the number of surveyors in city was not enough for speedy assessment of damage claims. The number of property claims (mostly commercial) reported in different general insurance companies has already crossed the 1,000 mark.  “We have never experienced something like this. Only three of us travelled to maintain social-distancing norms due to Covid. We came through UP and Bihar,” one of the surveyors said. He recalled they were also called during Kerala flood in 2018 and Phani in Odisha in 2019. “We faced a similar situation this time but the only difference was we had to travel by car,” said one of the surveyors, who refused to be named. Dulal Mitra, executive chairman of Ideal Insurance Broking, said there are just 20-25 surveyors in Kolkata. Maximum number of surveyor firms are in Delhi and Mumbai. So, in case of big disasters, insurance companies bring surveyors from these two cities. An industry veteran, Mitra pointed out that property survey cannot be kept pending for many days. Ritesh Kumar, MD & CEO, HDFC ERGO General Insurance said Amphan cyclone has caused widespread damage in West Bengal and Odisha. “We have so far received about 80 motor insurance claims and about 40 commercial claims. We expect more claims to be filed over a period of time,” he added. P Chhajed, head of non-motor claims, Bajaj Allianz General, said it has started getting claims in the past one week. “We have mostly got commercial and factory claims but there are a few residential claims too,” he added. Chhajed pointed out that the firm is providing spot claim settlement of up to Rs 10 lakh for property insurance. Rahul Agarwl, director, Ideal Insurance said for property damage, it has advised to take photographs and videos of damaged property before removing anything from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-covid-season-surveyors-drive-from-delhi-to-kol-to-help-amphan-victims/articleshow/76125521.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Business||Infosys to eliminate roles to flatten organisation||BENGALURU: Infosys is undertaking a major restructuring at the higher levels in order to flatten the organisation and make decision-making faster. As part of this, the company will trim its workforce at job level (JL) 7 and above, those in the ranks of delivery managers, industry principal (the JL7 equivalent for consulting roles), AVPs, VPs and SVPs. Infosys has over 30,000 employees in senior roles or what they call JL 6, 7 and 8. Around 13,000 employees are in JL7 levels and above. The plan is to reduce, in a staggered manner, 10%-15% of the people at JL7 and above, which would impact over 1,300 executives. The effort is to break down a five-tiered structure into two. Infosys CEO Salil Parekh is said to have reviewed each layer closely to understand the overlaps in these layers. The idea is to fix greater responsibility and accountability on senior executives who are not billable resources, but are people managers. The initiative includes sales, delivery, BPO and support services, sources said. In the existing reporting structure in a vertical, delivery managers report to senior delivery managers who then report to a delivery head. The delivery head, in turn, reports into a service offering head and he/she reports to a business unit head. “We don’t want to handle too many handlers,” said one senior executive, who didn’t want to be named. The objective is faster decision-making and to give frontline leaders more flexibility. It will also reduce cost significantly since the salaries for a delivery manager or an industry principal is an average of Rs 35-Rs 40 lakh. VPs and SVPs receive much more. When TOI asked the company about it, a spokesperson said, “We have no plans or targets for workforce reduction. Nor do we have any predefined percentage of exits as a result of our half-yearly and yearly performance cycles. However, as a performance-driven organisation, some involuntary attrition is integral to the normal course of business every year at Infosys.” Infosys came close to implementing a similar structure under former CEO Vishal Sikka. A pilot project to identify overlapping/top-heavy roles was initiated in the manufacturing unit under its former head Sudip Singh. It was part of Sikka's Zero Distance programme, which was designed partly to empower a project manager. The project manager would be supported by functions like HR, legal and finance, and would collaborate with the sales team for client requirements. Sikka's sudden exit meant the plan wasn't implemented. But it seems to have made a comeback under his successor. Moshe Katri, managing director of equity research at Wedbush Securities, said senior level layoffs "are likely a function of ongoing efforts to flatten the pyramid structure at Infosys, aiming at encouraging communications among all levels of personnel as well as eliminating redundancies.” James Friedman of Susquehanna Financial Group (SFG) said this is part of the “reskilling” underway at Infosys and throughout the industry. “So much of the company’s heritage was from operational excellence of the extreme offshoring of maintenance and infrastructure. But today's architecture really emphasizes innovation and ideation, and those may require some reassessment at the front end of the organization.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infosys-to-cut-roles-flatten-co-for-speedy-decision-making/articleshow/76126971.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Can stay out from 5am-9pm, fresh relaxations call today||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration will on Monday decide the fresh set of relaxations in the phased unlocking plan following the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs, allowing residents to stay out of their homes from 5am to 9pm and shrinking the night curfew. Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will make the announcement following a review meeting. However, sources in the administration said shop timings are likely to be increased. The matter will be discussed in the meeting. "Currently, shops can stay open from 10am to 6pm. The timings are set to be increased after a detailed discussion in the meeting. The administration has already received requests, which seem genuine as the prohibitory orders have been relaxed," sources said. The administration has prepared standard operating procedures (SOPs) for different commercial establishments. All such relaxations will be given as per the guidelines and directions of the ministry, an official said. "Since Chandigarh comes directly under the central government, we have to follow the Centre's rules, unlike a state government," he added. Sources said the administration will keep an eye on the relaxations given by neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula to ensure better coordination. "SOPs regarding major decisions like opening of malls is expected to come from the central government. We will plan and implement the decisions accordingly," sources said. The ministry had released new guidelines called 'Unlock 1.0' that allow the opening of malls, restaurants and religious places in all areas except the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-can-stay-out-from-5am-9pm-fresh-relaxations-call-today/articleshow/76126988.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ailing man recovers, abandons old mother||MUMBAI: An elderly woman from Delhi who came to Mumbai to look after her ailing son was allegedly abandoned after the son recovered. After a video showing the plight of Lilavati Dubey, (68) went viral, a journalist alerted railway officials who gave her shelter and food. A resident of Mayur Vihar, she came to Mumbai four months ago to be with her elder son. "I took care of him but after he got well, he threw me out of home," she said. Lilavati trekked it from Mahul to Bandra Terminus, hoping to take the train to Delhi. Her elder son drives a three-wheeler and the other works in Delhi. "Even my three daughters don't want to keep me," she said. WR's Mumbai division senior operating manager Suhani Mishra got her a 2A class ticket of Rajdhani Express. Dubey said she was unsure if her younger son would let her in. "If not, I will live on my own in Delhi."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ailing-man-recovers-abandons-old-mother/articleshow/76126999.cms||Manthank Mehta
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Arrive at least hour before departure to catch trains||CHANDIGARH: If you have confirmed ticket to board a train plying from June 1 from the Chandigarh railway station, be at the platform one hour before the departure time for medical screening or you will not be allowed to board the train. This is part of the standard operating procudures (SOP) drafted by the Chandigarh administration for the city. Only the Jan Shatabdi will ply through Chandigarh for the next one month. Anil Aggarwal, station superintendent, Chandigarh railway station, said on June 1, Jan Shatabdi from New Delhi to Una will halt for 10 minutes at 7pm at the station. Nearly 90% of the passengers will board the train in New Delhi, he added. According to Aggarwal, for the time being the entry to the station from Panchkula will be closed as there is only one train. The passengers also must download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. The divisional railway manager of Ambala division, G M Singh, has said a Covid-19 special train (No. 02925) will depart from Mumbai via Amritsar and Chandigarh to Kalka from June 2. Similarly, the train number 20926 from Kalka to Bandra will leave on June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-arrive-at-least-hour-before-departure-to-catch-trains/articleshow/76127029.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gamdevi homeopath dies of Covid-19 three days before his 57th birthday||MUMBAI: A senior homeopath from Gamdevi succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, making him the sixth alternative medicine practitioner from the city to die of the infection. Dr Shashank Mulgaokar (56), who was a member of the managing committee of Motiben Dalvi Hospital in Gamdevi, was treating patients in his clinic till he fell ill about three weeks ago. The news of his death came as a rude shock to his family, who was hoping to celebrate his 57th birthday on June 3, as he was showing signs of recovery. The doctor was admitted to Bombay Hospital on May 18, almost a week after he had developed symptoms of fever and breathlessness. He was put on ventilator on May 24. "He had shown signs of improvement at least on two occasions...We thought we will be able to celebrate his birthday, but he suddenly collapsed and passed away," said his son Parth, who is training to be a surgeon at Nair Hospital. "His heart and lungs were most affected because of Covid-19." Dr Mulgaokar has practised in the area since the age of 28 and was also the family physician to the Kapoors, the first family of Indian cinema. "His death is a huge loss and has caused an emotional turmoil to all of his practising colleagues," said Dr K R Dhebri, a senior physician who runs a clinic in Bhuleshwar. Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital said Dr Mulgaokar had underlying conditions such as hypertension and high blood pressure. "He remained critical for nearly a week and was on ventilator," he added. "Those with comorbid conditions have a poor prognosis." State statistics suggest that 65-70% of the deceased have had comorbid conditions due to which they suffer from a more acute form of the disease. The first doctor to succumb to coronavirus in the city was a 84-year-old surgeon and urologist who consulted with Saifee Hospital. In the last one month, at least one more homeopath and four unani doctors have died of the infection. In almost all cases, the doctors had kept their clinics open and continued to check patients. Initially many of them worked without personal protective equipment, but now the supply has been streamlined to some extent, a doctor said. The deaths have prompted the associations, particularly of unani doctors, to demand a life insurance cover, which is available for MBBS doctors working with Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gamdevi-homeopath-dies-of-covid-19-three-days-before-his-57th-birthday/articleshow/76127084.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh armed with 3,000-bed-plan to combat Covid-19 surge||CHANDIGARH: From hotels and dharamshalas to bhawans, the UT administration has made arrangements of 3,000 beds in Covid Care Centres (CCC) if there is a surge in the number of cases in the city. Health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said they have around 20,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. The administration has also planned to use schools, community centres and stadiums as quarantine centres, he added. Under its contingency plan, the administration has split healthcare facilities for Covid-19 patients into three categories, Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC), and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), depending on the severity of the infection. “There are community centres and government schools in almost all sectors of the city. Also, there are covered stadiums in some sectors. Such schools, community centres and stadiums are proposed to be used as quarantine centres. Lodging and food arrangement for these centres will be looked after by the deputy commissioner in consultation with municipal commissioner,” according to the contingency plan in which the administration has prepared for 3,600 active cases for the worst day. The plan reads, “It is felt that about 1% population of Chandigarh may be tested positive in the worst case scenario. Hence, about 12,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 may be detected considering the 12 lakh population. All the confirmed cases of Covid-19 have to be isolated in some health care facility to contain the spread. Peak day hospitalisation of such active cases may be around 30% of the total confirmed positive cases. Hence, our estimate is that we need to be prepared for management of about 3,600 active cases of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-armed-with-3000-bed-plan-to-combat-covid-19-surge/articleshow/76127058.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 1, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Last year marks on past average; schools start online on June 15||MUMBAI: Bringing relief to lakhs of students, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said final year university students would be awarded the average of their marks in previous semesters with an option to improve their grades by allowing them to appear for exams if they so choose once the Covid-19 situation improves. Thackeray said the school academic session would commence online on June 15, with only schools in the remote parts of the state which lack internet connectivity re-opening physically. Speaking about the university exams during his live address to the state on Sunday evening, Thackeray said: "There is a concern among parents about sending their children to write an exam. Hence, we have decided to pass students and score them on the average of their marks in the previous semesters. Students will be able to move ahead in life with these scores. If students feel they could have done better if the exams were conducted, we will give them a chance as well. Whenever possible, we will conduct the exam for those students." Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said the marking and examination details would be announced in a couple of days. Early on Sunday, Thackeray held an online meeting with school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, officials of the education department and experts. "In remote areas, where there is no internet connectivity and coronavirus spread, schools should be reopened by implementing social distancing norms. In places where there is a problem in physically restarting schools, the option of online education must be used. Maharashtra should show the country that education is not hampered in a situation like this pandemic," he said. School education secretary Vandana Krishna said: "Google is ready to provide the Classroom service to the school education department free of cost. Diksha, an app made available by the Centre, is getting good response to e-literature created by Maharashtra. The plan to start schools in phases is ready and this includes reducing the number of holidays to complete the syllabus and a proposal to extend the coming academic session till May."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-last-year-marks-on-past-average-schools-start-online-on-june-15/articleshow/76127161.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Patna||Mizoram CM hails Begusarai people for helping migrants||BEGUSARAI: A 30-second video shared by Mizoram CM Zoramthanga on his official Twitter account showing a group of people in a Begusarai area distributing food packets to stranded Mizo people returning home by a Shramik special train seems to have bowled over people on social media. The video which went viral on Sunday shows groups of people rushing with food packets to passengers on board while the train made an unscheduled stoppage there. Some of the locals attributed the video somewhere near Hussaini village close to Lakhminia railway station on the Barauni-Katihar section through which most of the northeast bound trains travel. The Mizoram CM also refers to one of his earlier tweets in which Mizo migrants on their return journey home a few days ago were seen offering eatables to flood-affected people taking shelter along the railway tracks due to the recent floods in Assam. Touched by the video, Zoramthanga tweeted: "Few days after stranded Mizos offer their food to flood affected victims on their way back, a brief halt of their #Shramik special Train at # Begusarai Bihar witnessed good # Samaritans offering their food in return! Goodness for goodness. #India is beautiful when flooded with #Love (sic)." The tweet prompted Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma to comment: "I am really proud of Begusarai people."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mizoram-cm-hails-begusarai-people-for-helping-migrants/articleshow/76127164.cms||Rajiv Kumar
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Religious places, restaurants & malls to reopen from June 8||LUCKNOW: After the Centre relaxed lockdown restrictions with Unlock 1.0, UP government on Sunday also issued guidelines allowing religious places, malls and restaurants to be opened after June 8. All restrictions in containment zones, however, will continue till June 30. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that all the relaxations would be given as per the Centre's guidelines and the night lockdown has been reduced from 7pm-7am to 9pm-5am. The government also allowed offices to open with 100% attendance from June 1. But they will have to operate in three shifts to maintain social distancing. The guidelines issued by chief secretary RK Tewari stress on compulsory use of face mask at public places, workplaces and in transport and underline the need for maintaining a minimum distance of six feet. Large public gatherings/ congregations will continue to remain prohibited. For instance, the number of guests in marriage functions should not exceed 30 while in funerals only 20 people will be allowed. Sports complexes, stadiums will open for players not for spectatorsThe state government has imposed a complete ban on the use of firearms in marriages. Shopkeepers will also have to ensure physical distancing among customers and will not allow more than five persons at a time. While guidelines said that malls, restaurants and places of religious worship would reopen from June 8, certain health guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government would have to be followed. The government has also allowed opening of stadiums and sports complexes for players but there will restrictions on the entry of spectators. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said no activity would be permissible in containment areas. School and colleges will remain closed till July 20 after which guidelines about their reopening would be issued. “International flights and metro rail services will also remain suspended. Swimming pools and multiplexes will remain closed till further orders,” Awasthi said. He said markets would open from 9am to 9pm and social distancing and use of masks and sanitizers should be ensured. Supermarkets would also be allowed to operate, Awasthi added. Salons and beauty parlours have also been allowed to operate but workers will have to wear face masks. New guidelines also allow plying of taxis and cabs provided only two persons are there with the driver. UPSRTC will be able to run buses while following preventive measures. Similarly, two persons will be allowed to ride twowheelers but they will have to wear face masks and helmets. For high-rise buildings, essentially in NCR region, only the floor concerned, not the entire building, would be sealed if a case of coronavirus infection is found. Awasthi said the entire tower would be sealed if multiple cases of coronavirus infection were found. The district administration of Noida and Ghaziabad will have to take a call on restrictions as per requirement. “In rural areas, occurrence of one case will invite sealing of that particular ‘majra’ only, while multiple cases in village will lead to sealing of that number of ‘majras’,” he said. A commercial, official or industrial premises will be closed for 24 hours and subjected to rigorous sanitization if a case of Covid-19 emerges. The cost of sanitization will have to be borne by the owner. Guidelines further allow 100% attendance in government offices which will be opened in three time slots – 9am to 5pm, 10am to 6pm and 11am to 7pm. The state government has also allowed industrial activities, including night shifts, provided the industrial house arranges transport facility for employees. Likewise, consumption of liquor, paan, gutkha, tobacco etc in public places will remain prohibited and spitting in public places will be punishable with fine, as may be prescribed by the state/local authority. Guidelines further lay stress on work from home as far as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-religious-places-restaurants-malls-to-reopen-from-june-8/articleshow/76127170.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Man found hanging in quarantine facility room in Maharashtra||KOLHAPUR: A 57-year-old man, kept in institutional quarantine near Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling of a room on Saturday night. Police officials said the man hails from Zanjwad village, a few km from Mahabaleshwar. He had returned to his village from Mumbai about two weeks ago. Satara police said the man was in quarantine at a resort of the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC). The resort has been converted into a quarantine centre in view of the increasing number of patients in the area. Others admitted to the quarantine centre noticed the man's body hanging on Sunday morning and called the police. The police, in turn, informed the revenue department officials as is mandatory under the Disaster Management Act and since the alleged suicide had taken place in institutional quarantine. Satara district superintendent of police Tejaswini Satpute told TOI that the man's body would be handed over to his family after confirming his Covid-19 status. All legal formalities regarding the case are under way within the framework of the Covid-19 guidelines, she said. Police refused to disclose the man's name and other details because of the enforcement of the Disaster Management Act. They have sealed the area around the resort as a precautionary measure. They are recording the statement of the others admitted to the centre. Satara district has been witnessing a heavy influx of people returning to their villages from Pune, Mumbai and Pimpri-Chinchwad. According to a rough estimate, around 2 lakh people have arrived in Satara district over the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-found-hanging-in-quarantine-facility-room-in-maharashtra/articleshow/76127208.cms||Satyajit Joshi
June 1, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Wait for Metro and cinemas to continue||LUCKNOW: You can now book a radio cab and auto rickshaw, travel to other districts on UPSRTC buses, shop for longer hours from Monday and visit malls, restaurants and religious places from June 8, but will have to wait longer for Lucknow metro, cinema halls and educational institutions to reopen. The guidelines for unclock 1.0 starting from June 1, Lucknow district administration has allowed all the activities to resume, with full Covid-19 safety protocol, which have been approved by the state government in its order issued on Sunday. Masks, social distancing a must, no activity in containment zonesLucknow DM Abhishek Prakash said that finer points of the relaxations and services to be resumed will be released on Monday after a meeting with associations of various service providers and traders. While mask, social distancing and sanitisation will remain a must, no activity of any type will be allowed in the containment zones, which will continue to be catered with home delivery. As per new guidelines, maximum 30 persons including bride and groom can now assemble for a wedding, 20 can attend a funeral. Shopping time has been revised from 7am-7pm to 9am-9m. Two persons have been allowed to ride along in two-wheelers and four in four-wheeler, but with masks. Auto rickshaws and e-rickshaw will not be allowed to carry more than seating capacity at a time. Market monitoring systems will be put in place in all major thoroughfares of the city, said Prakash. It includes installation of CCTV cameras to keep an eye on public gathering and movement and Public Address Systems (PAS) to give them necessary instructions if violation of safety protocol is detected. Front Page Wait for Metro and cinemas to continue If y||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-wait-for-metro-and-cinemas-to-continue/articleshow/76127243.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Open border for workers, industry body tells Manohar Lal Khattar||GURUGRAM: Though the lockdown relaxations have enabled industries in the city to resume work, they continue to incur losses because of the fluctuating rules and the lack of clarity around them. The industry body, Gurugram Industrial Association (GIA), wrote to the chief minister Sunday to devise a special system for factory owners and workers who reside in Delhi but come to Gurugram for work. “We have lost crores of rupees as the industries are shut due to sealing of borders. It was opened for a couple of days after persuading the authorities for quite some time but has been sealed again,” said JN Mangla, president of the association. Till Thursday, industrial units could function smoothly because of easy movement between Delhi and Gurugram. But from Friday, when the Delhi-Gurugram border was ‘sealed’ again by the government, thousands of factory owners and their employees could not cross reach the offices and production units in Gurugram, making the effects of resumption short-lived. Mangla also said there is a lack of coordination between the Centre and the state, and while the centre allowed inter-state movement, the state has not. “There is a lack of clarity in the communication between authorities, and industries are bearing the brunt of it,” he said. Mangla said it may take a long time to eradicate Covid but people have to keep working while maintaining social distancing and following guidelines. "These restrictions can hamper the recovery of industrial units and adversely affect the livelihood of the entrepreneurs and employees,” he said. “We have requested chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar that while imposing restrictions on border, state government may devise special system for the industry owners and staff to commute between Delhi and NCR cities on working days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/open-border-for-workers-industry-body-tells-khattar/articleshow/76126518.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Low demand, high price hit jewellery stores hard in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Kamlesh Soni (name changed), director of an Ahmedabad-based jewellery store, opens his store on alternate days of the week, ever since the relaxation of lockdown was announced on May 18. However, till date, his store has barely seen customers. "I open my shop, staff come in and do the daily cleaning and accounting and eventually, sits idle. We've seen barely 1% customers at our showroom who came to purchase something for their newborns; a few others came in to complete previously placed orders. At present, shops are open for limited hours and due to heat and scare of Covid-19 pandemic coupled with the recession, customer footfall is barely there," he said. Despite the state's nod to allow economic activity including jewellery stores to remain open since May 19, jewellers across Ahmedabad stare at a bleak future. Amid liquidity crisis and high prices of gold, the demand has taken a major hit and estimates by Jewellers' Association of Ahmedabad (JAA) suggest that at least 15% jewellery retailers may shut business permanently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/low-demand-high-price-hit-jewellery-stores-hard-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/76127277.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Ambience underpass project hits new roadblock: Delay in approvals||GURUGRAM: Delays in getting required approvals for the traffic movement plan and deploying heavy machinery could delay the completion of NHAI's Ambience Mall underpass project by three-four months. Before the lockdown, NHAI and its contractor had hoped to open the underpass by May. The project contractor, RK Contractor, has claimed that for the construction of the box portion of the underpass about eight lanes of the main Delhi-Jaipur carriageway have to be cordoned off. As required, slip roads, additional lanes have been constructed, and diversion boards readied to be put up. Approval to implement the plan, however, is still pending, leading to delays for the contractor which is already struggling with labour shortage. “The request was made in March. But due to Covid-19 everything came to a halt. Now, that work has begun we have been seeking approval on that request,” said a RK Contractor official. In March when the highways authority had sought permission for the new traffic plan, traffic police had given a go-ahead for two months. However, due to the extended lockdown th-at came into effect from March 25 the work could not be undertaken. The contractor also needs permission to move heavy vehicles required for the works like excavation. “We have permission for just one vehicle right now, and for the next stage of work, we need 15 to 20 vehicles. We had applied for the permission on April 24 but haven’t received any update. I think with new MHA guidelines that say no e-pass is needed for inter-state or intra-state movement, the issue might get resolved now,” said an official. Traffic cops, however, claim no approval requests are pending at their end and they have given all the required permissions to start the work right when it had resumed. "Timely completion of the work is in our interest because this will smoothen traffic flow. We had given permission as and when sought by project officials. In fact, all the necessary permissions and approvals were given right when the work was allowed to resume last month," said senior traffic cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ambience-underpass-project-hits-new-roadblock-delay-in-approvals/articleshow/76126479.cms||---
June 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court : If state had not acted, all would’ve died; stop criticism||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Sunday said that had it not been for the state government’s actions all would have been dead by now. Hence, court orders, in which it lambasted the government for inadequacies in its response to Covid-19 pandemic, should not be made basis to criticize the government and politicize Covid-19 issue. Ending public agony over government control on Covid-19 testing which is alleged to be causing either delays or denial in diagnosis and treatment, the HC said private hospitals will not need to get approval for Covid-19 testing before surgery. Significantly, it also put a deadline of 24 hours for government to grant approval for Covid-19 test to laboratories. For past one month, the HC has posed various questions and made adverse observations about management of healthcare facilities in Gujarat and state government’s response to the plight of migrant workers and the poor. In an order released on Sunday, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said, “We request one and all to be very careful from now onward before commenting or entering into any debate with regard to court orders that are being passed from time to time in public interest. Our message is loud and clear. We need not further elaborate on this issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-high-court-if-state-had-not-acted-all-wouldve-died-stop-criticism/articleshow/76127311.cms||---
