June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Arjuna awardee former Punjab police SSP booked for rash driving||KAPURTHALA: Arjuna awardee former international basketball player and retired Punjab Police SSP Sajjan Singh Cheema has been booked by Sultanpur Lodhi police for rash driving after a Kapurthala resident complained that Cheema’s car had hit his car when he had parked his car and was about to come out on Sunday. Cheema, who contested 2017 assembly election on AAP ticket from Sultanpur Lodhi and is now Shiromani Akali Dal leader said the case was registered to settle political scores.  Kapurthala resident Karampreet Singh alleged that he and his friend were going towards Sultanpur Lodhi in his Innova vehicle and when he halted near a petrol pump outside Rail Coach Factory and was about to come out, Cheema’s car hit his car.  Sultanpur Lodhi DSP Sarwan Singh Bal said that Karampreet received “internal’’ injuries as Cheema’s car rammed into his car from the rear side.  However, Cheema said that case was registered due to political reasons as he had been highlighting “wrongdoings” of Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema.  “It was raining and the car ahead of my car applied sudden brakes and I too applied brakes but my car slightly hit the other car on its the rear side. Karampreet and I came out of our cars. Common refrain between us was that I was not at fault and we even exchanged our phone number and both of us parted ways after ending the issue there and then without any bitterness. Later I came to know that a FIR was lodged against me and when I enquired further I came to know that Karampreet was going to attend a religious function organized by Cheema and when latter learnt about the incident he got the case registered,” said Cheema, who remained SSP Ferozepur and SSP Vigilance Bureau at Jalandhar.  The case has been registered under sections 279, 337 and 427 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/arjuna-awardee-former-punjab-police-ssp-booked-for-rash-driving/articleshow/76144141.cms||I P Singh
June 2, 2020||Noida||Two massive fires in Noida; 27 tenders, 80 firemen struggle to douse the blaze||NOIDA: A massive blaze caught over two companies in Noida's Sector 64 and 88 respectively, keeping the fire department on its toes with as many as 27 fire tenders from both Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, and 80 fireman from the two areas engaged in a day-long operation to bring them under control. While a four-storey export company of radiant cushions in A block of Sector 64 was badly gutted after it caught fire around 1am on Monday, a sanitizer manufacturing unit in Sector 88 caught fire around 2.40am. In the first incident, a fire broke out in the electricity room of the company on the first floor leading to the fire spreading around the entire floor which has furniture and cushion material spread across the floor along with the office. A security guard first spotted the blaze as smoke started emerging from the first floor. “The fire possibly started after a short circuit in the server room on the first floor around 1 am. When the smoke was first noticed, the seniors were informed and the fire brigade was called to the spot which arrived within some minutes and they tried to douse the fire which was brought under control within some hours,” he said. However, after having brought the fire under control by 3 am, when the firemen were sitting free, they received information that a fire had broken out in a sanitizer manufacturing unit in Hosiery complex of Phase II area. “The firemen rushed to the spot and some of the fire tenders were sent there from Sector 64 too. However, soon after it was found that the fire had reached from the first floor to the third floor via a cooling shaft leading to massive damage to the entire floor. As most of the firemen were present inside the building, guards initially didn’t notice that the fire was billowing from the right side on the third floor,” said Pramod Singh, a fireman deployed at the spot. As the fire enraged at both the spots and around 24 fire tenders were stuck there, additional help had to be sought from the fire department, Ghaziabad from where, three more tenders and 15 personnel of the UP Fire Services were called for help. Chief fire officer (CFO) Arun Kumar Singh told TOI that the fire reached the third floor from the duct. At least two fire officers – Pramod Singh (49) and Imran Ansari (26) suffered minor burn injuries during the operation. “It was extremely difficult to enter the premises as smoke was billowing from the entire unit,” said Pramod. “Since, half of the tenders were at the Hosiery complex, firemen had to be shuttled between the two spots. It was found that the fire started from near a reverse osmosis (RO) system on the first floor and after it was doused, it reached the third floor via the cooling duct for fresh air. He entire building was totally filled with smoke and became difficult for firemen to enter,” he said, adding that it the reasons for the fire was unclear. Vivek Sehgal, owner of the company told TOI that while not even 25 per cent of the first floor was damaged by the time the fire was first brought into control, it went to the third floor through the shaft, due to which, the entire floor and the terrace got damaged. “The alarms got activated and our emergency department too - whose officials informed about the same. There is furniture and raw material which is fabric – was present on the first and third floor both. On the first floor, there is a showroom and the office too which got damaged. The loss we have suffered would be around Rs 25 crore,” he said. The fire could only be brought under control by late Monday evening. The second fire broke out at a sanitizer manufacturing unit in Hosiery complex in Sector 88 of Phase II area. According to the fire department officials, the fire broke out around 2.40am in one of the floors of the sanitizer manufacturing unit in C-88 of the Hosiery complex area, and spread in the basement, ground and the first floors. Due to the presence of chemicals and other raw material, it was difficult to control the fire and it led to maximum damage in the entire premises. “A dozen fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the fire was brought under control in 11 hours,” the CFO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/two-massive-fires-in-noida-27-tenders-80-firemen-struggle-to-douse-the-blaze/articleshow/76144179.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 2, 2020||India||Terror warning to ‘Indians’: Don’t settle in J&K||SRINAGAR: A fledgling terror group operating as a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba on Monday warned Indian nationals from outside J&K against using the new domicile law to settle in the Valley, saying anyone who does so would be "treated as an agent of RSS and dealt with appropriately". The Resistance Front (TRF), which sources say is the ISI's new blue-eyed boy, termed the domicile law "an RSS-BJP plot to change the demography of Kashmir". According to the domicile law notified by the Centre recently, any person who has resided in J&K for a period of 15 years is eligible for a domicile certificate. For students, the minimum requirement is to study for seven years in any institute in the Valley and clear the Class X or XII exams. The law also offers domicile rights to anyone displaced by terrorism in Kashmir and thereafter registered with the relief and rehabilitation commissioner (migrants). The TRF said that though it “observes the principles of Islam and does not harm non-combatant/civilians of any race, religion or ethnicity under any circumstances", it would not be "deceived by the machinations of RSS-BJP". Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, who last week escaped a rumoured assassination attempt in Islamabad with injuries, is said to be peeved with the ISI over its increased support to the TRF, including preference over his outfit in terror funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terror-warning-to-indians-dont-settle-in-jk/articleshow/76144198.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 2, 2020||India||Three drug peddlers arrested in Srinagar||SRINAGAR: Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday booked three notorious drug peddlers under Public Safety Act (PSA) in Srinagar and lodged them in different district jails within Kashmir Valley. At least 30 cases have been registered and 53 arrests made this year so far under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Officials said two of them were lodged at district jail Baramulla and the other at Kupwara in pursuance to detention warrants issued by Divisional Commissioner Kashmir. The trio was identified as Nisar Ahmad Sheikh, a resident of Sheikh Colony Kani; Bashir Ahmad Baht, a resident of Barbarshah; and Rayees Ahmad Hakak, a resident of Gulbarg Colony Zakura. In 2019, Srinagar district police registered 81 cases under the NDPS Act and arrested 126 people in connection with the cases besides recovering a huge cache of different drugs and narcotic substances, a police spokesperson said. “During the current year, 30 cases have been registered and 53 arrested under NDPS Act so far. The drug menace is causing irreparable damage to the society, especially to the well-being of the youth… drug addicts subsequently take to other crimes, which makes the addiction a worse crime,” the spokesperson said. Srinagar SSP Haseeb Mugal said the anti-drug campaign would be intensified in the coming weeks. “The society must come forward in identifying drug dealers and peddlers to eradicate this menace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-drug-peddlers-arrested-in-srinagar/articleshow/76144403.cms||M Saleem Pandit
June 2, 2020||India||Army foils infiltration bid in Nowshera, kills 3 terrorists||JAMMU: A major infiltration bid was foiled on the LoC in the forward area of Kalal in Nowshehra sector of Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir in which three heavily armed terrorists were killed. Another terrorist, who was heavily injured, may be hiding in the area, said IGP-Jammu Range, Mukesh Singh. “After receiving specific inputs, a counter-infiltration operation was launched on May 28. On Monday early morning, Indian Army troops successfully foiled the infiltration attempt along the LoC and neutralised three armed intruders near the Zero Line in Kalal area,” officials said. “The troops, upon reaching the spot, noticed a group of terrorists trying to cross over into the Indian side through Arsal Nallah. On being challenged, the terrorists opened fire, which was effectively retaliated,” they said. “During the exchange of fire three heavily-armed terrorists were killed. Army recovered one M16 US made rifle, two AK 47s, 13 AK 47 magazines, six M16 magazines, one nine-mm pistol, one magazine, one UBGL and one grenade,” sources added. The sources also said that Army authorities have written to the local police to file an FIR in this connection. There were also reports of an encounter at Mendher in the Poonch sector with “about 10 terrorists”, the details of which are awaited from the Army. Sources said that the Army, along with special operation group (SOG) and local police, have launched massive cordon-and-search operation in Mendher which off late has witnessed a series of ceasefire violations. “The search operation has been launched in Kalaban , Pathanateer , Salwah, Gursai and adjoining villages of Mendhar of Poonch. There are apprehensions of infiltration,” sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-foils-infiltration-bid-in-nowshera-kills-3-terrorists/articleshow/76144426.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
June 2, 2020||India||India may operate special flight from S Africa to bring home stranded citizens||JOHANNESBURG: Indian nationals, who have been stranded in South Africa and the neighbouring Kingdom of Lesotho due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will have the opportunity to get back home as India on Monday announced plans to operate a special flight later this month. The Indian High Commission announced that as part of the Vande Bharat Mission's Phase 3, Air India is planning a flight from Johannesburg to Delhi and Mumbai on June 18, subject to approval from the government or South Africa. Thousands of Indian nationals have already been evacuated from across the globe under the mission. Strict conditions have been laid down for those wanting to return, including paying for the costs of the flight themselves. The fare has not yet been determined. “Priority will be given to compelling cases, including migrant workers or labourers, who have been laid off; short term visa holders with expired/expiring visas, persons with medical emergencies, pregnant women, the elderly, those required to return to India due to death of a family member, and students," the High Commission said in a statement. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed onto the flight, with all travellers having to sign an undertaking to undergo a seven-day quarantine period in Delhi, Delhi NCR, Haryana, Bhiwadi or Chandigarh at their own cost, followed by seven days of self-isolation at home with self-monitoring of their health. "Domestic operations have started in India from May 25. However, international passengers cannot take domestic flights without completing the mandatory period of quarantine in Delhi or Mumbai," the statement said. Installing the Aarogya Setu mobile app on arrival in India is also mandatory. About 150 Indian nationals returned home last month on a South African Airways flight after approval from the High Commission as it headed to Mumbai and Delhi to bring home South Africans who had been stranded there during the lockdown. The Indian nationals each had to pay around 15,000 rands (about $1,000) for their seats, about three times the normal one-way airfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-may-operate-special-flight-from-s-africa-to-bring-home-stranded-citizens/articleshow/76144625.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Corona pandemic is changing the way people travel in cabs||To ensure social distancing is maintained, cab aggregators released a list of guidelines for both cabbies and passengers last week. With cabs now plying on city roads, cabbies say they've been at the receiving end of extreme reactions – from passengers fighting to turn on the AC and some removing masks to receive calls, to those carrying sanitising sprays to disinfect the car. Passengers are taking their own safety measures when they take a cabRiders carry disinfecting sprays, plastic sheets and newspapersDrivers are required to sanitise their car after each trip, before they can accept a new ride. However, passengers are extra careful, and are taking their own precautions. A cabbie says, "After each ride, I disinfect the cab for my own safety, too. But customers usually ask me to spray it again for their assurance. In fact, some passengers carry disinfecting sprays and disinfect the cab before they enter. Some keep spraying throughout the ride." Another cab driver shares, "Many passengers are carrying newspapers, plastic sheets and cushions to ensure they don’t come in direct contact with the cab's seats." Some people don’t follow safety norms, give poor ratings to cabbiesNo more chatty passengersFeeling sick? the Cabbie may cancel your ride||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-pandemic-is-changing-the-way-people-travel-in-cabs/articleshow/76141013.cms||Niharika Lal
June 2, 2020||Business||Moody’s downgrades India rating for 1st time in 22 yrs||NEW DELHI: Global ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service on Monday downgraded India’s sovereign rating to the lowest investment grade, saying the country’s policy making institutions would be challenged in enacting and implementing policies which mitigate the risks of a sustained period of low growth, significant further deterioration in the government fiscal position and stress in the financial sector. The downgrade by Moody’s comes nearly 22 years after it lowered India’s rating on June 19, 1998 in the aftermath of the country’s nuclear tests. The lowering of the rating — from Baa2 to Baa3 — brings it on a par with S&P and Fitch which rate India at BBB (minus), the lowest investment grade. The downgrade comes against the deterioration in the country’s growth prospects as the national lockdown unveiled to stem the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has stalled economic activity. This has also choked revenues, including those from GST prompting the government to raise its market borrowing sharply which economists say will widen its fiscal deficit to around 5.5% of gross domestic product. Moody’s action is likely to put pressure on the rupee, raise borrowing costs and dampen investor sentiment which is already stretched due to the impact of the pandemic on all major global economies. “While today's action is taken in the context of the coronavirus pandemic, it was not driven by the impact of the pandemic. Rather, the pandemic amplifies vulnerabilities in India's credit profile that were present and building prior to the shock, and which motivated the assignment of a negative outlook last year,” the agency said. “Slow reform momentum and constrained policy effectiveness have contributed to a prolonged period of slow growth, compared to India's potential, that started before the pandemic and that Moody's expects will continue well beyond it,” Moody’s said. The agency said GDP growth has declined from a high of 8.3% in fiscal 2016 (ending March 2017) to 4.2% in fiscal 2019 and expects India's GDP to contract by 4.0% in fiscal 2020 due to the shock from the coronavirus pandemic and related lockdown measures, followed by 8.7% growth in fiscal 2021 and closer to 6.0% thereafter. It said that thereafter and over the longer term, growth rates are likely to be materially lower than in the past, due to persistent weak private sector investment, tepid job creation and an impaired financial system. The agency said that in turn, a prolonged period of slower growth may dampen the pace of improvements in living standards that would help support sustained higher investment growth and consumption. “While the government responded to the growth slowdown prior to the coronavirus outbreak with a series of measures aimed at stimulating domestic demand, and recently announced a support package aimed at supporting India's most vulnerable households and small businesses, Moody's does not expect that these measures will durably restore real GDP growth to rates around 8%, which had seemed within reach just a few years ago,” the statement said. The government has unveiled a series of measures to tackle the impact of the economy as well as announced reform steps to build the foundation for robust growth. “While achieving the objectives laid out in these announcements would be credit positive, challenges with implementation of previous reforms suggest that the benefits to medium-term growth will likely be less than intended,” Moody’s said. It said that lower real and nominal GDP growth over the medium term will diminish the government's ability to reduce its debt burden, after a significant rise as a result of the coronavirus economic shock. A mixed track record on implementation of revenue-raising measures lowers the prospects of fiscal policy-driven budget consolidation, amplifying a long-standing weakness in India's credit profile, the agency added. “Measures to improve India's fiscal strength, which were at the heart of the government's policy framework a few years ago, have underwhelmed. Fiscal performance in recent years has been weaker than expected, with fiscal deficit targets consistently missed and a persistent lack of clarity on how medium-term fiscal consolidation objectives would be achieved. Rather than beginning to fall, the debt burden remained at around 70% of GDP,” Moody’s said. “Overall, with very limited room for outright fiscal consolidation, the outlook for India's debt burden will depend on trends in nominal GDP growth and is unlikely to decline unless growth accelerates markedly and sustainably above 10%,” it said. Moody’s retained the outlook on India’s rating at negative saying it reflects mutually-reinforcing downside risks from potentially deeper stresses in the economy and financial system that could lead to a more severe and prolonged erosion in fiscal strength than the agency currently projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/moodys-downgrades-india-rating-for-1st-time-in-22-yrs/articleshow/76144694.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||New Market welcomes its first customers after more than two months||While preparations are still underway at city malls before they can reopen on June 8, Kolkata's iconic shopping hub, New Market, started welcoming back customers on Monday morning. As customers flocked to the century-and-a-half-old market to experience physical shopping after more than two months, masks, cosmetics, lingerie, shampoo, deodorants and candies saw the maximum takers. For mother-daughter duo Zara and Zeba Timol, who were among the first customers at New Market on Monday, it was more about the experience than shopping needs. "We plan to buy some lingerie and shampoo. But more than that, we wanted to feel the positive vibe that at last everything is getting back to normal, albeit with precautions. We have to help each other overcome our fear and get out of the house while maintaining all safety protocols," said Zeba. While most shops are not allowing customers without masks, thermal checks are not being conducted at entry points yet. Many shops are still being sanitised and are expected to reopen soon. The demand for masks seems to be the highest. "Masks have become a fashion accessory now. There were many buyers who came just for that," said a sales executive from a nearby supermarket. According to the new norms, shops can run with 50% of their workforce, they must keep sanitizers for customers and follow social distancing norms. While a few happy customers picked their favourite candies from the stores, those who came for Nahoum and Sons, returned empty-handed as the iconic bakery hasn’t resumed business yet. “We are planning to open around June 8. The first phase of sanitisation is done, but we are still sorting out a few things like raw materials, oven issues and most importantly, the labour issue. Since local transport and trains are still not fully operational, it is difficult for our workers to join work. But we are trying to work out something for our customers, keeping all safety standards in mind,” Jagadish Chandra Haldar from Nahoum’s told us on the phone. Some other shops in the complex have also decided to open on June 8. While we've been hearing that sale of lipsticks is set to go down as women will mostly wear masks now on, Amartya Shaw from Royal Stores believes it is temporary. "Maybe demand for lipsticks will decline for now and women will buy more of eye makeup. But that's temporary. Wearing lipstick makes women feel more confident and it will never go out of fashion," he said. Traders wary but hopeful"Our shop is being thoroughly sanitised as we care for our safety as well as our customers. Our sales executives are wearing gloves and masks and we are keeping sanitisers for customers too. Eating inside the shop is prohibited now. With Durga Puja approaching, I am sure business will start looking up soon."  — Rajesh Ahuja from Dayaram And Company“I don't know how social distancing will be maintained here. Thermal checks are necessary, but it hasn’t started yet. We have sanitised our shop ourselves. Many customers called us today to ask if it’s safe for them to come and collect what they had ordered before the lockdown. I guess people will start coming in gradually.”  — Vinayak Barwani from Asian Arts“We will allow one or two customers at a time. Smoking, chewing and spitting are strictly prohibited inside the market complex. But I really doubt whether or not it will be followed strictly ”  — Norkila Sherpa from Chamba Lama||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-market-welcomes-its-first-customers-after-more-than-two-months/articleshow/76139139.cms||Ruman Ganguly
June 2, 2020||World||Chinese forces moved up to north of India along LAC, says Pompeo||WASHINGTON: China has moved up its forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said on Monday, asserting that authoritarian regimes take these kinds of actions. Several areas along the LAC in Ladakh and North Sikkim have witnessed major military build-up by both the Indian and Chinese armies recently, in a clear signal of escalating tension and hardening of respective positions by the two sides even two weeks after they were engaged in two separate face-offs. "We see even today increasing forces of China moved up to the north of India on the Line of Actual Control there on the Indian border," Pompeo told Marc Thiessen and Danielle Pletka of AEI's 'What The Hell Is Going On' Podcast. The Communist Party of China (CPC) continues to hide and obfuscate and delay the global response to the coronavirus pandemic that began in Wuhan. It has taken actions destroying the amazing freedoms of the people of Hong Kong, he said. "Those are just two pieces of the behaviour of this regime of the Chinese Communist Party. The nature and the activity that they're undertaking, the continued efforts to steal intellectual property, to advance in the South China Sea," he said. Pompeo said that these are the kinds of actions that authoritarian regimes take, and they have a real impact not only on the Chinese people there in China and Hong Kongers in Hong Kong, but a real impact on people all around the world. "The United States has a responsibility and the capability to push back against that, ensure that the American people are properly served by a foreign policy that recognises the threats that emanate from China today," he said. Responding to a question, Pompeo said that the recent Chinese actions be it on the India border, or Hong Kong or the South China Sea, have been part of the Chinese behaviour in the recent past. "It's not just over the past six months. We've seen over the past number of years continued Chinese build out of their military capabilities, and then continually more aggressive action. I mentioned India. You've mentioned the South China Sea. "We see these same kind of things with them attempting to build ports around the world as part of their Belt and Road Initiative, places where they can move the People's Liberation Army Navy. We've seen their continued efforts to expand militarily," Pompeo said. For the past 20 years, the US has not responded to these things in a real way, he said. "We've viewed the 1.5 billion people in the Chinese market as so important to the American economy, and the risk that the Chinese would respond by closing us out for the favour of some other nation – I think people have just been too worried about that to actually take the responses that we take to every other country that behaves in the way that China has done," Pompeo said. President Donald Trump has not done that, he asserted. "Trump's made it very clear whether it's the signature issue on trade... reciprocal trade... and now beginning to move to all the other elements of power that the Chinese Communist Party is trying to expand," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/chinese-forces-moved-up-to-north-of-india-along-lac-says-pompeo/articleshow/76144852.cms||---
June 2, 2020||India||Covid-19: Fatality rate dips amid rising cases and deaths||NEW DELHI: With a larger proportion of Covid-19 patients getting cured, the case fatality rate, or the percentage of deaths of the total cases, has declined steadily to 2.83% from 3.3% around 45 days ago, even as the health ministry recorded the biggest single-day spike so far with 230 new deaths and 8,392 fresh cases till 8am on Monday. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 5,394 and the number of cases have climbed to 1,90,535 in the country. Of the total cases, 93,322 are under active medical supervision, whereas 91,818 patients are rid of the disease. In last 24 hours, 4,835 people who underwent Covid-19 treatment were discharged. “The recovery rate in the country is progressively increasing and has reached 48.19% amongst Covid-19 patients. On May 18, it was 38.29%, on May 3, it was 26.59% and on April 15, it was 11.42%,” the health ministry said. The recovery rate is significant as it indicates timely detection and treatment, adequate medical infrastructure and clinical protocols. Variations remain from state to state, but the overall picture now shows the case fatality rate at 2.83%. On May 18, it was 3.15% and on May 3, it was 3.25%. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “A steady decline can be seen in the case fatality rate in the country. The relatively low death rate is attributed to the continued focus on surveillance, timely case identification and clinical management of the cases,” the ministry said. Officials said cases were expected to rise as migrant workers return home and the lockdown eases. The focus of the government strategy is to widen testing and ensure patients recover. The rise in cases continues to be influenced by states like Maharashtra and Delhi though there is increased incidence in several other states too. As long as the fresh cases do not become a torrent, the case load can be managed, it is felt. Comparing India’s case fatality rate with other countries with high number of deaths, the ministry said the global case fatality rate was 6.19%. It was highest in France at 19.35%, followed by Belgium at 16.25%, Italy at 14.33% and the UK at 14.07%. It also said the testing capacity had increased in the country through 676 laboratories, including 472 government and 204 private ones. Cumulatively, 38,37,207 samples have been tested so far, whereas 1,00,180 samples were tested on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-fatality-rate-dips-amid-rising-cases-and-deaths/articleshow/76144919.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 2, 2020||India||Keep middle seats empty or give gown, says DGCA||NEW DELHI: Airlines have been allowed to keep middle seats occupied too if flights have high passenger loads. Passenger seated on the middle seat will need to be given a wrap-around gown in addition to face mask and shield. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Sunday issued an order which among other things, mandates trying to keep the seat between two passengers vacant. The order, a fallout of judicial observations, is binding on all airlines, charter and private jet operators, whether Indian or foreign, operating domestic or international flights. It also says “no meals or drinking water shall be served on board except in extreme circumstances arising due to health reasons”. This will be implemented on domestic and international flights of 2-3 hour duration. On longer flights, packed meals can be served to minimise crew-passenger contact, said an official. While the DGCA had on March 23, directed airlines to keep the seat between two flyers vacant on domestic flights, the aviation ministry later said this would render airlines financially unviable and that the practice was not being adopted elsewhere. An Air India pilot moved Bombay HC on the issue as the Vande Bharat repatriation flights were coming almost full. The HC questioned the practice. AI moved an urgent plea in the Supreme Court on the issue. The SC on May 25 observed that “DGCA is free to alter any norms he may consider necessary during the pendency of the matter in the interest of public health and safety of the passengers rather than of commercial considerations.” Following the SC observations, the aviation ministry constituted an expert committee of three eminent doctors on May 26 “to review and further strengthen the public health related protocols of air travel.” The panel gave its report to the ministry. After considering it, the DGCA last Sunday issued the following directions. Apart from previously issued protocols, the new things in the order are: “Airlines shall allot seats in such a manner that the middle seat between two passengers is kept vacant if the passenger load and seat capacity permits the same. However, members of same family may be allowed to sit together. If middle seat/seat between two passengers is occupied due to passenger load, then additional protective equipment like ‘wrap around gown’ shall be provided to the individual on the middle seat in addition to the three layer face mask and face shield.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/keep-middle-seats-empty-or-give-gown-says-dgca/articleshow/76144969.cms||---
June 2, 2020||World||Gates Foundation now WHO’s biggest funder||NEW DELHI: With President Donald Trump announcing that the US will be "terminating" its relationship with the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) is set to become the biggest funder of the organisation. A private foundation becoming the biggest funder, and hence the biggest influence, on a United Nations agency would be a first. In fact, though the WHO is meant to be a body accountable to its members countries, among the top 10 donors to the organisation only four are member countries and one is the European Commission. The rest are all non-state actors or philanthropies. When the WHO was constituted, its constitution stipulated that it should primarily be financed through regular contributions from member countries, called "assessed contributions", relative to the country’s wealth and population. However, the reluctance of member countries to increase the assessed annual contributions has made it increasingly dependent on voluntary contributions from countries and non-state actors, weakening its autonomy. Global health experts have expressed concern over the WHO becoming increasingly reliant on voluntary and earmarked contributions. Its budget, just over $5.6 billion in 2019, is less than the revenue of a big hospital in the US. More than three-quarters of the WHO’s funds are specified voluntary contributions earmarked for specific programmes like polio eradication or TB, leaving the organisation with no flexibility in spending. Thus, the agency has struggled to find funds for an adequate response to situations like the outbreak of Ebola and now the coronavirus pandemic. "The principle that he who pays the piper calls the tune holds true here. Countries large and small built the WHO through their contributions. There is general anxiety about unaccountable billionaires, but they welcome the investment as it’s something which otherwise they would have had to pay. Not just his investment in the WHO, but also in the various global funds and organisations, it is as if Gates has colonised the global health system. No matter how well-intentioned, when you are a monopolist, you stop questioning, stop thinking," said Dr Mukesh Kapila, professor of global health and humanitarian affairs at the University of Manchester. The authors of a paper on the financial sustainability of the WHO, including Dr Srinath Reddy of the PHFI, pointed out: "The current dominance of earmarked contributions in effect uses the WHO to channel donor priorities. Donors then benefit from the legitimacy and credibility of a democratic institution while circumventing the very processes that underpin and establish its legitimacy and credibility…" They concluded that the WHO’s heavy reliance on donors for funding major programmes significantly limited its autonomy and global leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/gates-foundation-now-whos-biggest-funder/articleshow/76145069.cms||Rema Nagarajan
June 2, 2020||India||How Pakistan High Commission staffers spied on defence and government officials in New Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two years ago, 43-year-old Abid Hussain had come to India from Pakistan to serve his posting of Visa assistant at the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi. The job was merely a smokescreen for Hussain who was, in reality, a ISI trained spy agent from Punjab province in Pakistan. In the mornings, Hussain would venture out of the High Commission and spend his day standing outside Sena Bhawan and central secretariat. For cover, he had managed to get an Aadhar card in the name Nasir Gotam, a resident of east Delhi's Gandhi Nagar. A sweeper had helped him procure the document using forged papers. Abid's partner in crime was Tahir Hussain, another highly trained spy. Their trusted driver, Javed, accompanied almost everytime they set out on operations. The duo scouted for a low level defence personnel and staffers of differ government departments like railways who could be cultivated and tapped to support information. Theirs was a spy op with different objective - rather than the usual type of confidential military info, the two were keen on knowing details of backhand jobs. The primary task was to know railways coordinated armour movement route. It was the ground work for a plan wherein the operatives were to use the information to cut off that route -- derail the train by damaging the tracks -- during a face-off with Pakistan to prevent the tanks etc from reaching the border in time. For this, the duo assumed different roles - businessmen, industrialist, security company heads and news reporters as well. During what turned out to be their last attempt to tap sources, Abid Hussain was posing as one Mr Gautam, the brother of a fictitious media professional who was looking for a story on rail movements to show India's preparedness against Pakistan. In the last one year, they had tried to tap atleast nine lower rank defence personnel. In February, they managed to strike friendship with a Jawan. After a few meetings here and there, Hussain called him to his so called birthday party at a restaurant as well. On the pretext of a story, Hussain managed to convince the Jawan to supply him some documents and promised him money in exchange. After weeks of purusal, the Jawan reportedly managed to procure some papers regarding deployment of troops but couldn't meet them during the lockdown for Covid-19 pandemic. Finally, the trio fixed a meeting for May 31, considering the fact that the lockdown had been considerably lifted in the capital and they could mingle in the crowd. However, the duo did not realise that they had already come under the radar of Indian intelligence agencies. On Sunday morning, the duo landed at Arya Samaj road around 11am and waited for their contact. They went to a sweet shop and bought a few Samosas. While in the queu, they managed to take the document from their informant. However, sensing some unusual movement around them, the two highly trained agents asked their contact to wait for sometime before they could hand over his 'gift' - an iPhone and Rs 15,000 as promised. They came out of the Karol Bagh restaurant and went to the cemented block belonging to one Ganesh fish seller. They were having the Samosas while trying to ascertain if they were being watched. Realising something was amiss, they started to walk towards their car when the cops moved and nabbed them. Initial, the two kept firm about their assumed identity but eventually changed tracks, revealed their identity and claimed diplomatic immunity. This was when the sleuths informed the ministry of external affairs and the Pak High Commission. They were declared persona non grata and handed over to the Pak officials. The investigation into the FIR is continuing and hunt is on for the person who handed over the deployment paper to the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-pakistan-high-commission-staffers-spied-on-defence-and-government-officials-in-new-delhi/articleshow/76145132.cms||Raj Shekhar
June 2, 2020||India||1,000 items dropped from police canteens, then order withdrawn||NEW DELHI: A Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar order that on Friday delisted over 1,000 products sold at central police forces canteens after classifying them as “purely imported”, was withdrawn after the home ministry found many of the delisted items to be Made-in-India. The “purely imported” items delisted by the May 29 KPKB order included ‘Real’ fruit juice made by Dabur India; electronic items manufactured by Samsung, LG and Philips that have facilities in India and domestic companies like Havells, Bajaj, Wipro and Godrej; luggage items manufactured by VIP and Safari; sewing machines produced by Usha International; Nilkamal furniture; and Sleepwell blankets manufactured by a domestic company founded by the former BJP MP Sheela Gautam. CRPF DG A P Maheshwari on Monday said that order issued by KPKB chief, suppposedly in deference to the home ministry's decision to sell only swadeshi goods through police/paramilitary canteens, was erroneous. He said that the KPKB CEO did not consult senior officers, and that action has been initiated into the lapse. Signed by KPKB CEO R M Meena, the order split products into three categories — those purely Made in India, those manufactured/assembled in India with imported raw materials, and purely imported products — “on the sole basis of information submitted by the firms”. It further said while the first two category of products would continue to be sold at police canteens, the third category, which comprised 1,026 products, would be delisted from KPKB inventory with effect from June 1, 2020. Supplies of some other products whose information was not provided by the supplier/manufacturer as asked for, was also stopped with immediate effect. CAPF canteens do an estimated business of several thousands of crores by selling products to around 50 lakh family members of nearly 10 lakh paramilitary/police personnel. While the list of firms importing all products as put out in the May 29 order included Red Bull India; Ferrero India Pvt Ltd that makes Nutella and Kinder Joy; Skechers (sports shoes); and Victorinox India Pvt Ltd, etc, products whose supplies were stopped for want of information included Maharaja Whiteline electronics, Allen Cooper apparel and Red Tape shoes. According to sources in the home ministry, this is the third time that a lapse by KPKB -- involving issue of orders by the CEO relating to sale of “swadeshi” products without due clearance by the seniors — has been noticed. There is a suspicion that the errors may not be inadvertent ,but deliberate, and hence a direction was issued by the MHA brass on Monday for initiating action against the officer. Sources did not rule out his being replaced. “The delisting was initiated by KPKB CEO without following due process or taking approval from the senior. Many products that were delisted are very much Made in India and that is why the order has been withdrawn. Earlier too he had issued such unilateral orders relating to the decision to sell only 'swadeshi' items via KPKB outlets. This has been taken serious note of and action initiated," said a home ministry officer. Watch Order of delisting orders from police canteen withdrawn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1000-items-dropped-from-police-canteens-then-order-withdrawn/articleshow/76145293.cms||Bharti Jain
June 2, 2020||World||New York City imposes 11 pm curfew amid Floyd protests||NEW YORK: New York City imposed an 11 pm curfew Monday as the nation's biggest city tried to head off another night of destruction erupting amid protests over George Floyd's death. New York is joining other cities around the country in imposing curfews after days of violence. Its curfew will last from 11 pm to 5 am, Governor Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio said. The limitation on 8.6 million people's movements — on top of restrictions already imposed because of the coronavirus — came as the mayor and governor deplored the outbreaks of violence, but also criticized some police actions as fueling protesters' rage about police brutality and racial injustice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/new-york-city-imposes-11-pm-curfew-amid-floyd-protests/articleshow/76145338.cms||---
June 2, 2020||India||Centre’s Rs 10,000 easy loan coverage to aid street vendors||NEW DELHI: The government on Monday said the Rs 5,000 crore micro-lending scheme for street vendors, will allow fruit and vegetable sellers, pakoda walas, barbers, cobblers, laundry service providers and pan shops – seen as a key political constituency – to avail of loans up to Rs 10,000. The PM Svanidhi scheme will leverage the network of banks, micro-finance institutions and self-help groups to hand out loans to street vendors who were in business before the lockdown at nominal rates for those repaying on time. Timely or early repayment will entitle the borrowers for an interest subsidy of 7%, which will be credited into the beneficiary’s bank account through direct benefit transfer on a six-monthly basis. Besides, there is a provision for a higher credit limit on timely repayment, an official statement said. “Over 50 lakh people, including vendors, hawkers, thelawalas, rehri-wala, theliphadwala etc. in different areas/ contexts are likely to benefit from this scheme. The goods supplied by them range from vegetables, fruits, ready-to-eat street foods, tea, pakodas, breads, eggs, textiles, apparel, footwear, artisan products, books/ stationeries etc. The services include barber shops, cobblers, pan shops, laundry services etc,” it said. The government is looking to use urban local bodies to implement the scheme, although the modalities were not clearly spelt out. A law enacted in 2014 to protect the interests of street vendors had prescribed a system of licensing, which may come handy but the proportion of population that is registered remains low. The Centre intends to use the new scheme to encouraging digital transactions with a monthly cashback module built in. “MoHUA in collaboration with State Governments, State Missions of DAY-NULM, ULBs, SIDBI, CGTMSE, NPCI and Digital Payment Aggregators will also launch a capacity building and financial literacy programme of all the stakeholders and IEC activities throughout the country during the month of June and loaning will commence in the month of July,” the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centres-rs-10000-easy-loan-coverage-to-aid-street-vendors/articleshow/76145616.cms||---
June 2, 2020||India||Monsoon hits Kerala; north to get ‘good’ rain||NEW DELHI: The southwest monsoon hit Kerala on Monday on its normal date of onset, the IMD said as it forecast “above normal” rainfall in north India, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, and “normal” seasonal rainfall with certain geographical variations during the June-September period. The forecast shows that West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and northeastern states may get less rainfall than the other regions, but they won’t face deficient rainfall conditions during the season. Arrival of monsoon in Kerala marks the beginning of the four-month (June-September) rainy season in India which heavily depends on it for more than half of the country’s foodgrain production. “Monsoon rainfall for the country as a whole is likely to be 102% of the long period average (LPA) which is 2% more rainfall than what was assumed during the month of April,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences (MoES), while releasing the IMD’s second stage long range forecast. Signalling that it will not be a drought year in any of the four IMD’s geographical areas, Rajeevan said there was only 5% probability of deficient rainfall with a huge 41% probability of normal rainfall, 25% probability of above normal and 14% probability of excess rainfall in the country as a whole. The second stage long range forecast, meant for predicting month-wise and geographical distribution of rainfall, helps in planning for farming operations, hydro-power and disaster management in different states during the rainy season. It specified that north-eastern states, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal may manage to get “normal” rainfall while rest of the country, including central and south India, will definitely get “normal” rainfall. In its month-wise forecast, the IMD predicted the highest rainfall, quantitatively, for July — the critical month for sowing of Kharif (summer sown) crops in the country. On the back of the forecast of normal monsoon in April, the agriculture ministry had already set a target of record foodgrain output (298 million tonnes) for 2020-21 crop year (July-June cycle). Good rainfall during four-month monsoon season is also good for rabi (winter sown) crops as it contributes to soil moisture for longer period and fills the country’s reservoirs for irrigation during winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monsoon-hits-kerala-north-to-get-good-rain/articleshow/76145652.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 2, 2020||India||Lockdown hits Rs 20,000 crore legal practice industry||NEW DELHI: “When will physical hearing of cases in courts start?” It’s the common refrain of young, not so famous and moderately successful lawyers whose earnings have nosedived as the lockdown stifled the Rs 20,000 crore legal practice industry. Around 20 lakh advocates are mostly dependent on open court adjudication of disputes. With the Supreme Court, high courts and trial courts continuing with virtual hearing of a limited number of cases through video-conferencing, most lawyers are finding it difficult to find clients or get cases listed before judges. In contrast, successful and pedigreed lawyers are raking in the moolah. Successful senior advocates are in demand as they can argue important cases daily before the SC as well as HCs from the comfort of their offices or homes. "During normal times, if they had to argue a case in an HC, they would have to go there physically, leaving their work in the SC to someone else. Now, through video-conferencing, distances have been erased and they can argue cases across India sitting in Delhi. Their daily incomes have not suffered much," said a briefing counsel. Bar Council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra told TOI, “Holding virtual courts for a small period of time through video-conference in emergency-like situation was inescapable. But physical hearing in open courts must start soon. Majority of lawyers, especially outside big cities, are in hand to mouth situations. The courts cannot be kept closed any longer. Majority of lawyers have no work or earning.” Asked whether the BCI or state bar councils had a contingent plan to help needy lawyers, Mishra said, "Neither BCI nor state bar councils have resources to start any scheme for lawyers. We have been requesting the Centre and state governments to help needy lawyers financially. It is unfortunate that most governments, be it the Centre or states, have lawyers as cabinet ministers, and yet no one thinks about the plight of lawyers." TOI spoke to judges in many HCs and found that the video-conferencing system was not equipped to handle more than two or three courts simultaneously, thus limiting the number of cases that could be taken up for hearing. "Majority of advocates stay away from the capital city and either have low speed internet connections or are IT-handicapped to be able to argue cases through video-conferencing," an HC judge said. A moderately successful Delhi-based lawyer last month asked most of his office staff, whose salaries he had paid for the two-month lockdown period, to find alternative employment, with promise to take them back once courts reopened. "It is common to get payment for legal fees a month or two after the hearing of a case in court. Governments are notorious for delayed payment of legal fees. Sometimes, it is delayed by six months. With no work at hand, I am no longer in a position to pay salaries of my staff,” he told TOI. But with spiralling number of coronavirus cases in Delhi, there is little chance of open court hearings starting any soon. The CJI and judges of the SC, most of them over 60 years of age and with co-morbidities, are afraid of starting physical hearing as they know that it would be impossible to control the crowd of lawyers outside courtrooms. "We do not want the Supreme Court to be the source of Covid-19 infection for lawyers, litigants and media personnel," a judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-hits-rs-20000-crore-legal-practice-industry/articleshow/76145667.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 2, 2020||India||Government hikes MSP of Kharif crops to boost farm income||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday announced higher minimum support price (MSP) of 14 kharif (summer sown) crops for 2020-21, increasing the support price of most popular summer crop paddy from Rs 1,815 per quintal to Rs 1,868 per quintal. The hike is, however, primarily tweaked in favour of coarse cereals (bajra and maize) and pulses (arhar and urad) in terms of percentage of return to farmers over their cost of production. The move has been in sync with the Centre’s policy to encourage farmers to go for less water-consuming crops such as coarse cereals than the water-guzzling paddy. The focus on oilseeds is, on the other hand, aimed at reducing import bills as the country’s production doesn’t meet its demand. Under new MSPs, the expected returns to farmers over their cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of bajra (83%), followed by urad (64%), tur (58%) and maize (53%). For the rest, return to farmers over their cost of production is estimated to be at least 50%. The highest increase in new MSP in absolute terms compared to the 2019-20 support price is, however, for nigerseed (Rs 755 per quintal), followed by sesamum (Rs 370 per quintal), urad (Rs 300 per quintal) and cotton [long staple (Rs 275 per quintal)]. “This is in line with the 2018-19 Budget announcement of fixing MSPs at a level at least 1.5 times the all-India weighted average cost of production (CoP), aiming at reasonably fair remuneration for farmers,” said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The new MSPs were approved by the Union Cabinet. Besides, it also approved extension of repayment date for short-term loans for agriculture and allied activities under existing interest subsidy scheme from May 31 to August 31, keeping in view the Covid situation. The Centre had earlier extended this deadline from March 31 to May 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-hikes-msp-of-kharif-crops-to-boost-farm-income/articleshow/76145673.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 2, 2020||India||Covid count: India now No. 7, overtakes France||NEW DELHI: A day after overtaking Germany, India went past France in total count of Covid-19 cases on Monday, rising to the seventh spot in the list of countries with highest caseloads of the virus. On the first day of India’s unlocking phase, the number of fresh infections dipped slightly to 7,573, while the death toll remained above 200 for the fourth straight day. India had recorded 1,92,630 Covid-19 cases till late on Monday, going past France’s count of 1,88,882 infections till now. The day’s death toll from the pandemic was 203, the third highest single-day count so far. The toll has remained above 200 for four consecutive days now, with the highest number (270) reported on May 29. The total toll from the pandemic rose to exactly 5,600 on Monday, translating to a case fatality rate of 2.9%. While Maharashtra continued to report the highest fresh cases, Monday’s count of 2,361 was lower than those reported in at least the last two days. Of these, Mumbai reported 1,413 cases, taking the city’s count to over 40,000. The cumulative case count of the states crossed 70,000, accounting for over 36% of all cases in the country. The state reported 76 more Covid-related deaths, taking the total toll to 2,362, which translates to a case fatality rate of 3.37%, significantly higher than the national average. Mumbai alone accounted for 40 deaths on Monday. After several days of reporting over 1,000 fresh cases, Delhi’s count dipped slightly to 990 on Monday. However, the city reported 50 deaths, taking the total toll past 500, to 523. Meanwhile, Gujarat became the third state in India to cross 10,000 discharges of Covid-19 positive patients after Maharashtra (29,329) and Tamil Nadu (13,170), with 10,780 patients sent home post recovery. Across India, the total number of Covid patients was over 95,000. Gujarat recorded 423 positive cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Monday, taking the total to 17,217. The new cases include 314 from Ahmedabad, 39 from Surat, 31 from Vadodara and 11 from Gandhinagar. This is the third consecutive day when state reported 400 plus positive cases. It has registered 438 cases on May 31 and 412 cases on May 30. The state also recorded the death of 25 Covid-19 positive patients, increasing the toll to 1063. The deceased include 22 from Ahmedabad. In the highest spike in coronavirus infections in a single day in Arunachal Pradesh, 16 fresh cases were reported on Monday. All of those who tested positive came from Delhi in a Shramik Special train. Odisha witnessed the highest daily spike in cases so far, with 156 people testing positive for the virus. Another 119 people were cured and discharged from hospital in what is also the biggest single-day jump in recoveries. The number of infected persons rose to 2,104 and the number of those cured rose to 1,245, leaving the state with 850 active cases. Seven patients have died of Covid-19 and two others have died of comorbidities. In Rajasthan, 5 persons died and 269 others tested positive for Covid-19, taking the infection count to 9,100 and the death toll to 199. While three persons died in Jaipur taking deaths in the city to 94, one person each succumbed to the disease in Baran and Bikaner. Assam recorded 102 new Covid-19 cases on Monday of which 30 are returnees from Kuwait who had arrived here on a repatriation flight on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-count-india-now-no-7-overtakes-france/articleshow/76145726.cms||---
June 2, 2020||India||India-China standoff may drag on as troops dig in||NEW DELHI: The India-China standoff is likely to drag on through the summer, sources have said. As troops dig in on both sides, India expects this to last for some time. At this point, the two sides are facing off at four points — three points in Galwan, one at Galwan junction or Patrol Point 14, PP 15 and Gogra PP 17. The fourth face-off point is at Pangong Tso. India will not climb down on its infrastructure build-up, officials said. As a result of a number of discussions, it is also clear that India has shorter supply lines than China and would be able to hold out much better in the event of a confrontation. The combination of two satellite photos of the Ngari Günsa civil-military airport base taken on April 1, (L), and May 17, 2020, near the border with India in far western region of Tibet in China show development around the airport. (Planet Labs via AP)With reinforcements in men and weapons, officials said India could match China in weapons, troops and strategy. So far, the government believes the issue of Chinese incursions can be resolved at the local level between military commanders. However, it is also prepared for a longer standoff. Indian and Chinese officials have been in constant touch in New Delhi and Beijing, according to sources. Read Also‘No fresh build-up by China, increase in jets flying routine in nature’NEW DELHI: There has been no fresh military build-up by China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, said official sources on Monday, even as the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army held another round of talks in a bid to defuse the month-long troop confrontation in theIn Beijing on Monday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, once again, that the “overall border situation is stable and controllable”. “Diplomatic and military communication channels are open. Believe two sides can properly solve the problems through negotiation and consultation,” he added. However, it did not stop the Chinese side from launching a media/psychological assault with videos and disturbing images of Indian soldiers being beaten up by their Chinese counterparts. Indian official channels have quietened down as well. This worked well for India during the Doklam crisis. Watch US backs India on border issue, asks China to use diplomacy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-standoff-may-drag-on-as-troops-dig-in/articleshow/76145830.cms||Indrani Bagchi
June 2, 2020||India||‘No fresh build-up by China, increase in jets flying routine in nature’||NEW DELHI: There has been no fresh military build-up by China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, said official sources on Monday, even as the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army held another round of talks in a bid to defuse the month-long troop confrontation in the high-altitude region. The Indian armed forces, of course, continue to keep a hawk-eye on the additional troop reinforcements, artillery guns, tanks and other armoured vehicles deployed by China within its territory near the LAC last month. Increased fighter flying from Chinese airbases of Gargunsa, Hotan and Kashgar, which face Ladakh, has also been detected over the last month. But sources said it was “fairly routine” for this part of the year, with just four to five J-11 fighters being deployed at the Gargunsa (civilian airfield is called Ngari Kunsha) airbase, which is around 60-80 km from the LAC. “Some additional J-11 and J-8 fighters have been inducted at Hotan and Kashgar, which are much further away, but they are not a big source of concern. If Chinese fighters fly near the LAC, IAF fighters also do the same,” said a source. Moreover,the weapon and fuel-carrying capacity of Chinese jets is quite limited due to the high-altitude and rarefied air at their airbases. Sources said the brigade commander-level talks at one of the face-off sites on Monday were “positive” as compared to last week, and will be followed by another dialogue between the rival major generals within the next few days. There has, however, been no de-escalation as yet in the troop confrontation at the four to five locations in the Galwan Valley region, northern bank of Pangong Tso and Demchok areas of eastern Ladakh, after PLA troops early last month intruded around 1-3 km into what India considers to be its territory. Both countries had reinforced their positions with additional troops and heavy weapons within their territories as a show of strength. “The PLA build-up of ground forces with artillery guns, tanks and other heavy vehicles did take place near the LAC initially. But there has been no fresh deployments since then. There is nothing very unusual happening on the other side now,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-fresh-build-up-by-china-increase-in-jets-flying-routine-in-nature/articleshow/76145855.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 2, 2020||Patna||Sakurabad tense after 2 groups clash, 11 hurt||PATNA: Tension has gripped Sakurabad Bazar in Jehanabad district following violent clashes between two groups of people belonging to different communities on Monday. Altogether 11 of them received injuries in stone pelting and were admitted to the Ratni primary health centre and the Jehanabad sadar hospital. The trouble began around 11am after a clash between two groups of children over a cricket match in Bichli Gali locality of the block headquarters town. The warring factions exchanged blows and pelted each other with stones, injuring 11 people. Some shops in the nearby locality were also attacked and valuables looted. Although district magistrate (DM) Navind Kumar denied promulgation of prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code and police firing, station house officer (SHO) of Sakurabad police station, Raj Kishore Prasad, said, “Sakurabad shahar mein section 144 abhi laagoo kiya gaya hai (Section 144 has been clamped in Sakurabad town).” The SHO also admitted that two rounds were fired in the air to quell the rampaging mob that indulged in stone pelting and vandalism in the town. “Altogether 11 people from the two groups were hurt and four of the seriously injured were referred to the Jehanabad sadar hospital.” SP Manish described the situation in the town as under control. He said, “Additional armed forces have been deployed as a precautionary measure and FIRs are being lodged. Further action will be taken on the basis of evidences.” Earlier, the SHO told this reporter over phone that tension was brewing in the town after an altercation between two groups of youths over use of ganja on Sunday morning. The following morning they gathered together and began pelting stones at each other. Meanwhile, the DM said, “The issue is being blown out of proportion and there is nothing to worry about. It is a simple incident of group clash and nothing else.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sakurabad-tense-after-2-groups-clash-11-hurt/articleshow/76142366.cms||Ramashankar
June 2, 2020||Patna||RJD’s Garib Adhikar Diwas to counter Shah rally||PATNA: RJD will hold a Garib Adhikar Diwas on June 9 to counter senior BJP leader Amit Shah’s planned virtual rally in north Bihar on the same day. Announcing RJD’s plans, hours after BJP Bihar unit president Sanjay Jaysawal revealed Shah’s virtual rally details, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav told reporters in Patna that BJP and the ruling NDA are “power- hungry” parties with “no concerns for the plight of migrant workers” in the state. “BJP has announced a virtual rally in Bihar on June 9 to celebrate the death of poor people. RJD will observe the same day as Garib Adhikar Diwas. We will observe the day to show solidarity with the migrant workers and farmers and raise their voices. It will also be a protest against the government for neglecting the poor and thinking about elections in the midst of this crisis,” Tejashwi said. He added, “Covid-19 cases have surged to 2 lakh and migrant labourers from Bihar have been the worst hit, they are dying of hunger. Should BJP be concerned about virtual rallies or poor people dying of hunger? BJP is not concerned about the poor and they are only thinking about elections and votes.” Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad also took to Twitter on Monday to launch a scathing attack on the ruling NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar. He appealed to bring back the rule of “poor and downtrodden” in Bihar. “There has been rule of deception, failure, chaos, immorality, betrayal and bad- governance for last 15 years. Wipe them out and bring the rule of poor and downtrodden,” Lalu tweeted. His official Twitter handle is managed by family members and close aides with his consultation. Criticizing the BJP’s proposed digital rally, Tejashwi said “hunger for power” has prompted them to organize the rally but people of Bihar and the opposition want to know from them what they are doing to address the plight of returnee migrants. “A BJP functionary is the health minister in Bihar. They should talk about how many additional ventilators they got and how to ensure travel and food for poor migrants. Double-engine government of BJP and JD(U) was not visible at all on all these fronts. RJD, on the other hand, provided rationed food to 1 lakh migrants using its limited resources,” Tejashwi said. The younger Yadav scion also sought to know how the state government plans to revive the state’s economy and provide livelihood opportunities to migrants. Reacting to Tejashwi’s remark, BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the former is suffering from “BJP- phobia” and it is not an election rally. “Virtual rally is meant for mass online communication and interaction. Union minister Amit Shah ji will give his message to BJP party workers in Bihar about service to society and nation. Thus, it clear that it is not an election rally but only a medium to boost the party workers in fighting this Corona crisis,” Nikhil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjds-garib-adhikar-diwas-to-counter-shah-rally/articleshow/76142397.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Chellanam seawall work lags||Kochi: Even though the residents of Chellanam coastal hamlet are gearing up with sandbags to prevent the flooding of their houses due to coastal erosion during monsoon, they have already started bearing the brunt of the sea as the strong waves due to the high tides have been seeping over the broken seawall over the past two days. The yet-to-be-resumed geotube project and the delay in installing geobags are worrisome for over 300 families as there is nothing except the remains of broken seawall to protect them from the battering waves. The geotube seawall works, started in 2017, have barely begun. Though the contract has been renewed by the state irrigation department and the project was re-inaugurated three weeks ago, the works have not resumed. Even though VS Sunilkumar, minister in-charge of Ernakulam district, visited Chellanam recently and assured that the installation of geobags would be completed before the rains, it is still lagging. Residents said that the sea will soon turn rough as monsoon approaches and another sea erosion amid the pandemic will be more difficult than normal times. “The geobags, which are installed where the seawall is broken, is a temporary solution and could not defend the coast from the strong waves. But now that is the only protection we have as the monsoon is here. But that too is still not completed and high tides are leading the seawater onto the coast. Though it has not entered the houses, it will flood the area when the rain begins. The lack of sand and slow pace are affecting the work,” said Joseph Arackal, convener, Chellanam Janakiyavedi, which has been protesting for the more than 200 days. The installation of geobags is currently happening at the worst erosion-affected areas like Companypady and Maruvakkad. Here the seawall has crumbled completely and hundreds of bags are being laid to block the waves but residents are sceptical about its effectiveness. “They are just being tied like sandbags instead of proper stitching. It won’t survive the strong waves. If flooding starts we won’t be able to move to the camps amid the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” said Arackal. Meanwhile, irrigation officials said that the works are progressing and will be completed before the onset of monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chellanam-seawall-work-lags/articleshow/76143003.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||PropShare Capital raises Rs 80cr for commercial realty amid lockdown||TNN Mumbai: PropShare Capital, a tech platform that enables individuals to participate in commercial real estate investments, has raised Rs 80 crore for its Covid-19 distressed opportunities portfolio management scheme offering. The firm closed the offering — Distress Opportunity Fund I (PDOF I) with online participation from over 150 investors include high net worth individuals, family offices, retail and institutional investors including a Japanese family office, in two weeks. “This is the first time a fund this size has been raised online without distributors or middlemen. While the demand was in excess of Rs 500 crores, we chose to make a first closing within two weeks in order to be in a position to deploy money quickly as distressed opportunities become available,” said Kunal Moktan, co-founder & CEO, PropShare Capital. He said that PropShare had already tied up an investment proposal to buy out a manufacturing company that was exiting its real estate investment in Hyderabad, which was let out to a multinational. “The price we are paying is 5% lower than what we had negotiated a couple of years ago. Since then the rent has increased by 5% every year.” According to Moktan, companies with high leverage on their balance sheets are looking at selling commercial real estate, which are not part of their core assets at distressed prices, due to the Covid-19 crisis. “This is something that is happening globally and since the crisis, nearly $900 billion has been raised globally for investment in real estate,” he said. PropShare is focused on commercial real estate that has been leased out to multinationals. The platform currently manages over Rs 330 crore of investments and allows investors to participate with a relatively low threshold of Rs 25 lakh-50 lakh. “All our tenants have paid rent during the lockdown so far. For multinationals with offshore centres in India, the cost of rent is very low and in dollar terms this cost has already come down by 5%,” said Moktan. He added that work-from-home would not reduce the demand for real estate. “The area per employee that used to be 60sqft earlier is likely to double to 120sqft to ensure social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/propshare-capital-raises-rs-80cr-for-commercial-realty-amid-lockdown/articleshow/76143374.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Getting past thermal gun doesn’t mean being corona-free||Nagpur: After a person who flew in from Mumbai tested positive in Rajura even after being checked twice at two airports, many are asking questions about utility of thermal guns used at airports and other places. Thermal guns (infrared thermometers) are being widely used now. Even malls and show rooms are using them before letting people enter. As markets, offices, and schools open gradually, their use will only increase. But, just getting through the gun is hardly a guarantee that person is free from Covid-19, said doctors. “Thermal guns are to check temperature, not coronavirus. Not everyone with Covid-19 has fever to start with. According to available data, 48% developed fever at a later stage. So, this machine can miss the patient for sure. But, better to have something to screen than nothing,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist. Dr Tayade said technical aspect should be given due consideration particularly in 47 degree C temperature in Nagpur. “Covid-19 symptoms show up several days after getting the virus. The only authentic way to detect Covid-19 is RT-PCR test,” she added. Physician Dr Sudip Dhurve said thermal guns had more limitations than features. “I can tell you they are ineffective. Most are made in China and are of low quality. As demand has gone up, China has started supplying pieces in which chips with only three reads are fixed. Yet, our shops, industries, show rooms will buy them in large numbers to ensure psychological satisfaction for visitors,” he said. TOI also spoke to a leading medical gadget supplier of Vidarbha on this issue. He said there was a huge demand for thermal guns. “China-made guns are available from Rs 2000 to Rs 3500 per piece. French and German products are elegant and cost between Rs 4500 and Rs 15,000. We have been receiving bulk orders from software companies, call centres, offices, schools, and industries. As a dealer, I can’t assure you about their quality or accuracy,” he said. Doctors said the best way to stay away from infection even post lockdown is to avoid visiting crowded places. Use of masks, washing hands, and maintaining Covid distancing strictly are the only ways to keep oneself protected. When it comes to detection, RT-PCR of throat or nasal swab is the only authentic way.GUN NOT DONE!* Infrared thermometer (thermal gun) works using an infrared sensor * It measures heat emanating from a person’s body* If not held close enough, it would give very low readings* If person is coming from a outside under the Sun, it will show high reading* It cannot tell if a person has taken medicines to suppress fever* Only authentic test for coronavirus is RT-PCR test||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/getting-past-thermal-gun-doesnt-mean-being-corona-free/articleshow/76144119.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 2, 2020||Surat||Woman tries to poison two children, end own life||Surat: A 33-year-old wife of a diamond broker allegedly tried to kill her two children - 13-year-old daughter and seven-year-old son, by forcing them to have some poisonous substance. The woman Lata lathiya had also attempted to end her own life. However, all three survived and their health is improving is improving.However, the exact reason for such a drastic step is still not clear, police said.She was booked for attempt to murder following a complaint lodged by her husband Jitesh. Police are yet to arrest the woman since she is under treatment. Jitesh works in Mumbai as diamond broker and was in his native village Bhavnagar during lockdown. After arriving in the city on Sunday, he lodged the complaint. Jitesh and Lathiya got married in 2006. It is learnt that Jitesh had started living separately for the past around 18 months due to marital discord. “It could be some family dispute but we will question her once she is discharged from the hospital ,” said an official of Amroli police station. Lathiya, resident of Shree Nidhi Apartment, woke up her children at 5am and made them drink milk laced with with pesticide used to kill rats. Later, she too drank the poisonous milk. Lathiya then made a call to her relative and informed about the suicide attempt. Soon, the relative arrived at their house and shifted all three to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-tries-to-poison-two-children-end-own-life/articleshow/76143424.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||Non-profits could list directly on SSE||Mumbai: An expert panel constituted by markets regulator Sebi panel on Monday said that non-profit organisations could be allowed to directly list on a social stock exchange (SSE) by issuing bonds. The panel suggested a range of funding mechanisms for such organisations including social venture funds too under Sebi’s alternative investment funds mechanism. For-profit social enterprises can also list on SSE with enhanced reporting requirements, the report said. To encourage the culture of ‘giving’, some tax incentives have also been recommended by the committee that was headed by Ishaat Hussain, a Tata Group veteran. The report also recommended some new minimum reporting standard for organisations that intend to raise funds through SSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/non-profits-could-list-directly-on-sse/articleshow/76144375.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Surat||Parched throats queue up at Gujarat’s liquor permit shops||SURAT: With liquor permit shops starting sale from Monday, all roads led to the watering holes since early in the morning as parched Bacchus lovers queued up outside the outlets to collect their token numbers, across the state. It should be noted that in the dry state, liquor can be purchased only from these permit shops on health grounds. While in Surat, up to 200 tokens were distributed at the five outlets on Monday morning, the latecomers had to return empty-handed. In morning only 100 tokens were given but due to rush the number of token were increased up to 200. Around 5,000 health liquor permits are active in the city and the holders were desperately waiting for the liquor shops to start. Piyush Shah, an owner of a hotel in Vadodara that has a liquor permit shop said, “Sixty-eight customers turned up at the shop to buy liquor on Monday. Over 100 units were sold and we have asked the others to come on Tuesday. We ensured social distancing at the shop and there was no chaos throughout the day.” In Rajkot, however, social distancing went for complete toss as tipplers made a mad rush at the four wine shops at the prominent hotels. Many permit holders had to return disappointed as shop ran out of stock. “There was heavy rush and no social distancing. I could not get my stock, but I will try after two days,” said permit holder, Premdeep Vora. While the permit holders rushed with bags in hand in Surat, they were only issued tokens and asked to return after some time. “The tokens were issued to avoid crowding and maintain social distancing. Since the shops were closed for two months, heavy rush was expected,” said an employee at one of the shops. “I have developed habit of waking up early during lockdown since I had to go to purchase essential items shops of which remained open only up to 11 am. This helped today as well as I went to buy liquor as early as 10 am. I got my token after standing in queue for quite some time,” said Vijay Patel, a permit holder. A few permit holders were given tokens for the next day as well. Those who collected tokens in morning were seen visiting the shops till evening in accordance with their turn. “A number of permit holders were disappointed as they were denied their quota for the months of April and May. I did not collect my quota since March, so I suffer loss of three months,” said Satish Agarwal, a businessman in the diamond city. “The permit shops started selling liquor from Monday after lockdown of two months. There was rush at the shop but the selling continued smoothly at the five outlets in the city,” said S R Vasava, superintendent, prohibition department. (Inputs by Tushar Tere and Nimesh Khakhariya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/parched-throats-queue-up-at-states-liquor-permit-shops/articleshow/76143311.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 2, 2020||Patna||Hungarian cyclist seeks online donation for Bihar's Chappra Sadar Hospital||PATNA: After a 63-day break at an isolated cottage of Chappra Sadar Hospital, Hungarian cyclist and philologist 26-year-old Viktor Zichó finally resumed his mission ‘Alexander Csoma Expedition’ on Monday on his bicycle. He left for his destination the tomb of Sandor Korosi Csoma, a Hungarian orientalist and philologist, in Darjeeling from Chappra around 7 am. But before leaving, the Hungarian bid adieu to medical staff and locals and posted on his blog (zicho.hu) seeking donation for Chhapra Sadar Hospital. “Hello Everyone! In case if you want to help developing the working conditions of the Sadar Hospital’s healthcare workers, please donate them,” he wrote sharing a link where people can donate money. Talking to TOI over phone from Saran- Muzaffarpur border on Monday, Viktor that the locals and civilians were really supportive. “They brought me good stuff to eat and tried to comfort me. I am moved by their gesture. However, I don’t have a good term with the district authorities,” Viktor said, adding, he got support from the district authorities only after his escape from the hospital on May 24. Overjoyed with his freedom, Viktor said, “I’m really happy that finally I’m going to complete my mission, which I started from Heroes’ Square in Budapest, Hungary on July 6 last year. I’m also grateful to the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for supporting me. He also offered me accommodation.” “As per the directive of Centre, inter- state movement is allowed in the country, so we let him go this morning. He would reach to Darjeeling via Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Kishanganj and Siliguri,” Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hungarian-cyclist-seeks-online-donation-for-sadar-hosp/articleshow/76142339.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tollywood stakeholders to decide on post-lockdown shooting norms||KOLKATA: Tollywood producers have come together to formulate guidelines to be followed once shooting commences in Bengal. A meeting will be held with all stakeholders at the Technicians’ Studio on Tuesday to discuss precautionary measures. On Sunday, the Maharashtra government had issued certain guidelines and Bengal producers have gone through them to check if they can be adapted here as well. One rule mentioned that any person found Covid-positive during a shoot should be given treatment. Asked about payment of compensation, chief advisor of Federation of Western India Cine Employees and the president of the Indian Film and Television Directors’ Association Ashoke Pandit said, “It is the producers’ responsibility to look after everyone on the set and take care of their treatment if they get infected. Producers have to discuss with the broadcaster on how the payment will be made to the affected person. As for money required for treatment and compensation in case of fatality, we are yet to finalize the amount. The Maharashtra guidelines have made it compulsory for every set to have a doctor, nurse and an ambulance. In the current situation where doctors aren’t available even during emergencies, it will be very difficult to implement that since we have some 40 shoots daily. We want the government to rethink that.” Piya Sengupta, president of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association, said, “Treatment is important if anyone is infected. But we can’t control where someone goes after pack-up. So how can we be sure the person was infected on set? If someone falls ill, our producers will not be able to pay compensation.” In this context, some feel that the health insurance cover given by the Bengal government to the industry members might become a crucial factor in today’s discussion. Actor Shankar Chakraborty, who is the working president of West Bengal Motion Picture Artists' Forum and will be attending Tuesday's meeting, said the role of the broadcaster will become most crucial in case of payment of compensation to infected people on television sets. Sengupta, however, is keen on following the Maharashtra guidelines on how to deal with the untoward situation of having an infected person on the sets. The guidelines mention that the sets have to be fumigated and sanitized extensively and shooting has to be immediately stalled for three days. It also mentions that “any cast/crew member above the age of 65 will not be allowed on the site”. In addition, even a pregnant employee or one who has a pregnant spouse will not be allowed on the sets till further orders. However, Pandit said that they have already written to the Maharashtra government to rethink on the age cap of 65 years. “Fifty per cent of our film and television industry comprises people above 65. That includes the likes of Amitabh Bachchan, Naseeruddin Shah, Paresh Rawal, Priyadarshan, David Dhawan, Anupam Kher and Shabana Azmi.  Sengupta, however, is keen on following the age restrictions. “We also want to restrict shooting with children below the age of 10,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tollywood-stakeholders-to-decide-on-post-lockdown-shooting-norms/articleshow/76144582.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Covid doubling rate in Nashik city at 7.5 days||Nashik: The rate at which Covid-19 positive cases are doubling in Nashik city is much quicker than the state. The doubling rate of Covid-19 patients in Nashik city is 7.5 days, while it is 17 days in Maharashtra. The number of Covid-19 patients is rapidly increasing in the city as 342 (of total 430) have tested positive over the past 15 days -- between May 25 and June 8. Moreover, the city recorded 61 positive cases in a single day on Sunday, which was the highest single-day figure for the city. “The doubling rate of Covid-19 patients in the city was 18.49 days on April 22. With the rise in cases, the doubling rate of the city was 8.26 days on May 27. The doubling rate further dropped to 7.5 days on June 7,” said NMC officials. There were only 48 patients in the city by May 20, but the cases kept climbing thereafter. The city touched first 100-mark on May 25. The city touched 200 cases in just a week thereafter. The city touched 300-mark on June 3 and 400-mark on June 7. The movement of people from most affected areas of Mumbai, Pune and Malegaon in the second half of May. “We have started screening of citizens to find out suspects. People with slightest symptoms are also being quarantined institutionally,” said NMC officials. On Monday, three more tested positive in the city. The tally of positive patients has reached 430 with 21 deaths. The city has 261 active cases and 148 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-doubling-rate-in-nashik-city-at-7-5-days/articleshow/76269431.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 2, 2020||Business||RIL rights offer fully sold, 2 days to go||MUMBAI: Two days before its close, the Rs 53,124-crore Reliance Industries (RIL) rights offer has been oversubscribed by about 9%. On Monday evening, the total demand for RIL in the rights offer was for a little over 46 crore shares against an offer size of 42.3 crore at Rs 1,257 per share. At the current demand for the offer, the book size is at Rs 56,500 crore. The promoters of RIL — Mukesh Ambani and his family members — currently hold a little over 50% in the company, according to BSE data. The promoters have said they will subscribe to their share in the offer. In addition, they have agreed to pick up the unsold portion of the shares in the offer, if any. According to rights offer subscription data on the exchanges, there was demand for nearly 45 crore RIL shares on the BSE and another 57 lakh shares on the NSE. Application for an additional 62 lakh shares came directly through brokers. The issue will close on June 3. On May 20, the day the rights offer opened, the exchanges had also created a window for trading of rights entitlements for the shares of the explorations-to-telecom major. A major part of the sellers in the window were GDR and ADR holders who are not allowed to hold partly paid shares. In the RIL rights offer, shareholders are required to pay 25% of the price of the shares upfront, 25% in May 2021 and the balance in November 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-rights-offer-fully-sold-2-days-to-go/articleshow/76144405.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar agri scientists’ advisory against likely locust threat||PATNA/ BHAGALPUR: Fears of likely locust attack during paddy sowing and transplantation is haunting the Bihar districts with common border with Uttar Pradesh (UP) and even other vulnerable districts like Bhagalpur. UP has already suffered the locust menace that came from Rajasthan through Pakistan. Reports said from UP, the pests have veered towards Madhya Pradesh (MP). However, the fear of deadly pest attack to vegetables, crops and leaves of trees has been persisting in Bihar and Jharkhand. It has been further compounded by the threat to paddy sowing season. Bihar agriculture department has alerted the districts concerned and even the scientists at Bihar Agriculture University (BAU), Bhagalpur, and Krishi Vigyan Kendras. The use of traditional methods like drumming drums and ‘nagaras’ as well as beating of plates and tin cans to create noise to scare away the locusts have been advised. The advisory has also asked the district agriculture and other officials to procure pesticides and chemicals and keep tractors fitted with spraying machines as well as fire tenders and drones in readiness. Incidentally, swarm of locusts has not reached Bihar yet, but the farmers are fearful as the laying of eggs and breeding also persists till June-July, the peak of paddy sowing and transplantation season. Expressing serious concern, BAU issued an advisory to spray recommended pesticides -- ‘Lambda-cyhalothrin 5% EC’ (1 millilitre in 1 litre of water), Chlorpyrifos 20% EC (2.5ml to 3.0ml in 1 litre), Fipronil 5% EC (1ml in 1 litre), Deltamethrin 2.8% EC (1ml to 1.5ml in 1 litre) — besides using drones on the field to protect against the locust attack. Scientist and entomologist Dr Ramanuj Vishwakarma at BAU said one locust swarm is estimated to breed 4-5 crore in 1km area under attack, requiring large spray machines. He said April-May every year are fit for reproduction of the locusts and females in the swarm needed huge amount of food to eat and get the eggs developed and later on lay on plants. The locust attack on the farms occurs in the evening when they eat crop leaves and tender plant tissues and rest at night on the farms before flying away to other areas after sunrise. BAU entomologist Prof S N Ray said chances of locust attack were in the bordering areas of Jharkhand, UP and MP, not in eastern Bihar. Bhagalpur district agriculture officer Krishna Kant Jha said, “We are on high alert and have made all preparations.” Kaimur DM Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary said till now, locusts have not entered his district. “I contacted officials in UP. They said the locusts had turned towards MP, but we are not taking chances,” he said, adding that farmers in the blocks bordering UP have also been alerted about the use of traditional and modern methods to scare away or kill the pests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-agri-scientists-advisory-against-likely-locust-threat/articleshow/76142381.cms||Abhay Singh
June 2, 2020||Business||UPI starts growing after dip in April||BENGALURU: Digital spends through the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) have shown a recovery as the economy starts opening up. UPI transaction volumes in May stood at 1.23 billion, matching the March volumes of 1.25 billion after a dip in April, when it saw just below 1 billion transactions for the first time since October 2019. In terms of value, UPI transactions in May stood at Rs 2.18 lakh crore, toppling March numbers of Rs 2.06 lakh crore. UPI is one of the fastest-growing online payment networks. In May, in value terms, transactions grew by over 44% compared to Rs 1.51 lakh crore of transactions in April, according to data from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI. This also marks the first time that P2M (person-to-merchant) transactions are around 40% of total monthly volumes, a person aware of the matter said, underlining increasing adoption of digital modes for retail payments. Before the lockdown, P2M transactions were hovering in the range of 25-30% of total volumes on a monthly basis. PhonePe, which sees 40-50% of its UPI transactions made to merchants, said it has seen growth of 50% in new users signing up on its platform to make payments. “This is a clear comeback, as anticipated. It is still not back at the peak, but it would grow further as the economy gradually opens up. Merchant transaction volumes are at the highest,” a person aware of the matter said. Ashneer Grover, co-founder and CEO of BharatPe, which lets merchants accept payments via any UPI app, told TOI that transaction value per merchant has grown by 50-60% from levels before Covid-19. This is happening as consumers try to avoid physical contact through cash. “Average transaction size at merchants used to be around Rs 280. Now, the same is Rs 600-700,” he said. Utility bill payments — water and electricity — also staged a similar comeback through Bharat Bill Pay in May compared to April and March. In fact, utility payments volumes grew by close to 30% in May at 16.5 million. By value, such payments grew by almost 60% as more consumers made payments digitally. In April, bill payments’ volume had fallen by 25% as many of them are assisted transactions through offline retail points, which were closed during the lockdown that started on March 25. “We have seen a significant spike in transactions for our in-app use cases like money transfers, mobile recharges, DTH & bill payments. There has also been a spike in the volume of transactions on the PhonePe Switch platform, especially in the case of our partners providing essential supplies such as groceries, medicines and food. With a lot of cities and towns opening up for business, we are witnessing good growth in offline stores — both in terms of volume as well as ticket size,” said Hemant Gala, VP (payments and financial services) at PhonePe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/upi-starts-growing-after-dip-in-april/articleshow/76144257.cms||Digbijay Mishra
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal orders sealing of borders for a week||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the sealing for a week of the capital’s borders with the neighbouring states. His worry was that Covid-19 patients from outside Delhi would overwhelm the city’s healthcare system. He, however, assured that all essential movement would be allowed and employees could gain passage by showing their ID cards. Kejriwal also sought the people’s opinion on whether to keep the border sealed and whether the hospitals in Delhi should be reserved for city residents. “In view of current public health situation in Delhi, inter-state movement of non-residents of Delhi, into the territory of Delhi shall be allowed only on the production of e-passes issued for essential services or in case of emergent circumstances, by authorities of respective state/Union territory and / or district magistrates of Delhi,” the order released by chief secretary Vijay Dev stated. TimesViewThe Delhi government’s decision to seal the capital’s borders for all except essential services is as senseless as similar decisions by the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments taken in the recent past. All of these make a mockery of the notion of the National Capital Region and ignore the reality that Delhi and its satellite towns are one urban sprawl in which lakhs of people live in one part and work in the other. The Delhi government’s plea that this is to prevent health facilities built for the capital’s residents being usurped by patients from elsewhere is problematic on two counts. For one, many of Delhi’s public hospitals belong to the central government. Why should patients from outside Delhi be denied access to them? For another, the notion of hospitals consciously excluding some patients, whether on geographical or other grounds, is contrary to the fundamental ethos of the medical profession. We hope better sense prevails and the borders between Delhi and its neighbouring towns are kept open by all governments.The number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed 20,000 on Monday, with 523 deaths so far. The idea behind temporarily sealing the border is to ensure that beds are available for people of Delhi because over 1,000 new cases are being reported every day for the past few days. “I can assure, as your chief minister, that there will be a bed if you are ever infected by the coronavirus,” Kejriwal assured on Monday. He said, “People from across India come to Delhi for medical treatment. As soon as we open the borders, people from outside will come to Delhi for better treatment. We have a capacity of 9,500 beds for coronavirus treatment in Delhi hospitals. All the beds will be occupied in a couple of days if we have an influx of patients from across the country.” Besides state government hospitals, there also are some centrally run facilities in Delhi. Kejriwal, however, conceded there were differing opinions about such a closure. “Delhi is the capital and it belongs to all India. Can Delhi deny treatment to the people now? Some people believe that the border should be opened, but treatment given only to Delhi residents,” he said. To find a way out, the CM asked for the guidance of Delhiites and requested them to send their views by Friday, 5pm through WhatsApp on number 8800007722, email at delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com or a phone call on 1031. A government official said that e-passes would be available even for permitted non-essential activities and these passes can be issued by the DMs in Delhi, UP or Haryana. It is likely that there will be a mad rush for the e-passes in all the three states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-orders-sealing-of-borders-for-a-week/articleshow/76145344.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 2, 2020||Patna||Six migrant workers face ostracism in Muzaffarpur village||PATNA: Six migrant workers, who returned home after being stranded in Ahmedabad for almost two months amid the Covid-19 lockdown, have allegedly been ostracized by their co-villagers and are staying in quarantine at Saraiya block headquarters in Muzaffarpur district. The locals not only debarred the migrants from entering their native village, Bahilwara, but also protested the district administration’s move to turn a government school building into a quarantine centre. One of the returnees, Sonu Kumar Pandey (30), who is a resident of Bahilwara Pandey Tola, told this newspaper on Monday, “Since we had returned from Ahmedabad, which falls under the ‘red zone’, we were not allowed to enter the village. We have been staying at a government-run quarantine centre on the campus of Jagat Singh High School for the last 12 days.” Another returnee and Bahilwara resident, Dilip Pandey (28), said, “Although we have our doubts, the six of us hope to return home and live with our families soon.” Like Sonu and Dilip, most of the returning migrant workers have alleged that they are facing ostracism in their respective villages. Take the case of seven migrants, who returned to their native village, Gaura, under Patepur block in Vaishali district on May 24. They said the administration had not made any arrangements, apart from asking them to go into home quarantine. “We were, however, told by our family members that the locals would not allow us to enter the village. Hence, we shifted to a quarantine centre at Patepur block headquarters for 14 days.” The upgraded government middle school at Gaura was converted into a quarantine centre only for the migrant workers returning from ‘red zones’. Altogether 17 people were staying there till Sunday. However, some residents of Nawadakala village near Hajipur in Vaishali are not in favour of converting the school building into a quarantine centre as they fear that coronavirus may infect them. “It was because of the district administration’s efforts that the school was converted into a quarantine centre, but we managed to convince the returnees not to stay there on the pretext of lack of basic amenities,” claimed a local resident, requesting anonymity. Vaishali additional collector Jitendra Sah, on the other hand, expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made for migrants at all the quarantine centres in the district. “We are adhering to the guidelines of the disaster management department, which is the nodal government agency to deal with the pandemic in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-migrant-workers-face-ostracism-in-muz-village/articleshow/76142360.cms||Ramashankar
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: On business day 1, saris cover College Street pavement||KOLKATA: The heart-breaking scenes of damaged books and journals strewn around to dry on College Street pavements after Amphan was replayed on Monday, though this time the items included saris, dresses, footwear and other household items. Besides being India’s biggest hub for books, College Street also houses stores of many big sari and footwear brands. On Monday, when the shops reopened after almost 10 weeks, traders found the stock damaged due to water that had accumulated inside the stores after Amphan due to lack of proper upkeep and cleaning during the lockdown. Traders who were hoping to do some business on the first day ended up shifting saris, dresses, kurtas and other items out on to the pavements in front of their shops so they could be dried in the sun. In many shops, even the carpet and furniture suffered damage. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan devastated College Street, uprooting several trees and flooding book stalls and other shops. “As soon as I rolled the shutters up, I faced an unbearable stench,” said Ankit Ganguly, who owns a shop selling saris opposite Barnaparichay on College Street. “We had to stand outside for half an hour because of the foul smell. When we managed to enter, we found the saris in the lower shelves completely damaged. The water had receded, but there were puddles in some pockets,” he added. The owners of Adi Dhakeswari Bastaralaya on 57, College Street, too, had to bring out their stock, furniture and carpets to the pavements and carriageway. “We don’t know how much we will be able to salvage. The furniture and carpets have also been damaged. The whole of Monday will be spent in doing this. We don’t think we will be able to make any sale today,” said Anirban Mondal, a salesperson at the shop. Though College Street gets a steady flow of customers throughout the year because of the book stores, it is during the wedding season and before Durga Puja that the crowd swells. The hub mainly caters to budget shoppers and offers a large variety to choose from. The shop owners could not provide an estimate of the damage they have incurred, but members of the shop owners association indicated that it could run into several lakhs. “It is a double whammy for us. Business was shut for more than two months leading to huge losses. And now the stock in so many shops have been damaged. The small businessmen will have to start afresh,” said Narayan Biswas, a member of the College Street Traders’ Welfare Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-biz-day-1-saris-cover-college-st-pavement/articleshow/76144575.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 2, 2020||Business||India loses top spot in Honda’s global two-wheeler rankings, Indonesia back on top after 4 years||Chennai: After four years at the top of the pecking order in Honda Motor Company’s (HMC) two wheeler business globally, India has slipped to second position yielding the top spot back to Indonesia as economic slowdown prior to Covid lockdown ravaged the fortunes of the Indian two wheeler industry. Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India (HMSI) fell just a notch behind Indonesia in FY20 with domestic two wheeler sales of 4.7 million units compared to the latter’s 4.8 million units. This comes exactly 4 years after India took over the top spot in Honda’s two wheeler markets globally in June 2016. At 23% of HMC’s global two wheeler sales (level with Indonesia’s 23%), India is now the lowest since it's 2014 tally of 21%. In FY19, HMSI with 5.5 million units in domestic sales and 28% share of HMC’s global two wheeler numbers was still significantly ahead of Indonesia with 5.16 million units and 25% share. The years before that, with 5.7 million units and 32% share in FY18, 5 million units and 27% share in FY17 and 4.4 million units and 25% share in FY16, India was riding full speed ahead on two wheelers. Honda went solo with HMSI in 2001, just after its Indonesian two wheeler company PT Astra Honda Motor started operations. By FY14, HMSI was already No. 2 in the Honda global universe with 21% share of HMC’s global two wheeler sales compared to 27%-28% by Indonesia. By 2015, HMSI’s tally was already more than 4 million units, tantalisingly close to Indonesia’s 4.8 million units. By 2018, 15% of HMC’s operating profits from the two wheeler business was coming from India. So is FY20 just a blip? Auto experts are divided over whether India can bounce back and quickly from the current crisis. According to automotive expert Hormazd Sorabjee, with the two wheeler industry transitioning to BS6, HMSI will bounce back quicker. “When it comes of fuel injection technology in small displacement engines, Honda are masters of the game,” he said. “The technology will level the cost parity giving HMSI an advantage,” he added. Shamsher Dewan, VP, ICRA however sees scooters facing challenges because of job loss in urban markets. “Salary and job cuts in urban India will see challenges whereas in rural India the impact of Covid-19 has been less. Taking a cue from tractor sales, which shows rural is doing better, motorcycles should do better this year,” he added. Of course despite the downturn, HMSI’s export numbers have continued to be in the 3 lakh plus units range with 3.2 lakh in FY20 compared to 3.8 lakh in FY19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-loses-top-spot-in-hondas-global-two-wheeler-rankings-indonesia-back-on-top-after-4-years/articleshow/76144172.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 2, 2020||Patna||District courts in Bihar to function with restrictions||PATNA: The Patna high court has ordered the physical functioning of courts rotation wise across all districts in the state from Tuesday. Each district will have sessions, an additional sessions judge’s court, all special courts and one each from the category of sub-judge and magisterial courts rotation wise across till the lockdown continues. The HC has directed that proper sitting arrangement along with regular sanitization would have to be ensured in the court rooms where physical proceedings would take place. Rest of the courts, which were non-functional after enforcement of lockdown for Covid-19 from March 25, would be made functional for virtual hearing. According to the directions, once the lockdown is over, half of the courts at the district as well as sub-divisional level would functional physically while the rest would function virtually. The HC had also directed the district and sessions judges to report about infrastructure and equipment required by judges and their supporting staff for functioning of virtual courts within 10 days besides informing about the need of human resource for the said purpose. It has also sought a daily report on any issues faced in the running of virtual courts. Judges and their supporting staff involved in physical court proceedings would not be burdened with running virtual proceedings on the same day. The district and sessions judges have also been directed that specialists be hired on a contract basis for technical support in running of virtual courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/district-courts-to-function-with-restrictions/articleshow/76142186.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 2, 2020||Patna||Take challenge as opportunity for Bihar: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday asked industries and other related departments to take all necessary steps to provide employment to returnee migrants and local workers who did not go to other states in search of jobs. He asked the officials to convert the challenge arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic into an opportunity to boost state’s economy. Speaking at a meeting with officials to review the state government’s work to contain further spread of Covid-19, CM asked the industries department officials to positively utilize the skills of migrant workers in state’s economy. “Those workers who returned from outside the state should be provided job even in the running industrial units based on their skill mapping,” he said. Nitish asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to monitor all employment-generating works and schemes on a regular basis to provide employment to maximum number of people. “Select labour intensive schemes so that maximum migrant workers can get employment opportunity,” Nitish told officials. He asked them to promote new industries as per the skill of available workforce in the state. “Take feedback from the skilled migrant workers and suggest the state government as to what kind of incentives can be provided for establishment of new industrial units in the state. Also prepare a proposal suggesting whether there is a need of midterm amendment to the state’s Industrial Promotion Policy?” CM said. Nitish said the Bihar government had, since the beginning of the nationwide lockdown, been following the Centre’s guidelines. Even in the case of Unlock1.0, the state has implemented the Centre’s guidelines in toto. He said the state government was taking all necessary steps to provide assistance to the needy people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-take-challenge-as-opportunity-for-state/articleshow/76142269.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||ChrysCapital backs Intas again, buys 3%, valuation hits $4.3 billion||BENGALURU: Private equity major ChrysCapital has picked up another 3% stake in Intas for $132 million from global investment major Capital International. This values the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical company at about $4.25 billion, according to sources briefed on the matter. The deal will double ChrysCapital’s stake in the company to 6%, and will be the fourth time the PE firm has backed Intas since 2006. The deal comes as Capital International is exiting its PE portfolio, and got approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI) last month. The deal will make Intas, which had revenues topping $2 billion in the financial year ending March 2020, one of the most valued private pharmaceutical companies in the country. “The entire transaction is a secondary purchase of shares and it is a good deal for ChrysCapital, given that they sold the stake a few years ago for about $105 million,” said one of the sources briefed on the matter. While Intas Pharma was valued at $3.5 billion when ChrysCapital sold part of its stake in 2017, the PE firm first backed the company when it was just valued at $100 million. The Chudgar family owns about 84% of the company, while Singapore investment firm Temasek owns about 10%. Under Binish Chudgar, the second-generation promoter who took over as vice-chairman and MD in 2010, the company has aggressively expanded overseas. This includes the $764-million buyout of the UK and Ireland businesses of Israel’s Teva Pharmaceuticals in 2016. The move had strengthened Intas’s presence in Europe, which accounts for 35% of its revenues, followed by 30% from the US and 20% from India. The remaining comes from around the world, as the company has been growing annually at about 25%. When contacted, ChrysCapital confirmed the development. “We are very excited to increase our level of partnership with Intas and this relationship goes back 14 years. Intas has been the crown jewel in our portfolio,” said Sanjiv Kaul, partner at ChrysCapital, which has assets under management of $4 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chryscapital-backs-intas-again-buys-3-valuation-hits-4-3bn/articleshow/76144201.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 2, 2020||Patna||Many throng Ganga ghats, flout social distancing norms||PATNA: Flouting social distancing norms, a large number of devotees thronged city ghats on the occasion of Ganga Dussehra on Monday. They claimed that they could not miss out on taking a dip in the holy river, which is believed to heal physical illnesses and free them of their sins. According to a city-based priest, Gyan Prakash, Hindus believe that Goddess Ganga descended from heaven to earth on this day. “The festival is celebrated on the 10th day of ‘Shukla Paksha’ in the Hindu month of ‘Jyeshtha’ and taking a dip in the Ganga on this auspicious occasion brings fortune and good luck. Hence, Ganga Dussehra is celebrated with religious fervour in not just Bihar, but other states as well,” Gyan told this newspaper. Although the number of devotees at Patipul Ghat in Digha, Gandhi Ghat near the National Institute of Technology and Law College Ghat was lesser compared to previous years, a large crowd had still gathered there. “I have been visiting ghats for the last 40 years to worship Goddess Ganga. I could not skip the festival this year,” said Ashok Kumar, a resident of Boring Road. Meanwhile, quite a number of devotees preferred staying at home to visiting a ghat this year. One of them, Sarita Sinha, who lives in Patliputra Colony, said, “Relaxations do not mean that the pandemic is over. We are still in the middle of a crisis and our priority should be everyone’s safety. I, therefore, decided not to take a dip in the Ganga.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-throng-ganga-ghats-flout-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/76142990.cms||Archi Rani
June 2, 2020||Business||G20 exports dip 4.3% in Q1, India’s fall 9.2% to $74bn||Mumbai: Trading of goods for G20 countries (including India) dropped sharply in the first quarter of this calendar year as a result of Covid-19 containment measures such as lockdowns. Collective exports of G20 countries stood at $3,451 billion during the first quarter of 2020 — a decline of 4.3% as compared to the last quarter of 2019. Imports at $3,468 billion showed a decline of 3.9% from the preceding quarter ended December 31, 2019. These trade figures are the lowest since the second quarter of 2017. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which released the data on Thursday, states that early trends point to a steeper decline in the second quarter (period ended June 30). The impact on international trade across G20 countries varied widely in the first quarter of 2020, due to differences in the rate of the spread of Covid-19, in containment strategies, and in the extent of their exposure to other countries affected by the lockdowns. India, which introduced the first phase of a nationwide lockdown on March 24, experienced a sharp 9.2% drop in export volumes during the first quarter of 2020 as compared with the last quarter of 2019. Figures collated by OECD show a drop in exports to $73.7 billion from $81.1 billion. In comparison, imports by India dropped by only 2.3% to stand at $112.7 billion. As the graphic indicates, the level of exports by China showed an equally sharp decline — dropping by 9.3%, and imports were lower by 7%. Exports by US fell by 1.9% and its imports declined by 2.8%. Following the collapse in oil prices, Russian and Saudi Arabian exports fell by 9.9% and 10.2% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/g20-exports-dip-4-3-in-q1-indias-fall-9-2-to-74bn/articleshow/76143403.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Surat||35 fresh cases recorded in Surat, tally at 1,642||Surat: Surat city reported 35 new Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally to 1,642. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), nine cases were recorded from the Covid-19 hotspot of Limbayat while 10 cases were reported from Katargam zone, which is emerging as another hotspot in Surat. Meanwhile, 29 patients were discharged on Monday, 12 from Covid Care Centre and 17 from New Civil hospital. “Total 1,093 patients have been discharged in Surat till date,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. “About 55 fever clinics are operating in different parts of the city so that people can get health services at their door steps. People have been requested to report their health issues especially acute raspiratory infections to SMC's health staff or fever clinic so early treatment can begin,” Pani added. Meanwhile, Ajit Dodia, a paramedic staff who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21, was discharged on Monday from New Civil Hospital after full recovery. Dodia was stationed at Katargam when he tested positive. He had shifted as many as 150 Covid-19 patients to hospital before he himself got infected. According to officials, total five 108 Ambulances have been deployed to ferry Covid-19 patients at Katargam, Maan Darwaja, Bhatar, Navjivan Circle and Limbayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/35-fresh-cases-recorded-in-surat-tally-at-1642/articleshow/76143387.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Surat||BRTS buses not to halt at stops in containment zone||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to start two more routes for Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) for commuters in the city from Tuesday. SMC has started one BRTS route from Udhna Darwaja to Sachin GIDC on Monday and now it will start two more from Tuesday. “These two BRTS routes include one from Sarthana to ONGC and other from Pal to Kosad. However, buses on these dedicated corridor will not stop at stations which falls under containment zones. Moreover, these buses will run at 50% passenger capacity. Face mask will be compulsorily for all commuters while travelling,” said an SMC statement. “On Sarathana to ONGC routes, buses will not stop at stations such as Kharvar Nagar Vadi, Bhathena Junction, Model town junction, Parvat Patiya junction,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/brts-buses-not-to-halt-at-stops-in-containment-zone/articleshow/76143360.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||PIL seeks info on elephant welfare during Covid-induced lockdown||Jaipur: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Monday asked the state government to explain steps taken to save elephants during lockdown. The interim response was sought by the court from the chief secretary, Jaipur collector and principal chief wildlife conservator. The bench comprising Justice Govardhan Bardhar and Justice CK Songara gave the instructions while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Gopal Singh Bareth saying the pachyderms were not adequately treated in elephant village during the epidemic. The PIL said elephants were declared a national heritage animal in 2010. “In the same year the elephant village was established in Amber to provide shelter and other facilities including water to them. There are around 51 mahawat families and 103 elephants living there. Amber is the only heritage site in the world where elephants ride. “However, due to the lockdown, the state government has not made any announcement for protection of wildlife especially elephants. It needs around Rs 3,000 to maintain an elephant per day, while mahawat are being given only Rs 600. Also the prices of sugarcane and jawar have doubled during lockdown. Therefore, amount given to elephants should be increased,” petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pil-seeks-info-on-elephant-welfare-during-covid-induced-lockdown/articleshow/76145355.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Patna||Women play key role in fight against Covid-19||PATNA: From frontline health workers, to caregivers in the family, women have played an important role in this Covid-19 pandemic. At the forefront of battling the pandemic are ANMs, anganwadi and Asha (Accredited Social Health Activists) workers. As part of corona warriors, they move around in the field risking their lives visiting households both in urban and rural areas carrying out health checks. They are also tasked with tasked with alerting authorities about suspected cases and assisting the police in ensuring that all home-quarantined persons do not come out of their homes. Sociologist Archana Rai Bhatt, who is also the secretary of Mahila Kalyan Samaiti said, “Women have swung into action and actively joined the battle against Covid-19. Right from providing health services, sanitation, working as house helps or being a part of police and administration, they are constantly on the move. Those staying at home should now realise that how women risk their family and their own lives while on duty. Even the housewives are on their toes 24x7 as most of the family members stay home.” Bihar Mahila Samaj working president Nivedita Jha said, “Be it an anganwadi or Asha worker, a Jeevika member or an ANM, women have contributed more than ever before in this Covid-19 pandemic. They are now going door-to -door, recording people’s travel history, noting symptoms and, where needed, even helping trace contacts.” “Though people have stated realising the contribution of women in this pandemic, male chauvinism still exists. We cannot ignore that cases of domestic violence have increased in this lockdown,” she added. “I have been counselling people in my area about social distancing and symptoms of coronavirus. Babies are still being born, pregnant women still need regular health check-ups, and new mothers need to be supported with breastfeeding and feeding young children. Hence, I also have to make sure pregnant women get their medicines and other care,” said an ANM Seema. Indrapuri resident Simmi Parveen said after seeing her working tirelessly, her kids and husband have now started helping her in day-to-day work. “They used to see me busy throughout the day. They have realised how difficult it is to manage a house and now they are also contributing their lot,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-play-key-role-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/76142242.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 2, 2020||Patna||State govt starts door-to-door survey of houses||PATNA: The state government has started door-to-door survey of houses where migrants have arrived after May 2. The survey is being undertaken to ensure that migrants follow the 14-day home quarantine rule. Incidentally, of the total number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar, almost 70% are migrants. In fact, the state witnessed a surge in corona cases as the inflow of migrants increased with the commencement of Shramik special trains. Till Sunday, altogether 2,569 migrants have tested positive. This is barring those who had come to the state before Shramik special trains started. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar said, “Four days ago, we have started door-to-door survey to keep a check on the migrants. Till date, around three lakh houses have been surveyed.” “We have a holistic list of migrants and the mukhiyas also provide information about those who come from other states to their village. On getting information, a team is sent to check whether the migrants are following the home quarantine norm or not. The team also finds out whether they have developed any symptom and in case there is any, their sample is immediately sent for testing.” Lokesh said the government has already classified cities from where people are coming into two categories depending on the number of cases. Altogether 11 cities including Surat, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurugram, Noida, Kolkata and Bengaluru are in ‘A’ category and migrants with travel history from these places are put under institutional quarantine. Those coming from places other than these 11 cities, fall in ‘B’ category and they are asked to go for home quarantine. The health department is also collecting random samples of migrants and is in the process of increasing its testing capacity. As per the information shared by the state health society, most of the positive cases have travel history from Maharashtra, Delhi, Harayana and Guajarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-starts-door-to-door-survey-of-houses/articleshow/76142312.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 2, 2020||Allahabad||Animal husbandry lures more migrants looking for livelihood||Prayagraj: More and more migrants who are returning from metros after losing their jobs to the lockdown are exploring opportunities in animal husbandry, said district officials. District officials said that the number of migrants applying for the Pashu Palak Credit Cards (PCC) scheme in Prayagraj has been on the rise since the past few days. Chief veterinary officer (Prayagraj) Dr RP Rai said, “ More migrants from trans-Ganga and Yamuna localities have been inquiring and applying for the PCC scheme with banks and agencies. Animal husbandry is luring a number of people during the lockdown, as people living in both rural and urban areas found it to be a better source of income. Some have even started buying cows and buffaloes.” “People are trying to find out more about breeds of cows and buffaloes, whose milk has high fat content and more medicinal properties,” he added. As the world observes Monday (June 1) as World Milk Day, animal husbandry is finding many takers. According to estimates, over 3,000 people have applied for the PCC scheme and other loans to purchase cows and buffaloes. Koraon resident RK Patel said, “ I have applied for the scheme as I want to purchase two buffaloes and sell the milk. After returning from Vapi in Gujrat, where I worked in a factory, I found that animal husbandry is a great source of livelihood. I don’t have plans to return.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/animal-husbandry-lures-more-migrants-looking-for-livelihood/articleshow/76142646.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||12 cops under quarantine after accused tests positive||Vadodara: Around 12 staffers of Karjan police station, including a sub-inspector, have been quarantined after an accused they had arrested from Porbandar tested positive for coronavirus on Monday.Reports of the accused Paresh Varagiya arrived on Monday following which staffers who had come in contact with him were identified and were asked to quarantine themselves at home. Police sources said that besides a sub-inspector, constables, gram rakshak dal and home guard personnel have also been quarantined.“A decision on their tests have not been taken yet. However we have informed the health department officials about them,” said a police official.The staff will remain under quarantine for two weeks.Varagiya, a 23-year-old farmer, was brought to Karjan from his native place in Porbandar on May 30. He was not formally arrested as the cops were waiting for his Covid-19 test results. But he was kept in custody at the police station. Varagiya was booked for cheating, sexual harassment, stalking and defamation as he had sent obscene photos and videos of a married woman whom he had befriended while playing online ludo game.On Monday, Karjan municipality conducted sanitization activities at the police station and at the police quarters in Karjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-cops-under-quarantine-after-accused-tests-positive/articleshow/76142485.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Three mining department’s staff held for throwing liquor party||PATNA: Three employees of the state mining department were arrested from a house at Mahisaur under Jamui Town police station for throwing a ‘mutton-liquor’ party to celebrate the marriage anniversary of a colleague Sunday night. Those arrested were Uday Kumar, Srikant Yadav and Mahesh Sao. While Uday is a computer operator, Srikant is the driver of the district mining officer and Mahesh is a peon of the department. Two bottles of India made foreign liquor (IMFL) and a few empty beer containers were recovered during the raid, Jamui SDPO Ram Pukar Singh said on Monday. Those arrested were sent to jail. When contacted, Jamui mining officer Anil Kumar said he was not aware of any employee’s arrest. He even feigned ignorance about Srikant, who was posted as his driver in the office. “I have no idea about any such police action,” he said. In another operation, Kaimur police seized 630 litres of IMFL from a rice mill under Kudra police station on Sunday evening. Five people, including the rice mill owner Ajay Kumar Singh, were arrested. Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmad said on Monday the liquor was stocked in the rice mill from where they used to deliver it to the bootleggers operating in the region. However, kingpin Manish Yadav of Chenari managed to escape. Besides Ajay, Mukesh Sah, Luvkush Kumar, Abhishek Kumar and Dilip Kumar were arrested. “An FIR has been lodged against five people for liquor smuggling,” SHO Shakti Singh said. In Vaishali, police recovered 350 cartons of IMFL from a container truck with Dak Parcel written on it. The consigned was seized from Madhaul under Mahua police station in the district. The truck driver and a cleaner were arrested. Hajipur Sadar police station SHO Rohan Kumar said an FIR was lodged under relevant sections of Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-mining-depts-staff-held-for-throwing-liquor-party/articleshow/76142978.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||Kotak to sell 2.8% in bank for Rs 7,000 crore||MUMBAI: Billionaire banker Uday Kotak is selling up to 2.83% in Kotak Mahindra Bank through block deals on Tuesday for nearly Rs 7,000 crore to meet the RBI’s norm that stipulated 26% promoter shareholding in the bank. Currently, Kotak holds 28.93% in the private lender and has till August 17 this year to meet the regulatory deadline to pare his stake. According to the term sheet, the deal is being offered at a price band of Rs 1,215 to Rs 1,240 per share. At the upper range of the band, it is a marginal discount of 0.7% on the stock’s Monday closing price of Rs 1,248 on the NSE. Sources said the whole book for 5.6 crore shares was fully subscribed at the upper end of the band within just 30 minutes of opening on Monday evening. The block deal is being managed by Kotak Securities, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. The deal is being arranged through an accelerated book-building process. Under this process, the brokers, after the close of the day’s trading, sends out the term sheet to large institutions to express their interest to buy shares from the block. Once the book is built, the shares are traded in lots the next day on the bourses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-to-sell-2-8-in-bank-for-rs-7000cr/articleshow/76144412.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Surat||Bihar migrant’s video shot before death goes viral||SURAT: Video of the Bihar migrant worker, who was lynched by a group of men suspecting him to be a thief, went viral on the social media on Monday.In the video, the man claims that he was thrashed by one Satish Patel. Police have already detained Patel, a Congress councillor from Vadod, for questioning. The victim Sangam Pandit was lynched few meters away from Patel’s house in Bhairavnagar locality. Pandit, 30, is seen with oxygen mask on his face when the person taking the video asks him that who had beaten up. In reply, Pandit names Patel. The offence was registered by Sujit Singh, a textile trader, in Pandesara police station. Police booked six persons including Patel for allegedly killing Pandit, a worker in textile unit. Police had detained few suspects involved in the attack including Patel for questioning on Sunday. In his complaint, Singh alleged that he and Pandit had gone to meet their friend in Bhestan on Saturday night. They were returning to their home in Sachin at around 2am on motorcycle when they took a wrong road by mistake. When they reached Bhairavnagar, the accused attacked them suspecting them to be thieves, Singh alleged in the complaint. Pandit was smashed on head with some blunt object which led to serious injury and he died during treatment in SMIMER hospital. Singh suffered fracture in both legs. After preliminary investigation, police claimed that the accused attacked Singh and Pandit suspecting that they were members of a rival group with whom they fought on Friday and Saturday night. Watch Surat: Video of Bihar migrant worker shot before death goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bihar-migrants-video-shot-before-death-goes-viral/articleshow/76143458.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar government not to raise any tax during pandemic: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: On the first day of Unlock1.0, deputy CM and state finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi talked to TOI’s Piyush Kumar Tripathi on how far the state’s economy has been hit by the Covid crisis and challenges in bringing the economy back to normal. Excerpts: How badly Bihar’s economy has been hit by the Covid crisis?State’s own tax revenue has been hit badly. As per records, the revenue in April this year was 86% lower than that generated in the same month last year. Moreover, this was the revenue generated in March when there were hardly 10 days under the lockdown. There was complete lockdown in April and May. So, there was a complete tax revenue washout in state for the last two months. Thus, meeting the financial requirement for payment of salaries and pension is also a challenge for us at present. How has reverse migration aggravated the problem? Tackling migrants returning home is a challenge, but the government is working out multiple solutions for this issue. As per rough estimates, migrant workers used to send Rs7,000-10,000 to their respective families back home to meet basic requirements. Now it has stopped. We are looking for ways to generate livelihood opportunities for these migrants and their families. Most such opportunities are being generated by roping them in ambitious projects like MGNREGA and seven resolves of the state government. What steps are being taken for tackling the financial burden?One thing is for sure that the state government has taken a deliberate decision not to increase any tax during this pandemic for tackling the financial crisis. We will have to wait for the economy to get back on track as financial activities return to normal. Besides, we seek Centre’s support in this time of crisis. What kind of support Bihar government expects from the Centre?Bihar depends on central government to a large extent in terms of finances. In fact, we depend on the central government for 75% for our total revenue. The Centre has released the state’s share in central taxes for the month of April and May, but we apprehend that it may reduce for the month of June. Bihar has received around Rs25,000 crore less in terms of state’s share in central taxes in 2019-2020 fiscal. Accordingly, we have made a couple of requests to the Centre, including 100% funding for the centrally sponsored schemes. Besides, we have requested the Centre to increase the ceiling for borrowing under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) from 3% to 4% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The Centre has already raised it to 3.5% and we want additional 0.5%. This way, we will be able to requisition additional loans to the tune of Rs6,000 crore. Is Bihar government planning incentives for luring industries, given the large chunk of semi-skilled and skilled workers having returned to the state?The industries department has already written letters to a number of industrialists and companies. We may amend our Industrial Investment Policy, if required, to make investment in Bihar more alluring for the industrialists. How much time do you think Bihar will take to overcome the financial crisis? The economy was already going through slowdown and now a situation of recession has surfaced. The opening up of economic activities has just started and I think it will take at least next two to three months for things to come back to normal. However, bringing back the economy on track will remain a big challenge in months to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-not-to-raise-any-tax-during-pandemic-deputy-cm/articleshow/76142134.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||Aadhar offers Covid warriors cheaper loans, health cover||Mumbai: Blackstone-owned Aadhar Housing Finance, a provider of loans for the affordable segment, has said that it would reduce rates for essential service providers who were in the frontline during the Covid-19 lockdown. The product also has a complementary health insurance cover with a Rs 1-lakh sum insured and a four-month validity. Covid frontline workers can avail of the loan to buy a home, to construct, to renovate or take a loan against property with Aadhar Housing Finance’s ‘Covid Warriors Griha Loans’. The frontline workers include municipal employees, those associated with the healthcare sector, the police and law enforcement department, private security guards, drivers and employees of other institutions. In addition, the loan can be availed by self-employed shopkeepers, vegetable & fruit vendors and milk suppliers. Speaking to TOI, Aadhar Housing Finance MD & CEO Deo Shankar Tripathi said that the company has been providing masks gloves and sanitisers to essential service providers as part of its corporate social responsibility and decided to come out with a new product for this segment. “After the government subsidy for affordable housing, the EMI on a Rs 1-lakh loan comes down to Rs 800, whereas before subsidy it works out to Rs 950. The best rate after subsidy would come down to 7%, and before subsidy will be 10.25%,” said Tripathi. He added that the affordable housing segment cannot be compared to loans provided by mainstream banks as both risks and cost of acquisition are higher. Tripathi said that 38% of borrowers had availed of the moratorium. “While many do have the resources to repay, they have decided to stay liquid as a precautionary measure,” said Tripathi. He said that he expected demand for home loans to move from bigger cities to small towns on the outskirts of large cities following the Covid-19 crisis. “We are already present in these centres,” he said. Blackstone, which acquired Aadhar from DHFL group in June 2019, increased the capital of the company to Rs 2,370 crore from Rs 875 crore earlier. “Because of this high net worth position, we can borrow funds very comfortably,” said Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aadhar-offers-covid-warriors-cheaper-loans-health-cover/articleshow/76144437.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Patna||Relaxations bring smile to traders’ faces||PATNA: All shops outside containment zones reopened in the city, bringing a smile to many faces, on Day 1 of Unlock 1.0 on Monday. Traders and shopkeepers heaved a sigh of relief and said they were ready to embrace the “new normal”. Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo told this newspaper, “Although the customer footfall is low here, we are happy that we have been allowed to open our shops on all days. We are also taking all necessary precautions to contain the spread of Covid-19.” An elated Jay Shankar, the owner of a textile showroom in Kankarbagh, said, “My business is slowly getting back on track because I have started getting fresh orders from customers.” The manager of a jewellery store on Boring Road, Rakesh Chandra, also claimed that the footfalls had increased considerably on Monday. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi pointed out, “The lockdown has only been extended in the containment zones till June 30. All stand-alone shops and stores in market complexes can remain open till 9pm as the odd-even rule has been lifted. Salons can also operate on all days of the week, but eateries have to provide only home delivery and takeaway services.” The owner of a restaurant on Boring Road, Aditya Singh, received 10 home delivery orders on Day 1 of Unlock 1.0. “It feels great to reopen the restaurant after so long. As soon as we sent text messages to our loyal customers, we received several orders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/relaxations-bring-smile-to-traders-faces/articleshow/76142116.cms||Archi Rani
June 2, 2020||Patna||200 buses ply on roads, but people hesitant||PATNA: Altogether 200 buses started plying on different routes in the state after a gap of two months on Monday. Of these, 40 were city buses that ran in Patna and the remaining were inter-district buses that travelled to Biharsharif, Hajipur and Bihta. The number of passengers was, however, quite low on Day 1 of Unlock 1.0. The Mithapur and Bankipore bus stands in the city, which are otherwise crowded, were virtually empty. Many commuters claimed that even after taking all precautions, they were not sure about using public transport. One Sujeet Kumar, who was spotted near the Mithapur bus stand at 2pm on Monday, said he had spent more than 30 minutes there as he was afraid of travelling. The Nawada resident, whose flight for New Delhi got cancelled, added, “The government may have removed the restrictions, but the danger persists.” To others, the resumption of public transport is a boon. “I am finally able to go back to office after two months,” Rakesh Ravi, another passenger near the Mithapur bus stand, said. Meanwhile, transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper that only 40% of the city buses had started operating, again. “Based on the flow and demand of the passengers, we will increase the number of buses gradually. For now, masks are mandatory for everyone — passengers, conductors as well as drivers,” he said. The transport department has also launched an awareness campaign to educate people about the impact of Covid-19. “Posters have been put up on buses and pre-recorded voice messages are being played to remind people of the precautionary measures they should take. We have also trained conductors so that they can talk about the benefits of masks and social distancing,” Agarwal said and added that buses would run on the routes where prominent hospitals were located in the city. Private mini buses to operate from today: Private mini buses will start operating in the city from Tuesday. Mini Bus Owners’ Association (Patna) general secretary Sahil Sinha said, “All the guidelines issued by the Centre and the state transport department will be followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/200-buses-ply-on-roads-but-people-hesitant/articleshow/76142156.cms||Archi Rani
June 2, 2020||Patna||22,000 reach home by 14 special trains||PATNA: At least 22,000 migrant workers returned to different places in Bihar by 14 Shramik special trains on Monday. Since May 2, the railways has brought back nearly 19.5 lakh people to the state by 1,497 trains. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said special trains from Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu in Tamil Nadu reached Darbhanga, Madhubani and Motihari. “Approximately 3,000 migrant workers came back to Bhagalpur and Darbhanga by two trains from Bengaluru. Another 3,100 people reached Muzaffarpur and Patna from Bandel and Kolkata in West Bengal. While two Shramik special trains from Madgaon in Goa reached Araria and Banka, trains from Delhi returned to Bhagalpur and Purnea on Monday,” the CPRO said and added that one special train from Ludhiana reached Madhepura. Few Shramik special trains ferried stranded migrants from the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border to various places in north Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22000-reach-home-by-14-special-trains/articleshow/76142217.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Patna||Day 1 of Unlock 1.0: Social distancing norms thrown to wind||PATNA: After over two months into the lockdown, life started limping back to normal in Bihar on Monday as all shops opened in most districts, the attendance increased in government and private offices and about 200 government buses also hit the streets on the first day of Unlock1.0. However, people defied the social distancing norms at many places, including markets, railway stations and bus stands. A large number of people were also seen without masks or covering their faces with clothes. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan was glad about resumption of most economic activities, but expressed concerns over violation of social distancing and other measures to prevent the Covid-19 spread. “Not more than 10-15% of people were seen either maintaining social distancing or wearing masks. If strict action is not taken against offenders and people are not made aware about the norms, situation in Bihar may become alarming, considering the already higher number of positive cases,” Khaitan said. Nevertheless, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani said steps were being taken to ensure adherence of social distancing norms. “Situation is returning to normal in the government offices and most works have resumed. Society is also opening up and all necessary steps are being taken to ensure adherence to social distancing. Awareness is also being spread for the same,” Subhani told TOI. Even before the Centre imposed nationwide lockdown from March 25, Bihar government had ordered closure of schools, colleges and other public places from March 14. Though some economic activities were allowed under lockdown 4.0, but large scale relaxations came under Unlock1.0 announced by the Centre on May 30. Bihar government is following the Unlock1.0 norms without any modifications. People were seen moving freely on the streets in Patna and most other districts as vehicle passes were no longer required. Many private offices also resumed work from offices but fear was palpable among many. “I am glad that offices have been allowed to function with full capacity. It will save our jobs. But the nearly 4,000 Covid-19 positive cases in the state make us apprehensive about contracting the virus in common places like office,” said Amit Pandey, an employee in a private computer firm at Jamal Road. In Gaya, thousands of residents swarmed the streets throwing physical distancing norms to the wind even as the notification by the Gaya administration detailing the conditions of Unlock 1.0 was still awaited on Monday afternoon. Traffic jam was witnessed on Rai Kashi Nath Mor and GB Road. All shops, business establishments, government offices in Khagaria opened, except in containment zones. Similar was the scene in East Champaran as all government offices at Motihari opened on Monday and employees resumed their work. In Nalanda, commercial establishments within Biharsharif Municipal Corporation area will open on Tuesday as per an order issued by DM Yogendra Kumar Singh. He said one of the three containment zones in Biharsharif municipal area — Khasganj — was unlocked on Monday and the remaining two will be opened on Tuesday. (With inputs from Abdul Qadir in Gaya, N P Thakur in Khagaria, C B Pandey in Motihari and Farrukh Nadim in Biharsharif)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/day-1-of-unlock-1-0-social-distancing-norms-thrown-to-wind/articleshow/76142021.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 2, 2020||Varanasi||Ganga Dussehra celebrated sans Ganga snan, temple visit||Varanasi: Ganga Dussehra was celebrated amidst ‘lockdown conditions’ with tight security arrangements at the Ganga ghats and roads leading to the ghats on Monday. The city, which normally witnesses gathering of thousands of devotees at the ghats for holy bath and offering prayers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple and other shrines on the festive occasion, wore a deserted look on Monday due to restrictions on gathering of people to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Holy dip in the Ganga was also completely banned. The presence of police and paramilitary personnel along the ghats to prevent religious gathering gave a curfew like feel. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had made it clear a day before the celebration that gathering of devotees for bathing or religious activities would be not allowed on the occasion of Ganga Dussehra, with Section 144 of CrPc in force in the district. The violation of the prohibitory order would be viewed with strictness and legal action would be taken against such people. Mythologically, Ganga Dussehra, also known as Gangavataran, is celebrated to mark the descending of Ganga from heaven to the earth on Dashami (10th day) of the waxing moon of the Hindu calendar month of Jyeshtha. Besides, the local administration has also prohibited the traditional religious procession for offering Gangajal to Lord Vishwanath on the occasion of Nirjala Ekadashi on Tuesday. The DM said that no ritual like bathing in Ganga or offering jalabhishek at temples of Lord Shiva would be allowed in the district. He also made an appeal to the people to stay at home and perform the traditional rituals at home only. The deployment of magistrates and police at the ghats and roads leading to the riverfront has been started from Sunday night. The DM said that these officials would monitor the areas till the end of festivities on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ganga-dussehra-celebrated-sans-ganga-snan-temple-visit/articleshow/76142407.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||Card spends show pent-up demand for durables, phones||Mumbai: Pine Labs, which processes nearly a fourth of in-store card transactions in India, has said that use of this payment channel during Lockdown 4.0 — outside Delhi NCR and Mumbai — shows that there is a pent-up demand. According to the payments company, the highest growth has been in the white goods/consumer durables segment and mobile phones. In these two categories, daily average transactions in the second half of May (after the third phase of the lockdown was over) have been 110% of the number for January. While transaction numbers were much lower, the average size of the transaction was larger. Also, the retail gross transaction value in May is back to the pre-lockdown average in India, if Mumbai and Delhi were excluded. Transactions in consumer durable stores were low in Mumbai, where it was only 23% and 31% of pre-lockdown daily average, and in Delhi NCR it was 57% and 93% respectively. Metros other than Mumbai and Delhi saw the value of transactions rise to 104% of pre-lockdown phase, while in tier II and III centres they were 60% and 88% of pre-lockdown average. Speaking to TOI, Pine Labs CEO Amrish Rau said the data showed that while fewer shops were open, the average spending was much higher. The shops that remained closed included the ones in malls, which did not open up even in cities where the lockdown had eased. Since card-accepting merchants are categorised according to the nature of the business, it is possible to identify the segments that saw more spending. Analysts say that summer sees an increase in the sale of air coolers, air conditioners and fans. “What we also saw was a jump in EMI on card payments, which we facilitate. Last week we recorded our highest ever EMI-on-card transactions. This might have to do with the fact that some NBFCs, which have been financing consumer durables, were not operating,” said Rau. According to the Pine Labs data, small cities like Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Mohali, Lucknow and Dehradun are the ones witnessing pent-up demand, and this is growing for purchases of electronics and home appliances, driving sales in the consumer durables segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/card-spends-show-pent-up-demand-for-durables-phones/articleshow/76143437.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Surat||Bodies of three youths fished out||Bharuch/Surat: Bodies of the three of the four youths who went missing in Narmada river estuary near Aliya Beyt in Bharuch on Sunday were fished out on Monday by the fire officials of Ankleshwar municipality.The three deceased were identified as Jisan Javed Malek , Sahib Sakil Malek and Kadim Karam Hussain Sheikh. Police said body of Mustafa Javed Malek was yet to be recovered from the river. The search operation in river was still on with the help of local fishermen and swimmers.Five youngsters had come for a bath in the Narmada river near Aliya beyt on Sunday afternoon. All of them lost control and fell into deep water. But one of them managed to save himself, while four of them drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bodies-of-three-youths-fished-out/articleshow/76143603.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Business||MakeMyTrip lays off 350 employees||Bengaluru: India’s largest online travel agency MakeMyTrip has laid off about 350 employees, or around 10% of its workforce. The development comes after the Nasdaq-listed company said in March that business has come to a “virtual standstill” due to a fall in bookings, increasing cancellations and, finally, the ban on domestic travel as well. While travel has been allowed since last month, the company said “the impact of Covid-19 crisis is going to be long drawn for us”. The layoffs at MakeMyTrip come as several other companies in the travel sector have also undertaken job cuts, including hospitality major Oyo, online travel booking platform Cleartrip and trip-planning website TravelTriangle, as uncertainty about business remains high. “As we revisited some of our strategic imperatives to be able to sustain our business in the long term, it is evident that the pandemic has changed the context and viability of some of our business lines in its current form,” said MakeMyTrip’s executive chairman Deep Kalra and CEO Rajesh Magow in a letter to employees. “Keeping this in mind, we have had to take this sad but inevitable decision of right-sizing our workforce in these businesses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/makemytrip-lays-off-350-employees/articleshow/76144428.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||65% of new cases from high-rises||Kolkata: The past week has brought bad news for high-rises and apartments — especially in south Kolkata — which are increasingly being added to the list of containment zones. Around 65% of fresh cases have been reported from apartments in Bhowanipore, Kasba, Golf Green-Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Dhakuria-Selimpur in the south and Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi and Baguiati in north. The latest to feature on the list is South City on Prince Anwar Shah Road after an elderly woman reportedly tested positive on Monday. She has mild temperature and no other symptom and is being treated at home. “We have asked residents on the same floor not to leave their flats,” said M V Biju, joint secretary, South City Apartment Owners’ Association, adding, “We are waiting for the family to stabilize a bit and share information for contact tracing.” The development came on the day the government officially released Kolkata’s buffer-zone list for the first time along with the containment zones. The city now has 465 containment and buffer zones. KMC officials conceded they were struggling to contain Covid-19 in large areas of Alipore, Tollygunge, Phoolbagan-Kankurgachhi and Ultadanga — mainly comprising apartments or stand-alone buildings. As many as 10 new containment zones were announced in these areas in the past week after fresh cases were detected from high-rises and apartment buildings. The KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim admitted the civic body was witnessing a spurt in cases from high-rises, but did not blame the residents. “Though I have asked civic officials to locate the origin of such infection, I feel the markets located in these neighbourhoods could be the places of origin,” he said. In a meeting on Monday, KMC and police decided to run an intense programme at the affected apartments. “The moment KMC sends us the list, we will reach the house and identify those who had come in contact with the patient. We will then inform the apartment association about the dos and don’ts, the most important being to avoid the local market for the day. The KMC will then distribute hydrochloroquine and carry out random swab tests,” said an officer. Commissioner Anuj Sharma has also asked all OCs to ensure social distancing at markets near Covid zones. From now on, KMC health workers will carry equipment to assess the oxygen level of a Covid-19 suspect. “We will use oximeters and if the patient’s oxygen level is low, the KMC ambulance will carry him or her to the nearest Covid hospital for testing,” Hakim said. The apartment associations are also introducing several measures to remain safe. Some complexes that have warded off Covid has offered tips for Kolkatans. “At Fort Oasis, we sealed the complex before the lockdown was imposed,” said a member of the residents’ association. At Upohar, the apartment owners’ association restricted entry of outsiders and movement of residents of the tower where the patient lived. At Urbana, where a resident tested positive last month, the authorities blocked off a part of the tower where the person lived. (With inputs from Tamaghna Banerjee & Ajanta Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/65-of-new-cases-from-high-rises/articleshow/76144552.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 2, 2020||Business||Sensex rallies 9% in 4 days as RIL, financial stocks lead||Mumbai: With the economy slowly opening up, the sensex has been rallying and has picked up almost 2,700 points — or nearly 9% — in the last four consecutive sessions, despite the rising number of Covid infections. Reliance Industries (RIL), with its rights offer set to close on June 3, along with banking & financial services stocks have led this surge, BSE data showed. The forecast of a normal monsoon also added to the feel good factor on Dalal Street, even as rising US-China tensions remain an overhang, market players said. On Monday, the index closed 879 points up at 33,304 as RIL, HDFC Bank and HDFC together contributed nearly half of the sensex’s rise, according to BSE data. On the other hand, Nestle and Sun Pharma witnessed some selling pressure. The day’s gains came on the back of a Rs 1,575-crore net buying by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 459 crore, BSE data showed. Monday’s rally added nearly Rs 3.25 lakh crore to investors’ wealth, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at a little over Rs 130 lakh crore. According to LKP Securities head (research) S Ranganathan, “Rural reforms, coupled with forecast of a normal monsoon, fired up the bulls amid lower interest rates and extreme pessimism as lifting of lockdown in several states was reason enough for them to charge.” On Tuesday, however, the market could slide after global ratings major Moody’s cut India’s ratings to Baa3, which is still an investment grade. The ratings decision came after the markets closed on Monday. IIFL Securities head (research) Abhimanyu Sofat said Moody’s decision to lower India’s rating is a reflection of the stress in the economy and fiscal situation that has been amplified by the coronavirus outbreak. “We believe the subdued policy response for short-term alleviation of the lockdown-related stress would lead to subdued economic growth and lower tax collection. This is likely to aggravate the weakness in credit profile of India. The policy of balancing act seems to have not given the desired results,” Sofat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-rallies-9-in-4-days-as-ril-financial-stocks-lead/articleshow/76144356.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||Shramik spl leaves for West Bengal||Panaji: A train for Malda Town, West Bengal with 1,628 passengers left from Karmali railway station after nearly an hour’s delay on Monday. Passengers who were stranded in Goa during the lockdown were being ferried back home in the Shramik special train 05026. The train was to depart at 5pm, but left the railway station only at 5.55pm. The state government along with non-government organisations prepared food packets, water and essential items like oral rehydration powder, milk and sanitary napkins for the passengers at the station. Government officials handed over a bag each to every passenger at the station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shramik-spl-leaves-for-west-bengal/articleshow/76145357.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Patna||Buzz returns to Patna Junction after 2 months||PATNA: Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal came abuzz on Monday after two months of lockdown following partial restoration of passenger train services. At least 48 mail and express trains were restored from various places under the East Central Railway bringing much relief to those stranded due to the nationwide lockdown since March 24. Ranjit Kumar, a native of Vaishali, had been waiting to return to his workplace in Delhi since the first week of March. He boarded the Sampoorna Kranti special for New Delhi at the Rajendra Nagar Terminal on Monday. “I am relieved to be going back to join my duty after two months in Delhi. I had booked my ticket online,” he said. Many who had come home to Bihar from various parts of the country for Holi were stuck because of the lockdown and were relieved to go back. Sudhir Kumar from Samastipur had come to board a New Delhi-bound special train at Rajendra Nagar Terminal with his wife, son and daughter. Similarly, Rekha Kumari, said she had come to Samastipur at her in-laws’ house for Holi and could not return to Delhi due to lockdown . “I am very much relieved that railways has restored services of a few pairs of passenger trains for Delhi from Patna. Railways has maintained a standard protocol for every passenger to enter station premises,” she said . Patna – Howrah Janshatbadi special ( 02024 ) was the first train to leave Patna Junction at 5.30 am carrying 1,161 passengers while Patna – Ranchi Janshatabdi left for Ranchi with 1,186 passengers at 6 am. The railways ensured total implementation of the Centre’s advisory. “Security personnel allowed passengers’ entry in to the platform area only after proper checks,” said ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar. Altogether 24 pairs of trains were restored from Monday out which five pairs were from Patna Junction followed by four from Danapur , three pairs each from Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur, two pairs from Jayanangar and one pair each from Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction, Rajgir, Saharsa, Raxaul, Motihari and Chhapra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buzz-returns-to-patna-junction-after-2-months/articleshow/76142072.cms||Kumod Verma
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Promotion board to propel privatisation of Indian space sector||Chennai: India’s space programme is all set for privatization as the Space Commission has cleared a proposal to set up a National Space Activities Promotion Board. Two sources in the department of space familiar with the developments told TOI that the Prime Minister’s office is expected to give its nod for the move that would mark the beginning of the end of Indian Space Research Organisation’s monopoly in the Indian space sector. In fact, the proposal came as a result of a year-long process initiated by the PMO to reform strategic sectors. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had, on May 16, announced that the government would make future projects for planetary exploration and outer space travel open for private sector. A senior official in the department of space told TOI that the proposed board will have powers independent of Isro. “It may have a chairman and a handful of members drawn from different strategic government sectors as also independent experts. The board will broadly lay the road for private companies to take up research and development of rockets and satellites, besides taking up space missions. The PMO will decide on its constitution and autonomy,” the official said. Leading space-faring nations such as the US and China, besides the European Space Agency, have been encouraging private companies to be part of their space programme. India had kept its core activities within Isro while outsourcing manufacturing of components for rockets and satellites from private companies. “This will soon end,” said the source. “Isro will be one of the players, if a prominent one, in future space missions.” The PMO had, in June last year, set up a committee headed by Union minister Nitin Gadkari to study and suggest measures to strengthen the country’s strategic sectors. A deputy secretary in the PMO has been coordinating the reform plan for the space sector. There were differences of opinion within Isro as a section wanted to hold on to the organisation’s monopoly, while several seniors felt the need for opening up the sector to increase revenue from satellite launches and take up ambitious interplanetary missions. After several rounds of discussions, the space commission (which is chaired by the Isro chairman and comprises about a dozen secretaries of the Union government besides the national security advisor) approved the proposal on May 20. Four days earlier, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government would allow private players to share Isro’s assets. “India already has the benefit of an extraordinary institution like Isro, but now lots of private players are also coming in with innovative space technology. We will allow private players to benefit from Isro’s assets and give them a level-playing field to boost India’s space sector further,” she had said. Isro chairman K Sivan did not respond to calls and messages from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/promotion-board-to-propel-privatisation-of-indian-space-sector/articleshow/76144710.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Most buses run empty on first day||KOLHAPUR: The bus services, which resumed on Monday after more than two months, did not find too many takers on the first day Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) deployed 10 buses along eight major routes of the city. On the first day, only 470 passengers boarded the buses which together made 44 trips. Subhashchandra Desai, the additional manager of the KMT said, “The number of passengers who travelled by the buses was much lower than anticipated. Most buses ran empty. The buses along the Market Yard route were relatively busy compared to the ones along other routes. We have generated around Rs 3,900 from tickets, which is much lower than the operational expenses. However, we don’t expect the transport service to pick up immediately. We will have to continue the service despite losses.” Only one passenger is allowed on each seat. Only the passengers with masks/face coverings were allowed in. The ticket collectors were provided with sanitiser to apply on commuters’ hands. The buses were entirely sanitised after every trip. The buses were seen waiting for hours to get more passengers. However, the drivers eventually had to start the buses to avoid the wrath of the passengers already waiting in the buses. Desai said many still do not know about the resumption of the bus service. Slowly, the regular passengers will come to know of the service resumption. “Most of those who boarded the buses were vendors or daily wage workers. Offices and schools are still shut. The buses will run at full capacity only after the lockdown is completely lifted,” added Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/most-buses-run-empty-on-first-day/articleshow/76143019.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Night curfew, 10% manpower rider may force IT cos to continue WFH||Nagpur: As the state government has allowed private offices to operate with 10% manpower, smaller organizations are finding it of little help and are demanding some more leeway. Large industries like those in the IT sector are expected to continue with the work from home system, say sources in the industry.The night curfew impacts major part of the work in large IT companies. “The units mainly cater to foreign clients, for which work has to take place in night shifts according to the overseas time. However, a final plan is yet to be drawn in most of the units,” said sources.As TOI talked to a cross section of businessmen in different sectors, the response was mixed. Most of the IT companies in the Mihan-SEZ have closed their offices and continuing work from home.Amitabh Khanna, president of Vidarbha Association of Software Exporters (VASE), said night curfew remains to be a major obstacle for big IT units. The large players have adjusted to the work from home culture. However, smaller companies are expecting some more relaxations. In a typically small company, a lot of coordination is needed in the team for which physical presence is required.A HCL spokesperson said, “It is going to take some time to determine the long-term model. But directionally, we see in long run 50% of our employees would work from home.”On the Nagpur unit, the spokesperson said the situation is being reviewed on a regular basis. HCL is among the major players in Mihan-SEZ. Sameer Bendre of Persistent Systems said he is looking forward to start operations with the permissible 10% staff.Anand Sancheti, director of SMS Group, said, “10% will not be enough to work effectively. Rather the government should allow attendance on the basis of space available in each office to ensure distancing.”Sancheti said current situation has also left the employees nervous. If only part of the workforce is asked to come, others are scared that they are going to be laid off.Charted accountant Julfesh Shah said once full-fledge operations begin, they may be needing more persons in office.PR and advertisement professional Sanjay Arora said he has realized during the lockdown that work from home also works. “Not using the office would save as much as 1% of the interest cost,” he said. Manish Bidwai who is also in the same profession agreed. “In our business, we can continue working from home but it may not be feasible in number of other industries,” said Bidwai.Insurance agent and financial adviser Bharat Parekh said he looks forward to resume work with 10% staffers.Ranjit Dani, also a financial adviser, said, 10% would be too less for professionals like him to start the office and would rather prefer continue from home till things are completely normalized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/night-curfew-10-manpower-rider-may-force-it-cos-to-continue-wfh/articleshow/76144127.cms||Shishir Arya
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Virtual farewell for DGP Hemachandran||Thiruvananthapuram: Social distancing did not deter the police force from organizing a farewell for one of the most-revered officers in state police, DGP A Hemachandran, on Saturday. The top brass and IPS association’s Kerala chapter organized an online party for the officer who retired from the force on Sunday, in which IPS officers participated via Zoom app. An invite was already circulated among officers with a link to log on. “Ever since lockdown began, everything has gone online, including official meetings. So, we thought of organizing a virtual farewell,” said Thiruvananthapuram city commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay, who is also the IPS association secretary. He said that officers outside the cadre, on deputation, were able to join the event as it was held online. “Several of them, on deputation to various organizations outside the state, had expressed their desire to join the farewell as he had trained many of us in our initial days,” said Upadhyay, whose first posting as ASP was under Hemachandran, when he was Thrissur SP. A chemical engineer by profession, the 1986 batch IPS officer began his career as ASP (Kozhikode rural). After serving as ASP (Kunnamkulam) and later as joint SP (Neyyattinkara), he served as the aide-de-camp of the then governor B Rachaiah. His role as SP (Alappuzha) in the early 90s is remembered by many of his superiors and juniors as a classic example of how an SP should not lose composure even in the midst of tensions. He ensured smooth conduct of boat race while simultaneously controlling communal tensions then. When former DGP KJ Joseph, known for rejecting every out-of-the-way favour, was heading the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau, Hemachandran was hand-picked as SP (vigilance headquarters). While he was posted as ADGP (south zone), he was given the task of personally supervising SIT probe in solar scam, which, despite the political uproar and media reports surrounding it, was probed on the merit of the crime alone. He had taken strong exception to the way the judicial commission in solar scam questioned the investigation by SIT in solar scam, and had asked the commission not to overstep its limits and make conclusions on the probe that was then scrutinised by a court of law. He was transferred to the post of chief of fire and rescue department when LDF government assumed office and later he was made the managing director of KSRTC, a significantly inferior post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virtual-farewell-for-dgp-hemachandran/articleshow/76143026.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district crosses 600-mark||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district recorded 22 fresh Covid-19 cases till Monday evening. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 612 in the district. Among the new cases reported, three are from Shahuwadi, one each from Ajara and Kolhapur city. Meanwhile, the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital lodged a missing complaint about two people who jumped the quarantine. They remained untraceable. The health staff said that many people are providing false details and wrong phone numbers. The two people who jumped the quarantine had a travel history to Mumbai and are yet to be tested for Covid. So far, 195 patients have been discharged and there are 411 are active cases. Kolhapur city administration has started taking action against those not following social distancing norm. The fine of Rs 26,900 was collected from 149 people for not maintaining social distancing and not wearing masks. 9 news cases in SangliSangli district has reported nine new Covid-19 cases on Monday. The total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 121 in the district. There have been five covid related deaths and 65 people have recovered.  Of the nine patients, four belong to the family of a person who has a travel history to Mumbai and tested positive for Covid-19.Similarly, two family members of a person from Nerli in Kadegaon tehsil who died due to Covid-19, have tested positive. New containment zones marked in Mandur village in Shirala tehsil. District collector Abhijeet Choudhari said, “We are going to start plasma therapy for covid patients. We are expecting to get necessary permissions in next week. Currently, we have built the facilities to accommodate around 10,000 patients.” Choudhari said that the guidelines fixed by the state government recently will be implemented strictly. 22 news cases in Satara Satara district has recorded 22 new Covid-19 cases till Monday evening. With this, the number of active patients rose to 338. As many as 19 people were discharged from Krishna hospital. The district has recorded 21 Covid related deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-crosses-600-mark/articleshow/76143036.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Weather looks up after rains in state, Kota records 40.9°C||Jaipur: Though there was a rise in minimum and maximum temperatures, weather again took a pleasant turn when mild to moderate showers began on Monday evening at many places in the state.In Jaipur, a minimum temperature of 28.7 °C was recorded, which was almost 7 degrees more when compared to Sunday. Even in the afternoon, clear sky gave an impression that heat wave conditions would revive. However, evening brought surprise with mild to moderate showers in almost every part of the city. Many people in the city also spotted rainbow while drizzles brought down the temperatures. “The impact of this rainfall would be witnessed on Tuesday when we are expecting a dip of almost 5 °C in the day and night temperatures,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office.Attributing the weather change to the active western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, a Met official said that till Wednesday mercury will continue to take an upward swing. This year, so far, rain and hail storm has been regular in the state in the month of April and May. “Except for five days when temperatures were rising when Churu touched 50.0 °C and Jaipur witnessed 45.0 °C, the weather mainly remained pleasant in the state,” said an officer.Kota remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 40.9 °C was recorded, followed by 40.0 °C in Jaisalmer. Rainfall was witnessed in the western districts including Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur and Churu and also in eastern Rajasthan including Jaipur, Dausa, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur. Except for Kota and Jaisalmer, majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures below 40.0 °C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/weather-looks-up-after-rains-in-state-kota-records-40-9c/articleshow/76145362.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||‘Goa, MPT have not barred cruise ships’||Panaji: Opposition leader and Congress MLA Digambar Kamat supported the Ministry of Home Affairs’ move to relax lockdown guidelines and encourage economic activity. In a statement that may raise some eyebrows, Kamat said that he had no evidence to say that cruise lines were asked for money from any authority. “I spoke to the chief secretary and he categorically told me that the state has no problem if the shipping companies bring their ships to MPT. As per the information that I have, MPT and the state have no objection to the cruise ships coming to Mormugao,” said Kamat. tnn When asked about allegations that authorities have demanded money from cruise lines to bring their vessels to Goa to disembark crew members. “I don’t want to get into this because I don’t have any evidence, but from my information I know that this issue has to be taken up by the Union ministry of shipping,” he said. tnn “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-mpt-have-not-barred-cruise-ships/articleshow/76145364.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Varanasi||Four drown during festive celebrations||Varanasi: At least four persons drowned while four others were missing while taking bath in the Ganga river and reservoirs during celebration of Ganga Dussehra in Ghazipur, Ballia and Mirzapur districts on Monday. A large number of people had gathered at Chhota Mahadev Ghat in Ghazipur on Monday morning to celebrate Ganga Dussehra. Two sons of Surendra Kashyap of Mohanpurva area — Saurabh (15) and Shivam (13) — under Kotwali police station along with their cousin Chunna (18) had also gone there for bathing. While bathing, Shivam started drowning. On seeing him in trouble, Chunna and Saurabh jumped in the water to save him, but all three were drowned. Kotwali cops engaged divers, who fished out their bodies. Similarly, in Ballia district Ankush and Golu (15) of Nidharia village were drowned in Ganga while bathing near Maldepur Sangam Ghar under Fefna police station. Prince (7), who had gone to Pachrukhia Ghat under Haldi police station area was also drowned in Ganga. Divers were engaged to search the bodies. In Mirzapur, Laxman (16) of Mahmalpur village was feared drowned in river Ganga while bathing near Sahab Baba Ashram under the limits of Kachhwa police station. He had gone to the river with his three friends, who slipped into deep water. A local youth saved his three friends but could not find Laxman. Search is on to find the body. A girl Sangeet (12) of Ghori village under Lalganj police station in Mirzapur also drowned in Sirsi reservoir. She had gone there for Ganga Dussehra rituals with her siblings and other kids when she slipped into deep water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-drown-during-festive-celebrations/articleshow/76142457.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Travel pass mandatory for moving in or out of Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: With the state government announcing “Mission Begin Again” by lifting of lockdown in a phased manner, the district administration has said that travel pass for people travelling in or out of Kolhapur will continue to remain mandatory. Since May 3, over 40,000 people have moved out of Kolhapur while around 30,000 have moved in. And the district administration is issuing travel passes for those willing to cross Kolhapur border. According to a district administration official, many people who had moved out are now applying to move back in as the lockdown has been eased and many sectors are resuming operations. The official clarified that those who have completed the 14-day home quarantine period are only allowed to move in and out of the district. “Those coming from non-red zone areas and non-containment zones will only be allowed to travel,” he said. “As per state government notification and the order issued by the district administration on Sunday, the travel people will continue to be regulated. The guidelines of issuing the travel pass will continue to remain the same,” he added. Siddhesh Jadhav, who runs a small factory in Shiroli MIDC, had moved his family to his hometown in neighbouring Sangli district and now wants to get his family back in Shirol. “Now the administration is stating that children below the age of 10 will not be allowed to travel. I have a nine-year-old daughter and she cannot be left alone. I have requested the administration to consider my application,” Jadhav said. Similarly, travel of citizens above 60 years also remains prohibited. Meanwhile, gym operators met the district authorities requesting them to allow opening of gyms. Viraj Sonsurkar, gym operator, said they have been suggested to meet district guardian minister Satej Patil. “The officials claimed that allowing gyms to open is a policy decision which is the prerogative of the state government. We will be bankrupt if the gyms remain closed for few more weeks. We are going to meet guardian minister on Thursday and convince him about the need to resume gyms by citing issues faced by us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/travel-pass-mandatory-for-moving-in-or-out-of-kolhapur/articleshow/76143062.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Noida||Residents who cross UP-Delhi borders for work in a fix||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: If travelling to work across the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border was a hassle till now, it is likely to be “nothing less than a war”, as a harassed commuter put it. When offices and industries are gradually opening up, Delhi government’s decision on Monday to seal the borders came as a speed-breaker to residents of the capital, Noida and Ghaziabad, who have to cross the borders regularly for work. The first day of Unlock 1.0 was marked by kilometre-long snarls at the borders as police insisted on strict check of IDs and commuters stopped to enquire about the curbs imposed by Delhi. While vehicles moved at snail’s pace on the DND Flyway, traffic was almost at a standstill at Kalindi Kunj. The situation was no better at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, where officer-goers engaged in arguments with cops. Sources said Delhi Police was fairly lenient on Noida and Ghaziabad residents on Monday because Delhi government hadn’t issued specific order till later in the day. However, the commuters were told on their return that only those with valid IDs and e-passes could cross the border from Tuesday. This would mean a Noida or Ghaziabad resident working in Delhi will need two passes to commute, one each from the district administration and Delhi government. Passage across DND Flyway was easier. “We can stop people only when we have the orders. Movement of vehicles is anyway allowed till 9pm,” said a police officer. “We are only stopping trucks and cabs to collect toll. We have been told that the borders will be sealed from Tuesday and only essential services or passholders will be permitted entry.” Jagat Singh, who lives in Noida Sector 162, was wise enough to stop at DND. He had to drop his sister and her baby at Kalkaji, but decided against entering Delhi. “I don’t have a pass and will return after 9pm when the exit will have been closed,” he said. “So, I called my nephew to come and escort my sister home.” At Kalindi Kunj, there was utter chaos. Noida Police turned back people from Delhi without valid documents. Gajendra Sharma, a resident of Madanpur Khadar who works in a factory at Noida’s Sector 4, was one of those asked to go back. “Two people from here managed to reach the factory, but I couldn’t. Now, my employer is accusing me of making excuses for not coming to work,” Sharma grumbled. DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma told TOI they had intimated their Delhi counterparts about the UP government’s rules on border curbs. “If we have to resort to checking, some inconvenience is bound to happen. But we have to implement the rules,” he said. Confusion reigned at the Ghaziabad border too. “By the time the Delhi chief minister announced the sealing, I was already in Delhi. I kept worrying through the day if I would be allowed back into Uttar Pradesh. Truly, commuting now is nothing less than a war,” said Sudip Tyagi, a Rajnagar Extension resident employed with a pharma company in Delhi. Indirapuram resident Sharad Goyal, who owns a factory in Bawana, muttered that commuters were being treated like “ping pong balls” every day. The Ghaziabad administration said it would stick to its rules. “Our stand is clear. We will not allow anybody without proper IDs. But we don’t have a say on what happens in Delhi,” an official insisted. At the Chilla border, Narendra Pal Singh, a resident of Shalimar Garden, was stopped by police because he did not have a pass. Singh requested the cops to let him go and they relented after a while. “I had come to meet my father who was not well,” said Singh. “This was the first time I had left my home to meet him in Badarpur after the lockdown. I was not aware that the borders had been sealed again.” The border sealing is a worry also for businessmen. “I am a transporter and booked consignments in the belief that that roads would open on Monday,” said Prakash Tanwar, returning home to Delhi from his office in Gurgaon’s Udyog Vihar. “Now with the passage obstructed, I don’t know whether to cancel the shipments or get e-passes made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/incoming-and-outgoing-blocked/articleshow/76145360.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Varanasi||SSP office sealed after cop tests Covid +ve||VARANASI: The office of senior superintendent of police (SSP) was sealed on Monday and sanitization was carried out after a constable at the office tested positive for coronavirus. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said as per the Covid-19 protocol issued by the state government, if any employee of any office is tested as infected it has to be shut down for 24 hours for proper sanitisation. Thus, the SSP office was sealed on Sunday evening when the laboratory test report confirmed that one of its staff is positive, he said adding, after getting the report the decision for sealing the SSP office was taken. SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary said that on Sunday three policemen, who dwelt in barrack 8 of police lines, had been tested positive. One of them worked as runner, who deliver letters and officials documents from one office to other, in SSP office. Chawdhary said that the sanitisation works at his office was in progress and likely to be completed by Tuesday afternoon. The DM said that even after completion of sanitisation proper ventilation and other sterilisation would also be done there till Wednesday after which it will be reopened. Following the detection of three more cops as Covid-19 positive the total number of police personnel infected so far has become 18 in the district. Initially 12 policemen of Varanasi Municipal Corporation outpost of Sigra police station had become infected. Later, more cops including the constables deployed as followers of CO Sadar became infected after coming to contact of infected persons while performing their duties. Chawdhary said that 12 infected cops had become cured while six are still under treatment. He said that all the cops are being sensitised since the beginning of Covid-19 menace. But, he said, as the police personnel are being deployed for all kind of works including handling migrant labourers, performing duties at hospitals and even in containment zones. Despite all the odds the morale of force is high, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ssp-office-sealed-after-cop-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/76142490.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Unlock 1.0 brings smiles back on faces of shop owners||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has allowed shops to open from June 5 as a part of state government’s lockdown relaxation move. Shops on one side of the road will be open on one day and those on the other side the next day and so on.BC Bhartia, who has been re-elected as Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said that it was a positive step that economic activity had been set rolling. “We would request commissioner to sanitize all the markets with the help of fire brigade so that confidence of all customers, shopkeepers and shop workers increases. I urge shopkeepers to use masks, wash their hands frequently and maintain safe distancing. This is the only way to keep the markets open,” he added.Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said that businessmen were very happy over the development. “However, they have to ensure that corona doesn’t spread so that markets are not closed again,” he further said.Karan Grover, owner of a mobile store, while appreciating the order said that customers should not indulge in panic buying. “They should not crowd the stores and buy more than that is required. They think that the NMC may close down the market any day. Opening of markets won’t solve all our problems. Dealers like me are facing problems due to wholesalers and companies. They have stopped all schemes. We are unable to give discounts to our customers,” he added.Rohit Jain, garage owner, said that the odd-even rule should be done away with. “My shop is on one side of the road and the auto spare parts opposite me. So if a customer comes to my garage and needs a spare part, he will have to buy it the next day and then come to my garage again on the second day,” he added.Tejinder Singh Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association, said that he appreciated the order by the commissioner, which was anticipated in permitting opening up of non-essential services in phases. Many citizens were eager to start morning and evening walks and cycling. This can be done by maintaining social distancing. Opening of shops on odd even basis is a good decision.“However, clarification on maids and servants permitted for house duties is required. Likewise, opening of hotels and restaurants is also requested. We will certainly follow all guidelines and standard operating procedures as prescribed by the government. After all we want to keep our guests and ourselves safe too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unlock-1-0-brings-smiles-back-on-faces-of-shop-owners/articleshow/76144130.cms||Ashish Roy
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||2 masked men fire at farmer||TNNLudhiana: Two unidentified miscreants fired shots at a farmer at his house in Kot Manna village of Sidhwan Bet, about 50 kilometres from here, on Monday evening.Pavittar Singh, 55, has received a bullet injury on leg.Police said around 7pm, two masked men pulled over their motorcycle outside Pavittar’s house and knocked at his door. “His wife opened the door. On seeing Pavittar standing next to her, they opened fire at him. One of the bullets hit him on his leg. The duo soon sped away,” said a cop.Pavittar’s family rushed him to a nearby hospital.Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said, “The condition of Pavittar is stated to be stable. The motive of the firing will be known after he gives his statement to the police and the accused are arrested. Perhaps, old enmity led to the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-masked-men-fire-at-farmer/articleshow/76143063.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Singhvi surrenders before ED court in money laundering case||JAIPUR: Retired IAS officer Ashok Singhvi, an accused in a money laundering case, surrendered before a special Enforcement Directorate court here on Monday. Singhvi, the former principal secretary (mines) in Rajasthan, surrendered before the special ED court in the matter related to a mining scam which was unearthed by Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau in 2015. He surrendered after trying every option to get bail in the case for almost 18 months. The accused was sent to judicial custody till June 15. The ED had lodged a case of money laundering under PMLA Act on November 30, 2015 against Singhvi and seven other accused. Five of the accused got bail while three including Singhvi, Rashid Sheikh and Tamanna Begam were not arrested. “We have also applied for his bail application which would be heard by the court on Tuesday,” said Deepak Chauhan, counsel for Singhvi. “We also had anticipatory bail application before Rajasthan High court but we maintained that we don’t want to press that since we have already surrendered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/singhvi-surrenders-before-ed-court-in-laundering-case/articleshow/76145367.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Steep power hike on cards as JERC suggests 5.3% tariff rise||PANAJI: The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has recommended a 5.31% increase in power tariff, which is higher than the 3.84% hike proposed by the Goa electricity department. The fixed as well as energy charges for both domestic and commercial connections, including both low and high tension connections, have been hiked. However, power minister Nilesh Cabral said that he requested CM Pramod Sawant not to bring the tariff into force. According to the tariff order passed by the JERC, only a part of the electricity department’s revenue gap of Rs 342.3 crore will be recovered by revenue from consumers through the increase in retail tariff. The rest will be recovered through budgetary support from the government, it said. A total of Rs 75.6 crore is expected to be recovered through the tariff hike, while the remaining Rs 167 crore will be recovered through budgetary support. “In case this gap had to be entirely fulfilled by revenue from consumers, then it would have demanded an overall average increase of 23.5%,” JERC said, adding that the hike would have been steeper if the department didn’t receive budgetary support. “In case the government had not provided budgetary support, an average increase of 17.24% over and above the approved tariff increase would have been required, which would have led to a tariff shock for consumers.” The commission cautioned the government against its overreliance on its budgetary support, and advised the department to “prepare itself for repercussions in case the government withdraws budgetary support in the future”. Due to the nationwide lockdown, the tariff order was passed on May 19, and is supposed to have come into force from June 1. Even as Cabral said he requested the CM not to bring the hike into force, officials said that even if a decision is taken later to permit the hike, it will be done with effect from June 1. The hike for domestic consumers is between 10 paise to 25 paise per unit for energy charges. The fixed monthly charges for three-phase domestic connections has been increased by Rs 5, and for the low income group, by Rs 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/steep-power-hike-on-cards-as-jerc-suggests-5-3-tariff-rise/articleshow/76145373.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||SGST dept raids tobacco dealers||Ahmedabad: The enforcement wing of state goods and services tax (SGST) department on Monday raided some 30 dealers of tobacco and tobacco products across Gujarat for suspected evasion of taxes during the lockdown. These include dealers of cigarettes, chewing tobacco and other tobacco products in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Vapi, Gandhinagar and Kalol, among others. According to well-placed sources in the SGST department, these dealers sold cigarettes at premium prices and that too without bills. “A number of e-way bills reflecting movement of tobacco and tobacco products were generated over the past couple of months and tax evasion is suspected. Therefore, some 30 dealers were raided. SGST department officials are verifying their books of accounts and their inventory details. Investigation is currently under way,” said a senior official in the department. Further details of the quantum of tax evasion will be declared once the investigation is completed said department sources. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sgst-dept-raids-tobacco-dealers/articleshow/76144711.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Start immediate testing of all front-line workers, frame policy: HC to state, ICMR||Nagpur: Coming to the aid of front-line workers across Vidarbha, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Maharashtra government to immediately start testing them for the novel coronavirus.A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar also told the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to frame a policy and prescribed a protocol for their periodical testing through the RT-PCR method within a week.“We hold that all asymptomatic front-line workers in hospitals and containment zones declared by the collectors, commissioners, municipal corporations or the chief officers, municipal councils and other competent authorities in the region would be entitled to be tested for Covid-19 through the RT-PCR method,” said the bench.While disposing of the PIL by Citizen Forum for Equality through counsel Tushar Mandlekar, the bench directed the government and all competent authorities to immediately start testing of front-line workers, after they express willingness and in accordance with the guidelines and protocol to be prescribed by the ICMR.Flaying Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Tukaram Munde for his opposition to testing front-line workers citing burden on the exchequer, the judges termed his stand as ridiculous.“The commissioner stated in the affidavit that their testing would cost the exchequer heavily and that NMC will be required to deploy more manpower. He said front-line workers are discharging their duties in protective gear and hence the claim for their testing on RT-PCR can’t be accepted. Such a stand is not only ridiculous, but it reflects the conduct, contemptuous of the fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the judges tersely stated.Agreeing with justice Rohit Deo’s observation of equating front-line workers with the “brave hearts of armed forces”, the judges clarified that neither the centre nor the state can keep the fate of the front-line workers hanging and compel them to perform their job without fear or assurance of their own safety as well as the safety of their family members.“Their life is more precious. Because they’re the warriors and saviours, compromising or putting their own life at risk to save others by working relentlessly. We can’t afford to lose them because our own life depends upon their fitness to work without any stress or tension. There can’t be any compromise in respect of it. “If they are infected with the disease, the lives of their family members, friends and neighbours are affected. We endorse and confirm the view expressed by the single judge that the state owes its duty to the front-line warriors to take additional steps or measures, even if the guidelines do not envisage such testing,” they added.Quoting WHO guidelines, the judges said the RT-PCR testing can be of symptomatic as well as asymptomatic in contact with mildly symptomatic or cases of contact with co-infections described as “suspected case”.WHAT HC SAID* Covid-19 is symptomatic as well as asymptomatic* All front-line workers entitled to be tested via RT-PCR method* It should be irrespective of the fact that they were wearing protective gear* ICMR to frame policy & prescribe protocol for periodical testing* NMC chief’s stand of exchequer being burdened is ridiculous & contemptuous* No basis on ICMR’s claim of limited availability of RT-PCR testing globally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/start-immediate-testing-of-all-front-line-workers-frame-policy-hc-to-state-icmr/articleshow/76144139.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 2, 2020||Bhopal||MP’s recovery rate 2nd best in India: CM Chouhan||Bhopal: Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 60% and it is the second best in the country, said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.  At 60.4% MP is behind Rajasthan that has a recovery rate of 68.3%, the highest in the country. Chouhan said this while reviewing the coronavirus status in the state with officials through video conferencing on Monday. He also appreciated the efforts of doctors and staff at Bhopal’s Chirayu Hospital from where more than 1,000 patients have recovered and discharged. Very few medical institutions in the country have been able to do better, he said. Chouhan said that despite continuous success, there is a need to take all possible measures to control disease in the entire state. He advised that an awareness campaign should be carried out across the state with the help of NCC, NSS volunteers, Jan Abhiyan Parishad and community leaders. Prepare such a force, which should make people aware by explaining them in simple manner ways for protection from Coronavirus. There is a need to educate and make vegetables sellers and all shopkeepers aware for generating awareness continuously in the month of June. He further said that in case of negligence in this matter, shops should be sealed as shopkeepers themselves should be vigilant, and cooperate in sanitization of shops and market area. The chief minister also said that the Corona E-Paramarsh Seva should be popularized more and sale and distribution of ayurvedic kadha (syrup) should be ensured. It has been distributed in large quantity among the citizens. Trikatu Churna and Kadha have special importance in fighting against diseases and to build immunity for protection from virus. Chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains asked for constant review of the pandemic situation at district level through fever clinics and other methods. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman informed from about situation in Indore, while commissioner, health, Faiz Ahmed Qidwai besides informing about the coronavirus control in Khargone and Chhatarpur districts gave detail description of improvement in health of patients in other districts and preventive measure being adopted there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-recovery-rate-2nd-best-in-india-cm-chouhan/articleshow/76144124.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Tom Jose had a challenging tenure, says CM Vijayan||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Kerala might not have seen a chief secretary like Tom Jose who had to face so many daunting challenges during his tenure. He said during each challenge Jose could sense the will of the government and acted accordingly. Vijayan was inaugurating the farewell meeting organised for the chief secretary who is retiring from the service on Sunday. "Tom Jose could deal with all crises due to hard work, dedication and sincerity. In his 23-month tenure, Jose and team had to face challenges such as Nipah, flood and Covid-19. No CS had to work so tirelessly during his tenure," he said. The farewell was organised at the Secretariat on Saturday, his last day in office. He will formally hand over the charge to new chief secretary Vishwas Mehta on Monday. Since restrictions due to Covid-19 were in place, the function was attended by a limited audience including the chief minister, ministers and government secretaries. In his farewell note, circulated to his colleagues earlier, Jose said that it was his honour and privilege to be the chief secretary. “I am proud of the many things we achieved together and the many challenges we braved together: two floods, Nipah & now the new Coronavirus. As I exit the stage, I am comforted by the fact that the service can meet any challenge head on, given the talents and dedication of its officers," he said. Other than being the chief secretary, he also mentioned his assignments as director of Air in the defence ministry, chief coordinator for military technical cooperation between India and Russia, from 2004 to 2008 in Moscow, conducting the first ever Skill Fiesta in the country while serving as the additional chief secretary of labour and skills in Kerala and being the first MD of Kochi Metro. A 1984-batch officer, Jose took over as chief secretary on July 1, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tom-jose-had-a-challenging-tenure-says-cm-vijayan/articleshow/76143058.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Chamoli villagers move U’khand HC over felling of over 1,100 trees for a 10-km road||Nainital: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday gave the counsel appearing for the chief engineer of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) time till Thursday to obtain instructions after villagers of Chamoli district filed a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging that the proposed 10-km road will cut more than 1,100 trees in the area. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice NS Dhanik has also been assured by the counsel for the chief engineer that not a single tree will be felled till the court hears the case on Thursday. Siddharth Sah, the lawyer appearing for petitioner Vinod Kumar Kuniyal, a resident of Sarkot village in Gwaldam block of Chamoli district who filed the plea on behalf of the villagers, said that the road was first proposed in 2014 and will connect several villages in the area. “The motor road was being built to connect Chidakhet, Gajakharak, Fagota, Devsari and Deval villages. Initially, the villagers had agreed to the construction of road and the Gram Sabha even gave a no-objection certificate. However, later it was found that the alignment of the road has been changed and for the new route, more than 1,100 trees will be cut as opposed to around 400 under the previous plan,” Sah said. According to the petition filed before the HC, the villagers then held a meeting of the Gram Sabha and passed a resolution against the new alignment of the road. The petition argues that the new road will not only lead to felling of trees but will also damage the only source of drinking water for the village. “We have informed the court that if the road is constructed as per the present alignment it will not only damage the source of drinking water but even the recharge zone. We have also argued that if the road is built according to the previous alignment then it will be less damaging to the environment as well,” Sah said. In its written order, the court said that though how the roads are to be built is not a matter of judicial review but the question “which we are now required to consider is why the authorities intend laying a road to the same very place ie Sarkot through an alignment which results in enhanced environmental degradation of the area, and would result in cutting 2½ times more number of trees as compared to the earlier alignment”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-villagers-move-ukhand-hc-over-felling-of-over-1100-trees-for-a-10-km-road/articleshow/76143080.cms||Prashant Jha
June 2, 2020||Goa||Indian Navy opens its new base workshop at Bogda||Panaji: The new naval base workshop at Bogda in Vasco, which is crucial for minor repairs of warships and other equipment, was opened on Monday, the Indian Navy said. The Navy used to have its workshop at Baina but in 2017, the ministry of defence agreed to exchange 3,874sqm of defence land with MPT on an equitable cost basis. The land surrendered by the Navy has been utilised for construction of part of the NH 17-B flyover from Ravindra Bhavan at Baina to MPT’s gate number 9. In exchange MPT handed over its land at Bogda to the Navy for the workshop. “The base workshop at Goa was established in 1966 for providing general engineering services to naval ships and establishments at Goa Naval Area. The workshop was shifted from the old location at Baina to facilitate construction of the four lane flyover to Mormugao Port Trust,” the Navy said. The workshop is used by the Navy to repair equipment on warships as well as the hull and engine of vessels. Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik inaugurated the workshop, which was tendered for Rs 3.5 crore in 2017. The overall cost of shifting the Navy Base Workshop to the new location at Bogda was estimated at Rs 4.5 crore and the contract for construction of the workshop with all allied facilities was awarded to Panaji-based Abhiyant Realty. Interestingly, MPT had said that the NH17B project, being executed by Gammon India, was delayed since the naval base workshop was situated along the path of the flyover in Baina. However, despite the land being handed over by the Navy, the project remains behind schedule and is nowhere close to completion. The Sada-Varunapuri stretch was given a fresh deadline of January 2021 but NHAI sources said that completing the project by then would not be possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indian-navy-opens-its-new-base-workshop-at-bogda/articleshow/76145409.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Varanasi||Three new Covid cases found, four cured & discharged||Varanasi: Three new Covid-19 positive cases were detected in the district on Monday taking the district’s tally up to 185. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that Banaras Hindu University laboratory had released 42 test reports on Monday of which three had been tested positive. Now the total cases in the district have become 185. With four more patients discharged from DDU district and ESI hospitals, so far 121 peoplehave been cured while four had died and total active cases in the district are 60, he added. As per Monday’s report, a 65-year-old water pump seller of Chhamuhani area under Jaitpura police station reached BHU hospital with complaint of cough and uneasiness in throat, and gave his sample recently. He was found infected. A 40-year-old man of Ghazipur, who teaches in a school at Ghaziabad, had been staying at the place of his in-laws in Avaleshpur area of Akhri bypass after arriving the city on March 20. He was also found infected. Another case, a 65-year-old man of Gadhwasi Tola area, who is a priest and performs religious rituals at the places of his jajmans, has also been tested positive. Following fresh developments, the Gadhwasi Tola in Chowk area and Avaleshpur have been declared new hotspots. Now the total number of hotspots in the district is 94. As 28 hotspots have come into green zones the number of active hotspots in the district is 66. So far around 5,892 samples of the district have been sent for test and results of 5409 have been received of which 185 were tested as positive. Results of 483 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-new-covid-cases-found-four-cured-discharged/articleshow/76142515.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid hospital receiving more patients with comorbidities||PANAJI: The Covid-19 hospital has been receiving more high-risk patients with comorbidities over the past few days. On Sunday morning a woman diagnosed with heart failure was admitted. She had returned to Goa from Aurangabad by road with her family. Diagnosed with the condition around eight months ago, she was unstable when she was brought in, leaving the doctors at the Covid-19 hospital worried. Her condition is said to have improved by evening. With the woman uncertain about her age, doctors have estimated her to be in her late 50s. Another patient admitted last week was a male from Vengurla with cancer of the oral cavity who also had diabetes and blood pressure. He was asymptomatic when brought in. He will be sent for radiation therapy only after he turns Covid-19 negative. A 13-year-old boy, who travelled by train from Maharashtra, is now the youngest patient in the adult ward. The relatives he travelled with are all negative. The youngest patient in the hospital continues to be a four-month-old infant whose mother is still negative. When the baby girl’s swab sample was taken again for her discharge last week, she tested positive. She continues to be in the paediatric ward of the hospital with her mother breastfeeding her. Doctors said the baby cannot be made to gargle with chlorhexidine — a very effective treatment — like other patients in the hospital, and as a result the virus continues to remain in her throat. The paediatric ward also has a mother who tested positive along with her five-year-old son. The boy’s father has also been admitted. The condition of the pregnant woman, who came in with a high fever and other symptoms, has improved, doctors said. An antenatal ultrasound conducted indicated the foetus was doing well. The woman’s husband, who also tested positive and was admitted along with her, has now tested negative. There are currently three families and one couple in the hospital, parents and their five-year-old son, parents and one daughter, and another set of parents with two daughters, besides one couple. Last week, a mother with her three sons aged 3, 6 and 11, who travelled to Goa by train and all tested positive, have recovered and were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-hospital-receiving-more-patients-with-comorbidities/articleshow/76145376.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Lucknow’s lungs expanded the most in state during lockdown’||LUCKNOW: The lockdown unlocked good news for air quality in various places. There was a significant drop in air pollution levels in 11 cities of Uttar Pradesh which often figured among highly polluted cities in the country. Air of Lucknow and Greater Noida, which are normally the most polluted in the state for the better part of the year, was better than most other cities during the lockdown. A study by Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) monitored 11 cities for the comparison, taking the average of pre-lockdown days and during lockdown. Concentration of PM2.5 in the air was under permissible limits in 10 cities out of 11 monitored by the board in its ‘impact assessment of lockdown on ambient air quality’. Barring Kanpur, where air quality improved significantly but the average micro pollutant level was a unit above the standard, the remaining cities—Agra, Varanasi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Muzaffarnagar and Meerut—saw clean and breathable air during the period. UPPCB member secretary Ashish Tiwari said, “In a study by our team, it was found that concentration of both PM10 and PM2.5 dropped during the lockdown period in UP cities.” He said the study was conducted by comparing air quality during lockdown period in April with pollution level of March when activity was normal. Tiwari said that Lucknow had the best air quality—an average of 64—during the lockdown, making it figure in the ‘satisfactory’ category. Lucknow also recorded the lowest average PM2.5 concentration of 37 micrograms per cubic metre of air during lockdown, witnessing a fall in air pollution level by 23% over regular days. A stoppage in construction activity, industrial and commercial activities, reduction of vehicular load and other reasons contributed to the improvement. The other cities that did well were Greater Noida and Hapur, each with PM2.5 concentration of 44 micrograms/cubic metre of air. Bulandshahr and Kanpur had the highest concentration of PM2.5. The cities which witnessed maximum improvement in superfine particulate matter in air were Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Muzaffarnagar. Maximum improvement in overall air quality was in Lucknow, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida during the lockdown. “To continue with clean air, it is important to adopt ‘green methods’ like car pooling, covering construction sites with green nets, giving office employees work from home option to minimize vehicular load and check pollution caused by industries,” said a senior UPPCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknows-lungs-expanded-the-most-in-state-during-lockdown/articleshow/76145382.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Corona effect: No place for emergency patients||Ludhiana: The Covid-19 outbreak has taken a toll on other patients, including emergency cases. A Ludhiana-based family had to run from one hospital to the other to admit their daughter, who immolated herself after a fight with her husband and suffered 80% burns. Mother of two, Amrita, 24, of Peeru Banda Mohalla had set herself ablaze on Sunday night. She was rushed to ESIC Hospital, from where doctors referred her to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, due to her critical condition. However, there too she was not admitted. Speaking with the TOI, Panchali, Amrita’s mother, said, “Doctors at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, checked Amrita and said her condition was critical. They referred her to PGIMER, Chandigarh. When we took her to PGIMER, doctors refused to admit her, saying they were out of space due to coronavirus patients’ admissions. We were left with no option but to return to Ludhiana. My daughter was screaming in pain. At Ludhiana ESIC Hospital, staff was reluctant in admitting her, but then Salem Tabri SHO inspector Gopal Krishan helped us and asked them to admit her.” Inspector Gopal Krishan said, “It is sad that a woman with 80% burns had to suffer so much. She was taken to Patiala and then to Chandigarh, from where she was sent back to Ludhiana without treatment. The family is poor and cannot afford treatment of a private hospital. I am approaching some people for sponsoring her treatment at a private hospital.” Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “I will get it inquired. Action will be taken against those found negligent. If needed, we will help the family to ensure free treatment.”Ludhiana chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said, “As per the protocol, Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, cannot refuse treatment to any patient referred by district hospitals. They should be questioned why they refused to take the patient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/corona-effect-no-place-for-emergency-patients/articleshow/76143068.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civil Hospital accused of hiding patient’s death for 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: They kept showing her kin her back for one day, claiming that she was fast asleep, but Noorbiwi Malek (60) had died 24 hours ago. This allegation was made against doctor and staffers of the dedicated Covid-19 facility on the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus by members of Malek’s family on Monday. Officially, Noorbiwi, a 60-year-old retired constable, succumbed to Covid-19 at the facility on Monday. However, her family members allege that she had died at least 24 hours ago and that the ward staff kept showing them her back for one day, claiming that she was fast asleep. When the family received the Noorbiwi Malek, a resident of Shahibaugh, it had advanced rigor mortis, which sets in at least six hours after death. The family alleged that the body had bloated up and her face bore bluish marks. Her burial took place on Monday. “Noorbiwi had worked as a police constable at Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad. Her husband, Abdul Rashid Malek, was also a cop and had died on duty,” said Noorbiwi’s sister, Raeesa Shaikh. “My sister had gotten weak as she was had been fasting during Ramazan. As she was even unable to walk, we took her to a private hospital in Jamalpur and then VS Hospital. As we did not find space there, we had her admitted to Civil,” Shaikh said. Shaikh added that the Civil Hospital authorities suspected that Malek was Covid-19 positive and admitted her to the new Covid-19 facility. “She was kept in O-3 ward on Saturday afternoon and her tests were quite normal. Later, they sent samples for a Covid-19 test. On Sunday afternoon, Civil Hospital authorities conveyed to us that her Covid-19 report was positive. After this, I requested a staffer to make a video call so I could see her and comfort her. The staffer made a call and showed us her back, saying she was sleeping,” said Shaikh. Shaikh said that she called again on Monday morning and he showed her her sister lying on the same side, with just a view of her back. When she insisted on seeing her sister’s face, the staffer told her that he could not wake her up and said she was fast asleep. After an hour, she got a call from the hospital authorities, who informed Shaikh that Malek was dead and told the family to collect her body from the morgue. “As we raised doubts, they took the body to the nearby Moosa-e-Suhag burial ground, and I along with other family members rushed there. We found that her body was stiff like a tree trunk and the rigor mortis was quite advanced,” she said. Shaikh and other family members alleged that the hospital authorities informed them about Noorbiwi’s death 24 hours after it had happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civil-hospital-accused-of-hiding-patients-death-for-24-hours/articleshow/76144717.cms||Ashish Chauhan
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman, 24, sets herself on fire after tiff with husband||Times News Network Ludhiana: After an argument with her husband, a 24-year-old woman set herself on fire at her house in Peeru Banda Mohalla of Salem Tabri on Sunday night.Amrita has received 80% burns and is admitted to ESIC Hospital. Police said she had strained relations with her husband and mother-in-law.Amrita had tied the knot with Shankar, a scrap dealer, four years ago. The couple have two children, a three-year-old son and a nine-month-old daughter. In her police statement, which was recorded in front of a magistrate on Monday, Amrita said, “My husband and in-laws started harassing me soon after the marriage. They would torment me over trivial issues. Earlier, I worked as a domestic help, but my husband and mother-in-law were against it. They would pester me to quit the job, which I left after my daughter’s birth nine months ago.”A few days ago, Amrita resumed working as a domestic help. On Sunday evening, her mother-in-law had gone out along with her two grandchildren. “When I returned from work, Shankar started arguing with me, saying I was late in coming back home. After the squabble, he went out,” she added.Fed up of the everyday petty quarrels, Amrita bolted their one-room accommodation from inside, sprinkled kerosene oil on her and set herself on fire around 8.30pm. On hearing her screams, neighbours called Shankar who was in the street. Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said, “The ceiling of their house is made of tin. Shankar climbed over and broke into his house to rescue Amrita.”In the meantime, neighbours called up the police, who rushed Amrita to ESIC Hospital after ambulance failed to reach the spot in time. “Amrita has suffered 80% burns and her condition is stated to be critical. An FIR is being lodged against Shankar and her mother-in-law Laxmi under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the IPC,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-24-sets-herself-on-fire-after-tiff-with-husband/articleshow/76143077.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||As Goa economy opens, migrants get second thoughts about going home||PANAJI: Thousands of migrant workers from across Goa are setting out, at times even by foot, to district shelter homes and railway stations in frantic attempts to return to their native states. But as the situation continues to remain grim in many states and economic activities resume in Goa, some of them are now changing their minds about going home. Fearing packed trains, the risk being exposed to infection in quarantine facilities and other difficulties that await them on their journey, some are withdrawing their registration to return. Azim Shah, who works as a salesman in a store in Mapusa, said that he had turned desperate to get back to Mumbai when Lockdown 1.0 was announced. However, as the situation in Mumbai is showing little improvement, Shah said he has changed his plan. “Initially, when I really wanted to go back with my mother and sister, no one came forward to help us,” he said. “Now that things are worse in Mumbai, we are being called by voluntary groups. The store I work for was shut, and we had nothing to sustain us. We used up money saved for my sister Ayesha’s wedding to buy provisions. Only once did a voluntary group provide us with some essentials.” Shah has now returned to work, but is unsure if his salary will be paid in full. However, he said that his employer is currently paying him a small amount for daily expenditure and he prefers to survive on it rather than risking travel back to Mumbai. “My brother and the rest of the family live in a slum,” said Shah, who lives in rented premises in Moira. “We will also be put under quarantine once we return, and there will probably be infected people there. My mother is diabetic. I don’t want to take a risk. We have faced great difficulties here. We will have to gather money from scratch for my sister’s wedding, and are waiting for the groom to agree to postpone the wedding till November. But we are surviving.” He isn’t the only who has changed his plans. A citizen volunteer told TOI that a migrant worker expressed fear of taking the train back home after he heard the news of a death on the Goa-Jharkhand Shramik Special. Of the 70-odd persons from Maharashtra and Karnataka who had initially registered with panchayats to return, more than 11, by Sunday, told citizen-driven voluntary groups that they abandoned their plans to go back. Sadashiv Kasadekar, a native of Nagpur, has been living in Goa since 2012. Like Shah, he too views travel back home now as a risk to him and his wife. “The area I come from is a red zone,” he said. “I would rather wait now. I would prefer to go back by a regular train, I do not want us packed on a Shramik Special. I work in housekeeping at a hotel, and my employer has not stopped paying my salary. I have also received some ration from the government. Why should I leave?” Many of whom are willing to go through the tedious process and risk the long journey to their native state are doing so due to family emergencies. For instance, Nilu Pawar from Bijapur, whose mother has fallen sick and needs someone to care for her. Others, like Asif Abdul Dudamani, have changed their plans after he says he was told he is not eligible for a spot on the Sharmik Special train. “I have been living in Goa for many years, and all my documents have a Goa address,” Dudamani said. “I am still trying to send my sisters back to Karnataka. They had come here just 8 months ago to work as labourers. The car wash centre I was working in has shut. Now, I am living on essentials supplied by voluntary groups, and hoping for small labour jobs as things are normalizing. I can rough it out here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-goa-economy-opens-migrants-get-second-thoughts-about-going-home/articleshow/76145394.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Cambridge IGCSE results 2020: Lucknow student excels in international board exam||LUCKNOW: Anahita Singh has brought laurels to the city by scoring 7 A*s and 3 As in the recently declared results of IGCSE, Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) Exam Board’s class 10 qualification. In all, 28 students took the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) exam this year from CMS Cambridge Section. Anahita, who is now preparing for her AS levels (grade 11) from the same school and board, said: “It has been an amazing week, full of anticipation and excitement. I was hopeful of a good score, but never imagined getting 7 A*s and 3 A grades. This redeems one's faith because one is fairly rewarded for their work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-student-excels-in-intl-board-exam/articleshow/76145399.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Amid Tamil Nadu plan to hike doctors’ pay, Covid-19 tally zooms past 23,000; death toll 184||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu moved to raise the pay of its doctors as Covid-19 numbers surged past 1,000 for the second day, touching 1,162 cases on Monday with 967 in Chennai alone. Eleven people were reported dead, pushing the toll to 184. Amid reports that states such as Maharashtra are attempting to lure away doctors, Tamil Nadu is hurriedly revising its pay structure for doctors. Doctors, who were promised up to Rs 40,000 salaries are likely to get Rs 60,000. “Doctors are working very hard. Many of them who were infected have not just donated blood plasma for clinical trial but have also reported back to duty,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. On Monday, the state tally touched 23,495, and Chennai’s 15,770. Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur together recorded 90 cases. Fifty of the new cases were returnees from other states, including 32 from Maharashtra and 10 from Delhi. Coimbatore, which had not recorded a case since May 2, reported three cases, all migrants, on Monday. Its neighbour Nilgiris, which had no cases since May 9, reported one from within. Tiruvannamalai and Salem reported 10 cases. On Monday, Stanley Medical College professor of general medicine Dr Ravi was back on duty. “I was wearing PPE and I was careful. Once day I developed fever. The next day, I was coughing. I also had fatigue. Test turned positive. I took treatment as per government protocol. I even had kabasura kudineer,” he told reporters. “My results were negative after 12 days. I am back to work now,” he said. Meanwhile, all peripheral hospitals will treat mild and moderate cases while severe cases will be reserved for medical colleges, health minister C Vijayabaskar said. Those who had no symptoms or had very mild symptoms will be taken to Covid-19 care centres, he said after reviewing the new Covid-19 ward at Stanley. “The state would add at least 400 more beds in Stanley Medical College Hospital,” he said. Greater Chennai Corporation nodal officer Dr J Radhakrishnan said the city will track, test, isolate or quarantine as many cases as possible in the coming days. “In the absence of vaccines that will be our only tool to battle the disease in a crowded city like Chennai,” he said.  At the end of the day, 413 people were discharged, and the number of people cured so far is 13,170. There are 10,138 active cases. Of the 11 people who succumbed to the illness, three people died within 24 hours. The youngest patient was a 31-year-old woman with chronic kidney disease and hypertension, who died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Sunday, two days after admission. A 45-year-old man died of respiratory failure on Saturday, eight days after admission at a private hospital. The oldest was an 80-year-old man with hypertension and renal failure who died on Monday at the RGGH.  “We are going through one of the worst pandemics. It is important for us to keep everyone calm and safe,” said the health minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-tn-plan-to-hike-docs-pay-tally-zooms-past-23000-toll-184/articleshow/76144730.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gang uploads assault video on TikTok||Ahmedabad: Five men on Friday ransacked shops in Juhapura area and battered a man with whom they had enmity. The attackers uploaded the video of the assault on TikTok. Locals said that a gang led by Samirkhan Pathan, alias Pendi, has been creating disturbance in the area and violating the law every day. After the video went viral, Vejalpur police registered an FIR of assault and criminal intimidation on a complaint filed by Faizan Shaikh, 19, a resident of Sanklitnagar.Shaikh in his FIR states that he had a brawl with Pathan seven months ago after which he did not meet him. On Friday, one of their common friends told Shaikh that Pathan wanted to strike a compromise. Pathan called Shaikh to a ground near Sarani locality in Juhapura. When Shaikh reached there, Pathan and his men thrashed him. Shaikh managed to run away and was taken to a hospital in the Ellisbridge area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gang-uploads-assault-video-on-tiktok/articleshow/76125430.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Quarantine breacher arrested with stolen bike, illicit liquor||TNNLudhiana: The arrest of a quarantine breacher helped police solve multiple criminal cases.Gurpreet Singh, 29, of Bhadla Neecha village, here, was nabbed at a checkpost near Sahibpur in Khanna on Sunday on a tip off. Police said after Gurpreet, a combine driver, returned to his village from MP on April 8, he was kept at a quarantine centre for 21 days. “But after seven days, he ran away from the centre and a case was registered against him under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC on May 14,” said a cop. Since then, police had been on his lookout.“After his arrest at the checkpost, 10 bottles of illicit liquor were recovered from him and it was found that the bike he was riding on was stolen,” the cop added.Sadar Khanna police station SHO inspector Jaspal Singh said, “After escaping from the quarantine centre in his village, Gurpreet went to Ropar, where he lived with his father in a gurdwara. On way to Bhadla Neecha village, he lifted a bike from Ropar Bypass.”Gurpreet was booked in 2013, too, for theft of a motorcycle. “He was then convicted in the case. His parents had parted ways when he was young and he lived with his mother,” the SHO added. As per the standard operating procedure, Gurpreet was taken to Khanna civil hospital, where his sample for Covid-19 test was taken. He is now in police custody.Dr Harvinder Singh of Khanna civil hospital said, “Gurpreet’s sample was taken on Sunday and his report is expected on Monday night or Tuesday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/quarantine-breacher-arrested-with-stolen-bike-illicit-liquor/articleshow/76143082.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Flip-flop over discharge of Maharaj’s family members at AIIMS||Dehradun: Authorities at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh announced on Monday that family members of state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj including his son, daughters-in-law and grandson will be discharged in the evening but later backtracked on their decision. The state health department meanwhile said they were not kept in the loop to discharge the minister’s family members who had been found Covid-19-positive just a day earlier. On Monday evening, in an official bulletin, the authorities of AIIMS Rishikesh had announced the discharge of the minister’s younger son, daughters-in-law and grandson on the basis of they being asymptomatic. According to dean, hospital affairs of AIIMS, Professor UB Mishra, the family had requested to be in home isolation and were allowed to do so on the basis of the central government’s guidelines which permitted asymptomatic patients to be in home quarantine provided they followed the protocol in this regard. However, secretary health, Amit Negi told TOI that the AIIMS administration hadn’t informed the health department before deciding to discharge the minister’s family members. Later in the day, AIIMS director Professor Ravi Kant told TOI that the minister and his family had requested for the discharge but the hospital has decided not to send them home. “We have decided that it will be good if they continue to remain in hospital,” said the director. Meanwhile, apprehensions were being raised on how the tourism minister attended a cabinet meeting even as his wife was in home quarantine after returning from New Delhi, a red zone. When queried about this, Doon district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said that the minister had “informed the administration that his wife was in strict self-isolation and wasn’t meeting anyone.” Notably, 22 members of the minister’s household and staff including four members of his family had tested positive on Sunday. Chief medical officer of Dehradun, Dr BC Ramola said that the district surveillance team is still doing further contact tracing of Maharaj and his family. “We have learnt that he had also attended a meeting of the state tourism board on May 26. We will have to verify who came in his direct contact in the meeting and how he got infected himself but this will take some time,” Dr Ramola added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/flip-flop-over-discharge-of-maharajs-family-members-at-aiims/articleshow/76143089.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Proposal to demolish bund scrapped||Kochi: At a time when waterlogging remains unsolved in many parts of the city, authorities have scrapped the proposal to demolish a bund constructed across Chilavannoor backwaters. The bund constructed for facilitating the work on Padmasarovaram project has been causing waterlogging in places like Ponnurunni, Kadavanthara, Gandhinagar and Elamkulam. Though there was a proposal as part of Operation Breakthrough to demolish the bund, authorities scrapped it later. It was for facilitating the work on a viaduct proposed across Chilavannoor backwaters that the bund has been constructed almost a year ago. Then, Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) started the work on Padmasarovaram project on behalf of Kochi corporation. Around 500 10-metre-long coconut trees were driven into the riverbed all across the backwaters between Subhash Chandra Bose Road and Sahodaran Ayyappan Road. Coconut trees were driven into the riverbed in two rows with a distance of around 10m and filled the gap using silt so as to make a bund. “Last year, the then village officer of Elamkulam had reported this illegal construction as the major cause of waterlogging in the area,” said RTI activist K T Cheshire. “Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority had denied approval fot the project citing that it would intercept the natural flow of saline water,” he said. At a high-level meeting held in the first week of May, the corporation came up with a proposal to revive the project. “Then, the proposal to demolish the bund was scrapped by Operation Breakthrough authorities,” Cheshire said. According to the officials with district administration, a case challenging the construction of the bund and Padamasarovaram project is pending before the court. “That’s why we scrapped the proposal to demolish the bund. Anyway, we will be exploring the possibilities of pulling down the bund if there isn’t any legal impediment. We are planning to use the clauses in Disaster Management Act,” an official with district administration said. The project envisages construction of a walkway and cycle track on a viaduct across Chilavannoor backwaters connecting Subhash Chandra Bose Road and Sahodaran Ayyappan Road. According to environmentalists, the project is the result of a conspiracy hatched out at higher levels. They allege that the corporation’s plan is to help the people who constructed houses on the banks of Chilavannoor backwaters violating coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms. Environmentalist C R Neelakantan who moved the high court challenging the construction of the bund and Padmasarovaram project said that he would bring the issue to the notice of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/proposal-to-demolish-bund-scrapped/articleshow/76143119.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhopal||194 new Covid-19 cases take Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus count to 8,283||BHOPAL: With 194 fresh infections, state’s Covid tally reached 8283, on Monday. Eight deaths were also reported in Madhya Pradesh on Monday from Indore (3), Bhopal (2), Ujjain (1), Jabalpur (1) and Sagar (1) districts. New cases were reported from 22 of the 51 infected districts of the state — Indore (53), Bhopal (44), Ujjain (18), Khargone (15), Gwalior (9), Chhatarpur (9), Khandwa (8), Sagar (8), Chhindwara (4), Jabalpur (3), Dewas (3), Ratlam (3), Panna (3), Sidhi (3), Burhanpur (2), Vidisha (2), Tikamgarh (2) and one each in Neemuch, Betul, Damoh, Narsinghpur and Shahdol. Meanwhile, 161 positive patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state. Now the number of patients who have recovered from the disease in state has crossed the 5000-mark with 5003 recoveries. This is 60% of the total 8283 patients who have tested positive in the state. Only 2,922 active patients are admitted in hospitals. As of June 1, 1.72 lakh samples were sent for tests in the state of which 8,283 have tested positive. Administration has declared 958 localities as containment zones across these 51 affected districts and movement of locals is strictly prohibited in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/194-new-cases-take-states-coronavirus-count-to-8283/articleshow/76144137.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Temples to reopen, but without SOPs uncertainty prevails||MARGAO: Temples across Goa may finally be opening its doors to the public from June 8, but with the government yet to come out with SOPs for reopening the temples, uncertainty prevails over the mode and manner in which public will be granted access to the temples. “It is imperative that the government comes out with an advisory over how to go about reopening the temples to the public. The managing committees also will have to come out with their own plans of access and restrictions in consultation with the temple purohits, health services and administrative officials,” a source associated with the administration of a major temple told TOI. Shrimad Vidyadheeraj Teerth Shripad Vader Swami, the chief pontiff of Gokarn Jeevottam Mutt, Partagal, Canacona, had in a recent order banned celebration of any religious festival and mass congregation for any type of ritual in any of the temples of the Saraswat samaj. Though most of the temples of the Saraswat samaj are affiliated to the Partagal mutt, two major temples of Goa — Shree Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, and Shree Mangesh Devasthan, Mangeshi, are affiliated to the Kavlem mutt. A meeting has been convened of representatives of the managing committees of seven major temples affiliated to the Partagal mutt on Sunday at Mahalsa Devasthan, Mardol, to deliberate over the Swami’s order and chalk out plans for temple reopening, sources said. Ramnath Devasthan, Mahalsa Devasthan, Nagesh Devasthan, Mahalaxmi Devasthan, Devki Krishna Devasthan, Kamaxi Devasthan, and Ramnath Damodar Devasthan, are the temples whose representatives will meet on Sunday. The managing committee of Shree Shantadurga Devasthan, Kavlem, will have its meeting on Tuesday to discuss about tentative plans for reopening the temple. “Necessary arrangements need to put in place in the temples before opening them to the public. People come with flowers for the deity – the flowers will need to be sanitized before the bhatji can touch them. People come with fruits for prasad - obviously, they shouldn’t be allowed to directly hand them over to the bhatji. Separate trays or containers may have to be kept at some place for such items so that they can be thoroughly sanitized before being used,” a source familiar with the affairs of major temples in Goa said. Triloknath Borkar, president of the managing committee of Shree Shantadurga Sansthan, Kavlem, however, said, “If we take any decisions before the government comes out with its advisory, we run the risk of them being in variance with those of the government. The government should clearly stipulate the number of people to be allowed inside the temple at a time, whether they can stay for aartis, etc,” Borkar said. Shree Datta Padmanabh Peeth, Tapobhoomi, Kundaim, headed by Sadguru Brahmeshanandacharya Swami, will also reopen the temple for public according to government norms and guidelines from June 8, Tapobhoomi sources said. All events (utsav) will be celebrated with limited disciples, while the weekly satsang of disciples held on Dattaguruvar will continue to be held online as was being done during the lockdown until further orders, it was informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temples-to-reopen-but-without-sops-uncertainty-prevails/articleshow/76145386.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||8 more Covid-19 cases in district||Ludhiana: Eight Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Ludhiana on Monday.These include a 20-year-old man who works in Manesar and hails from Bohour village in Khanna. He had returned to Ludhiana from Delhi on May 19. The second case is a 31-year-old pregnant woman from Prem Nagar in Delhi who had visited the civil hospital on May 28. Besides them, two are contacts of a 27-year-old man from Samrala who had returned from Delhi on May 20 and tested positive on May 29. They are his mother and four-month-old daughter. Four undertrials have also tested positive. Of them, two are from Kapurthala and two from Gurdaspur.As many as 222 samples were sent for testing on Monday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of 30 samples sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Sunday, seven tested positive and 23 were negative. The report of a pending case is also positive.”To date, 7,688 samples have been taken, of which reports of 7,372 have been received and 7,084 are negative. Reports of 316 samples are pending. The number of positive patients from Ludhiana so far is 198, besides 90 patients are from other districts and states. Eight persons from Ludhiana and six from other districts lost their lives and 149 patients from the district were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-more-covid-19-cases-in-district/articleshow/76143088.cms||Mehak Jain
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 19 new cases in Ahmedabad district||AHMEDABAD: Nineteen new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Ahmedabad district outside the AMC limits on Monday. With this, total number of cases in the areas outside the AMC zone reached 239. Compared to May 26, there is an increase of 45% in the cases. The number was 164 on May 26. Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika president Jigisha Shah, who took a round of Bopal areas on Sunday, found that a majority of the vendors did not have the mandatory health card. She said, “I met DSP K T Kamaria and requested him to carry out surprise checks.” About the two fresh cases reported from Bopal and Ghuma, she said a 37-year-old housewife in the Marigold Apartment and a 57-year-old male in Jaldeep 5 were found to be Covid-19 positive. “The resident of Jaldeep 5 claimed that he had not gone out the house,” she said. In two days, 27 cases have come to light in the district. Of the 19 cases reported in the last 24 hours till Monday evening, Detroj taluka reported its first case while three cases each were reported from Sanand, Viramgam, Dhandhuka and Dholka. One case each was reported from Bavla and Mandal talukas. Of the 19 cases, nine were in the age group of 20 to 35 years. Four were in the age group of 36 and 50 years, and six were above 50 years. In the past 24 hours, one person — a 55-year-old man — died of Covid-19 in Dholka. The Dholka town has registered three deaths in two days. Of the 239 cases from the district, 87 were reported from Daskroi taluka, 82 from Dholka and 30 cases were reported from Sanand taluka. The remaining cases were reported from Bavla (12), Dhandhuka (10) Viramgam (11), Mandal and Detroj (three each) and Dholera (one).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/19-new-cases-in-district/articleshow/76144727.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Parent abandon body of nine-month-old covid-19 positive||RAMPUR: The parents of a nine-month-old boy who died due to brain tumour at AIIMS-Delhi returned to Rampur leaving his body behind after the child turned out to be Covid-19 positive. “The samples of the baby for novel coronavirus tests were collected a few days before he died (May 29) due to brain tumour. As the report confirmed him positive after the death, his parents made a written submission before the AIIMS authorities, stating that they didn’t want the body of their son, following which officials cremated the body,” confirmed Rampur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Subodh Sharma. Meanwhile, the AIIMS authorities informed the Rampur administration about the matter and the boy’s parents were traced to Bhainsori Shareef village under Milak thesil and quarantined along with doctors and staff of a Rampur-based nursing home where the child was undergoing treatment before leaving for Delhi. Speaking with TOI, Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “AIIMS officials informed me over the phone that a nine-month-old boy from Rampur district died at the hospital due to brain tumour before he could be operated upon. The parents, however, returned to Rampur leaving behind the body of their son as the report confirmed him Covid positive. Before returning to Rampur, they had made a written submission before the AIIMS authorities that they did not want their son’s body. Later, the parents were traced by the Milak SDM and quarantined.” “I ordered the sealing of the city-based nursing home where the baby was being treated. Doctors and other staff members of the nursing home have been quarantined and their samples were collected for Covid test,” added the DM. The CMO, meanwhile, said, “The boy’s parents told us they tested negative for Covid at AIIMS, but we have collected their samples and quarantined them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/parent-abandon-nine-month-olds-body-who-tested-positive-after-death-at-aiims-delhi/articleshow/76143092.cms||Nazar Abbas
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Number of passengers increases, may rise further after hotels open||DELHI-CITY FLIGHTLudhiana: Unlock 1.0 has hiked the number of passengers of Delhi-Ludhiana flight. The airline officials expect it to improve further after hotels open from June 8.The Ludhiana-Delhi flight operations had resumed on May 25 and on the first day, 11 passengers had arrived from Delhi and only five passengers had left from here, while on May 30, the number was 26 and 16, respectively.Air India officials said 32 passengers arrived from Delhi and five left on Monday. They said the number of passengers coming to the city was increasing as compared to those going to Delhi. They reasoned it may be because number of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana was far less as compared to Delhi and neighbouring cities, so people were not taking the risk.Airport officials said number of passengers taking flight to the city was expected to rise further after June 8 when hotels open as people from outside will have some place to stay. The hotel association is also expecting a good business. “There can be 5-10% rise in footfall and the number will increase if bars are opened beyond fixed time,” said Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurants’ Association, Punjab. Frequent travellers feel opening of hotels was good news for people coming to the city for work, but caution should not be thrown to the wind. “As more people will come to the city by air and rail, the authorities should ready themselves for the situation and ensure that they are tested for Covid-19,” said Ajit Singh, a city-based businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/number-of-passengers-increases-may-rise-further-after-hotels-open/articleshow/76143102.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Missing workers, lack of orders land shawl industry in trouble||Ludhiana: India’s largest shawl manufacturing industry located in Ludhiana district has suffered a huge blow due to the exodus of migrant labourers, with 80% of them already off to their home states. This has also taken a toll on the business of traders in Amritsar, who could not go for order booking due to unavailability of samples from the makers.According to the owners of shawl manufacturing units, absence of labourers is a huge setback for them at this time of the year, when sampling and order booking take place for delivery around Dusshera. Due to the labour problem, very few of them could make samples for supplying to the traders, who in turn book orders. Moreover, due to the travel restrictions, even the traders who were sent a few samples earlier could not travel to other states for booking orders.Speaking to TOI, Hemant Abbi of Shri Ram Textiles said, “The situation is very bad for us, as we are left with only 20% of the labourers. The problem is primarily because we are yet to adopt modern techniques and high-tech machinery and are still dependant on the old ways of production, which require more labour.”He further said, “In the last two months of lockdown, we didn’t have business of even a single rupee and it seems that in the coming months too, we will have to sit idle in the absence of orders.”Arun Seth, a prominent shawl trader, said, “Normally, during the month of May, after getting samples from the manufacturers of Ludhiana, we get embroidery work done from specialists. After that we go for booking of orders all over the country, including far-off places like West Bengal, Orissa etc. The orders are delivered around Dusshera time directly by the manufacturers. But, due to the lockdown, situation is too bad this time. Travel restrictions have eased now, but we do not have samples from manufacturers to show to the customers and book orders.”A prominent shawl manufacturer from Janakpuri, Damanjit Singh said, “The labour shortage has become a big headache for the shawl industry. We had never seen such a situation ever. It is our request to the state government that if it wants to save industries from shutting down, it should immediately do something to address this problem.”BOXShawl makers depend on tradersThousands of micro and small shawl manufacturers of Ludhiana are dependent majorly on the traders from Amritsar and Kashmiri for sale of their products all over India. Small-time Ludhiana industrialists make shawls of different types, which are supplied to the traders based in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Panipat etc. Amritsar being a hub for shawl business, finishing of the product, including washing and embroidery work as per the demand of clients, takes place there. Besides, a large number of Kashmiri traders also throng Amritsar to buy these shawls and sell those all over India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/missing-workers-lack-of-orders-land-shawl-industry-in-trouble/articleshow/76143109.cms||Mohit Behl
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s north, east zones remain worst nCov affected||Vadodara: The north and east zones of the city remained the worst affected areas due to Covid-19 in the city. Of the 29 new Covid-19 cases registered in the city since Sunday evening, 23 were from these two zones. Vadodara district including the city has registered 1,086 Covid-19 cases so far. These include 475 registered in the north zone and 347 registered in the eastern parts of the city. Put together, they account for 822 cases. The south zone has registered 149 cases while the west zone has registered 65 cases. The rural areas of the district outside the city limits registered 39 cases while 11 persons from outside the district tested positive for Covid-19. The total number of deaths in Vadodara due to Covid-19 remained at 42 with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) not putting on record any more victims. Sources said that a series of deaths had taken place, but their death audit reports were still awaited. With nine persons being discharged from the different hospitals and Covid Care Centres, the total number of discharged patients now stands at 625. At the other end, 419 cases are still under treatment including nine on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 21 on oxygen support. VMC’s decision of not including the details of persons who tested positive, meanwhile, has drawn flak from the city unit of the Congress party. Spokesperson of the city unit Shailesh Amin said that if names of patients were declared, there were chances that the issue of manipulation of data would get exposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-north-east-zones-remain-worst-ncov-affected/articleshow/76142510.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||010620 Govind + special trains||Times News Network Margao: After a nearly 10-week long hiatus, the first passenger train commenced its journey from Goa on Monday as the Vasco-Nizamuddin Goa Express chugged out of the Vasco railway station at 3 pm. Altogether 610 passengers boarded the train from Goa. Vasco-Nizamuddin-Vasco Goa Express is among the 100 pairs of trains which resumed their operations from Monday. Nizamuddin-Ernakulam-Nizamuddin Mangala Lakshadweep Express, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) –Trivandrum-LTT Netravati Express and Nizamuddin-Eranakulam-Nizamuddin Doronto are the other three transit trains that will take scheduled halts in Goa. While these three trains run on Konkan Railway route, Goa Express runs on the SWR route. Mangala Lakshadweep Express, Netravati Express and Goa express will run as a daily service, while Doronto is a weekly train. While the Netravati Express that commenced journey from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) was expected to reach Margao by Monday midnight, the Mangala Lakshadweep Express will reach Margao on Tuesday. For the Nizamuddin-Vasco Goa Express that commenced its journey from Nizammuddin on Monday, the state government, sources said, has recommended only stop in Goa at the Margao railway station so as to facilitate better logistics as passengers alighting at the station need to be taken to the new district hospital for covid tests. Meanwhile, a Shramik Special train left Reva, MP from Margao railway station carrying 749 passengers.. 851 more passengers will board the train at Pune, it was informed. ++++++++++++ For infographics +++++++++++++++++++++ Advisory to rail passengers – 1. Only passengers who are found asymptomatic will be permitted to travel 2. All passengers should wear face covers/masks at the time of entry to railway station and during the journey. 3. Passengers shall observe social distancing both at the railway station and in trains. 4. Passengers are recommended to download Aarogya Setu App. 5. Passengers should reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/010620-govind-special-trains/articleshow/76145407.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second BJP MLA from city tests positive||Gandhinagar: After Ahmedabad city BJP President and Nikol MLA Jagdish Vishwakarma testing corona positive and his admission to a private hospital, another BJP MLA, Balram Thawani, tested Covid positive and got himself admitted to a private hospital. Thavani is the MLA from Naroda constituency. The Congress once again targeted the BJP, saying that if the government’s claim of best quality Covid treatment facilities being available at the Civil Hospital are true, why its MLAs are not getting admitted there. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-bjp-mla-from-city-tests-positive/articleshow/76144728.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Youth killed in group clash||Ahmedabad: A youth was hacked to death in an armed clash between two groups that erupted over a trivial issue in a society located in Kathwada of Nikol locality in the city on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Ranjeet Parihar. N L Desai, assistant commissioner of police, I division, said that all the accused had been rounded up and that they would be formally arrested once Covid-19 test was conducted on them. The accused named in Parihar’s mother Kusum’s FIR included Ajit Rajput, Sonu Rajput, Ajit alias Anil, wife of Sonu, mother of Ajit, Sonu and Ajit alias Anil Mayadevi, Ravi, Sunil Rajput and his wife. In the cross complaint filed by the accused, three including the deceased were named as the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-killed-in-group-clash/articleshow/76125451.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: IVRI plans to develop Covid-19 vaccine for pets||BAREILLY: In a welcome development for animal lovers, Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) is planning to work on developing a vaccine, diagnostic kits and study the transmission dynamics of Covid-19 in pets and wild animals. There were recent reports of many abandoning their pets amid fears that they could be “Covid-19 carriers”. Notably, no animal species in India has been found Covid-19 positive so far. But, there have been cases of a tiger at Bronx zoo in the US and a few pets - particularly cats and dogs - in Hong Kong and some other countries testing positive for SARS CoV-2 – the virus which causes Covid-19 infection. On Monday, IVRI director RK Singh told TOI, “On the direction of director-general of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), we are contemplating to work on developing a vaccine for Covid-19 for domestic and wild animals. We are planning to make diagnostic kits which can be used in the laboratory as well as the field.” IVRI is one of the few institutes in the country which has been testing both human and animal samples for Covid-19. According to scientists, in case Covid-19 spreads among the domestic and wildlife species in the near future, the virus will undergo genetic changes to better adapt to these animals and "may cause disease in them". "So, our efforts are also directed towards study of the transmission dynamics of SARS CoV-2 in domestic and wild animals and control its spread among them. Active monitoring has to be done in different animal species and preventive measures should be put in place to control its spread. For such measures, surveillance tools have to be developed - which include diagnostic methods/kits – to detect infected animals and vaccines to prevent the infection,” a scientist explained. Besides, IVRI in collaboration with IIT-Roorkee has been given permission for a project with an aim to find an effective antiviral drug against SARS-CoV-2 from Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, under a special drive called 'Intensification of Research in High Priority Area' (IRHPA). The main objective of this project is identification of structure-based potential anti-viral against SARS-CoV2. The study intends to search for small molecule inhibitors targeting some of the most important viral replication enzymes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ivri-plans-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-diagnostic-kits-for-pets/articleshow/76143140.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 2, 2020||Goa||Mangor Hill is Goa’s first containment zone as two test +ve, 5 under scanner||PANAJI: Vasco’s Mangor Hill area was declared a containment zone on Monday after a fisherman and wife tested positive for Covid-19. The couple’s daughter-in-law, two sons—one a policeman—and two others, a neighbour and a local doctor, also tested positive in the screening test, and their confirmatory test results are awaited. “Since it is a tightly-packed area, we have decided to declare it a containment zone,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. Ruling out community transmission, she said the area has been declared a containment zone “out of abundant caution” and there should be no fear among the people of a possible spread. She also said that it hasn’t yet been established if the two new positive cases had travel history, and that inquiries were still being made. Meanwhile, three others from North Goa, all of whom travelled from Maharashtra, have also come positive in the screening and thier confirmatory tests are also awaited, health officials said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said since the fisherman visited godowns to purchase fish that was brought from Andhra Pradesh, a lot of contact tracing will need to be done. A health official said he suspects that the man could likely have picked up the infection from his counterparts across the border, as he routinely engaged with them when buying fish. Mohanan said the health department has commenced concentrated contact tracing, and all efforts were being made to see that links and possible contacts are established. “There will be comprehensive testing of the people of Mangor Hill. All measures are being put in place to contain any risk to people residing outside Mangor Hill,” she said, adding that anyone in the area with a persistent fever should immediately contact the nearest health centre. “We are doing contact tracing and it would be premature at this stage to say that community transmission has happened,” she said. The health department would declare community transmission only after proper contact tracing is done, and there is a difference between community and local transmission, the health secretary said. Rane said he would have a detailed discussion with the health secretary on Tuesday morning about the measurers to be taken in view of the new development. “Having a containment zone is also a first-time experience for us,” Rane said. “We will see that there is no community transmission. Strict measures will be put in place to test each person residing in the containment zone.” Superintendent of police and Goa police PRO Shobhit Saxena said the force was in the process of identifying immediate contacts of the constable whose father tested positive for Covid-19. The policeman had not been on field duty, Saxena said. Police sources said the constable was last on duty on May 29. He did not report on May 30 and 31, they said. “The entire police station has been sanitised and swabs of all policemen have been sent for testing,” they said. “From Tuesday, the entire staff at the police station will not undertake any community duty,” they said. In the newly-declared containment zone, Vasco, Mormugao and Verna police deployed personnel to ensure no movement in the entire area. The road from Varunapuri junction to Ayyappa temple, and from there to St Therese high school, has been blocked. “Some people have approached us saying they visited the doctor who tested positive for Covid-19,” said Mormugao Municipal Council chief officer Gourish Sankhwalkar. “We have isolated them, and they will be tested on Tuesday.” Police inspector Paresh Naik, in charge of the Vasco police station, said police would ensure that people remain indoors, and that no outsider is allowed in the area for 15 days. Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, attempting to reassure the people of his constituency, said “nobody should be scared”. “Ward no. 17 will be sanitised. Everyone staying in the containment zone will be checked,” he said. Late on Monday, Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) issued a memo, asking all employees who live within the containment zone not to report to office and to work from home. TOI also learnt that household help from the area were asked by their employers not to report to work. (With inputs from Ruvina Khan and Nisser Dias)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-hill-is-goas-first-containment-zone-as-two-test-ve-5-under-scanner/articleshow/76145418.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 2, 2020||Allahabad||FIR against man over triple talaq||Prayagraj: A man, identified as Mohd Iqbal Khan, a resident of Shahganj, has been accused of giving triple talaq to his wife after she allegedly failed to fulfil the dowry demands. The wife has lodged an FIR with Kareli police station of the city under sections 498A, 323, 504, 506 of IPC, section 3/4 of the Dowry Protection (DP) Act and section 3/4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act against the husband and four others regarding the incident. The woman in her FIR alleged that she has constantly physically and mentally been harassed by her husband and his family members for dowry. She claimed that she was well educated and has an MBA degree under her belt. She claimed that she was married to Mohd Iqbal on April 14, 2013, who is employed in UAE. Her family members had spent around Rs 15 lakh in the marriage. Three months after the marriage, the husband and her in-laws started harassing her as they were not satisfied with the dowry given at the time of her marriage, she stated in the FIR. She alleged that whenever her husband came to the city from UAE, he and his family members used to mount pressure on her to bring more dowry “Three months back, when my husband returned from UAE, he once again started harassing me, and on May 6, he gave me triple talaq”, the wife stated in the FIR. SSP, Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said “Police have started probing the case and action would be initiated against the accused soon”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fir-against-man-over-triple-talaq/articleshow/76142658.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||After 2-month break, Jail Bhajiya House to open on June 8||AHMEDABAD: The Jail Bhajiya House, the unique snacks outlet run by the prisoners of the Ahmedabad (Sabarmati) Central Jail, is all set to begin operations from June 8. The SOPs for the outlet are being put in place. The outlet, which opened in 1997, has an average annual turnover of over Rs 60 lakh. It was closed for over two months during the lockdown. Additional DGP jails K L N Rao said: “Now, hotels and restaurants are going to reopen on June 8. The Jail Bhajiya House will also reopen and tickle the taste buds of Amdavadis.” The Jail Bhajiya House is famous among Amdavadis for its fritters made with fenugreek (methi) mixed with besan and dry and green masalas. When it opened 23 years ago, people queued up at the outlet located just beside the RTO office near Subhash Bridge. The factory manager of the jail, Arvind Parmar, who works under the instructions of jail superintendent Mahesh Naik, an IPS officer, said that people visiting the area often throng the outlet. He said that the outlet opened just beside the RTO premises and shifted to a new building on the opposite side in 2009 due to the expansion of the RTO and the building of the Ranip police station. “Ten inmates (convicts) of the open jail operate the Jail Bhajiya House from morning to evening, said Parmar. “They are paid a daily wage of Rs 80 to Rs 100, depending on their work. The profit is deposited with the government. Half of the salaries of the workers goes into their accounts in a post office and the other half is given to them in the form of coupons with which they buy items of daily needs from the jail canteen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-2-month-break-jail-bhajiya-house-to-open-on-june-8/articleshow/76144743.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Work on bridge to be over in 3 weeks||Kochi: The residents of Pizhala, an island in the Goshree area are pinning their hopes on the opening of Moolampilly-Pizhala bridge. If all goes well and rain keeps away, the construction of the bridge could be completed within two or three weeks. Saji Cherian of Cherain Varkey Construction Company (CVCC) said they will be able to complete wearing coat within a week. The road will be ready with the completion of the approach road. The total length of the bridge is 607m and total cost of construction is Rs 81.75 crore (approx). However, officials with the district administration said completion of Moolampilly-Pizhala bridge alone will not address travel woes of the islanders. It is one of the connecting links of the Moolampilly-Chathanad Road, which is yet to be completed. It is pointed out that the work of the approach roads of the Chathanad-Valiyakadamakkudy bridge is yet to be completed. According to Francis Dianish, an activist fighting for the Moolampilly-Chathanad Road, the social impact assessment and environment impact assessment of this bridge, which is considered the second phase, is over. “The land for the project is yet to be acquired. However, notifications have been issued for land acquisition. Moreover, compensation and rehabilitation packages are being readied,” he said. Providing connectivity from Pizhala to Valiyakadamakkudy is another hurdle and this is the third phase. “A private agency has been given the task of making a primary investigation after inviting tenders. In the 2017-18 budget, Rs 40 crore was allocated for this project,” he added. However, revenue officials said as there is a need to reclaim ‘pokkali fields’ for the construction of this stretch, officials are not hopeful about obtaining environment clearance for the project. Dianish also said the Moolampilly-Chathanad Road will open up new connectivity between Kochi city and North Paravur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/work-on-bridge-to-be-over-in-3-weeks/articleshow/76143144.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Varanasi||BJP drive to tell peopleabout coronavirus||Varanasi: Bharatiya Janata Party state president Dwatantra Dev Singh said that apart from holding virtual rallies in the state to make the people aware about the achievements of the Modi government on the completion of its one year after retaining power in 2019, the party workers will launch door-to-door campaign to sensitise people about Covid-19 menace. During an online interaction with reporters on Monday, Singh said, “To make people aware about the achievements of the PM Narendra Modi government, the party has decided to hold six virtual rallies in the state in which 1,500 dignitaries of different districts will take part.” After it, he said, all the frontal organisations of BJP will hold 395 rallies through video conference to connect the workers in all 75 districts of the state. Each rally will have the participation of minimum 150 people, he said highlighting the decisions of Modi government including abolishing Article 370, citizenship (amendment) act and others. Talking about Covid-19 pandemic he said that the party workers will visit door-to-door to make people sensitise about its menace and precautions. He praised Modi government for adopting effective strategies, which helped in saving lives and the call for Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). BJP spokesman observes fast against Maha govt :BJP state spokesman Ashok Pandey observed fast at his home between 9am and 5.30pm to express his protest against the alleged apathetic attitude of Maharashtra government towards the migrant labourers due to which they were compelled to journey back to their homes through all possible ways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-drive-to-tell-peopleabout-coronavirus/articleshow/76142549.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Allahabad||Devotees throw caution to the wind on Ganga Dussehra||Prayagraj: The state government might have allowed temples to reopen from June 8, but the district administration got a glimpse of how difficult it would be to get the public to follow precautions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic as most devotees who turned up on ghats on Monday for Ganga Dussehra chose to ignore safety guidelines. On Ganga Dussehra, devotees throng banks of Ganga to take a holy dip. Various organisations also organise ‘bhandara’ (community feasts), while temples organise special puja. Most devotees who visited the ghats on Monday were seen ignoring social distancing and only a few people, mostly senior citizens, were seen wearing masks. Authorities said that the number of people who turned up for puja and taking a dip at ghats on Ganga Dussehra was lower than last year because of the lockdown enforced in wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The devotees started arriving at the ghats since early morning and most of them were seen without masks. Some of the women did cover their faces with their sari or a scarf. Devotees were seen standing side by side while taking a dip and thereby nor maintaining distance. “Maa Ganga is there to protect us, but that does not mean that we should not take care for ourselves,”said Shesh Narayan Mishra from Shambhu barrack, who was one of the few elderly citizens spotted wearing masks. With places of worship set to reopen next week, city temples have started making arrangements to ensure they follow all safety precautions. “We are getting circle made on the temple premises to ensure that devotees follow social distancing. We will only allow 10 devotees at a time inside the temple,” said Mahant Narendra Giri of the Bade Hanumanji temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/devotees-throw-caution-to-the-wind-on-ganga-dussehra/articleshow/76142692.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Back with bustle! Ahmedabad raring to race||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad paced towards normalcy from Day-1 of Unlock 1.0. As June 1 dawned upon the city, people woke up to newspapers delivered to their doorsteps; to the sounds of moving traffic, with Amdavad na rickshaw-walas calling out for rides, and all the bridges connecting eastern and western parts of the city opened to traffic. The difference was prominently visible in the eastern parts of the city, most of which were bereft of public movement even during lockdown 4.0, and had little respite from strict lockdown measures. Major markets in eastern Ahmedabad including New Cloth Market, Relief Road, Madhupura Spice Market, Madhupura and Kalupur Grain Markets, Ratanpole, Dhargalwad, Manek Chowk, Cutlery market near Kalupur, hardware market in Astodia, timber merchants in Jamalpur area of the city, seasonal markets in Dilli Darwaja and Raipur Darwaja, among others, resumed operations as usual from Monday. “The decision to define micro-containment zones has enabled a lot of wholesale markets in the eastern part of Ahmedabad to resume operations after 65 days. This is a big relief to traders. While some opened up and cleaned shelves, full-fledged business operations will resume from tomorrow. Police have also advised usiness associations that all norms of social distancing are to be followed, and hygiene measures ensured,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Trader’s Federation (GTF). Traders felt much relief as shops were allowed to remain open throughout the day till 7pm; however, most are still waiting for customers to return. “Even though we got three hours more to do business, it will ultimately depend on customers. Customer footfall is still less than 25% in our store as people are very scared to step out of their homes, owing to the risk of infection,” said Ratan Jaisinghani, a retailer on CG Road. Restaurateurs however, are still looking forward to some relaxation in timings as most takeaway orders are placed during the evening. “We will be starting takeaway orders for select outlets only and we don’t expect to clock more than 40-50% of our total orders because most orders are placed during the evening,” said Rushad Jinwala, a city-based restaurateur. While trade and business resumed, private offices have continued to exercise caution by encouraging a large part of their staff to work from home. “The spread of cases in Ahmedabad is extensive and therefore, we have resumed with barely 20-22% staff. We have permitted flexible working hours for employees so that they can leave office premises as soon as their day’s targets are met with. Those who can manage from home are still continuing from home,” said Vrushank Vyas, director of a city-based startup. “Most traders in New Cloth Market sanitized their shops and premises while others cleared pending deliveries. However, most shops shut around 5pm as soon as the work was done. It’s a big relief to businesses after 65 days of lockdown.” Gaurang Bhagat, president, Maskati Cloth Merchants Association“Only 15% of our staff will resume business from next week and the remaining will continue to work from home, in the wake of the extensive spread of covid-19 in Ahmedabad. We will gradually increase staff after reviewing the situation.” Jaimin Shah, MD, Dev IT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/back-with-bustle-ahmedabad-raring-to-race/articleshow/76144758.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Yes, no, yes: Gurugram border finally opens, with riders||GURUGRAM: Haryana government’s announcement that it would reopen its borders with the national capital failed to translate into any sort of relief for commuters between Gurugram and Delhi on Monday. Police and Rapid Action Force personnel put up barricades and carried out stringent checks — leading to tailbacks of up to 3km. Several thousand angry and confused commuters were stuck there for hours. The lack of clear directions to the cops on ground meant the current restrictions continued, and only people with movement passes were allowed entry and exit at the Sirhaul border. However, after the heavy pile-up of the morning, traffic flow from the capital reduced by afternoon after Delhi government announced the sealing of its border for seven days. “Delhi government has issued an order sealing its borders till June 8. We have taken it up with them, and they have agreed to honour the passes issued by us,” said V S Kundu, the additional chief secretary. While movement at Sirhaul eased later in the day, the Kapashera border remained completely sealed. In fact, people with passes were denied passage on Monday. “The area is in a containment zone and no cross-border movement is allowed. Those who have passes have been asked to use the Sirhaul border,” said a policeman. While Gurugram police commissioner Mohammad Akil could not be reached for comment, a senior officer said, “Until we get formal orders, we will continue with the earlier sealing directives.” Sources indicated that the border checks might be relaxed from Tuesday. Faridabad, which shares eight borders with Delhi, including one at Badarpur and two at Surajkund, saw increased police presence. However, the checks were not as strict as they were in Gurugram, and those with movement passes or engaged in essential services were allowed passage. In Palwal, however, the cops blocked the Kundli border and forced many people to return to Delhi. The closed borders were a rude shock for many. “My movement pass expired on May 30 and I did not renew it after hearing the news about the border reopening. But today, they asked me for a pass,” said Ram Karan, a Delhiite who owns a pharmacy in Gurugram. Ashish Kumar, a Delhi resident employed by an IT firm in Gurugram, told TOI, “My office asked me to report for work but I am stuck at the border.” In the past one month, guidelines on movement have been changing frequently, leaving residents of both cities struggling for clarity on whether they are allowed to cross the border. While the border was ‘sealed’ on May 1, curbs were eased following a May 15 Delhi high court directive to permit essential services to cross freely. However, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said on Friday that the borders would be sealed to check the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram. Watch Traffic snarls at Delhi-Gurugram border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/yes-no-yes-ggn-border-finally-opens-with-riders/articleshow/76145415.cms||Bagish Jha
June 2, 2020||Goa||Showcause issued to dy speaker’s son||Panaji: The North Goa Collectorate has slapped a showcause notice on Raymond Filipe Fernandes, the son of deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes for submitting forged documents while applying for the post of Awal Karkun. Fernandes has been asked by North Goa collector R Menaka to explain in three days why no action should be taken for attempting to mislead the government through the submission of fabricated educational qualifications. “Yes, a showcause notice is issued for claiming that he possessed a BA degree,” a source said. Fernandes submitted fabricated educational certificates from Lucknow-based Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad to claim that he had a BA degree and is thus eligible to apply for the post of Awal Karkun at the North Goa collectorate. On March 16, advocate Aires Rodrigues had urged the North Goa collector to file an FIR at the Panaji police station against Fernandes for submitting a fake BA degree. The Registrar of the Goa University had informed the North Goa Collector that the BA degree from the Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad was from a fake university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/showcause-issued-to-dy-speakers-son/articleshow/76145447.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Katraj lakes’ level lowered to avoid flooding in Ambil Odha||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to maintain low water stock in both the lakes in Katraj during this year’s monsoon to avoid flooding in Ambil Odha, which flows from Pune’s southern parts. This step is a part of the precautionary measures being taken by PMC to avoid a repeat of last year’s floods, which caused a loss of life and property in Katraj, Bibvewadi, Satara Road, Katraj-Kondhwa Road, Sahakarnagar and Sinhagad Road. For the past couple of weeks, the civic administration was working on a plan to bring down the water levels. The water level in the upper lake has been reduced by two metres while in the lower lake, the level has come down by four metres. This water is being released into the Ambil Odha, which joins the Mutha river. “We will maintain the low water levels in both the lakes throughout the monsoon. This will give the civic administration some breathing space to make arrangements to evacuate people from vulnerable spots, in case of flooding. Last year, due to sudden floods, the administration had faced a lot of difficulty in helping people in areas along the Ambil Odha,” a senior official from PMC’s water department said. The official added that the administration has taken adequate measures to prevent any damage to the ecosystem and aquatic life in the lakes. “The administration has already started clearing debris and garbage from Ambil Odha, which has increased its water carrying capacity,” the official added. Both the lakes receive rainwater from the hills located in their upstream areas. Both the lakes have not been desilted for many years. Officials from PMC further said that they currently do not have information about lake desilting plans. “The lower lake also has water hyacinth to some extent. Steps have been taken to remove it before the monsoon. We are also studying how desilting can be done in both lakes,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-lakes-level-lowered-to-avoid-flooding-in-ambil-odha/articleshow/76144763.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 2, 2020||Kanpur||Three test +ve, 57 quarantined sent to homes||Kanpur: Three more persons were tested Covid-19 positive in the city on Monday taking the total tally to 372. Of 372 patients, 305 have been discharged so far and sent home and 56 patients are being treated in the Covid-19 hospital. The new Corona cases were reported from Babupurwa and Dipti Padao areas. While one patient who was admitted at Rama Medical College in the city was discharged on Monday and sent home. As many as 57 people who were quarantined at KDA quarantine house were sent home on Monday after they completed their quarantine period. The district health department collected 319 samples for Covid test. These samples have been taken from different locations. As many as 107 teams of medical department visited Gola Ghat, Makaniya Bazar, Dalelpurwa, Anwarganj, K and Y Block of Gujjaini, Tikra Kalyanpur, Duffering and Ursala hospital campuses. These teams visited 7,046 houses and educated people about coronavirus and precautions to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-test-ve-57-quarantined-sent-to-homes/articleshow/76144765.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Allahabad||More rush in markets, but precautions up in smoke||PRAYAGRAJ: With the state government announcing further relaxations in the lockdown guidelines and state buses resuming operations, more shops opened and city markets witnessed an increased rush on Monday. The district administration on Sunday had issued a notification about the rules which shops and markets would have to follow once they open for business Monday onwards. It is mandatory for both shopkeepers and customers to wear masks and practise social distancing. However on Monday, buyers in most markets except Civil Lines were seen ignoring social distancing. The risk was graver in markets like Katra and Loknath where shops are located quite close to each other. In Katra, the shops encroaching the road make buyers more susceptible to Covid-19.  “I know that we are not supposed to turn away customers who are not wearing masks, but we cannot keep on doing it at the cost of our livelihood. We have already suffered a lot because of the lockdown,” said a shopkeeper in Katra, while requesting anonymity. UP State Regional Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses resume operations and started plying from Civil Lines bus depot. As per the directives of the government, the buses have to be sanitised before passengers are allowed inside. The conductors were seen conduct thermal screening for every passenger and making them sanitise their hands before letting them enter the bus. Each bus had 25-30 passengers on board, against their regular capacity of 79. In seats which normally accommodate three passengers, only two were allowed to sit. Whereas, in seat meant for two, just one passenger was allowed. “We have started operations while observing all precautions. We have to not only serve the public, but also take care of our staff,” said UPSRTC regional manager (Prayagraj) TK Bisen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/more-rush-in-markets-but-precautions-up-in-smoke/articleshow/76142752.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 12,000 travel in city public buses on first day||AHMEDABAD: On running their very first shifts after lockdown on Monday, AMTS and BRTS, the two AMC-run transport services in city logged a collective revenue crossing Rs 1 lakh from over 12,350 passengers. AMC officials said that the buses followed social distancing norms in passenger seating and no two passengers were allowed to seat together. The BRTS had 125 buses on eight routes outside containment areas, while the AMTS had 335 buses on 61 routes and another 50 buses put to AMC-related services. Transport officials said that during the first day of operation after lockdown the AMTs earned Rs 93,310 from 9,585 passengers, while the BRTS earned about Rs 33,200 from just 3,368 passengers. Buses on several routes had no passengers. There was a rush in the morning for eastern parts of the city, but by evening buses were plying empty. Officials said that during the days just preceding the lockdown, BRTS had 1.5 lakh passengers daily while AMTS had 5.5 lakh passengers every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-12k-travel-in-city-public-buses-on-first-day/articleshow/76144757.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||No cabs, buses trouble arriving rail passengers||Nagpur: With public transport and cabs still not allowed in city, arriving train passengers faced big problem on June 1 when 100 pairs of trains started of which two arrived in the city. On Monday, more passengers departed from city than arrived. Railway officials said 334 passengers boarded 02723 Secunderabad-Nizamuddin Express and 02791 Secunderabad-Danapur Express, while 88 passengers alighted at Nagpur. All these passengers were asked to home quarantine. Of the 100 pairs of trains, seven pairs (14 trains) will pass through Nagpur. Several passengers faced problems as no transportation was available for them to go home. Earlier, when Rajdhani trains started, the NMC had deployed two buses to drop passengers in various city areas. No such facility was available on Monday and pre-paid auto booth was also closed. Passengers hired autorickshaws waiting outside the station. Some had called their relatives or friends to take them. They demanded the pre-paid auto booth inside the station premises be restarted to help passengers. “It is very silly of the administration. If you start trains, some arrangements should be there for incoming and outgoing passengers. If one has to go to any district place, there is no transport available,” said Dinesh Tumsare, a traveler. The running of trains failed to bring better times for the coolies who continued to remain without work as passengers didn’t want their luggage to be touched by others owing to Covid-19 fear. Of the 150-odd coolies, only 7-8 are being deployed at the station in two shifts and even they don’t have work. Apart from passing trains, the SECR started operation of 02070 Gondia-Raigarh Janshatabdi Express by sanitising the entire train. The onboard housekeeping staff was allowed with self-declaration of having no symptoms of Covid-19. “We are doing counseling of the onboard staff for continuous cleaning of passenger interface items like latches, taps, etc,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-cabs-buses-trouble-arriving-rail-passengers/articleshow/76144844.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Chicken bone inside man’s lung removed||Kochi: A 4-cm-long chicken bone that was stuck inside the lungs of a 60-year-old man was removed at a private hospital in Kochi. The patient was referred to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences for bronchoscopy. During the procedure, the team headed by interventional pulmonologist Dr Tinku Joseph noticed a bone inside the right lung. However, the patient couldn’t recollect when he had swallowed it. "After finishing the procedure for removal of papilloma virus lesions of lung airway, we noticed an impacted huge piece of bone in lower aspect of right lung. With great difficulty we managed to remove it," said Dr Joseph. The patient has been suffering from progressive breathlessness and cough since early 2019. He had consulted various doctors and they diagnosed that he was suffering from Papillomatosis. In this disease, airway becomes infiltrated with multiple lesions. Over the year his right lung collapsed. The patient was then advised surgical removal of right lung. However, he visited a thoracic surgeon who said in view of his poor lung capacity, a surgery was not possible and advised to go for bronchoscopy. "The patient is better now. Only now he realized that it was the chicken bone that was the actual culprit," added Dr Joseph. Post bronchoscopic procedure, his entire right lung has opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chicken-bone-inside-mans-lung-removed/articleshow/76143164.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rs 4.27 lakh gold stolen from techie’s flat||PUNE: A tenant of the housing society at Sainathnagar in Wadgaonsheri was arrested by the Chandannager police on Monday for stealing gold ornaments worth Rs4.27 lakh from the unattended flat of a 30-year-old woman software engineer. The woman techie, Rajshree Gite, had lodged a complaint in this regard on Sunday. “Gite, along with her son, had shifted to her parents residence at Chandannagar on May 23 because of the lockdown. Her husband was in Qatar. When she visited her home on May 31 , she found that gold ornaments worth Rs4.27 lakh was missing from her cupboard,” senior inspector Shankar Khatke from the Chandannagar police said. The woman had also visited her apartment on May 28, and claimed that everything was fine. “Probe revealed that Nitin Gadre (22) — a tenant living in the same housing society — was responsible for the theft. He confessed to his involvement in the crime during the questioning on Monday,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-4-27l-gold-stolen-from-techies-flat/articleshow/76144778.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Five imported cases of Covid-19 recorded in dist||Coimbatore: After a gap of 28 days, the district recorded five imported cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 151. Officials said that a family of five people who drove down from New Delhi to outskirts of Pollachi for a wedding on May 30 tested positive for Covid-19. They were reportedly traced on Saturday, after a few others of their wedding party, tested positive in a check-post in Dindigul. The group, which included the bridegroom and two people in the risk age group, a 49-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man, were allowed home quarantine in a farm until Monday. “The wedding has not happened yet. We traced them the day they reached to their farmhouse, took nasal swabs and instructed them to remain in quarantine,” said collector K Rajamani. “We cross notified it to New Delhi and assumed it would not be recorded as Coimbatore cases,” said a health officer. “The source of infection is definitely not from Pollachi, because they were stopped and tested at the border,” he said. Meanwhile, a 32-year-old woman cop, who is a probation officer with the district collector, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The cop who had gone to Chennai before the lockdown to attend a training session, had returned to the city by road last week and resumed duty. She decided to get tested, after her colleague in Chennai tested positive for the virus. This case is not being added to Coimbatore’s tally of cases, because she contracted the virus in Chennai, and thus will be added to the capital’s count. Besides this, two passengers who flew into the city from Chennai on Sunday also tested positive. Officials confirmed that the woman, instead of quarantining herself for 14 days, joined duty as probation officer hardly two days later because she had no symptoms. Sources say the woman, who is a resident of Prisoner’s quarters just off Gandhipuram, has travelled across the city in the last one week including Pollachi. On Monday, after she tested positive, corporation health officials visited her quarters and collected nasal swabs from 50 of them, including her family members. “The quarters has around 17 families. We may collect more samples on Tuesday,” said a corporation official. “We are also making a list of people in the collectorate who came in close contact with her,” he said. Though health officers insist that the woman is asymptomatic, and thus unlikely to have transmitted the virus to anyone else through a cough or sneeze, it is unclear how she crossed the district’s border via road without being tested, especially after serving in Chennai, a hotspot for the virus. The woman is also now admitted in ESI Hospital, along with two other air passengers from Chennai who also tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-imported-cases-of-covid-19-recorded-in-dist/articleshow/76144775.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhopal||Four-year-old raped & murdered in Chhatarpur; SIT ordered||BHOPAL: In yet another gory incident, a four-year-old child was raped and murdered. Three days after the ghastly incident that took place in a small village of Chhatarpur district, cops still had no clue. A special investigating team (SIT ) was constituted , an SHO was suspended and SDO (Police) was served a show cause notice on Monday. Inspector general o f police also announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on information that leads to the arrest of the accused. The girl was found missing on the night of May 28 and her body was fished out from a well on May 29. The incident took place in Vangai village, about 20 kms away from Chhatarpur district headquarters, under Naugaon police station. Family members said that the girl was sleeping at home on the night of May 28 along with her grandfather, but was found missing next morning. The family alleged that police was informed, but cops did not respond.  On May 29 , a villager spotted the body in a dug -well and it was later retrieved. Though the police started investigation, rape was not confirmed. Thereafter, the body was sent for post- mortem . On May 31, SP Kumar Saurabh reached Naugaon and suspended SHO BN Sharma on June 1, reportedly for not informing him about the short PM report. The PM report was leaked on May 31 and people came to know about incident. Cases were registered under different sections -376 ( rape) , POCSO ( protection of children from sexual offences act) and 363 (kidnapping) - against the accused. In the fast turn of events, the DIG and IG also rushed to the spot in the morning. First, the SP announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for relevant information that leads to the arrest of the accused. The IG increased the amount to Rs 25,000 and also announced an SIT to look into the case. IG Anil Sharma said, “Some suspects were rounded up and SIT has started working immediately on the case.” ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/4-year-old-raped-murdered-in-chhatarpur-sit-ordered/articleshow/76144152.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tug of war over sealing borders, reserving beds||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday sought feedback from the public on two issues of governance — whether the borders should remain sealed after a week and whether beds in hospitals should be reserved only for the city’s residents. An intense debate has started on both issues and opinions remain divided. While some residents want to take the self-preservation route, others opine that public vote shouldn’t be taken on such emotive issues. Rajiv Kakria, convener of Save Our City campaign, supported the bed reservation policy, but opposed sealing of the borders and politicking on the matter. “The government shouldn’t take public referendum on such emotive issues. Till now, Delhi was complaining about Haryana sealing the borders, but now we are doing the same. Are we playing games? Is it a move to stop liquor supply from across the border? The number of hospital beds is limited. Why should Haryana and UP send their patients to Delhi when they are sealing the borders?” asked Kakria. Industrialists and traders were worried about the repercussions on business activities. Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of Confederation of All India Traders, said it would be advisable if Kejriwal talked with the CMs of UP and Haryana and installed mutually agreed upon measures on the borders to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus. “A large number of traders and their employees reside in NCR towns like Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad, Gurgaon and Bahadurgarh. Many Delhi residents have businesses in these towns too,” added Khandelwal. Raghuvansh Arora, who heads Apex Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said sealing of the borders would adversely impact the revival of industrial activities. “There’s already a massive shortage of labourers. If we open markets and industries and seal the borders, then the availability of labourers will go down further,” he added. “Politics is being played on populist issues. We should have one nation, one system. If my workers from other states get sick, won’t they be entitled to get a bed in Delhi hospitals? What’s the logic behind this step?” asked Arora. Atul Goyal, president of United Residents Joint Action, an RWA collective, said such steps were ruining the cosmopolitan character of the city. “Before the lockdown, 30-40 lakh people used to come to Delhi daily. If we can open liquor shops for boosting the economy, then how can sealing the borders help in restarting economic activities? If employees can’t come, how will the work start?” he asked. Delhi has hospitals that are privately owned as well as run by the state and the central governments. “Delhi government can’t intervene in central hospitals. These steps will only invite trouble. We are going in the wrong direction,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tug-of-war-over-sealing-borders-reserving-beds/articleshow/76145422.cms||Paras Singh
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Day One: Outlets in Ekm report 70% of normal sales||Kochi: Even though day one of liquor sale through virtual queue management app Bev Q left many tipplers in the city disappointed due to glitches in the app on Thursday, those who got the token and managed to buy the liquor, beer and wine were satisfied as they did not have to wait in serpentine queues under scorching sun. Moreover, the bars at some of the star hotels, which were unaffordable to the laymen in normal days, sold the liquor and beer at KSBC price and queues were seen outside these hotels too throughout the day. The Bevco and Consumerfed outlets in Ernakulam witnessed steady flow and reported up to 70% of the total sale on normal days. The bars and beer & wine parlours too reported good business. According to excise officials, 131 out of the 146 bars, 60 beer and wine parlours, 36 Bevco outlets and seven Consumerfed outlets in Ernakulam excise division functioned on the first day. Officials said that 40,215 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor, 11,250 litres of beer and 72 litres of wine were sold in the district on Thursday. Even though the customers have reached the Bevco outlets allotted to them much ahead of the prescribed time slot, the glitch in scanning QR codes of the token had delayed the service for some time. Only those people who had tokens were allowed to be in the queue and many elderly people who were unaware of the app or virtual queue returned disappointed after the police blocked them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/day-one-outlets-in-ekm-report-70-of-normal-sales/articleshow/76143194.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kanpur||Mumbai-Kanpur flight cancelled till June 3||Kanpur: The Mumbai- Kanpur–Mumbai flight, which was scheduled to be resumed on Monday, has once is once again been canceled till June 3 due to some unavoidable reasons on Monday.The last Mumbai-Kanpur-Mumbai flight that had landed at Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial Chakeri airport was on March 24. On the other hand, Delhi- Kanpur- Delhi flight continued to operate.Welcoming resumption of Mumbai-Kanpur flights, several passengers had got their tickets booked but the ministry of civil aviation on late Sunday evening announced that the flight has been suspended till June 3.According to airport director, VK Jha as many as 180 air passengers had booked their tickets from Mumbai to Kanpur and around 90 persons for the return journey, but all the tickets were canceled by the flying operator. Similarly, tickets for June 2 and June 3 too were canceled. He hoped the flight would resume from June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mumbai-kanpur-flight-cancelled-till-june-3/articleshow/76144783.cms||Anant Chandak
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 265 positive, Haryana hurtles past Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 cases continued to sharp risely in Haryana on Monday as 265 more people tested positive in the state, taking its tally past neighbouring Punjab. While Haryana has so far reported 2,356 cases, the figure is 2,301 for neighbouring Punjab. The higher number of cases in Haryana could also be due to higher rate of testing. While Haryana has carried out 1,21,779 tests so far, this number is just 91,113 in Punjab. Yet again, the highest number of cases were reported from Gurugram, 129. The district has so far reported 903 cases. There was also a spike in cases in Sirsa, as 28 people tested positibve in the district. Fresh cases were also reported from Faridabad (25), Rohtak (14), Hisar (13), Sonipat (13), Kaithal (11), Palwal (11), Bhiwani (5), Kurukshetra (4), Fatehabad (4), Jhajjar (4), Nuh (2) and Jind (2). There were four cases in Karnal and two in Panipat too, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin on Covid-19. This is the first time that such a high number of cases have been reported from Sirsa and Hisar. To contain the virus, a special campaign has been launched in Haryana for random sampling of vegetable vendors, health workers, police personnel, journalists, pharmacists, depot holders, and sanitation workers. Screening is also being carried out in slums of Faridabad, Gurgaon and Sonipat. The highest number of containment zones, 75, have been identified in Gurgaon district. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the patients included a 25-year-old youth of Barthal village, a 45 year-old man and his 35-year-old wife from Ashoka Vihar Colony in Madhuban, and a 21-year-old woman from Sadar Bazar. All patients have travel history to Delhi and Gurgaon. They have been admitted to Mullana Medical College and Hospital, Ambala, for treatment. The Panipat patients included men aged 22 and 26 from Dadlana village. All patients in Kaithal are secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients. ( Inputs taken from Jind and Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/265-ve-haryana-hurtles-past-punjab/articleshow/76144796.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Apply online for all types of work in RTO||PUNE: Now, one would need to take online appointments for any type of work in the Regional Transport Office. “For issue of duplicate licences, making changes in personal details or renewal of documents, an online appointment would have to be taken. This would ensure less crowding in the regional transport offices. Quota of appointment has been fixed for all types of work,” Vinod Sagare, deputy regional transport oficer, Pimpri Chinchwad, told TOI. The officials said those not carrying printouts of the appointment would not be allowed to enter the offices. Sources stated that all the regional transport offices would continue to follow the online appointment system even after the lockdown is lifted and things return to normal. The transport department issued an order last week allowing regional transport offices in non-containment zones to resume work, except those related to issuing driving licences. The Pimpri Chinchwad regional transport office has started functioning in a full-fledged manner as it does not fall under the red zone. It is carrying out work pertaining to vehicle registration, renewal of permits, fitness certificates, transfer of ownership etc. The Pune regional transport office is currently engaged in doing work related to new vehicle registration as it is in the containment zone. “For licence application and even for carrying out fitness test of vehicles, one has to log on to the ‘parivahan’ portal of the transport ministry (parivahan.gov.in), select the state and follow the procedure. The same appointment system will be followed in case of other services. The number of daily appointments will be very limited,” another official said. Regional transport offices sources said that once the work of issuing driving licences starts, daily appointments would be reduced. “On an average, the Pune regional transport office issues 300 appointments daily, each for learners' licence and permanent licence. Once business resumes, appointments will come down to around 60%,” the official stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/apply-online-for-all-types-of-work-in-rto/articleshow/76144793.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Covid count past 20,000 in Delhi, 50 fresh deaths reported too||NEW DELHI: The capital’s Covid-19 count crossed the 20,000 mark to reach 20,834 with 990 more persons testing positive for the viral infection on Monday. While the first 10,000 cases came in 77 days, from March 2 to May 18, data shows that it took only 14 days for the city to reach the next 10,000 — which is reflective of the speed at which the virus is spreading. Delhi reported its first Covid-19 death on March 13. The number has now gone up to 523. State health authorities on Monday confirmed 50 more deaths caused due to Covid-19. They, however, clarified that only 12 deaths took place on Sunday while the rest of the numbers came from an assessment of case sheets received from hospitals, which included some fatalities that had taken place earlier. The state has 11,565 active cases at the moment. Of this, government data shows that 2,748 patients are admitted in various Covid hospitals while the rest are at Covid care centre, Covid health centres or under isolation at home. “Only 261 patients, 2% of the active cases, are requiring ICU and ventilator support,” an official said. AIIMS has 11 patients who are on ventilator support, followed by Sir Ganga Ram City (7), Safdarjung Hospital (6), Apollo Hospital (5), Max Saket (4) and Maa Durga Charitable Trust (3). RML and Fortis Hospitals have two patients each while LNJP and Sir Ganga Ram have one patient each, who are on ventilator support. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Monday held a meeting with senior officers to review the Covid-19 situation in the capital. Sources said that health minister Satyendar Jain also held a review meeting with officers of health department and medical directors of dedicated Delhi government hospitals for Covid-19. “A revised order has been issued regarding paid quarantine at designated hotels. An order has been issued to add an additional hotel for accommodation of government officers for Covid-19 treatment,” the state health bulletin said. With an increase in the number of cases, the number of calls received for CATS ambulance and general queries related to Covid-19 on the government helpline has also gone up. On April 30, for example, CATS control room received 68 calls while 891 calls were received on the helpline. Monday’s (June 1) data shows that 343 calls were received by CATS, while the corresponding figures for calls made on the helpline has gone up to 1,375.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-count-past-20k-in-city-50-fresh-deaths-reported-too/articleshow/76145435.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||CM, ministers & officials who attended cabinet meet with Satpal Maharaj ‘low-risk contacts’, no need to quarantine them, says Doon dist admin||Dehradun: The Doon district administration as well as the state health department on Monday decided that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and his cabinet colleagues — who had attended the cabinet meeting on May 29 along with tourism minister Satpal Maharaj — who was subsequently found Covid-19-positive — were not required to be quarantined as they were categorised as a ‘low-risk contact.’ Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Srivastava told TOI that a detailed report was prepared on the social distancing and security norms which were followed during the state cabinet held on May 29, on the basis of which the district administration and health department came to a final conclusion that none of the cabinet ministers or officials present during the cabinet meet were required to be quarantined. “No minister or senior official came in direct contact with the tourism minister and hence they don’t have to get quarantined,” said the DM. State urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik who was present during the cabinet meet— the others included agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat and chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh among the prominent attendees —- said that the district administration had issued letters terming those present in the cabinet meet to be low-risk contacts who were not required to be quarantined as per guidelines issued by the central government on May 18. “However, as a precautionary measure, we have decided to be in self quarantine and continue working from home,” Kaushik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-ministers-officials-who-attended-cabinet-meet-with-satpal-maharaj-low-risk-contacts-no-need-to-quarantine-them-says-doon-dist-admin/articleshow/76143195.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 2, 2020||Bareilly||After tiger’s death, PTR seeks own vet, biologist, sociologist||Pilibhit: In the wake of widespread criticism of the way an injured tiger was tranquilized at Jari village on May 4 and its subsequent death, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) authorities have decided to have their own veterinary officer, a biologist and a sociologist instead of depending on other organizations. Reserve's field director H Rajamohan, has sought the approval of the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), UP, for appointing its own specialists on contract basis. This is the first-ever move of PTR since the time it was notified on June 9, 2014. None of the tiger reserves and wildlife sanctuaries in UP has its own veterinary officer despite a directive by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). In the absence of their own officers, the tiger reserves have to depend either upon the veterinary officers of zoos, non-government organizations like Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) or district administration in times of an emergency. Rajamohan said PTR has demanded that NTCA pay the contractual officers. The field director said appointing reserve's own veterinary officer was felt as doubts had been raised about the decision of hitting the tiger with two darts one after another by Dr SK Rathaur, a government veterinary officer posted in Pilibhit. The biologist would carry out duties of reviewing the health of big cats, the ratio between herbivores and tigers, the need for changing grass species and the adequacy or the deficiency of water bodies among other things, said Rajamohan. A sociologist's role would be to educate communities living in proximity of PTR on ways to avert man-tiger conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-tigers-death-ptr-seeks-own-vet-biologist-sociologist/articleshow/76143189.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Four hack businessman to death in Pune||PUNE: Four men allegedly assaulted a small-time businessman to death over a previous dispute at Meethanagar in Kondhwa around 5.30pm on Monday. Police identified the deceased as Bablu Ibrahim Sayyed (45) from Meethanagar. Sayyed and the assailants were neighbours in Kasba Peth, police said adding that the victim had shifted to Meethanagar about a year ago after a dispute broke out between him and the assailants over the issue of PMC demolishing their properties. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said, “ Sayyed closed his garage in Kasba Peth and was on his way home on a scooter when the four men armed with sharp weapons intercepted him and brutally assaulted him.” Police said Sayyed was rushed to a private hospital in Wanowrie where he died during treatment. “We have identified two assailants and fanned teams for arresting them,” Gaikwad said. The police was in the process of registering an FIR at the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-hack-businessman-to-death/articleshow/76144787.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Dubai returnee, 2-year-old girl infected||KURUKSHETRA: A 23-year-old man who recently returned from Dubai and a two-year-old girl whose grandmother had contracted the coronavirus infection were among the four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Kurukshetra on Monday. The other new cases include two men aged 31 and 60 and the number of active cases in the district is now 21, said civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. “The child’s grandmother had come to meet her daughter at New Colony, Thanesar, and she tested positive on May 25. The girl has been isolated at MMU Hospital, Mullana, and her mother will take care of her,” said Dr Sukhbir The Dubai returnee is from Samaspur village. His sample was taken on Saturday. The 31-year-old man had returned from Ghaziabad in the third week of May, said the official. The 60-year-old man is from Ladwa and he tested positive for the virus at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Sunday. “His residential area has been declared a containment zone,” said Dr Sukhbir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dubai-returnee-2-year-old-girl-infected/articleshow/76144841.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 2, 2020||Bareilly||First cyber police station of Bareilly range inaugurated||BAREILLY: The region’s first cyber police station – a multi-tiered specialised police station with a dedicated team for cybercrime to investigate a spectrum of online frauds involving e-commerce, credit card frauds etc. was inaugurated on Monday. Additional director general (ADG) of Bareilly zone Avinash Chandra, in the presence of deputy inspector general (DIG) Rajesh Kumar Pandey, opened the police station, which is headed by an inspector-level police officer. “This cyber police station will cover four districts of the range and all cases related to online fraud, digital currency, fake news on social media and bank frauds will be registered here. All officials deployed here are trained software professionals. The number of officials at this unit will depend on the number of cases that are being recorded,” Chandra said. “All cybercrime cases reported in Bareilly, Budaun, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur will be dealt by a dedicated team of experts who have been provided latest software and equipment to tackle the challenges posed by criminals involved in advance crimes like frauds involving ATM, credit card, e-wallet, fake profile and password hacking etc,” DIG Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/first-cyber-police-station-of-bareilly-range-inaugurated/articleshow/76143214.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 2, 2020||Coimbatore||1,010 buses operated in Salem division||Salem/Udhagamandalam: As many as 1,010 buses were operated on Monday by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) in the Salem region comprising Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. Similarly, buses were operated between six districts of the first zone. Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Erode, Tirupur, Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts fall under first zone. “We started bus operations between these seven districts since Monday morning,” said Salem district collector S A Raman. He said 50% of buses were operated with 60% of passengers. According to the TNSTC, 397 buses including 262 town buses and 135 mofussil buses were operated in Salem district while 162 buses in Namakkal district, 208 in Dharmapuri district and 243 in Krishnagiri district were operated. “We have operated a total of 1,010 from these four districts,” a senior official from the Salem division TNSTC told TOI. However, passenger capacity was less compared with normal days from Salem to other districts of first zone. The passengers were allowed inside the buses only after sanitizing their hands. Similarly, the officials completely disinfectant the buses before operating from the bus stands, twice a day. “We have instructed conductors to allow only those passengers who wear face mask,” the official said. If any passenger is found without mask, he/she will be fined, and departmental inquiry will be initiated against the conductor. Similarly, buses were operated from Erode district to all the five districts including Salem and Coimbatore. In the Nilgiris, which falls under zone-I, 160 government buses were operated on Monday. However, the district administration has warned those trying to enter the district without valid reasons. Pointing out the government’s order that tourism activities in the Nilgiris are not opened, collector J Innocent Divya said, “People cannot take this relaxation in movement within the zone without e-permit as an opportunity to travel to the Nilgiris. Tourism is prohibited here till further orders from the government.” She said, “If people are found travelling to the Nilgiris unnecessarily, their vehicles will be seized, and action will be taken against them under the Disaster Management Act”. Details, including purpose of travelling, of people travelling to the Nilgiris by public transport or by taxi or own vehicles will be collected at all the check posts located at the entry points of the district. Travellers should adhere to the standard operation procedures prescribed by the government, according to the collector. In connection with traffic on the Ooty-Coonoor-Mettupalayam Road and Ooty-Kotagiri-Mettupalayam Road, Divya said, “We will monitor the traffic for two days. If the traffic seemed heavy, we will make the routes one way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1010-buses-operated-in-salem-division/articleshow/76144797.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bareilly||Now 25% fruit bearing trees to be planted during plantation drive in July||Bareilly: In the yearly plantation drive – scheduled to be held in July – 25% of the saplings will constitute fruit bearing trees, according to the forest department of Lakhimpur Kheri district. The move will ensure that herbivores like monkey, baboons and bears can find food within the forest areas of the district, which will help prevent instances of man-animal conflict as animals won't have to wander looking for food. Kheri has a target to plant nearly 66 lakhs saplings in July this year. The forest department is preparing saplings of mango, jamun, tamarind, drumsticks, Indian gooseberry etc. for the drive at various nurseries. It has also identified potential sites where the saplings will be planted. Nearly 20 hectares of forest land in the buffer range of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve will be utilised for plantation and as many as 625 saplings will be planted in each hectare of forest land. Divisional forest officer (buffer) Anil Patel said, “We have prepared saplings in 32 nurseries operating in the district. We are regularly monitoring preparations for the drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-25-fruit-bearing-trees-to-be-planted-during-plantation-drive-in-july/articleshow/76143201.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||Barber dumps masks, trims hair on road||Vadodara: A barber having his shop on Vasna Road was arrested on Sunday night for dumping used face masks, trimmed hair and razor blades on road outside his shop. Police said that while patrolling on Vasna Road they received a message that a salon owner had dumped the waste on the road. On reaching near Taksh Complex, cops found waste dumped on the road outside his Scissors Salon. “It was past 8pm and the salon was open, so we checked inside and inquired with owner Mithilesh Sharma. He admitted that instead of throwing the waste in a dustbin, he had littered the road,” said a police official. Since the dumped waste can spread infection and coronavirus, police arrested Sharma, a resident of Manjalpur. Besides booking Sharma for negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, he was also booked for violation of public notification as his shop was open beyond the permitted time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barber-dumps-masks-trims-hair-on-road/articleshow/76142565.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||New MV Act may be implemented in state from July||Panaji: After getting its proposal on implementation of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, vetted by the law department, the transport department has put up a file before the state government to decide on the date to implement the new act. “We have put up two drafts before the government, one with reduced fines and the other in the original form. It is up to the government to decide which one has to be implemented in the state to act against traffic violators,” a senior government officer said.  The officer futher added that if the government takes a decision then the new act could be implemented from July. He said that the decision will be taken during the cabinet meeting. Transport minister Mauvin Godinho had said that the implementation of new M V (Amendment) Act has been delayed because the zilla panchayat code of conduct is in force. Former transport minister and MGP’s Ramkrishna Dhavalikar had demanded Godinho’s resignation over non-implementation of the act in the state. Dhavalikar had blamed Godhinho for the fatal accidents in the state. Godinho had said that while the Centre increased the fine for helmetless riding from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000, the state wanted to restrict the penalty to Rs 500. In no parking cases, the fines have been increased from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000, but we will try to restrict it to Rs 500, the minister had said. The new legislation came into force across the country on September 1, 2019. However, after some state governments raised concerns regarding some of the hiked fines, they were permitted to impose lower penalties for certain traffic violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-mv-act-may-be-implemented-in-state-from-july/articleshow/76145462.cms||Murari Shetye
June 2, 2020||Kanpur||Normalcy returns to city except in containment zones||KANPUR: Normalcy has started returning in the city except in parts of the containment zones after the Central government’s unlock 1.0 decision which came into effect from Monday.  Senior citizens, after going through the guidelines issued by the state government and in compliance of unlock 1.0, welcomed the Monday morning by going for morning walks and doing workouts in parks. As per the guidelines, people can start their general activities from 4 am but consumer activities will begin from 6 am to 8 pm while main markets are allowed to open from 9 am to 8 pm. Few city buses also plied but there was no rush on roads. Though pillion riding has been allowed on two-wheelers but pillion rider will have to use mask and helmet. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari in a press release issued on the intervening night of May 31 and June 1, stated that all shops in city markets would open as per old schedule and roster but shopkeepers and customers would strictly follow social distancing standards. The shopkeepers will have to use mask, gloves and keep sanitizer in shops. They would not entertain any customers in their shops who is not wearing mask or not maintaining social distancing. Any failure in this regard would invite legal action against them. He said the night curfew would remain in force from 9 pm to 5 pm. Earlier, it was from 7 pm to 6 am. City, roadways and private buses, autos, e –rickshaws and cabs have been allowed to ply but only after following seating capacity restrictions of passengers, the DM said. Buses would be sanitized daily and not carry standing passengers. It is mandatory for bus drivers and conductors to wear gloves and masks, he added. He said hair cutting saloons have been allowed to open but they have to maintain social distancing norms and sanitize them daily. They would work with reduced number of helpers, use mask, gloves and face shield. The cloth or towel would be used only once, he said. Sweet shops cannot serve snacks and sweets at their shops. The entry of customers must be in compliance with the Covid-19 protocol. Sanitization at entry gate is mandatory. Similarly, street vendors too could open their shops but after following the instructions announced earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/normalcy-returns-to-city-except-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76144817.cms||Anant Chandak
June 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Buses resume service, but with lower footfall||Coimbatore: Monday was a different day for the state transport corporation (TNSTC), with the resumption of its bus services after a hiatus of over two months. An all-pervasive fear of the pandemic among passengers resulted in lower footfall in buses. This forced the transport corporation to cut both the number of buses it planned to operate and the trips that each bus was supposed to make. A senior TNSTC official said, “as the state government had permitted us to operate 50% of our fleet, we decided to operate 1,019 town and mofussil buses in Coimbatore division. But the number of buses were reduced to 992 because of poor footfall.” On the first day of resumption of bus services, 375 buses from Coimbatore, 160 from Nilgiris, 279 from Erode and 178 from Tirupur were operated. In Coimbatore, 212 town buses and 103 mofussil buses were operated, the official said. Many buses had to wait to fill the allocated seat capacity. Based on the demand, the corporation might increase the number of buses in the future, the official said. A commuter, R Palanivelu, said, “Due to lack of public transportation, I was dropping my wife to her workplace every day in my vehicle. Now that the bus service has resumed, we need not wait for long.” A bus driver said despite running the bus for the entire day, they managed to earn a little over Rs 1,000, which would not be sufficient to even get a fuel refill.” M Velankanni Raj, general secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said, the minimal footfall could be because the public had assumed that buses would be crowded or they were scared to step out of their houses due to the pandemic. ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/buses-resume-service-but-with-lower-footfall/articleshow/76144805.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Woman steals baby after doctors declare her unfit to conceive||LUCKNOW: The yearning to have a child after doctors said she couldn’t conceive drove Wazirganj resident Seema Shukla to commit the crime of stealing a newborn from Queen Mary’s Hospital, and landed her behind bars along with her husband. Seema stole a 12-day-old child on May 24 after a tip-off from her husband Sanjay who sells snacks from a kiosk near Queen Mary’s Hospital. She confessed to have made attempts of stealing babies earlier too, but failed. One Jagdish Pihani had lodged an FIR at Chowk police station of his baby going missing from hospital. Jagdish’s wife Mamta (30) was referred from Hardoi on May 13 after heavy bleeding and gave birth same day through C-section, but had to go for a minor procedure on May 24. Jagdish handed over the child to a woman when Mamta was being taken for procedure. But the woman who had covered her face with a dupatta and the child were nowhere to be found when he returned. It took police six days, scanning CCTV camera footage, inquiring from 300 homes and seeking information from eunuchs to recover the child. After a miscarriage in December 2019, Seema had been told by doctors at Sitapur CHC that she will never be able to have a child, so she planned to steal one. Seema, who had been in depression since her miscarriage, even celebrated the stolen child’s birthday and the cake that she distributed led police to her. On Monday, Seema and Sanjay were sent behind bars and the infant handed to his parents. “We scanned CCTV footage of areas around the hospital. The woman was spotted at Daliganj crossing on a rickshaw. From there she was caught taking a turn towards River Bank Colony,” said SHO Chowk, Vishwajeet Singh. We made inquiries and questioned over 300 people. On fourth day, a man informed that cake was distributed near a semi-constructed house where the couple lived on rent. Sanjay spilled the beans on questioning, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-steals-baby-after-docs-declare-her-unfit-to-conceive/articleshow/76145467.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Salem||1,010 buses operated in Salem division||Salem/Udhagamandalam: As many as 1,010 buses were operated on Monday by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) in the Salem region comprising Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. Similarly, buses were operated between six districts of the first zone. Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Erode, Tirupur, Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts fall under first zone. “We started bus operations between these seven districts since Monday morning,” said Salem district collector S A Raman. He said 50% of buses were operated with 60% of passengers. According to the TNSTC, 397 buses including 262 town buses and 135 mofussil buses were operated in Salem district while 162 buses in Namakkal district, 208 in Dharmapuri district and 243 in Krishnagiri district were operated. “We have operated a total of 1,010 from these four districts,” a senior official from the Salem division TNSTC told TOI. However, passenger capacity was less compared with normal days from Salem to other districts of first zone. The passengers were allowed inside the buses only after sanitizing their hands. Similarly, the officials completely disinfectant the buses before operating from the bus stands, twice a day. “We have instructed conductors to allow only those passengers who wear face mask,” the official said. If any passenger is found without mask, he/she will be fined, and departmental inquiry will be initiated against the conductor. Similarly, buses were operated from Erode district to all the five districts including Salem and Coimbatore. In the Nilgiris, which falls under zone-I, 160 government buses were operated on Monday. However, the district administration has warned those trying to enter the district without valid reasons. Pointing out the government’s order that tourism activities in the Nilgiris are not opened, collector J Innocent Divya said, “People cannot take this relaxation in movement within the zone without e-permit as an opportunity to travel to the Nilgiris. Tourism is prohibited here till further orders from the government.” She said, “If people are found travelling to the Nilgiris unnecessarily, their vehicles will be seized, and action will be taken against them under the Disaster Management Act”. Details, including purpose of travelling, of people travelling to the Nilgiris by public transport or by taxi or own vehicles will be collected at all the check posts located at the entry points of the district. Travellers should adhere to the standard operation procedures prescribed by the government, according to the collector. In connection with traffic on the Ooty-Coonoor-Mettupalayam Road and Ooty-Kotagiri-Mettupalayam Road, Divya said, “We will monitor the traffic for two days. If the traffic seemed heavy, we will make the routes one way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/1010-buses-operated-in-salem-division/articleshow/76153914.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Erode||Buses resume service, but with lower footfall||Coimbatore: Monday was a different day for the state transport corporation (TNSTC), with the resumption of its bus services after a hiatus of over two months. An all-pervasive fear of the pandemic among passengers resulted in lower footfall in buses. This forced the transport corporation to cut both the number of buses it planned to operate and the trips that each bus was supposed to make. A senior TNSTC official said, “as the state government had permitted us to operate 50% of our fleet, we decided to operate 1,019 town and mofussil buses in Coimbatore division. But the number of buses were reduced to 992 because of poor footfall.” On the first day of resumption of bus services, 375 buses from Coimbatore, 160 from Nilgiris, 279 from Erode and 178 from Tirupur were operated. In Coimbatore, 212 town buses and 103 mofussil buses were operated, the official said. Many buses had to wait to fill the allocated seat capacity. Based on the demand, the corporation might increase the number of buses in the future, the official said. A commuter, R Palanivelu, said, “Due to lack of public transportation, I was dropping my wife to her workplace every day in my vehicle. Now that the bus service has resumed, we need not wait for long.” A bus driver said despite running the bus for the entire day, they managed to earn a little over Rs 1,000, which would not be sufficient to even get a fuel refill.” M Velankanni Raj, general secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said, the minimal footfall could be because the public had assumed that buses would be crowded or they were scared to step out of their houses due to the pandemic. ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/buses-resume-service-but-with-lower-footfall/articleshow/76153890.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 2, 2020||Pune||Cantts get funds from finance panel||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Union government has sanctioned funds for the cantonment boards for the first time through the finance commission, giving a new income source to them. Pramod Singh, CEO, Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB), said, "The 15th finance commission has sanctioned Rs1.05 crore to the KCB. The Pune Cantonment Board has been sanctioned Rs1.06 crore, while the Dehu Road Cantonment Board has been sanctioned Rs 84.16 lakh."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cantts-get-funds-from-finance-panel/articleshow/76144801.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
June 2, 2020||Pune||PCMC GB nod to budget without discussions||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The general body (GB) of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Monday approved the annual budget with an outlay of Rs6,627.99 crore for 2020-21. There was no discussion on the budget. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar had presented the draft budget before the standing committee in February this year. The lockdown and curfew situation resulted in the budget not getting approved before March 31. The approval of the GB is a must for the budget to be passed. Hence, it was decided to hold a special GB meeting on June 1. Mayor Usha Dhore, GB chairperson, and Santosh Londhe, chairman, standing committee, presented the budget. Hardikar said the budget was prepared taking in view of the earlier situation, however, the coronavirus pandemic changed many equations for the country as well as for the PCMC. "The GST, property tax, water tax, and development tax are the biggest sources of revenue, which has been affected badly due to the current situation. Since now the situation is returning to normalcy, we expect revenues to go up. Restriction has been placed on expenditure and we will adhere to it," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-gb-nod-to-budget-without-discussions/articleshow/76144812.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kanpur||Anti-TJ remarks in viral video land GSVM principal in trouble||Kanpur: The principal of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college landed in trouble after a video with recording of her alleged controversial remarks against Tablighi Jamaat patients went viral on social media. In the video, principal Dr Arati Lalchandani is shown making objectionable remarks against Jamaat patients, calling them terrorists and saying they should be dumped in jail and thrashed with batons. “They are terrorists and should be dumped in jail but, we are giving them VIP treatment and that too at the cost of our doctors, paramedical staff and others who will fell ill because of them. We are paying hotel bills, spending on medicines, PPE kits and food for them. The Union government is spending Rs 2,000 to 2,500 on one PPE kit. It is because of them that we will go into financial emergency,” Lalchandani is heard saying. TOI could not verify the authenticity of the video. In the 5-minute video, she also allegedly says that the state government is doing appeasement politics and is hence spending so much money on Tablighi Jamaatis admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital after Covid-19 outbreak in March. She further complains that her doctors and medical staff is being exposed to unnecessary risk due to Jamaatis and added that the district administration was not listening to her and she would write to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. “I confronted the CMO as 80 ambulances were engaged in shifting Jamaatis. The GDP of India will dip and there will be economic emergency, and the reason for this will be these 30 crore,” she said. When TOI contacted Dr Lalchandani for her comments, she said the video was two months old and edited to malign her image. The objectionable comments have been added by a journalist to blackmail and extort money from her, she said. “I will lodge an FIR. This video was made at my home when I was complaining about the bad behaviour of Jamaatis who were harassing health workers,” she said. Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member and former MP Subhashini Ali demanded demanded a probe and immediate strict action against Dr Lalchandani. “I demand that if the video is found authentic, she must be dismissed and prosecuted,” said Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/anti-tj-remarks-in-viral-video-land-gsvm-principal-in-trouble/articleshow/76144806.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Man walks away withgold chain from shop||Kochi:Njarackal police have intensified the search for a man who stole a gold chain from a jewellery shop on Wednesday. Police said the man wore the chain and walked away when the salesperson was not paying attention. The man, who was not wearing a mask, was caught on camera doing the crime. “The incident happened on Wednesday afternoon at a jewellery store in Njarackal town. Only one salesperson was at the store and the man was initially trying rings. When the salesperson turned away to weigh an ornament, he wore the chain, looked at a mirror and walked away. Though the salesperson chased him, he fled on a blue scooter,” said a police officer. A case of theft was registered at Njarackal police station. Police said they are in the process of tracking the accused. “We have collected CCTV footages from the neighbourhood to trace him. His face was fairly recognisable and we would soon arrest him,” said an officer with Njarackal police. Police said they are also cross verifying their records to find if he was a historysheeter and further details couldn’t be divulged as it may hamper the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-walks-away-withgold-chain-from-shop/articleshow/76143210.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Thane||Thane: Protests as new towers marked for isolation unit||THANE: Over a hundred residents of a new residential complex in Diva (that lies between Mumbra and Dombivli) and those planning to move into their homes clashed with the police at the gates on Monday afternoon as Thane civic officials arrived to survey some towers for use as quarantine centres. As many as 150 people, including women and the elderly, closed the complex gate and stonewalled the civic team that came to Runwal My City complex at Betawade village. Residents claimed the officials called in the police and, along with some local politicians, forced their way in leaving some of them injured in the scuffle. Authorities said five of the 10 24-storey towers in the complex were earmarked as standby quarantine centres in March. The administration has now decided to make this facility operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/protests-as-new-towers-marked-for-isolation-unit/articleshow/76145458.cms||Manoj Badgeri
June 2, 2020||India||Private players may soon end Isro monopoly||CHENNAI: India's space programme is all set for privatization as the Space Commission has cleared a proposal to set up a National Space Activities Promotion Board. Two sources in the department of space familiar with the developments told TOI that the Prime Minister’s office is expected to give its nod for the move that would mark the beginning of the end of Indian Space Research Organisation’s monopoly in the Indian space sector. In fact, the proposal came as a result of a year-long process initiated by the PMO to reform strategic sectors. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had, on May 16, announced that the government would make future projects for planetary exploration and outer space travel open for private sector. A senior official in the department of space told TOI that the proposed board will have powers independent of Isro. “It may have a chairman and a handful of members drawn from different strategic government sectors as also independent experts. The board will broadly lay the road for private companies to take up research and development of rockets and satellites, besides taking up space missions. The PMO will decide on its constitution and autonomy,” the official said. Leading space-faring nations such as the US and China, besides the European Space Agency, have been encouraging private companies to be part of their space programme, while India had kept its core activities within Isro while outsourcing manufacturing of components for rockets and satellites from private companies. “This will soon end,” said the source. “Isro will be one of the players, if a prominent one, in future space missions.” The PMO had, in June last year, set up a committee headed by Union minister Nitin Gadkari to study and suggest measures to strengthen the country’s strategic sectors. A deputy secretary in the PMO has been coordinating the reform plan for the space sector. There were differences of opinion within Isro as a section wanted to hold on to the organisation’s monopoly, while several seniors felt the need for opening up the sector to increase revenue from satellite launches and take up ambitious interplanetary missions. After several rounds of discussions, the space commission (which is chaired by the Isro chairman and comprises about a dozen secretaries of the Union government besides the national security advisor) approved the proposal on May 20. Four days earlier, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government would allow private players to share Isro’s assets. "India already has the benefit of an extraordinary institution like Isro, but now lots of private players are also coming in with innovative space technology. We will allow private players to benefit from Isro’s assets and give them a level-playing field to boost India's space sector further,” she had said. Isro chairman K Sivan did not respond to calls and messages from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-players-may-soon-end-isro-monopoly/articleshow/76146037.cms||Arun Ram
June 2, 2020||Bareilly||Extortionist demands Rs 10 lakh from farmer, cops on alert||Pilibhit: Farmer Padam Singh, a popular figure in Gandhi Nagar village under Hajara police station, who is also the president of Kabirganj Sadhan Sahkari Samiti, was in for a rude surprise on Monday, when the postman delivered a hand-written letter in which an unknown person had made an extortion demand of Rs 10 lakh. He informed police post-haste, who lodged an FIR and deployed a special team to identify the post office from where the letter was dispatched, and cops in plainclothes at his farmhouse to keep a look out for the miscreants. In the letter, the extortionist has warned Singh not to involve police, threatening to kill him otherwise. Singh, who forwarded a scan of the letter to TOI via a messenger service, also said he had been warned that he was on constant surveillance, and that he should keep the amount ready within 10 days, by when he would be informed about the mode and place of delivery of the cash. Hajara SHO Rajesh Kumar said an FIR against the unidentified suspect has been lodged under Section 386 (extortion) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/extortionist-demands-rs-10-lakh-from-farmer-cops-on-alert/articleshow/76143221.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Cial donates Rs 2cr to CMDRF||Kochi: The employees of Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) donated Rs 2.019 crore to the chief minister’s disaster relief fund (CMDRF). The annual day celebration of the airport, which was planned 25 May, was called off in view of the pandemic situation and the company decided to donate the amount earmarked for celebration to CMDRF. The employees, as a gesture of their support, also contributed their share. Apart from this, Cial’s managing director V J Kurien contributed Rs. 2 lakh. The contributions were handed over to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday. Meanwhile on Thursday, V S Sunilkumar, the district-in-charge minister of Ernakulam said implementation of phase II of Covid-19 protocols at the airport to ensure safety of staff while handling the passengers has begun. CIAL has been directed to enusre PPE kits are given by airlines and ground handling agencies to all employees who come in direct contact with passengers. Health screening has been strengthened as the number of passengers using the airport has increased due to lockdown relaxations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-donates-rs-2cr-to-cmdrf/articleshow/76143228.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Cabinet expansion put on hold for now||BHOPAL: The much-talked about expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet has been put on hold, apparently because the chief minister’s appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi is yet to come through. BJP finds itself on a tightrope, balancing the burden of meeting the demands of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s followers, and the expectations of its long-time leaders who have been waiting for their due.  With more than 70 strong contenders, It seems the party is finding it hard to come to a meeting point. The chief minister said on Monday that there is no cause for haste.  “I am not in a hurry for cabinet expansion. I am not going to New Delhi with the list of probables. Wait for some time, I can go to Delhi by tomorrow or day after,” Chouhan said, in response to queries on cabinet expansion. Sources in BJP said that Chouhan’s proposed visit to New Delhi on Monday was cancelled due to non-availability of an appointment from the Prime Minister’s Office. Chouhan had sought appointments with PM Modi, BJP national president JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and Jyotiraditya Scindia to discuss the names to be inducted in the cabinet, say sources. Since the visit has been postponed, Chouhan is likely to induct new team members on June 3 or 4, party insiders said. According to sources, there is no dispute on the names and the state party leadership has given the green light to the shortlist. The tussle is over portfolios. There is clear indication that four to five former ministers close to Chouhan will be dropped to accommodate young members, sources say. Those from the Scindia camp who are “clear choices” to make the cut are Imarti Devi, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Mahendra Singh Sisodia and Prabhuram Chaudhary. Scindia aides Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput were inducted on April 21. Rajyavardhan Singh Dattigaon and Ranvir Singh are among the probables, say sources. Among the others who broke away from Congress, three members – veteran tribal leader Bisahulal Singh, Aidal Singh Kansana and Hardeep Singh Dang – may also make the cut. BJP is facing tough lobbying from within for cabinet berths. Sources say eight former ministers of Chouhan cabinet have been nominated again. Senior leaders like Gopal Bhargava, Bhupendra Singh, Rampal Singh, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Ajay Vishnoi, Gaurishankar Bisen, Rajendra Shukla, Sitasaran Sharma, Sanjay Pathak, Arvind Bhadoria and Usha Thakur are some strong contenders. In Bhopal, the party may elevate former minister Vishwas Sarang and senior MLA Rameshwar Sharma, who is the Hindutva face of BJP. Sources said Chouhan is likely to discuss allocation of portfolios. Public relations, transport, cooperatives, forest, mining, urban development, finance, industries and energy are some of the important departments yet to be allocated. In view of ongoing Covid-19 crisis, departments of medical education, women and child development, Bhopal gas tragedy relief and rehabilitation and panchayat and rural development are also much sought. The national leadership will take a final call on all recommendations, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cabinet-expansion-put-on-hold-for-now/articleshow/76144177.cms||Rajendra Sharma
June 2, 2020||Coimbatore||17 ‘bonded labourers’ sent home in Tirupur||Coimbatore: Tirupur district administration officials and police on Monday sent 17 members of a family from a brick kiln unit at Tirumalapalayam in Dharapuram to their homes after they claimed that they were forced to work as bonded labourers. The incident came to light on Saturday after K Annamalai of Villupuram informed the district administration and police about the plight of the labourers. He had received a message from a labourer, who is his relative. The message said that last Wednesday, when they were picking unused onion from a nearby field, they were attacked by their employers. NGOs from Villupuram and Coimbatore reached the Dharapuram tahsildar’s office on Monday, where five labourers were brought for inquiry. They belong to the irular tribe in Villupuram and had joined work in January. “We were given Rs 100 for cutting 1,000 stones. We were let out only to buy grocery items,” a labourer told TOI. The workers were given an advance and were treated as bonded labourers, said K Palanisamy, a member of the Villupuram-based NGO Social Awareness Society for Youth (SASY). But Dharapuram sub-collector Pavankumar Giriyappanavar said there was no prima facie evidence of bonded labour. “There was a clash between two groups of labourers in the kiln. We brought five people for inquiry. They said they wanted to go home with their relatives. So, we arranged a vehicle for the 17 people on Monday evening,” he said. “We have launched an investigation. If we find conclusive evidence of bonded labour, we would act,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-bonded-labourers-sent-home-in-tirupur/articleshow/76144822.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Folk artists hit by Covid-19 seek financial assistance||Coimbatore: Folk musicians and performers in the city on Monday met the collector, seeking financial assistance. They used to earn their livelihood between March and June by performing in temples and festivals, the artists said. But, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, they are facing a difficult situation this year. As the government has barred public functions, the artists said they are in danger of having their livelihoods destroyed. All folk artists should be given a disaster relief fund of Rs 10,000 for each of the four months during which they lost their livelihood. Financial assistance should be given to all folk artistes, even to those who have not registered with the folk artists welfare board, they demanded. Representatives of folk musicians and folk performing artists said there are 5,000 full-time folk artists in the city, who play instruments such as parai, urumi, pambai, udukkai, kottu melam, and performers of art forms such as karagam, maan aattam, mayil aattam and maadu aattam. During the festival season, they would perform in temples and fairs. Each performance would last two to three days. They would get around 10 performances per month. For each performance, after all expenses, they would be able to earn around Rs 1,000, the artists said. M Jeevaraj, a parai artiste in the city, said, of the 5,000 full-time artistes, only 15% have registered in the folk artistes welfare board. “Even many of them have not received the Rs 2,000 assistance promised by the government.” The government can employ them for conducting awareness programmes, the artists said and sought permission to perform at rituals by observing physical distancing. Institutions that offer folk art training should be allowed to function, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/folk-artists-hit-by-covid-19-seek-financial-assistance/articleshow/76144814.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||By design: Man who gave Delhi public spaces a unique Indian ambience||NEW DELHI: Dilli Haat, Garden of Five Senses and State Emporia Complex are landmarks that have become the heart of Delhi’s socio-cultural life. On Sunday, the country lost their creator, Pradeep Sachdeva, whose admirers say a man who articulated a uniquely Indian idea of public spaces had left the shores. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia recalled meeting him a few times for different projects and marvelled at how Sachdeva’s work was simple like the man himself. “What is truly remarkable is how he brought alive those public spaces,” said Sisodia. “His imaginative design sense harmonised ecology, aesthetics and sociology – that's the legacy he has left behind.” Urban planner AGK Menon, founding member of Intach Delhi Chapter and Sachdeva’s friend, said that the late architect had focused on things that the world has only started noticing after this humanitarian crisis. “His model was indigenous and involved local artisans and craftspeople. Look at Dilli Haat, for instance. It’s a bazaar. When others were talking about malls, he was making a bazaar,” Menon said. He added that Dilli Haat showed Sachdeva “could turn a high-end, expensive project into one that stuck to local sensibilities”. He also said, “As for his streetscaping projects, Sachdeva focused on pedestrians, on non-motorised transport. He accommodated street vendors when the popular opinion was to throw them out for being eyesores, hampering the effort to make Delhi a world-class city.” Sachdeva’s colleague at Intach, historian Swapna Liddle, agreed. “His designs for public spaces reveal a great sensitivity to what makes for quality of life in an urban setting,” Liddle said, while recalling that he was a “warm and friendly person”. Being warm and friendly helped in his work too. As Menon revealed, “I strongly disagreed with him on the Chandni Chowk redevelopment and accused him of having no understanding of heritage. I told him that he knew India but not history. We went to court on this, but we met like friends outside. Because he had it in him to accommodate differences and to hear a dissenting opinion, he was able to make modifications and turn it into a better project.” London-based architect Guntej Bhushan worked with Sachdeva’s firm, PSDA, for four years, including on the Garden of Five Senses project and some hotels. “He was very hands-on. Rather than relying on landscape designers, he put in the effort and time to learn landscaping so that his building designs and landscape would work perfectly together,” said Bhushan. Harish Sachdeva had the late architect as his thesis supervisor in college. “I later joined him as a junior architect. For two-and-a-half years, I assisted him in building Institute of Social Sciences on Nelson Mandela Marg,” said Harish. “Actually, Pradeep was the local resource, the main architect being Christopher Benninger of Pune. Working with a government department was not easy and they had their own empanelled contractors who used only certain materials. I watched Pradeep use his affability and patience to get a creative output despite such bottlenecks.” Dilli Haat is the most well-known of Sachdeva’s creations. In a statement on Monday, Delhi Tourism, for whom Dilli Haat was set up, said, “It fascinated Prince Charles so much that he stretched his whistle-stop visit in 2003 to an hour-and-a-half-long fiesta and desired to put up a similar Haat in London. A Dilli Haat exposition was organised at Trafalgar Square in London in association with ministry of tourism in June 2005.” Sachdeva also worked on projects to redevelop the Godavari and Brahmaputra riverfronts and Assi Ghat in Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/by-design-man-who-gave-public-spaces-a-unique-indian-ambience/articleshow/76144827.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Religious places reopen but devotees pray from afar in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several religious places of different faiths reopened on Monday, offering believers solace in trying times. Though big temples, likes those at Kalighat and Dakshineswar, remained shut, several other places of worship, such as Thanthania Kalibari on College Street, Firingi Kalibari on BB Ganguly Street, Moulali Dargah and the Behala Gurdwara made arrangements so that devotees could pray there from a distance. TimesViewSocial-distancing norms must be maintained as strictly during Unlock 1.0 as it was being done in the various lockdown phases. An individual’s irresponsibility has the scope to put at-risk communities.At Thanthania Kalibari, a veil covering the sanctum sanctorum was lifted for devotees to see the idol but a collapsible gate was kept shut to bar entrance. At the Moulali Dargah, the faithful could offer dua from outside, without offering flowers. At Behala Gurdwara, everyone had to wear a mask and sanitize hands before entering. When the lockdown was put in place, the government had ordered all places of worship to shut to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. Several festivals, like Easter, Poila Baisakh and Eid were observed without any public prayer. The state government on Saturday allowed places of worship to reopen from Monday but said only 10 people could enter at a time. Big shrines said they needed time to arrange for safety measures for devotees as well as their employees, but some other significant places decided to reopen on Monday. “We are not allowing anybody inside the temple premises,” a priest at Thanthania Kalibari said. “The veil covering the sanctum sanctorum has been lifted and people can view the deity from outside.” At Firingi Kalibari, the priest performed a puja in the evening, while some devotees stood outside. “We are yet to take a decision on when to open the shutters,” he said. “We cleaned the place and sanitized it on Saturday. All the government guidelines will be strictly followed. Not more than 10 people will be allowed inside and it is mandatory for them to wear masks and sanitize their hands before entering,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia of Behala Gurdwara. Thousands assemble in mosques to offer prayers but at dargahs, people leave after reading dua. Moulali dargah, revered by people across communities, reopened on Monday. “Religion will be a source of comfort in these times of confusion and suffering. It is a good decision to reopen places of worship. It now depends on us how we maintain social distancing so that the virus does not spread,” said Anwar Ikhlaque, a caretaker at the dargah. Almost all churches reopened their gates to the faithful on Monday—all 65 Roman Catholic churches and 35 churches of North India (CNI) remained open from 10am to 6pm—but with stringent criteria, including the minimum number of attendees and spaced-out seating arrangements. Sanitisation of the premises was done by 9 am. Keeping with the new rules, only 10 worshippers were allowed into churches, after they sanitized their hands. Dominic Gomes, vicar-general of the archdiocese of Kolkata, visited different churches in the morning and ensured rules were being enforced by respective parish priests. “I went to Christ the King at Park Circus, St Mary’s on Ripon Street and St Teresa’s at Moulali and I was satisfied with the arrangements,” he said. Bishop Paritosh Canning visited St Paul’s Cathedral at the time of its re-opening. (With inputs from Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/religious-places-reopen-but-devotees-pray-from-afar/articleshow/76144190.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Two-and-a-half-month-old child beats Covid-19, rare heart condition in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A two-and-a-half-month-old child born with rare heart condition also tested positive for Covid-19. His parents had lost hope that he would survive, but the infant beat both diseases and came out a winner recently. Soon after Sanchit’s birth on March 7, doctors found him suffering from transposition of the great arteries. It is a congenital defect in which the two main arteries connected to the heart are switched. The aorta is connected to the heart’s right ventricle instead of the left ventricle and the pulmonary artery is connected to the left ventricle instead of the right ventricle. This created a situation in which impure blood was getting circulated and his body never received the oxygen it needed. “Initially, we tried to get him treated locally. But it didn’t work. The doctors then suggested that my child could only be saved at AIIMS. So I brought him here,” Kalpnath Rao, the child’s father, told TOI. By the time the child reached AIIMS on May 7, his heart had turned weaker and he was very blue, Dr A K Bisoi, professor in the department of cardio-thoracic surgery at AIIMS, said. An emergency surgery was planned to save him. “But before that, we needed to test him for Covid-19. Unfortunately, the test came positive. His parents were then tested for the viral infection and they were positive too,” the doctor said. From May 8 to May 18, the child remained in ICU at AIIMS Trauma Centre. On May 23, open heart surgery was conducted to restore normal blood circulation. “It was a three-hour procedure,” Dr Bisoi said. He added that the child’s recovery is satisfactory and he is likely to be discharged soon. “When my child tested positive for Covid-19, I almost gave up. I thought he couldn’t be saved. But the doctors gave us the confidence and never let us lose hope,” the child’s father, who runs a small business, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-baby-beat-covid-rare-heart-condition/articleshow/76144842.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 2, 2020||Pune||Red alert as Mumbai braces for first-ever cyclone in its history||Mumbai: The city could be in for a weather phenomenon that has never occurred in its documented history. A cyclone developing over the Arabian Sea—the second to be forming near India in a fortnight—is expected to make landfall just 110km north of Mumbai on Wednesday evening, likely triggering flash floods all along the state’s coast, including in the metropolitan region. Winds owing to the cyclone, Nisarga, could reach 115kmph, with gales of up to 125kmph.The IMD on Monday issued a red alert for Wednesday, indicating extremely heavy rain at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad owing to Nisarga. The Central Water Commission (CWC) warned of possible flash floods in Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Mumbai and Nashik, and tidal waves in the coastal regions of north Maharashtra and south Gujarat.Union home minister Amit Shah had a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday to review Maharashtra’s preparedness for Nisarga. The reason for Mumbai’s low risk from cyclones lies in the weather dynamics of the Arabian Sea. On average, the sea sees one or two cyclonic formations every year and when they do form, they tend to go west towards Oman and the Gulf of Aden, or head north towards Gujarat, as with the 1998 cyclone that killed thousands, or last year’s Cyclone Vayu.Nisarga is expected to make landfall in Palghar on Wednesday evening. Ten of the 16 teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been stationed in coastal districts, including three in Mumbai and two in Palghar and Dahanu. Six teams are on standby.Ten of the 16 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) that are in Maharashtra have been stationed in coastal districts, including three teams in Mumbai and two in Palghar and Dahanu. Six teams are on standby.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI that the depression over east central and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea moved north-northwestwards on Monday. The weather system lay centred about 310km southwest of Panjim in Goa, 570km south-southwest of Mumbai and 800km south-southwest of Surat in Gujarat mid-morning on Monday. “The cyclone is likely to move northwards initially till Tuesday morning. It may recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar in Raigad, and Daman by Wednesday evening,” Kashyapi said.Fishing boats have been asked to come back to the shore. Of nearly 15,000 boats, about 100, mostly in Palghar, with 1,000 fishermen and helpers on board, are yet to report back; the Coast Guard has been instructed to escort them back. All collectors of coastal districts have been informed about the steps to be taken. The speed and direction of the cyclone are to be continuously monitored.Hazardous chemical manufacturing industries have been asked to bring operations to safe mode by Tuesday. “Mumbai and Juhu airports have been asked to park planes at safe spots. Power firms have been instructed to ensure connections are not disrupted,” said a senior state official. Thackeray said people who live in temporary or weak houses will be shifted to relief camps. Hospitals have been kept on high alert. In Palghar, the CrPC’s Section 144 has been imposed to prevent the gathering of four or more persons.The IMD has warned of winds reaching 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph along the south Maharashtra coast from June 2 morning, further becoming 105-115 kmph gusting to 125 kmph along the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.The IMD on Sunday had given an orange alert for June 3, which it upgraded on Monday to a red alert as the depression over east-central and southeast Arabian Sea started moving north. Light rainfall was already recorded between May 31 and June 1 in Mumbai.Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD-Mumbai, said that on Monday morning, the weather system was moving with a speed of 13kmph about 630km south-southwest of Mumbai, 340km southwest of Panjim and 850km south-southwest of Surat. “In the next 12 hours, we are expecting this to intensify into a cyclonic storm over east-central Arabian Sea and cross north Maharashtra’s and south Gujarat’s coasts between Harihareshwar (in Raigad) and Daman during the afternoon of June 3,” Bhute said.The irrigation department discharged 4,000 cusecs from the dams in Kolhapur district after 35mm rain in the catchment areas on Sunday. The district recorded 208mm rainfall in 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/red-alert-as-mumbai-braces-for-first-ever-cyclone-in-its-history/articleshow/76144838.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Social distancing norms derailed at New Delhi railway station||NEW DELHI: There was chaos outside New Delhi railway station on Monday as queues stretched for several hundred metres after thousands of passengers reached the station to board trains out of the capital. From Monday, Indian Railways started running an additional 200 trains, 74 of which would be connected to Delhi’s railway stations. New Delhi railway station handled 23 trains on Monday. However, with barricades at the entrance at Paharganj, only one narrow queue was being allowed inside, causing people to wait for over half an hour just to enter the station premises. When TOI visited the station on Monday, the Ajmeri Gate side was almost deserted with hardly any passenger rush being seen during the day, but the Paharganj side had queues stretching up to several hundred metres towards Connaught Place. People were standing barely a few inches away from each other. No RPF or police personnel could be seen separating the passengers and the traffic only made things worse. Narendra Shukla who was headed to Kanpur by a 5.05pm train said he arrived at the station around 2.50 pm itself. However, he was waiting in the queue for over 20 minutes. “It is moving really slowly and no social distancing is being maintained. I did not expect the situation to be this bad,” said Shukla. Umesh Yadav who was headed to Dibrugarh said he arrived several hours early, but did not expect to stand in a queue for close to an hour. “They have called us 90 minutes in advance, but there appears to be no planning. This is further putting people at risk,” added Yadav. The situation was no better at the platform. People were seen sitting next to each other as railway officials kept allowing all those passengers in who had been screened. Passengers were being allowed entry, even if their train was yet to arrive, to reduce congestion outside, said an official. The first of the 200 special trains to depart was New Delhi-Una special. It departed from platform 10 of the railway station at 2.35pm, carrying 806 passengers on board. Northern Railway officials said social distancing was being maintained inside the station, with contactless thermal screening being done at six locations – three in New Delhi, two at Old Delhi and one at Anand Vihar. “Regular announcements are being made regarding train arrivals and departures as well as to request passengers to follow all necessary precautions for safety against Covid-19 while travelling. Only passengers having a confirmed or RAC ticket are being permitted entry to the station,” said a railway official. Five of Delhi’s stations will now be seeing movement of trains, including Old Delhi, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Sarai Rohilla and Anand Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/social-distancing-norms-derailed-at-ndls/articleshow/76144843.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Phoolbagan stn set for CRS check||Kolkata: The countdown has begun for East-West Metro’s Phoolbagan extension, with a two-day trial being on between Sector V and Phoolbagan for a likely inspection by the commissioner of railway safety (CRS) later this month. CRS, under the ministry of civil aviation, grants safety clearance to any new Metro line across the country. Officials said CRS, eastern circle, Abhay Kumar Rai might inspect a 6km section around the middle of this month. If he gives his nod in a week or so, the Sector V-Phoolbagan stretch should be ready for launch by the time the lockdown is phased out. “The formal inauguration can happen only after the lockdown is over. But the CRS inspection has been long overdue. Had it not been for the lockdown, the section could have been thrown open in May,” an official said. East-West Metro’s 5km stretch from Sector V to Salt Lake Stadium is elevated. From there, a ramp at Subhas Sarobar leads the tracks to the underground Phoolbagan station, the network’s first station below the surface. The first phase of Kolkata’s new Metro—between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium—was unveiled on February 13, but a substantial number of passengers is expected only after trains start plying till Phoolbagan. Metro Railway had earlier sought CRS inspection till Phoolbagan but the exercise was deferred because of the lockdown. The CRS is yet to make the precise date of his visit known, but engineers of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the agency implementing the 16km East-West Metro between Sector V and Howrah Maidan via Hooghly river, and Metro Railway, that’s operating it, have been asked to be prepared for the inspection any time now. The trial runs on Monday and Tuesday are for checking the signalling software that has been connected till Phoolbagan. East-West Metro has a signalling system like that of Paris and Shanghai underground, allowing trains to run at every two-and-a-half minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phoolbagan-stn-set-for-crs-check/articleshow/76144197.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Menstrual movie mela concludes today||Kochi: An NGO, to create awareness on menstruation, has organized a four-day online ‘menstrual movie mela’ through Google meet. The mela will conclude on Friday. Hosted by Kavya Menon, an ecofeminist, the event, which began on Tuesday coincided with Menstrual Hygiene Day (May 28), also has audience interactive sessions with directors. Though six movies were chosen for screening in theatres, it had to be conducted online due to Covid lockdown. Chennai-based Kavya, said since she was in Angamaly during this period, she decided to host it from ther. “When we put across details of the event on facebook, we were overwhelmed by the response. Around 3,000 people have sent requests to watch the movies. I had to restrict the audience to 100. But people kept trying to register and wanted to come in,” said Kavya. The movies include Chayilyam (Mal) by Manoj Kana, My first period (Tamil) by Kanna, Her First Time (Hindi) by Divya Unny, The Moon Inside You (multi-lingual) by Diana Fabianova. Movies that would be screened on Friday 6pm & 8pm are ‘First Period: An MHM’ story (Hindi) by Mozez S Singh, ‘Rejaswala’ (Mal) by Amritha Padmakumar.  Kavya said around 30% of the audience registering are men but the number dwindles as it moves to the discussion stage. LGBTQ members too had joined to watch movies, she added. To participate, register through their facebook page 'sustainablemenstruationtn' or susmenstruationtn@gmail.com. “Ensure google meet is available in your device. We will send a google meet link to the registered email address by 5.30pm on the day of screening. Accept the invitations which will be open from 5.30pm. It’s a first-come first-serve format,” she said. Kavya and her NGO Sustainable Menstruation TN is a collective that is focuses on creating awareness on menstruation to people irrespective of their age, geographies or gender and sexuality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/menstrual-movie-mela-concludes-today/articleshow/76143242.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 2, 2020||Goa||Drishti issues rough sea caution to beach-goers||Panaji: With heavy pre-monsoon showers expected over the next two days in the state, life-guard agency, Drishti Marine on Monday issued an advisory asking beach visitors not to venture into the sea. After the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) warned of heavy rains, the agency issued a detailed advisory for precautions while visiting any beach. Drishti lifeguards posted at beaches, meanwhile will continue to monitor and patrol stretches, but want citizens to be extra careful. Due to the ongoing lockdown and current weather conditions, red flags have been places across major beaches that are under Drishti’s surveillance indicating that these are strictly no-swim zones. The sea is also expected to have strong currents and high waves in the range of 2.8m to 4m, and therefore chances of drowning will be high if anyone ventures into the sea in these conditions, the agency said. Drishti also wants families going to the beach along with their children to be extra cautious. Its advisory stated that parents must ensure that their children do not get into the water unattended, no matter how shallow it may appear. Since there have been past incidents of visitors drowning after falling from cliffs and rocks while taking selfies, the agency has asked people to avoid “adventures”, such as climbing rocky areas, cliffs or hills along the shoreline. It warned that such spots will likely be slippery. Since the height of waves and their intensity is expected to be stronger, chances of losing footing and drowning are high, Drishti stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drishti-issues-rough-sea-caution-to-beach-goers/articleshow/76145491.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Highest in 37 days: 17 test +ve, tally 400||LUCKNOW: In the biggest one-day spike in 37 days since April 24, 17 people including nine GRP jawans were diagnosed with Covid-19 on Monday. With this, the city’s tally stands at 400. The city had crossed the 100-mark on April 17 in 37 days. Cases doubled in just a week to surpass 200. The 300-mark was breached in the next 23 days on May 17. Thereafter, it took 15 days to touch 400. Two areas—Prasadi Kheda in Para and Baraood Khana in Golaganj—were declared containment zones and entry/exit and public movement has been barred after cases were reported from these localities. Essentials will be supplied by officials at doorstep. Health officials have also recommended to the district administration to declare posh New Hyderabad Colony a containment zone after a 33-year-old woman resident tested positive for coronavirus. “The woman used to buy vegetables from Nishatganj vegetable market from where five cases have been reported. She has been admitted to KGMU. Her family has been asked to home quarantine themselves and are being tested,” said KP Tripathi, in charge of infectious disease unit. Also among Monday’s cases are two family members of RPF personnel, three persons from Chinhat, a resident of Barood Khana and a migrant worker from Delhi who arrived by bus. The Chinhat residents were friends of a health worker diagnosed earlier. Forty neighbours of the patients have been home quarantined and their samples sent for testing. The man from Barood Khana is the husband of a woman who died of infection on May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/highest-in-37-days-17-test-ve-tally-400/articleshow/76145481.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
June 2, 2020||Kochi||HC relief for elderly couple in rent dispute||Kochi: The high court on Thursday ordered the state government to pay half of the admitted rent to an elderly couple who rented out their building to the government in October 2017 but was not paid rent since then. Justice Anu Sivaraman issued the directive after considering a petition by 68-year-old Chacko Mathai and his wife Molikutty through advocate S Mohammed Al Rafi. The court has directed that half of the admitted rent should be paid by the government within a month. The couple had challenged government’s decision to reduce rent by over 60% for their building at Kaduthuruthy in Kottayam district as well as non-payment of rent. They own a building situated in 8.09 ares of land in Kaduthuruthy. In October 2017, it was let out to the sub registrar of Kaduthuruthy to house the sub registrar’s office. Though the rent was fixed by the chief engineer of public works department (PWD) at Rs 68,852, executive engineer of PWD buildings division at Kottayam had in April 2019 reduced it to Rs 47,962. Later, secretary of taxes department further reduced the rent to Rs 25,000, with retrospective effect from October 2017. Alleging that the reduction was without giving them a chance of hearing and that non-payment of rent arrears is illegal and arbitrary, the elderly couple had sought the high court’s intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-relief-for-elderly-couple-in-rent-dispute/articleshow/76143256.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Cops help storm-hit villagers in Sagar||Kolkata: Around 30 sergeants and sub-inspectors of Kolkata Police and Bengal police reached out to Mandirtala village at Sagar in South 24 Parganas, ravaged by Cyclone Amphan, and helped nearly 700 villagers with essentials on Saturday. Jiten Chakraborty, a sergeant of Jorabagan traffic guard, had come up with the idea of helping the affected villagers almost a week ago and shared it with his batchmates of 2014. In the next three days, around 100 cops, all sergeants and sub-inspectors, chipped in with contributions that stood at total Rs 1.5 lakh. On Friday, 30 cops had set out for the village after buying the relief materials with the funds. “We had bought essentials like tents, sattu, rice, wheat, biscuits, toiletry, clothes for children and adults, spices, oil, water bottles, pulses and medicines etc from the Burrabazar-Posta areas. Many traders offered us help in their indigenous ways. We reached the village on Saturday with the help of Sagar and Gangasagar Coastal police and helped the villagers as part of the initiative, Swajan,” said Chakraborty. Having seen the extent of loss suffered by the villagers in the wake of the cyclone, the cops are planning to go there again with relief materials. “We will start the second round of collection soon. Hundreds of houses in the village, river banks and agricultural fields were ravaged by the cyclone. The students, who are to appear for Higher Secondary examinations, have no books to study. People in Sagar are mostly in need of medicines and tents,” said Imran Mirdhya, a sergeant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-help-storm-hit-villagers-in-sagar/articleshow/76144214.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||288 lockdown violators plead guilty, fined by magistrate||Nagpur: Judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Hingna, NK Meshram has convicted 288 persons for violating various rules of the lockdown imposed to break the Covid-19 chain. The violations included not wearing masks. Senior police officials said these convictions in lockdown related cases are likely to be the highest in Maharashtra. Different amounts of fines were imposed and recovered at the court. MIDC police secured 146 convictions while their Hingna counterparts, both under Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, got 142 in the last couple of months. MIDC police were also the among the first, along with their Tehsil counterparts, to register offence for not wearing masks. MIDC police station also has the highest cases in the city at 374, till Sunday. City police have already registered more than 2,650 cases for violation of lockdown norms. Around 3,075 vehicles were seized too. Zonal DCP Masaal said instructions were issued to all police stations under him to send the charge sheet of the lockdown violation cases to court, so that there could be immediate punishment, as a deterrent. “Two police stations of MIDC and Hingna were luckier as their magistrate courts were functional during the lockdown. The concerned magistrate too had the same opinion that the persons breaching lockdown norms should be penalized as it concerned the health of the masses in a pandemic situation,” he said. Masaal attributed the achievement to CP BK Upadhyay. Senior inspector Hemant Kharabe of MIDC police station said most cases were under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for violating the order issued by the joint commissioner of police under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to enforce lockdown. “We had also invoked the relevant IPC sections of 269, 270 for indulging in actions which may spread infection. Also, relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, and The Disaster Management Act 2005 were also the ones invoked,” he said. Senior inspector Sarin Durge of Hingna police station said the spot panchanama, FIR copy, relevant orders of the Joint CP and the collector were the documents sent to court as evidence. “Though imprisonment is also mentioned as punishment, the accused were fined after they admitted the offence and the court pronounced them guilty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/288-lockdown-violators-plead-guilty-fined-by-magistrate/articleshow/76144856.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Mixed reactions to govt’s proposal to cancel exams, promote students||Nagpur: Maharashtra government’s proposal to do away with even final year examinations and award average marks based on previous performance has generated a lot of heat. Besides students and parents, many academicians and other citizens flooded TOI’s Twitter and WhatsApp accounts with their reactions which suggest mixed feelings for the government’s move to tackle the unprecedented situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.Flaying the decision, the ABVP said it would put a big question mark on the students’ degrees. “Does chief minister Uddhav Thackeray have the powers to take such a decision keeping in mind the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016? The decision will have an adverse effect on the students’ future and would be in breach of universities’ autonomy status,” said ABVP activist Ravi Dandge.While endorsing Dandge’s views, Nagpur University’s senate member Manmohan Bajpayee added that if the government was providing the option of conducting grade improvement test which would be held in October-November, then why final year exams couldn’t be conducted at that time rather than diluting the standard.Agreeing with Bajpayee, former NU management council member Sanjay Khadakkar said that exams need to be conducted with an objective-type pattern after Covid cases are reduced. “Promoting students without exams is a populist and convenient option. The value of the degree gets compromised,” said Khadakkar.Noida-based Galgotias University’s vice chancellor Preeti Bajaj and general manager at Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court Shah Faisal Kashmiri are of the opinion that exams should be conducted online with the project viva. “Continuous assessment should be scaled up and opportunity for grade improvement can be provided,” said Bajaj.“Exams with the MCQs pattern, like the one conducted by Imperial College, London, should be explored. Thesis/projects can be given and students should be asked to make submissions online,” feels Kashmiri.According to forensic science professor at Sevagram-based Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Dr Indrajit Khandekar, Covid-19 is here for a long time like other viruses and therefore, the exams should be conducted by taking precautions.Some like RTI activist Sanjay Thul stressed that no organization provides jobs merely on the basis of a degree. “UPSC, MPSC conduct exams before offering a job. Hence, there’s no problem in promoting candidates on the basis of internal marks,” said Thul.Social worker Tejinder Singh Renu feels that in order to maintain the standard of education, final exams must be conducted, as and when possible. Pradeep Khandelwal, too, believes that exams are an essential part of the university degree and that students getting promoted would set a wrong precedent.If NU science dean GS Khadekar is to be believed then exams should be conducted as per the UGC and government guidelines and that the picture would be clearer by June 20.Teachers like Mahendra Umre point out that it would be difficult to conduct exams while maintaining Covid distancing. “If students gets infected then who will be held responsible? Institutions or the university?,” wondered Umre.Student Himesh Pande feels that for theoretical subjects, assignments could be taken into account while for those involving calculations, objective type papers can be introduced.Lawyer Ketki Jaltare says 50% marks should be given on the basis of internal assessment and home assignments and the remaining 50% through online mode.Student Nikita Patil added that the university should conduct exams with selected colleges with selected students on selected days. “If precautionary measures are taken then exams can be conducted, but the question is whether our colleges are prepared?”, she said.Differing with Nikita, MNLU student Vinit Dhage says university comprises students from all over India and it’s practically not possible for everyone to come together at this hour. “No parents would want to take the risk of travelling. Therefore, everyone should be promoted and the percentage should be marked as per projects submitted, attendance and viva,” said Dhage.Another student felt that dividing students into half and conducting exams in morning and evening batches while engaging more exam centres to ensure distancing could be the solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mixed-reactions-to-govts-proposal-to-cancel-exams-promote-students/articleshow/76144205.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||As shutdown eases, Kolkata rides on cycle power to beat Covid-19 blues||KOLKATA: After 25 years, Anindya Sundar Dutta has decided to ride a bicycle. He repaired his daughter’s cycle that was lying at a corner of the house for three years so that he can reach his Theatre Road office from his Baguiati residence. With curbs being eased, fear of catching coronavirus on public transport has led to a boom in cycle-to-work plan. Moreover, the limited passenger policy on public vehicle has made many to either buy a cycle or repair their old ones for their daily commute as it will be economical and safe. Student Titas Ray has started practising with her old cycle since she has been out of touch for several years. Private sector employee Debashish Mondal has already purchased a cycle to travel to his work place which is within 6km from his home. Pankaj Sardar, security guard at a government office, recently borrowed a cycle to travel to his Lakshmikantapur home to check the extent of damage caused by Amphan. To promote cycling, Guruchandali, a publishing house, has started ‘bicycle book delivery’ in the city and its suburbs during this lockdown. Adventure cyclist Arghya Mondol has taken part in this initiative and is cycling long stretches within the city to deliver books. Rantideb Ray of Guruchandali said they wanted to encourage an alternative idea which is environment friendly. “We are delivering all kinds of books to the people who are contacting us. This initiative not only helping us to cater to customers, who don’t need to step out of their homes now, but is also generating employment and restarting publishing businesses,” said Ray. WHO and other international organisations have already recommended to “consider riding bicycles as an alternative primary mode of transport to restore normalcy after lockdown and ensure physical distance”. Satanjib Gupta of ‘Bicycle Mayor’ feels that the pandemic has given them an opportunity to consider cycling as an important mode of commute as it will be environment friendly and economical. The organization has written an open letter to CM Mamata Banerjee highlighting the need to promote cycle as a primary, safe and happy mode of transport particularly after Covid-19 outbreak. Convenor of Kolkata Cycle Samaj, Raghu Jana, also urged government to make cycles functional on city streets after lockdown is eased. Amid lockdown, cycle has also come to the rescue of people in emergencies. When Harinabi resident Tapan Saha’s mother got seriously ill at their Jadavpur residence and needed hospitalization, Subhamoy Bhattacharya arranged an e-cycle from his start-up Kionic that helped Saha to reach his mother on time and get her admitted to a hospital. Cycling activist Shamik Sarkar feels that those with cycles is a little more empowered than the rest in these hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-shutdown-eases-kol-rides-on-cycle-power-to-beat-covid-blues/articleshow/76144232.cms||Dipawali Mitra
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Low pressure leaves Panchkula high and dry||PANCHKULA: With the onset of summer, residents of Panchkula, especially those living on the first floor, are facing the problem of low pressure. In a few sectors, residents started facing the issue a week ago. Residents said sectors 2, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12A, 15, 19 and the sectors situated across the Ghaggar river from Sector 21 to Sector 28 are the worst affected. Officials of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) said all possible efforts are being made to resolve the issue. “We have been facing the problem for five days. Residents of the first and second floors have not had water supply for many days,” said Sandeep Mehta, a resident of Sector 11. Members of resi ents’ welfare associations said the problem is compounded by power cuts. Another city resident R K Jain urged HUDA to take action against those wasting water by washing cars or watering their gardens. “While HUDA officials claim that strict action will be taken against those found wasting water, especially during peak hours, nothing has been done so far,” Jain said. President of Citizen Welfare Association, SK Nayar also urged authorities to stop misuse of water. R P Malhotra, President FORA (Federation of Resident Association), said, “This problem occurs every year in the summer and the administration must find a solution to it. A HUDA official said Panchkuka requires 122 MGD (Million Gallons per day) of water and they are getting sufficient supply. From 191 tubewells, we get 80 MGD of water and from Kajauli, 42 MGD of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/low-pressure-leaves-pkl-high-dry/articleshow/76144218.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||NMC health worker among 20 to tests +ve||Nagpur: Yet another Covid Warrior tested positive for the disease on Monday. A 21-year-old worker who was in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) team which detected 127 positive cases from Satranjipura himself tested positive. Thirty seven doctors and staff were tested and they quarantined at home awaiting reports. The 21-year-old man was working in epidemic department of NMC Satranjipura zone. He was engaged in multiple works like data entry, supplying masks, sanitizers to health workers, doing door-to-door survey in Satranjipura and Naik Talao-Bangladesh, accompanying doctors for contact tracing and quarantining people. He contracted the virus from containment zones and had fever on May 23. He took leave assuming some problems due to heatstroke. Three days ago, he resumed work. Doctors advised him to give swab sample and he got tested at a special camp organized at Vaishali Nagar on Sunday. His reports came positive from IGGMCH. He is a resident of Wathoda in East Nagpur which is a non-containment zone and no case has been registered from this area. Immediately, 37 doctors and staff from Satranjipura including zonal medical officer gave swab samples and went on home quarantine. Reports of all staff will be known on Tuesday. This team was continuously working since Satranjipura was notified as containment zone on April 6 after death of a 68-year-old man from Badi Masjid area. On Sunday, a medical officer of Zilla Parishad and a paramedical personnel from state’s health department, both working under NMC, at MLA Hostel institutional quarantine centre had tested positive. Nineteen more persons tested positive on Monday increasing the number of cases from the district to 561. NMC did not take cognizance of a 27-year-old air passenger testing positive at Rajura in Chandrapur district citing lack of official communication. The patient was working at Goregaon Film City and landed at Nagpur airport on May 25. He went to his hometown Rajura and was quarantined. More than 2,200 persons landed at Nagpur airport between May 25 and 31 of whom 1,367 are from the city. NMC is screening all passengers of the city at airport. They are contacted on second day about having any symptoms and stickers are pasted at their homes to ensure quarantine. NMC also monitors whether all are maintaining quarantine or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-health-worker-among-20-to-tests-ve/articleshow/76144231.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Admin nod must for wedding party in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: You can now host a wedding party with 30 guests after duly taking permission from the district administration, but will have to manage bridal make-up and grooming on your own. The “fine points” of Unlock1.0 guidelines issued by the district administration on Monday made permission from the additional district magistrate (land acquisition II), who has been made nodal officer for the purpose, mandatory to host a wedding. The party has to be organised at a place with lot of space and only 30 people, including bride and groom, will be allowed. The guidelines allow only hair cutting in salons and beauty parlours and that too with utmost precautions wherein the worker will have to wear face mask and face shield. Customers will also have to wear mask. Hence, salons and parlours will not be able to offer beauty care services, including bridal make-up and grooming. Besides, no shops, barring essential services, will be allowed to open in containment and buffer zones. However, rest of the guidelines remain the same as issued in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/admin-nod-must-for-wedding-party/articleshow/76145490.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Police warn against more people attending functions||Kochi: Ernakulam rural police have come out with a statement warning of strict action if the number of people attending functions like funeral and wedding goes beyond the permissible limit. Police said that several instances have come to their attention where more than 50 persons in the case of wedding and 20 persons in the case of funerals, attended the function. “It has come to our attention that more people are coming to such gatherings before and after the ceremony to bypass the restriction. This is not allowed and is a violation of the restrictions. Violators would be charged with the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance,” said police. Rural SP K Karthick said that regular checks would be held to ensure that public transport operators are also following the restrictions. “Strict social distancing should be followed in buses, markets and other commercial establishments. Police pickets would be set up at important junctions,” Karthick said. Rural police on Thursday arrested 25 persons, recorded 38 cases and seized 12 vehicles in connection with lockdown violations. Police have deployed personnel across the district to manage possible untoward incidents and lockdown violations due to the reopening of liquor outlets. Meanwhile, city police said that surprise checks similar to the one held on Wednesday and Tuesday night can be expected in the coming days as well. As many as 144 cases were registered and 94 vehicles were seized in a surprise check done in between 7pm and 9pm on Tuesday. Police said they are continuing constant surveillance of those in quarantine. Special bike patrolling teams are detailed for informing the details about those in quarantine to district police chiefs. Apart from this station house officers are also communicating with those in quarantine to make sure that they are not violating the quarantine, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-warn-against-more-people-attending-functions/articleshow/76143262.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Shimla||Nine new Covid-19 cases take Himachal Pradesh count to 340||SHIMLA: Nine positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, of which four were from Chamba, two from Solan, and one each from Hamirpur, Mandi and Una. Those tested positive had returned from Mumbai, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana. Now, total positive cases in the state has increased to 340, of which 213 are active. Two patients in Solan have recovered. The Chamba patients include a 29-year-old man from Sirmaur who had returned from Delhi to meet his brother, and two men, aged 27 and 18, from Churah who returned from Tamil Nadu. All three are in institutional quarantine at Banikhet. They are asymptomatic and will be shifted to a dedicated Covid care centre. In Solan, two persons from Ramshahar in Nalagarh subdivision, who returned from Kolkata in May and were in institutional quarantine, tested positive. They have been shifted to ESIC Hospital, Katha, which is a dedicated Covid hospital. In Mandi district, a 33-year-old man who had recently returned to Naulakha in Sundernagar from Mumbai and was quarantined in a hotel, tested positive. He had returned with eight others in a vehicle and now their samples are also being taken. In Hamirpur, a 46-year-old man from Bajuri near Hamirpur, who had returned from Delhi on May 29 and was in institutional quarantine near Bhota, tested positive. So far 37897 people have been tested for Covid-19, of which 37233 have been tested negative and 340 have been tested positive, 118 have cured while results of 324 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/9-new-cases-take-himachal-count-to-340/articleshow/76144861.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Load takes the burden off porters hit by lockdown in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Donning a traditional bright-red shirt and a scarf wrapped around his neck and face which doubled up as a mask, 30-year-old Mohammad Burhan was busy bargaining with passengers lined up outside New Delhi Railway Station on Monday. For porters like him, there was a sense of cheer back again, seeing people rush to the station with their suitcases. Burhan says he had not earned a single penny during the lockdown and had survived on his savings and meals provided by people. However, with railway operations back on track now, he will have enough money today to spend on food and groceries, he adds. Even as the passenger rush kept on increasing, porters were in high demand. While they say business is not even half of what it used to be, they are happy to be out there again. “We did not earn anything during the lockdown and many porters left for their homes. Most are not likely to come back anytime soon. We were eagerly waiting for trains to start running again,” said Burhan. Naaem, a 35-year-old porter, however, says that people are not travelling heavy and most passengers don’t require assistance. They are also apprehensive of another person coming in contact with their luggage. “Only passengers travelling alone and unable to carry their suitcases are calling us for help. Even when we approach people, most don’t want to take a risk,” says Naaem, adding that he was slowly getting accustomed to the new timetables. Others say they have even stopped charging the entire amount, stating these are tough times for everyone. “I have earned enough today to buy food for my family. While our rate hasn’t changed, we are not charging the entire amount from people who cannot pay much,” said Mahadev, another porter outside New Delhi Railway Station. Mohammad Badar says while competition in terms of porters has gone down, it may take a while for things to return to normal. “It is unlikely business will be the same again,” adds Badar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/load-takes-the-burden-off-porters-hit-by-lockdown/articleshow/76144855.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five of family from Fatehgarh Sahib among 38 positive in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Five members of a family from a village in Fatehgarh Sahib were among the 38 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab on Monday, taking the number of cases reported in the state so far to 2,301. Another nine cases were reported from Amritsar, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin on coronavirus. Among the new patients, 20 are contacts of infected people, while source of 13 cases is outside of Punjab. Hoshiarpur district reported eight cases. It was followed by five cases in Fatehgarh Sahib, four each in Ludhiana and Patiala., two in Mohali, and one each in Nawanshahr, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar. In Fatehgarh Sahib, the family is from Panaichan village. The district tally has reached 63 positive cases, of which six are active. An official said a woman who is a staff nurse at a private hospital in Delhi had reached the village along with her husband and son on May 26 and their samples were taken on May 30. They said the nurse tested negative, while her husband and son tested positive. Three other family members of the patients tested positive also. It is suspected they contracted the infection from the relatives from Delhi. Also, 13 patients were discharged in the state after they recovered from disease. In Amritsar, three cases are from Hathi Gate, two from Katra Moti Ram, and one each from Grace Avenue, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagatr and Katra Parja. In Gurdaspur, the patient is from Kothe village. He had returned from Mumbai recently. (Inputs taken from Patiala and Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-of-family-from-fatehgarh-sahib-among-38-ve-in-pb/articleshow/76144851.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Amritsar||Blow to Ahmadiyya Muslims in Pakistan||AMRITSAR: The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community has suffered a major blow in its efforts to get their Pakistani brethren the status of minority community, after the Pakistan government refused to include them in its National Commission for Minorities (NCM). The Pakistan’s ministry of religious affairs had earlier recommended to the federal cabinet to include Ahmadiyyas, whose number touches over 40 lakh, in the NCM. Ahmadiyyas are still referred to as “kafir” (infidel) in Pakistan. Although the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat, India, maintained silence on the subject, the Nazir Umoor-e-Ama and spokesperson of Jamaat Ahmadiyya, Pakistan, Saleemudin said, “When it comes to Ahmadiyyas in Pakistan, everyone (all political parties) consider it a national duty to spew venom and hate against the community. Even the Pakistan’s federal minister for religious affairs and inter-faith harmony Noor-ul-Haq Qadri has been speaking against the community.” According to reports, Pakistan’s federal cabinet had in the recent past announced to not include Ahmadis in the NCM on the plea that they do not fall within the definition of minorities. An Indian Ahmadiyya leader, who did not wish to speak on record about the community’s affairs in Pakistan fearing further retaliation against the community fellows who have relatives spread across the border, said “The worldwide Ahmadiyya community had launched a campaign to get the minority community status in Pakistan and was trying to build pressure, but the Pak cabinet’s decision has dashed our hopes and their efforts have suffered a major blow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/blow-to-ahmadiyya-muslims-in-pak/articleshow/76144858.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 2, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC gets flak for raising property tax, announces partial rollback||Hubballi: A hike in the property tax by the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) was opposed by taxpayers, after which the corporation reduced it by 5 per cent for residential and vacant plots, and 10 per cent for commercial properties. The HDMC had enhanced it by a whopping 30% for commercial establishments, 20% for residential buildings, and 30% for vacant plots, during the Covid-19 pandemic. The residents strongly objected to this hike. The revised slabs are 15% for residential properties, 25%for vacant plots and 20% for commercial properties. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that there is no question of a complete rollback of the hike in property taxes, as it is a government order, and he has no power to write to the regional commissioner or the government. Itnal said as per the fresh notification issued by the state government, there will be a concession of 5% in taxes for residential and vacant plots, and the fresh changes have already been implemented. Former mayor Dr Pandurang Patil termed the decision of increasing taxes dictatorial. “The government should have continued the old tariff for 2020-21, and could have taken a decision on whether to increase the taxes or not, next year,” he said. He said that there is a provision for increasing property taxes by a minimum 15%, once in three years, but it is not said that it it is not mandatory, he said. A proposal of the tax hike, on the lines of 2017, was moved by the HDMC on March 10, before the lockdown was clamped, and the same was approved by the state government. AAP district president Santosh Nargund strongly opposed the hike. He and his party members submitted a memorandum to chief minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. He demanded a complete rollback of the hike. He said the government did not consider the plight of the common man, who is suffering due to the pandemic. He said the government has lost its sensitivity towards the public, and that it is an anti-people move. Other corporations like Mysuru, Vijayapura and the BBMP have not increased property tax, he said. HDMC Commissioner Itnal said of the total 2.6 lakh properties in the twin cities, 46,000 property identification numbers (PIDs) have been generated as on May 26. He said that taxes are vital for running the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-gets-flak-for-raising-property-tax-announces-partial-rollback/articleshow/76143259.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 2, 2020||Mysuru||Agriculture dept may use drones for aerial spraying of insecticides||Mysuru:Mangaluru: As vast swathes of crops were destroyed by swarms of locusts in western, Central India and neighbouring Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, state government has asked all joint directors of agriculture to be prepared to tackle possible locust attacks on crops in Karnataka. Sources in the department of agriculture told TOI that the state agriculture department had conducted a video conference of joint directors of agriculture of all the districts last week and advised the district agricultural officers to prepare and be ready with their plan to prevent the probable attack on standing crops. The Central government has also issued advisory to the state governments to conduct awareness programmes for the public/farmers to prevent and control the possible attack. TOI had highlighted on Monday about the presence of locust swarms in Noojibalthila, Renjiladi, Shirlalu in Dakshina Kannada district. Agriculture department joint director MC Seetha had clarified that swarms of locusts found in Dakshina Kannada villages are not desert locusts. Meanwhile, officials in Puttur taluk clarified that the insect found in villages is ‘spotted coffee grasshopper.’ Speaking to TOI, joint director of agriculture Mahantheshappa said: “Though locust attack is less likely in the district, the department has chalked out a plan to prevent it. Mysuru district has 3.71 lakh hectares of cultivable land. Of this, 2.50 lakh hectares of land is rain-fed and rest is irrigated where a large number of farmers grow paddy, sugar cane and other crops. Farmers have sown pulses, jowar, ragi, oilseeds, cotton, tobacco in rain-fed land following good spell of pre-monsoon showers during this kharif season.” The department has taken extensive preventive measures for protection of standing commercial crops like VFC tobacco (Virginia flue cured tobacco) cultivated by a large number of farmers in Hunsur, Periyaptana, and H D Kote covering around 25,000 hectares of land; cotton, produced in Nanjangud, pulses and oil seeds in Hunsur and T Narasipura taluks, the official added. “Apart from advising farmers to spray neem, the department is also planning to use drones for aerial spraying of insecticides”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/agriculture-dept-may-use-drones-for-aerial-spraying-of-insecticides/articleshow/76141822.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Nine medical colleges in state get new principals||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has appointed new principals for various medical colleges in the state through six promotions and three transfers, said a release issued by health minister K K Shailaja. At Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, Dr Sarah Varghese from Kollam Medical College was appointed as the principal against the retirement of incumbent Dr Ajayakumar. The new principal at Kollam Medical College will be Dr Ravikumar Kurup, currently the head of department of medicine at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College. Dr P P Mohanan, currently the principal of Idukki Medical College, will be the Kottayam Medical College principal. Dr Vijayalakshmi, a physiology professor at Thrissur Medical College, has been appointed principal of Alappuzha Medical College, while Dr N Roy, currently the Kannur Medical College principal, has been transferred to head Ernakulam Medical College. Dr C S Vikraman, an orthopaedic professor at Kollam Medical College, will be the new principal of Konni Medical College, and Dr V Satheesh, a psychiatry professor at Kottayam Medical College, will be the principal of Idukki Medical College. Meanwhile, Dr K M Kuriakose, who is currently a cardiovascular thoracic surgery professor at Kozhikode Medical College, will be new principal of Kannur Medical College. Dr G S Harikumaran Nair, currently on deputation as the dean of Kerala Health University, will be the special officer in medical education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nine-medical-colleges-in-state-get-new-principals/articleshow/76143270.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: First lot of Covid-19 isolation coaches deployed at Shakur Basti station||NEW DELHI: The Northern Railway has deployed the first set of Covid-19 isolation coaches at Shakur Basti station in Delhi. The rake with 10 coaches has 160 beds to accommodate those being treated for the viral infection. The railways had converted 5,321 non-air conditioned coaches into isolation wards about two months ago and this is for the first time 10 railway coaches are being put to use amid the national capital reporting a steady rise in numbers of cases in recent days. According to Northern Railway, the Covid-19 Care Centre Isolation rake was stationed at Washing Line Complex at coaching depot at Shakur Basti on Sunday at the request of the Delhi government. On Sunday, the Northern Railway informed Delhi government that the rake with 10 isolation coaches and one AC coach for staff was deployed as per requirement. These coaches have been equipped and made ready as per approved Covid-19 coaches protocol. The railways will provide water, electricity, linen, oxygen cylinders and security arrangement. But the Delhi government will have to make arrangement for men, material for all on-board management of patients and other works of housekeeping, laundry and catering to biomedical waste. Earlier, the government had earmarked 215 railway stations for the deployment of isolation coaches for suspected or confirmed patients and Shakur Basti was one of those identified stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-lot-of-covid-isolation-coaches-deployed-at-shakur-basti-station/articleshow/76144870.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-wary Vadodara cops let go of minor offences||Vadodara: Wary of the Covid-19 infection, Vadodara police have been avoiding arrests of offenders booked for non-serious crimes in the city. Except the offences that are life threatening, the police are simply booking the accused and conducting investigations in the case. The move came after some of the accused booked for two different rioting cases were tested positive in last one month. The police teams involved in the arrests had to be quarantined. A police sub-inspector posted at Karelibaug had also tested positive for Covid-19 some days ago. “There is risk of Covid-19 infection but the cops must do their duty and act in criminal cases. So we have decided to not make arrests in cases that are not life threatening. In offences that are not serious, we file FIR and conduct the routine investigations,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. “The arrests will be made after the threat of Covid-19 reduces. Safety of the policemen and citizens is a must for us,” Gahlaut added. The police is making arrests only in rioting, attempt to murder, murder or assault cases. Before lockdown was announced, about 70 to 80 persons were arrested daily in different criminal cases but the number is now down to around a dozen men every day. “While making arrests, the cops come in close contact with the accused who may be infected with Covid-19. So I have asked the police to take all the precautions, wear PPE kit whenever necessary and use face masks and gloves,” Gahlaut told TOI. The cops are cautious while making arrests as they don’t want to get infected or remain quarantined for weeks. The police have almost stopped detaining vehicles of people who move out of their homes during the lockdown hours. In the earlier weeks of lockdown, about 500 to 600 vehicles were detained everyday but now the number is down to 10 vehicles daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-wary-vadodara-cops-let-go-of-minor-offences/articleshow/76142542.cms||Tushar Tere
June 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Folklorist revives aural storytelling: Tales of Uttara Kannada tribes compiled in books||Mangaluru: The tribes of Uttara Kannada passed on to future generations the wealth of stories preserved in memory, and passed down through word-of-mouth. However, it is a sign of the times that this immeasurable wealth could be lost to oblivion, with a bulk of the younger generation of these communities keen on joining the mainstream. But folklore expert Savita Uday has taken on the herculean task of keeping the aural culture alive by compiling the stories that Gopi Siddi, Nugli, Padmavathi and Sukri Bommu Gowda recited to children at the Angdibail Government School in Uttara Kannada into books in Kannada and English. However, the publication of these books has been delayed owing to the lockdown. “The project is funded by the India Foundation for the Arts during the 2019-20 academic year. Our aim was to impart to children a way of life through storytelling. Folklore helps understand our ties with the soil. The women of tribal communities who stores these stories are the forbears of folk wisdom. We felt it was vital to make children understand their connection with the soil at a time when schools are preparing them for a life far from home,” Savita told TOI. The school in Uttara Kannada where the project was launched has a strength of 50 children from classes one to seven. “We wanted students to be able to connect to nature. All the illustrations in the books are by kids. They were initially keen on using sketch pens, crayons and colour pencils, but we asked them to use coloured mud from their homes. They were apprehensive initially, but they finally made rangoli with the mud. We later used the colours to make dry motifs by rubbing it with paper,” Savita added. Savita said that the humble origins of many of the storytellers who came to recite tales came as a revelation for students, who were shocked to learn that many were daily wage labourers. Many of the stories compiled in the book tell tales of the downfall of the king owing to his misdeeds, ill-treatment of children by their stepmother, the fates that the virtuous and the evil meet, et al. “There are also stories that depict the grim reality of certain societal practices. We have recorded all stories but are publishing a few of them,” Savita said. Elaborating on the empahsis that the stories laid on nature, Savita pointed to the description of communities living in harmony with nature, agricultural practices, and the depiction of birds and animals, which were the result of close obersvation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/folklorist-revives-aural-storytelling-tales-of-uttara-kannada-tribes-compiled-in-books/articleshow/76143204.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 2, 2020||Hubballi||After 80 days, normalcy returns to Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: Coinciding with the onset of the monsoon in Kerala on Monday, normalcy returned to Kalaburagi, which had reported India’s first Covid-19 fatality, after an 80-day lockdown. Most commercial shops and markets reopened, with the district administration allowing operations between 10am and 6pm. Unfortunately, the opening of the marketplaces in Kalaburagi came at the cost of safety norms, with large crowds thronging vegetable, fruit and flower shops, paying no heed to social distancing. There are fears that disregard for safety norms may send the number of cases spiralling upwards. Although restaurants were strictly directed to restrict operations to takeaway, patrons were found being served at tables at many small eateries. While most eateries followed the norms to the letter, many chose to stay shut. Meanwhile, autorickshaws returned to the streets of Kalaburagi on Monday, with drivers having been issued instructions not to ferry more than two passengers. However, people will have to wait till June 8 before temples and other places of worship open. Many people ventured out into the streets without wearing masks, much to the chagrin of health department personnel and cops. Police personnel deployed to enforce safety rules were found directing those manning shops to sell their products only to those customers who were wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-80-days-normalcy-returns-to-kalaburagi/articleshow/76144135.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Enforce mask rule, chief secy tells cops||Kolkata: Alarmed over people not using masks amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha has written to the DGP, home secretary, Kolkata Police commissioner and the zonal inspector generals of police, asking for stringent enforcement of the mask rule. “As a measure to contain spread of contagion, wearing of masks is important and must be enforced appropriately,” Sinha wrote to police chiefs on Friday. Mentioning the state notification “dated 12/04/2020, making masks mandatory”, he wrote, “The state order spells out the action that shall be taken in case of violation...” A home department official told TOI on Monday, “Wearing masks in public is mandatory, but people are seen forgoing it. This is risky as the state and the country ease restrictions.” Dhritiman Sarkar, DC, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said: “Our teams are stopping people in cars and on bikes and asking them to wear masks.” A Jadavpur PS officer said, “Some have masks hanging around their necks. We are making them put it on the mouth and nose.” Pulmonologist A K Ghosh said, “Masks help minimize transmission The disease has had community spread and we must act now.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/enforce-mask-rule-chief-secy-tells-cops/articleshow/76144249.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||In Hoshiarpur village with 140 houses, kidney patient on deathbed became unsuspecting Covid carrier||HOSHIARPUR: A kidney failure patient who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on May 18 became the unsuspecting carrier of the coronavirus infection in Nangli, a small village in Hoshiarpur district with just 140 houses which accounted for eight of 38 new cases in Punjab on Monday. Of the 128 cases reported so far in Hoshiarpur, 26 are from Nangli. Deceased Lakhwinder Singh had suffered kidney failure in the third week of March, when the lockdown had been just imposed. Three of his relatives in nearby Purike village have also tested positive. In the case of Nangli, all patients had come in contact with Lakhwinder at one point or another. While eight patients are from his family, the rest are locals. As no one knew he was infected, the virus spread. Lakhwinder was a mason. When diagnosed with kidney failure, Lakhwinder was initially sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar, but he returned as he had neither informed his family nor he had money. “His sister and brother advised him to go to a kidney hospital in Jalandhar where he remained admitted for a few weeks and then returned to his home where he stayed for a few days and villagers also visited him. Then his condition started deteriorating and he was again rushed to hospital where he died in a couple of days. It was after his death that his sample was taken and his was released a day later, after the report came,” said a village resident. After the death, villagers also visited his home to condole his death. A woman, who owns a small shop and would visit the family often as she was related, also tested positive and later her family members were found infected. In fact, the driver of the car in which Lakhwinder went to Jalandhar and his kin also tested positive. “We have 106 persons from the village and have taken 61 samples more. All patients are asymptomatic and have been kept at the Covid care centre,” Tanda community health centre senior medical officer Dr K R Bali said. He also that from Nangli, nine villages around it had been included in the containment zone and restrictions had been put in place]. “We will be taking out a survey in the neighbouring villages also,” Dr Bali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-hoshiarpur-village-with-140-houses-kidney-patient-on-deathbed-became-unsuspecting-covid-carrier/articleshow/76144868.cms||IP Singh
June 2, 2020||Hubballi||Change of guard in Maha, Covid-19 crisis keep inter-state flood panel formation on paper||Belagavi: Among the problems that result from surplus rain in Maharashtra is the inundation of the delta regions in the neighbouring state, and the districts in Karnataka downstream of rivers that originate there. On Monday, the Southwest Monsoon made landfall in Kerala, bringing back into focus the need for an inter-state joint panel to prevent loss of human lives and damage to property. However, the constitution of this panel remains yet a distant dream. In August 2019, the secretary of the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) for the Maharshtra government Rajendra Pawar proposed the idea, and in the ensuing months, talks were held to take the idea closer to realisation. But nothing substantial was achieved, and management of a disaster, should it occur, will remain a formidable task for both states. The chief objective of the panel is to revise the quantum of water to be released from the major dams – Koyna, Warna and Almatti – by assessing the situation prior to and during the monsoon. In 2019, both states bore the brunt of floods – Belagavi district alone reporting damage of up to Rs 11,500 crore, while Raichur, Bagalkot and Vijayapura also suffered badly from the calamity. Heavy rain over the past few days has revived memories of last year’s deluge among the people of Belagavi, and North Karnataka. A source in Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd (north), Belagavi said that the panel could have foreseen and helped mitigate the damage caused by floods. “The panel’s aim is to prevent surplus storage of water in the dams, which will then lead to discharge of a large quantity. We must plan to construct agricultural and water shortage ponds to prevent such a calamity,” the source said. Deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, who had held discussions with officials and elected representatives in Maharashtra, attributed the delay in forming the panel to the Covid-19 crisis. “The Maharashtra government had earlier alleged poor maintenance of the Almatti Dam. But an expert panel constituted by Maharashtra has cited encroachment on the banks of the river in that state as the cause for the floods. Following the submission of the report, things have stagnated in the neighbouring state, not to mention the change of guard there,” Savadi added. Ashok Chandargi, an activist, while endorsing Savadi’s observations, did not restrain himself from criticising both the Karnataka and Maharashtra governments for dragging their feet on the issue. “The panel must have been constituted before the monsoon. This has not happened, and if there is another flood, the state will have to suffer,” Chandargi rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/change-of-guard-in-maha-covid-19-crisis-keep-inter-state-flood-panel-formation-on-paper/articleshow/76143398.cms||Shreyas HS
June 2, 2020||Mysuru||13-year-old drowns in lake in Mandya||Mysuru: A 13-year-old boy drowned in a lake at Basavanagudi Koppalu in Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district on Monday. The incident happened when Anand had gone to an agriculture field along with his mother. While the woman was busy with agriculture activities, Ananda went to a nearby lake to swim. But Anand drowned in the waterbody as he did not know how to swim. The villagers fished out the body later. Nagamangala Rural police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/13-year-old-drowns-in-lake-in-mandya/articleshow/76142758.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Mysuru||Three court halls inaugurated in Mysuru||Mysuru: Mysuru principal district and sessions court judge Ramchandra D Huddar inaugurated three senior civil judge courts on the new court complex on Monday. With the lockdown having been eased, courts started functioning on Monday and authorities have brought in several restrictions to ensure social distancing. Entry of advocates has been restricted to only those who have hearings. As only arguments are scheduled, clients are completely restricted from entering the campus. Thermal scanning has been made compulsory at the entrance. Every court hall has restricted number of advocates to 20 at a time, said HD Anandkumar, president of Mysuru Bar Association. Of the total 48 courts in the complex, 23 functioned on Monday. These courts will not function on Tuesday. As per the directives, courts will function on alternate dates. Wearing mask and using of sanitizers have been made mandatory. To start with only arguments are scheduled. Even the number of cases are restricted to 20 every day – 10 in the morning session and the rest in the post noon hours. An advocate said they were given three hours to collect files from the association office on Sunday to facilitate smooth functioning of courts from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-court-halls-inaugurated-in-mysuru/articleshow/76141915.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hubballi||Theatre owners fear losing out to OTT platforms||Belagavi: Cinema theatre owners in the district are not optimistic about their business in future as they think over-the-top (OTT) platforms could spoil the show, literally. Trilingual culture in Belagavi had made the business booming for theatres with each of them earning anywhere around Rs 15-20 lakh every month. However, the lockdown has brought the shows to a grinding halt, and theatre owners, on their knees. The owners also feel the new platform can change the collective movie-viewing habit. Belagavi has 11 screens — six run by multiplexes and five single-screens. Kannada, Hindi and Marathi movies considerably have equal audience, thereby ensuring good profit for those screening them. However, the lockdown has changed the equation. District Theatre Owners’ Association president Avinash Poddar told STOP that each theatre has incurred a loss of about Rs 50 lakh over the past three months. “Despite zero business, the owners are paying their workers and taking care of maintenance. The closure of theatres may extend till August, by which time the viewing behaviour (preferences) of audience would have changed. In the absence of big screens, people get used to OTT platforms, and this may pose danger to the very survival of theatres. Yes, there are mass audience, but pulling them back to theatres is a task, given the pandemic-related fears.” Theatre owner Mahesh Kugji said some Bollywood filmmakers have decided to bypass theatres to show their movies on OTT platforms. “Bollywood is known for setting trends, and theatre culture may suffer if regional film industries too follow suit. The government may not help the fraternity... If theatres are opened after August, sanitising them will remain a big issue for the owners. It will not only eat into the profits, but also prove a logistical nightmare as sanitisation a theatre takes a lot of time,” he added. Rohini M S, physics lecturer and a movie buff, said she prefers OTT over theatres. “In OTT, we can watch movies in the comforts of our home. OTT will also save us travel and food costs. Hygiene in theatres, especially in the time of pandemic, is a major concern,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/theatre-owners-fear-losing-out-to-ott-platforms/articleshow/76143836.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Helpline set up for II PU students from outside Karnataka||Mangaluru: The Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) on Monday announced setting up of helpline 080-23083900 intended to help II PUC students appearing for the lone pending English exam. The helpline will help students from outside Karnataka who are scheduled to appear for it on June 18. DPUE has permitted these students to appear for this exam at an examination centre in Karnataka closest to their state border. S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education, said many students had left for their respective states during lockdown 1.0 and DPUE has made this arrangement as per their wish. This is specially the case with students from Kasaragod bordering DK district. Deputy director, DPUE, DK has been directed to arrange buses for students from Kasaragod from Kerala-Karnataka border at Talapady to and from the examination centre. DPUE has also made arrangements to allow students who resided in department hostels and children of migrant labourers, who had to vacate the hostel or return home due to the lock down to appear for this pending examination at a centre closest to them. Such students may choose a centre in the nearby district, taluk or an examination centre of their choice, he said adding 16,229 students have expressed their intent to avail this facility.  DPUE will shortly host the details of examination centre allotted to these students on its website, the minister said, adding students may in the interim also call up the above helpline for details.The English exam was scheduled to be held on March 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/helpline-set-up-for-ii-pu-students-from-outside-karnataka/articleshow/76142630.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Gangster held in abetment to suicide case||Kochi: Ernakulam rural police recorded the arrest of Perumbavoor Anas, a gangster accused in several cases. His arrest was recorded in an abetment of suicide case in connection with the death of Muhammed Haarish in North Paravoor.  Anas alias Anseer, son of Kunjumuhammed of Puthenpura house, Vengola, is presently in remand in connection with an attempt to murder case reported from Aluva on February 14. Police said his arrest was recorded on Thursday in connection with suicide of Haarish of Valluvallil in North Paravur in 2015. Anas, along with five others, was booked for abetment in this case.  According to senior officers, a probe relating to the attempted muder case in Aluva led to the arrest of Anas in the abetment case. “While probing the attempted murder case for which Anas was arrested a few weeks back, we found that Ibrahim, who was attacked at Aluva, was a co-accused of Anas in the abetment case. We went through the case and found out that Anas’s arrest was not recorded,” said a senior officer.  Police said the case was regarding the death of Haarish who committed suicide following blackmail and extortion attempts made by Anas’s gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gangster-held-in-abetment-to-suicide-case/articleshow/76143286.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Hoping to get lives back on track, many board trains to Delhi, Mumbai||LUCKNOW: Malik Majumdar, an adhoc employee in a company in Mumbai, came home in March for a 15-day vacation, but got stuck due to lockdown. He was delighted when company’s human resource recently e-mailed him to report for a meeting. He booked ticket in Pushpak Express as soon as railways announced partial resumption of services. Like Malik, over 2300 passengers took three express trains -resumed by railways on Monday. About 583 boarded Gomti Express from Lucknow and 51 from Unnao. Similarly, 497 boarded Pushpak from Lucknow and 400 from Kanpur. Lucknow Mail carried about 830 from Lucknow. Abdul Ghafur Khan, a hotel owner in Navi Mumbai, came to Lucknow to attend a funeral in March. "Resuming business will be an ardours task as most workers have left Mumbai. I will start afresh after completing post-travel quarantine period in Mumbai,” he said. Jagtosh Shukla, senior DCM, NR, Lucknow division, said “All passengers were thermally scanned and asymptomatic ones were allowed to board with social distancing.” “Tickets were checked through CCTV and sensor based sanitiser dispenser have been installed to avoid physical contact,” said Amber Pratap Singh, senior DCM, NER, Lucknow division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hoping-to-get-lives-back-on-track-many-board-trains-to-delhi-mum/articleshow/76145503.cms||Urooj Khan
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Buried alive in sand, man wriggles out to reach cops||RAJKOT: In a scene reminiscent of eighties’ B-grade pot-boilers, three assailants kidnapped a 30-year-old man, thrashed him brutally and then buried him alive in the sand to avenge their old financial dispute. However, in a befitting anticlimax, the victim dug himself out with little effort, ran for his life with goons close on his heels, straight into the shelter of the policemen who rescued him. All this happened near Gondal town of Rajkot district on Sunday night, while cops also rounded up the three accused, identified as Arvind Bambhava, Ravi Vakatar and Chandu Bharwad on Monday. During preliminary questioning, police found that the sinister plot was a fallout of a financial dispute between Arvind Bambhava and the victim, Kapil Marakana, who works in a dairy on Vora Kotada Road in Gondal. According to cops, the grudge went back to the days when the dairy named Shivshakti was owned by Bambhava and Markana was his employee for six years. However, Bambhava had to sell off the dairy to one Yogesh Bharwad six months ago, owing to losses. This was the starting of his acrimony towards Markana, whom he accused of embezzling dairy funds and causing losses. Nursing his grudge, Bambhava, accompanied by Vakatar arrived at the dairy on Sunday evening on the former’s bullet and took Markana away forcibly with them to a sand stockyard on Gondal road owned by Bambhava’s friend, Chandu. They took Marakana to Bharwad’s cabin and beat him up with bare hands and a lathi. Not satisfied with their revenge, they hauled him out in the open, pinned him on the ground and buried him in the sand with hands and feet tied. They buried him till Markana lay motionless inside the man-made dune, leaving him to die. The trio then retreated to the cabin to toast their success. “While they inside the cabin, Markana started to wriggle furiously under the sand and first his feet came loose. After some more struggle, he managed to come out and run, but the trio spotted him and started chasing him. But Markana raced ahead of them and reached the nearby Gondal sub-jail where he sought help from a cop deployed there. The trio saw this and beat a hasty retreat,” said AV Jadeja, in-charge inspector with Gondal city police station. “After being informed by the jail police, we detained the three in the night and are waiting for their Covid-19 reports, after which they will be formally arrested,” said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/buried-alive-in-sand-man-wriggles-out-to-reach-cops/articleshow/76143298.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ranchi||13 test positive after quarantine period||Sindri: As many as 13 persons of Dhanbad, who were sent home after their mandatory 14-day quarantine period came to an end, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, bringing the delay in testing of samples at Dhanbad’s Patliputra Medical College and Hospital under scanner on Sunday. The district till Saturday saw a total of 30 cases of Covid-19, of which, 26 are active after four patients recovered. Dhanbad has not recorded any death till date. The samples of the 13 persons, all migrants from various parts of the country, were collected on May 14. Sources in the district administration said many others were also allowed to go home even before their quarantine period came to an end as they were asymptomatic. Of the 13 who tested positive, two hail from Hirapur in Dhanbad, one from Azadnagar in Bhuli area, three from different villages of Baliapur and one person each from Malkera, Lodna More Jharia, Gomoh and Kenduadih. While the residence of one more migrants is yet to be ascertained, two others are said to be from West Bengal’s Purulia district. Though curfew has been imposed in Hirapur, Bhuli and Malkera, the district administration is busy identifying areas to be brought under containment zones and persons who came in contact with positive patients so that their swab samples can be collected for tests. A senior doctor in PMCH on condition of anonymity said, “Despite testing more than 500 samples per day, there are more than 3,500 cases pending in PMCH. Swab samples from eight neighbouring districts are coming to PMCH for tests.” The doctor added, “Doctors and lab technicians come to the hospital in the morning and work till midnight. With limited manpower and just three testing machines, one should not expect more from them.” Meanwhile, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar and civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das did not respond when contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/13-test-positive-after-quarantine-period/articleshow/76125047.cms||Anil Ashutosh
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Thousands swarm Hyderabad railway stations as train services resume||HYDERABAD: Thousands of people trooped to railway stations on Monday as passenger train services resumed after two months from Secunderabad and Hyderabad railway stations As the railway authorities had asked passengers to reach the station 90 minutes prior to their journey, several passengers, caught in the Covid-19 lockdown, started arriving at the railway station from 4.30 am. A few of them also waited the entire night anticipating heavy rush and chaos on the first day. Kolkata’s Shyamcharan Mand, who was waiting outside Secunderabad railway station along with two other friends, said, “We have been waiting here from last night. Our train is at 3.55 pm today (Monday) but we did not want to take the risk of missing the train because of the heavy rush.” “We booked our tickets on May 18 after the railways opened bookings for passenger trains,” said Mand. As per the schedule, train number 02704 Howrah special arrived at the station at 3.30 pm and departed in 15 minutes. Train services resumed with the departure of Telangana Express (Hyderabad-New Delhi) on Monday morning from Hyderabad railway station. According to the officials, in the first phase, Telangana, Hussain Sagar, Falaknuma, Godavari, Rayalaseema, Dhanapur, Golconda, Sachkonda express train services were resumed. Outside Secunderabad station, passengers were seen standing in two long queues to enter the station. “We have been waiting in the queue for almost an hour. There is heavy rush but we are hoping that we will not miss our train,” said Pintu Mondal, who was waiting to board Dhanapur Express which was the first train to depart from Secunderabad at 9.40 am.  “Elaborate arrangements have been made to handle the passengers carefully at Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Guntur, Tirupati, Vijayawada and H.S. Nanded Stations so as to ensure coordinated movement of the passengers to maintain social distance and other health precautions in the wake of prevailing Covid-19 situation. Our officials are continuosly monitoring the situation at stations to ensure safe travel for the passengers boarding and alighting the special trains,” said Gajanan Mallya, general manager, SCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thousands-swarm-city-railway-stations-as-train-services-resume/articleshow/76144241.cms||Moulika.KV
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Excise revenue loss: Partap Singh Bajwa seeks probe by high court judge||JALANDHAR: Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday pegged Punjab excise department’s losses for the past three years at Rs 2,700 crore, demanding a probe either by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court into the loss of revenue. He said he would submit proofs and information about the persons involved in the alleged scam of excise losses if such probes took place. “The issue does not settle with just a few ministers saying their differences with the chief secretary have been resolved. MLAs’ allegations of losses in the excise department have not yet been contradicted. If there is nothing to hide, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should order a probe by the CBI or a high court judge,” Bajwa told TOI. He said if the CM was apprehensive of CBI targetting him at the behest of the Union government, he could give the probe to a high court judge. “It should be a timebound probe. I will also submit all information with me as I am privy to a lot of information about this scandal as whistleblowers have apprised me about things. I have also gathered it from different sources. I can divulge it on an appropriate forum,” he said, adding that no state agency coud hold a fair probe as CM was minister of excise department and chief secretary handled it as secretary. Bajwa, a bête noire of Amarinder, said his assessment of loss was based on finance department data. “State government is manipulating figures to mislead people,” he said. When pointed out that Congress MLAs who raised the issue were now silent, Bajwa said the MLAs felt ministers took them for a rid and they backed off after the CM silenced ministers. “The calm in state Congress is temporary. It will brew again as nothing is improving. MLAs are facing heat over the government’s performance,” Bajwa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/excise-revenue-loss-bajwa-seeks-probe-by-hc-judge/articleshow/76144882.cms||IP Singh
June 2, 2020||Goa||IMD: Cyclonic circulation not to have landfall over Goa||Panaji: Even though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a cyclone alert for north Maharashtra-South Gujarat coasts owing to the depression over Eastcentral and adjoining Southeast Arabian Sea, the phenomenon will not have landfall over Goa. It will prevail only in the extreme end of North Goa and South Maharashtra region, IMD said. “The cyclone will be passing over the Eastcentral Arabian Sea about 200-300 kms away from Goa’s coast. On the sea, the windspeed could be 60-70 kmph, but over land regions, it could reach a maximum of 55-60 kmph,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. The only impact that will be felt by Goa is that of heavy rainfall and squally wind, IMD said. Goa is likely to experience light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy showers on June 2 and 3. Squally wind is likely prevail, over eastcentral Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka-Goa coasts during next 48 hours, IMD said on Monday. Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea along and off the Maharashtra-Goa coast till June 4. A high wave alert from INCOIS has also been issued, warning of high waves in the range of 2-4.9m from 5.30pm on May 31 to 11.30pm on June 2 along the coast of Goa from Vengurla to Vasco. Surface current speeds vary between 22-86cm/sec. IMD also said that the depression over Eastcentral and adjoining Southeast Arabian Sea is very likely to intensify into a deep depression during the next 12 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. “It is very likely to move nearly northwards initially till June 2 and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and Daman by June 3.” IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-cyclonic-circulation-not-to-have-landfall-over-goa/articleshow/76145521.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Vishwajit Rane says 6 more cured, health dept doesn’t mention it||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday that six more Covid-19 patients have recovered, bringing the state’s active count to 23. His tweet came minutes after the official health department’s bulletin, which had no mention of any recoveries for the day. “Six patients have recovered at the #Covid19 hospital, bringing our total active cases in the state down to 23,” Rane tweeted at 9.20pm on Monday. “With patients recovering and being declared healthy, this gives us more strength and motivation to unitedly fight the menace of this virus.” However, none of this was in the bulletin, which only recorded two more positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-says-6-more-cured-health-dept-doesnt-mention-it/articleshow/76145515.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Entry in mosques with restrictions||LUCKNOW: Wear a mask while offering namaz, bring your own janamaz (prayer mat) and skull cap and don’t stand shoulder to shoulder with other namazis, are some of the directives issued by the Islamic Centre of India (ICI) to mosques on Monday. The 16-point advisory comes in the backdrop of the Central government’s decision to reopen places of worship from June 8 in a phased manner. Head of ICI and Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali issued the advisory which said that after initial 15 days of reopening of mosques, a new advisory can also come up following circumstantial changes. As per the advisory, there will be no carpets or mats in the mosque. Instead namaz will be offered on bare floors which will be cleaned with disinfectant regularly. If someone cannot pray on the floor, they should bring their own ‘janamaz’ (a specific prayer mat). Skull caps in mosque are not to be used and four groups of namazis are to be formed maintaining six feet distance between each of them and a 15 minute gap between two groups. Only ‘farz’ compulsory five times of prayer to be offered in mosques and other ‘sunnah’ (non mandatory but performed by Prophet) to be offered at home. Friday Khutba will be kept short and Urdu speech will be done away with temporarily. Compulsory ‘wuzu’ (ablution) before namaz will have be done at home before coming to the mosque . The advisory also asks for children below 10 years of age and elders above 65 years of age to pray at home and dismisses embraces and handshakes by everyone coming to the mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/entry-in-mosques-with-restrictions/articleshow/76145517.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Gurgaon||PM Cares Fund: No information, lawyer sends notice||YAMUNANAGAR: A senior lawyer of Yamunanagar, who was denied information on receipts and disbursal from the PM Cares Fund under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, on Sunday sent a legal notice to the under secretary concerned at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). In the notice, advocate S K Gupta said, “As per the available information, the officials are claiming that PM Cares Fund is not a public authority despite all the office-bearers being public representatives and all the money of the public. This is against the basic principles of natural justice and public good as granted by the Constitution of India to every citizen.” Gupta asked when income tax exemptions are being given for making contributions to this fund, how it can be “not a matter of public concern”. “Therefore, if information as a white paper on PM Cares Fund is not provided to the nationals and the media, then I shall be compelled to approach the Supreme Court of India and jurisdictional high courts... If by June 10 the government does not provide the information in the public domain, I shall be compelled to file a PIL against the same,” Gupta mentioned in the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pm-cares-no-info-lawyer-sends-notice/articleshow/76144884.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Viral recovery: Hotels & malls to lift other sectors in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Restaurants, hotels and malls in Karnataka will resume full operations from June 8 and their financial recovery could pull some key sectors out of funk. Agriculture and food processing are heavily dependent on these businesses, and even the construction segment is pinning its hopes on them. After two months of a cautious approach prompted by the Covid-19 crisis, the Union ministry of home affairs issued fresh guidelines under the ‘Unlock 1.0’ strategy on Saturday, restoring significant parts of industry and public life. The hospitality sector can offer full service from June 8. Currently, it is allowed to provide only takeaways. “A piecemeal unlock would have never helped in accelerating the recovery of our economy. From the beginning of the lockdown in the country, we have been arguing that all primary sectors are dependent on the hotel industry resuming operations. Finally, we may see some acceleration in recovery,” said S Sampathraman, president (Karnataka chapter), All India Manufacturers Association. The government allowed the manufacturing sector to start full operations with 100 per cent staff in the first week of May. It also agreed to the demand of increasing working hours from eight to 10. But factories are struggling to ramp up without corresponding market demand. Eighty per cent of the 6.7 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Karnataka resumed operations, but their production level is below 30 per cent. The reason: hotels and malls, major consumers of processed and finished products, are shut. “Two factors are hampering productivity. First, lack of continuity in supply chain that resulted in scarcity of raw materials. Second, but more important, factor is the low level of consumption and lack of demand. When hotels and malls reopen, consumption will pick up and productivity will acquire momentum,” said C Janardhan, president of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI). Janardhan anticipates an economic recovery of about 60% after reopening of hotels and malls. He said that most dealers had retail outlets in malls, which had been driving consumption before the coronavirus crisis halted everything. Bengaluru reportedly has the second highest number of malls (37) in the country after Delhi-NCR. The construction industry, which is wringing its hand over the exodus of migrant workers, will also benefit when hotels restart full operations. Hotels are a major consumption block in the food supply chain, which suffered during the lockdown. The disruption contributed to the departure of migrants. The ecosystem’s revival might draw the workforce back from their native towns and villages and this will be a major relief for developers. “Construction activities are still stuck at 30 per cent. The reason is the lack of labour. As we enter the Unlock era, we expect construction activity to jump back to normalcy in a couple of months,” said Suresh Hari, chairman of CREDAI-Bengaluru. Stronger demand for food will help farmers sell their produce at fair rates to bulk buyers. “Food procurement fell to 40 per cent after bulk purchasers such as hotels and caterers suspended operations in the wake of Covid-19. Procurement levels will improve once the hotel industry starts doing full-fledged business,” said Rameshchandra Lahoti, a former president of Bangalore Wholesalers Association of Pulses and Food Grains. Karnataka has about 80,000 hotels and restaurants put together. Lahoti expects consumption level to improve 60 per cent by June-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/viral-recovery-hotels-malls-to-lift-other-sectors-in-karnataka/articleshow/76133895.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man beaten up for alleged molestation||Rajkot: A 35-year-old man was beaten up black and blue by three persons for allegedly molesting a four-year-old girl in Lohanagar of Mafatiyapara locality in Rajkot on Sunday night. Police said the accused, identified as Firoz, Deepo and Dhamo, allegedly attacked Rajesh Rathod with a stone, causing a serious injury on his head, and beat him up with fists and kicks. “The accused alleged that Rathod had molested the girl which Rathod denied. The girl’s mother has lodged a complaint against Rathod, alleging that Rathod had lured the girl with biscuits and had molested her. On the other hand, Rathod has also lodged a plaint against the accused trio who had attacked him,” said C G Joshi, PI. Rathod pleaded innocence and claimed that he had taken the girl to offer her biscuits out of compassion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-beaten-up-for-alleged-molestation/articleshow/76143326.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Former SSP booked for rash driving||Kapurthala: Arjuna awardee former international basketball player and retired Punjab Police SSP Sajjan Singh Cheema has been booked by Sultanpur Lodhi police for rash driving, after a Kapurthala resident complained that Cheema’s car hit his vehicle on Sunday. However, Cheema, who contested 2017 assembly election on AAP ticket from Sultanpur Lodhi and is now a Shiromani Akali Dal leader, said the case was registered to settle political scores. Kapurthala resident Karampreet Singh alleged that he and his friend were going towards Sultanpur Lodhi in his Innova vehicle. When he halted near a petrol pump outside Rail Coach Factory and was about to come out, Cheema’s car hit his car. Sultanpur Lodhi DSP Sarwan Singh Bal said Karampreet received “internal’’ injuries after Cheema’s car rammed into his vehicle from the rear side. However, Cheema said the case was registered due to political reasons as he had been highlighting “wrongdoings” of Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-ssp-booked-for-rash-driving/articleshow/76144889.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Misuse fear: Punjab cuts take-home dose of detox medicine||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government, worried about possible misuse, has reduced the take-home dose of deaddiction medicine buprenorphine, a scheduled drug, from 21 days to seven days after demand for the detoxification drug went through the roof since lockdown was enforced in the state to curb the spread of Covid-19. The abrupt lockdown, imposed from March 23, had blocked the supply chain of contraband, leading to shortage, forcing addicts to register for treatment at the government-run outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics and government-run de-addiction centres. During the last two months, more than 90,000 new patients registered for treatment and for their convenience, the take home dose of the medicine was increased to 21 days. The surge in number of patients led to increase in demand for the medicine, causing shortage. The demand for the detoxification drug rose from about 20 lakh tablets per month to about 40 lakh tablets. Since March, the health department had placed orders for the medicine worth Rs 2.80 crore, of which order worth Rs 30 lakh is pending while most of the existing stock has been consumed. Teams of the Punjab health department conducted surprise visits in few districts and found that the detoxification drug was being dispensed on basis of history of a patient without conducting any tests. Without any testing, it is difficult to ascertain whether a person taking the detoxification medicine is actually an addict or not. After the matter was brought to the notice of senior officials, it was decided to reduce the take home dose of the detoxification medicine and special teams will be formed to conduct random check at the OOAT clinics. In a communication to deputy commissioners and civil surgeons, the director health services emphasized on continuity in the treatment of drug abuse patients as taking medicine regularly is important and discontinuity can be fatal. The deputy commissioners and civil surgeons have been directed to dispense take home doses for only seven days. They have also been directed to ensure that all precautions are taken to avoid transmission of coronavirus by ensuring that there is no overcrowding and proper hygiene is maintained in the OOAT clinics and drug-de-addiction centre. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the decision has been taken after many deliberations. “The decision of allowing take home dose for 21 days had led to shortage of medicine and had increased the possibility of medicine being misused,” said Sidhu. Adding, he said the patients will not face any inconvenience as they will continue to get take home dose for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/misuse-fear-pb-cuts-take-home-dose-of-detox-med/articleshow/76144898.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Army-civilian tussle back in Secunderabad Cantonment as military blocks roads||SECUNDERABAD: Despite the ministry of defence’s (MOD) instructions that the civilian roads in Secunderabad Cantonment should be kept open, the local military authority (LMA) has blocked them. Nearly 10 civilian roads, which provide access to around 200 residential colonies, are being closed twice every day for three hours each, which is inconveniencing people. Allahabad Gate near Mahendra Hills, Wellington Road, Safilguda railway lines (towards AoC Centre and swimming pool), certain civilian roads at Bollarum, Yapral and those that lead to North Eastern colonies of Cantonment are being blocked for the last few days. They are closed between 5 am and 7 am and from 4 pm to 6 pm. Usually, LMA imposes traffic restrictions whenever a high alert is sounded all over the country and during the Independence Day and Republic Day celebrations. But citing Covid-19 as reason, the LMA has been shutting down these 10 civilian roads for about three to four hours a day. On an average, nearly 3.5 lakh people use these civilian roads to commute between their residences and work stations.  Expressing anguish over the LMA’s attitude, commuters and residential welfare associations allege that as per the MOD’s instructions, LMA should issue an official notification at least two to three days before the closure of roads, and that they seldom do that. “Under the Cantonment Act, the Army has no power to close the roads, whether in the Bolarum Golf Course area or in the AOC area? Only Cantonment Board has powers to shut the civilian roads,” said Pankaj Seth, a resident of Yapral. SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna told TOI that the road closure may continue till June 30. “The road closure may continue further as the lockdown has been extended to June 30. A meeting with defence officials of the SCB will be convened soon on the road closure issue. Thousands of commuters are being affected by this closure,” Rama Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-civilian-tussle-back-in-cantt-as-military-blocks-roads/articleshow/76145525.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 2, 2020||Agra||4 kids drown in pit filled with rainwater in Mainpuri||Agra: Four minor boys drowned after falling into a pit filled with rainwater in Mainpuri’s Binepur village under Barhnal police jurisdiction on Sunday night. According to police, the boys were out with their goats who were grazing in the field. While three of them died on spot, the fourth succumbed on the way to hospital. The deceased were identified as Sani Kumar, 10, and Suraj Kumar, 9, Anuj and Dharmvee, whose exact age were yet to be ascertained. Shiv Kumar, a relative of the victims, said that the children had gone to the field around 3 pm. After two hours, while the goats returned to the village, the children were nowhere to be seen. A search was then launched for them. The slippers of one of the kids were found near the pit in a brick kiln situated just half kilometre away from their homes. The pit was filled with rainwater. Mainpuri additional superintendent of police OP Singh said that postmortem of the bodies was conducted in Etawah. No complaint has been received from the parents of the deceased so far. “We will register an FIR, if they lodge a complaint,” said Singh. He told TOI that the pit was around seven feet deep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-kids-drown-in-pit-filled-with-rainwater-in-mainpuri/articleshow/76143349.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Monsoon likely to hit Telangana by June 12, four days late||HYDERABAD: Southwest monsoon is likely to make its official entry in Telangana by June 12, which is four days late as per the long-range forecast issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad on Monday. This, despite the monsoon setting in over Kerala on Monday, coinciding with its normal date. As per the long-range forecast update released by IMD, Hyderabad, the state will receive 102 per cent of long period average between June and September. “Ideally, southwest monsoon should enter the state by June 8. We are expecting a slight delay by four days. The entire state will experience normal rains this year,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, IMD, Hyderabad. For Telangana, normal rainfall is pegged at 755.1 mm. The city has already been experiencing pre-monsoon showers for the last few days resulting in drop in mercury levels. On Monday, the maximum temperature dropped to 34.2 degrees Celsius from 37.3 degrees Celsius recorded on Sunday. Hafeezpet received 33.5 mm pre-monsoon showers and Balanagar recorded 6.3 mm of rainfall on Monday. Meteorologists forecast that pre-monsoon showers are likely to continue till June 3 following which rainfall activity is likely to take a short break and make way for southwest monsoon by June second week. Over the last few years, the state observed a deficit of up to 20 mm. Every year, progress of monsoon is slow and gradual across the state. “This year, the intensity of rain will pick up from June third week and shall continue till September. Monsoon rains will first cover southern districts of Telangana such as Narayanpet, Mahabubnagar and gradually move to the northern districts,” said Naga Ratna. According to meteorologists, southwest monsoon has advanced into entire south Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monsoon-likely-to-hit-t-by-june-12-four-days-late/articleshow/76144286.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Passport kendra reopens after 40 days||HYDERABAD: After being shut for 40 days, Tolichowki passport seva kendra resumed operations on Monday. Regional Passport Officer, Dr E Vishnu Vardhan Reddy tweeted from the official handle on Monday that services at this centre will resume with 50% capacity. He also informed that passport services at 14 post office passport seva kendras (POPSK) in the state still remain closed It may be mentioned here that the Begumpet PSK resumed on May 18 while Ameerpet PSK started functioning from May 26. Operations are at full swing at these two PSKs with officials issuing tokens between 250 and 300 per day. Earlier, following an advisory from the ministry of external affairs (MEA) all the PSKs in the state were closed in March. Sources in the Tolichowki PSK told TOI that on the first day, the officials have issued 218 tokens to those applicants who rescheduled their appointments. Many of them were forced to postpone their scheduled appointments after the lockdown came into force. Adhering to the advisory issued by MEA, officials at the Tolichowki are taking precautions like sanitizing the premises, insisting on masks and ensuring that people in the queue lines and waiting at lawns are maintaining social distance. MEA has clearly instructed that applicants can reschedule their appointments if they are unable to visit the PSKs on the scheduled date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passport-kendra-reopens-after-40-days/articleshow/76144298.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation to redraw sealed clusters, fresh order expected on Tuesday||PUNE: Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said on Monday 1,450 Covid-19 cases were reported from areas outside the 65 containment clusters in the city declared on May 19, compelling the authorities to go for a redrawing of the sealed areas during Lockdown 5.0. At a joint media briefing involving divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, district collector Naval Kishore Ram and Pune city police commissioner K Venkatesham, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief said, “There will be new containment zones and, among the existing ones, those where no new case has been reported over the last 15 days, will be excluded. The new containment zones are being finalised in consultation with the police and the four IAS officers deputed for Covid-19 management in Pune district.” Late on Monday night, a senior PMC official told TOI, “The discussions are still on over the areas to be added and deleted from the new list of containment clusters. The geographical location, number of cases, active patients and deaths at a particular location are the parameters for classifying an area as a containment zone.” Consequently, the PMC’s much-anticipated order specifying the new containment areas and relaxations in lockdown norms was put off till Tuesday. The PMC on May 19 had issued revised lockdown norms, declaring a total of 65 micro-containment areas in the municipal limits. The PMC limits had 69 containment zones prior to it. Eight-hour curfew Pune’s joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve issued an order imposing total restriction on movement of vehicles on the city roads between 9pm and 5am from June 1 till June 30. The move brings a huge relief to passengers travelling to the airport for boarding early morning flights. Till May 31, there was a restriction on movement of vehicles from 7pm to 7am. Shisve’s order issued under Section 144 (1) [3] of the Criminal Procedure Code comes in view of the Lockdown 5.0 from Monday till June 30. The night curfew is in line with the state guidelines and it won’t apply to vehicles engaged in essential services and emergency. Shisve said they were waiting for the standard operating procedure from the state government on public transport. Cabs from June 5Cabs will ply in the PMC limits from June 5, but their operations will be limited to essential services. “We are already live in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area. From June 5, we shall render essential travel services in the PMC limits. We shall not operate in containment zones and limit the number of passengers to two,” an Uber spokesperson said. A source in Uber said, “Essential services mainly means transporting people to and from hospitals.” An Ola spokesperson only stated that they had started operating in the PCMC area. The autorickshaw unions are awaiting directions from the authorities. “Only two persons will be allowed in an autorickshaw and they need to wear masks,” said Nitin Pawar, the president of Rickshaw Panchayat. (With inputs from Joy Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-redraw-sealed-clusters-fresh-order-expected-today/articleshow/76144894.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 2, 2020||India||Lok Sabha may convene in Central Hall for July session||NEW DELHI: With social distancing norms in mind, the next session of Parliament, expected to be convened in July, may see Lok Sabha vacating its chamber for Rajya Sabha and moving its proceedings to the Central Hall. The proposed shift, which will help spread out sitting arrangements, is likely to be effected ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament. With a sitting capacity of approximately 800, Central Hall can accommodate the 543 members of Lok Sabha while ensuring adherence to physical distancing norms. The same purpose is proposed to be achieved by shifting the sitting of Rajya Sabha to the much bigger chamber of the lower House. The move was discussed in a meeting on Monday between Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Speaker Om Birla. The two presiding officers also discussed the possibility, in the long term, of holding virtual sessions of Parliament, allowing MPs to participate in the proceedings from wherever they are. BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab recently wrote to Birla citing a list of 23 nations where parliaments and parliamentary committees were holding virtual meetings despite the Covid-19 lockdown and demanded that the Speaker frame guidelines to undo confidentiality clauses that were cited to disallow House committee meetings in India since the lockdown. In a detailed discussion on the subject, Birla and Naidu acknowledged that the fight against coronavirus would be a long one, and plans needed to be drawn up to explore the possibility of holding virtual sessions with the help of modern technological tools. Unlike sittings of parliamentary standing committees where confidentiality is crucial, Naidu and Birla noted that there was no requirement of maintaining confidentiality of the proceedings of both the Houses, which are telecast live. Sources said the options being considered are holding the meeting of Lok Sabha in Central Hall and shifting Rajya Sabha to the Lok Sabha chamber. The plans underfoot are also taking into consideration holding the sittings of both Houses on alternate days. Sources said Naidu and Birla have also, for now, decided to refer the issue of virtual meetings of parliamentary committees to the rules committees of both Houses. It was also acknowledged that while presiding officers of the Houses could suspend rules, such suspensions would require endorsements by the two Houses. Chairmen of various committees of Parliament, including department-related standing committees, had urged the presiding officers to grant permission to hold virtual meetings in light of travel restrictions due to the lockdown. Regarding standing committee meetings, Naidu and Birla suggested that the chairmen of various committees were empowered to convene regular meetings. They suggested that chairmen of various committees should convene meetings after ascertaining whether MPs would be able to attend. Some MPs have expressed inability to travel on account of quarantine norms in various states. Attendance in meetings of the eight department-related standing committees of Rajya Sabha has averaged around 45% over the last three years. In other words, only 14 of the 31 members of each committee have been attending such meetings. As some newly-elected members of Rajya Sabha have conveyed to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu about difficulties involved in travelling to Delhi due to quarantine norms, Naidu has deferred administering oath to the 37 members elected unopposed. Sources said the same will be considered later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lok-sabha-may-convene-in-central-hall-for-july-session/articleshow/76146044.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||A week on, RGIA flight operations almost triple||Hyderabad: A week after airports across India resumed operations, the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) saw flight services increase by almost three times on Monday. From only 39 connections on Day 1, air traffic jumped to 110 — 55 arrivals and 55 departures — to and from the city, with airlines either adding new sectors or more flights on certain routes. Monday saw more flights between Hyderabad and metro cities such as Kolkata, New Delhi, Chennai and Bengaluru even as destinations such as Pune, Lucknow, Bhubaneswar, Cochin, Ranchi, Kolhapur, Mysore returned to the charts. Connections to Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Kadapa, in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too operated from RGIA. “We are only going slow on increasing connectivity to Mumbai and other destinations in Maharashtra, at the moment. Most other sectors are picking up pace steadily,” said an official of a major private airline adding that most flights are reporting between 45% and 55% occupancy. On some routes such as Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru, the traffic load is higher — up to 70% or more. “We are hoping to ramp up our connections in the future, as quarantine rules are eased out in some states,” said another airline official. The increase in connectivity, predictably, led to a substantial rise in footfall at the Hyderabad airport. From just about 3,000 passengers on May 25, the count jumped to over 10,000 on Monday. Prior to the lockdown, the city facility clocked 50,000 movements (on an average) per day. But while domestic services begin to normalise, there is still no clarity over resumption of international services. In fact, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation recently announced that all overseas connections will remain suspended till June 3. The move has left hundreds of people, stranded in the city, worried — most of those with jobs in other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/a-week-on-rgia-flight-operations-almost-triple/articleshow/76144305.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||No odd-even for shops in Hry: Vij||Chandigarh: Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Monday made it clear that no odd-even or left-right formula will be followed in opening of shops in the state, and the administration will instead issue instructions to maintain social distancing in congested markets after assessing local conditions. Shops have been permitted to open from 9am to 7pm. Vij said in accordance with instructions from the Central government, a curfew would be imposed from 9pm to 5am and no activity will be allowed during this time. The home minister said standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding opening of salons, religious places and other services will be issued soon. He added home deliveries from restaurants and dhabas woukd be permitted before 9 pm. He said health department teams had been deputed at railway stations so that all passengers could be examined. Vij said the state government had made arrangements for treatment of up to 12,000 Covid-19 patients in government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-odd-even-for-shops-in-hry-vij/articleshow/76144910.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Amritsar||Expelled for spying, Pakistan mission staffers leave||ATTARI: Two staff members from the Pakistan high commission — Abid Hussain (42) and Mohammad Tahir (44) — who were declared persona non grata and expelled from India on espionage charges, crossed over to Pakistan via Attari land border on late Monday night. They were apprehended red-handed while trying to exchange stolen classified documents and found to be directly linked to the ISI, along with a driver, Javed Hussain. More than 10 persons, including the families of these spies and a diplomat of Pakistan high commission, crossed the border to Pakistan. Sources said vehicles from Pakistan had arrived near the international border to ferry them home. As is the norm now, due to Covis-19 pandemic, they were medically screened by health teams at the integrated check post in Attari. The last time a Pakistani diplomatic staffer was expelled was in 2016. “The government has declared both these officials persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave,” the foreign ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/expelled-for-spying-pak-mission-staffers-leave/articleshow/76144903.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 2, 2020||Pune||71 containment zones in Pune rural||PUNE: Collector Naval Kishore Ram on Monday said there were 71 containment zones in the rural areas in Pune district and movement from such areas to non-containment zones was barred to check the Covid-19 spread. The collector also issued orders from 9pm to 5am curfew in the rural parts. The orders were issued under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Haveli and Daund talukas have a majority of the total cases in the rural parts, Ram said, while attributing the rise to migration of people from Mumbai and Pune to rural parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/71-containment-zones-in-pune-rural/articleshow/76144905.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Man stabs wife to death in SR Nagar||HYDERABAD: A 48-year-old woman, Rani, was stabbed to death by her husband at their house in SR Nagar on Monday during an altercation over personal issues. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s family , police took the accused, Sanjeeva, into custody. Two days ago, the couple’s 20-year-old daughter and their 18-year-old son had gone to their grandparent’s house in RC Puram. On Sunday night, Sanjeeva and Rani consumed liquor and got into an argument. “During the fight, Sanjeeva lost his temper and started assaulting Rani. He picked up a knife from the kitchen and stabbed Rani in the abdomen,” said SR Nagar inspector Murali Krishna. Though the incident took place in the wee hours of Monday, Sanjeeva informed his family members only at 11 am. “Sanjeeva called his son to inform that his mother did not wake up from sleep. Sanjeeva’s kin rushed home from RC Puram and found her lying dead at home. As soon as his son reached home, Sanjeeva fled from the house,” the inspector said. Later in the day, police picked up Sanjeeva from SR Nagar and took him into custody. A murder case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-stabs-wife-to-death-in-sr-nagar/articleshow/76145529.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Agra||AMU doc under Covid home-quarantine continues to treat patients via telemedicine||Agra: Dr Mohammad Shameem, a professor at the department of TB and Chest Diseases of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) under Aligarh Muslim University takes his Hippocratic oath very seriously. Quarantined at home after he tested positive for coronavirus, he continues to provide medical advice and treatment to patients, using telemedicine. Prof Shameem, whose infection is asymptotic, is connecting directly with JNMC healthcare staff on video to give advice on Covid patients admitted in the isolation ward, and non-Covid patients in the respiratory ward of JNMC. “It’s emotionally draining, but doctors are supposed to save lives and we will continue to do so, no matter what,” said Prof Shameem. He added it is important to survive the pandemic and believes Covid positive doctors who are home quarantined, can use gadgets like laptops, desktops, telephones and smartphones to give consultations to patients. He said the fear of getting infected was always present, but as a doctor working in a global medical emergency, he had to keep such negative thoughts at bay and continue to serve humanity. “The experience of successfully treating Covid patients at JNMC, including those who are critically ill, makes me confident that I will recover from the infection,” he said. “So far, 27 Covid-19 patients have fully-recovered and have been discharged from JNMC,” said Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui, principal, JNMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-doc-under-covid-home-quarantine-continues-to-treat-patients-via-telemedicine/articleshow/76143355.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Online classes begin, but only for students who’ve paid fees||HYDERABAD: A majority of the schools in the city, especially those affiliated to CBSE and ICSE, may have resumed their virtual classes on Monday but quite a few of them have decided to allow only those students who have cleared the fee dues. Parents were sent messages to clear dues immediately and teachers were instructed to add only those students who paid the fee. “Dear parent, we are going to start online classes in the first week of June. The online learning link will be sent and it is accessible only to the students who had paid three months (March, April, May) fee, books’ fee, and uniform fee. You are requested to clear the fee dues. If paid please ignore this message,” reads a message from the principal of a well-known school in Ameerpet. “Online classes are to be conducted to the students who have paid the school fee, books, and uniform fee. Please collect the paid students’ list from your concerned head,” reads one of the instructions issued to teachers. Parents and teachers said that a majority of the schools in the city are doing this. They said that the main motive behind conducting online classes is to collect fee dues from the parents. “Schools are calling parents and pressuring them to clear fee dues immediately. They are using online classes as a reason to extract money,” said Seema Agarwal, vice-president, Hyderabad Schools Parents Association. Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum, said that almost all the schools in the state are directing teachers to share links to live classes or recorded ones to only those students who paid the fee. Few parents even took to Twitter to raise their concerns. “The decision by the Telangana chief minister to pay the school fees from June is being Ignored by the Schools and are forcing us to pay For April, May & June 2020. If not paid they are insisting they shall not issue the Books for the students, Sir pls help us,” read a tweet from John Arulaphan with handle @arulaphan. The education department officials, meanwhile, said that schools cannot stop students from attending classes over fee dues. “We will examine the issue. If any parent files a complaint, we will initiate action against the school concerned,” said Venkata Narasamma B, district education officer, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-classes-begin-but-only-for-students-whove-paid-fees/articleshow/76144319.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP government cancels e-bids for tablets & school bags||LUCKNOW: Owing to the lockdown due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, the UP government has cancelled the bidding for procurement of about 1.6 lakh tablet computers to be given to basic schools and 1.60 crore school bags to be distributed among kids enrolled in government primary and upper primary schools. The tablet computers were to be provided to principals of all primary schools for keeping tab on the attendance of teachers and students, mid-day meal scheme and various other government mandated services. The e-bid for tablet computer closed on May 28 after only one company participated in the process. An outlay of Rs 150 crore was allocated for the purchase of 1.6 lakh tablet computers. Over 35 companies, including global and local suppliers Samsung and Lenovo, had participated in the pre-bid meeting. However, post the lockdown, the companies expressed their inability to travel to Lucknow as flights and other mode of transport were suspended. “It’s a global tender. Companies from Chennai, Maharashtra and other places couldn’t participate due to the lockdown. For healthy competition, re-bidding will be done,” basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi told TOI. The e-tender for purchase of 1.6 crore school bags was cancelled after Dwivedi instructed officials to make changes in specifications so that the quality of bags is not compromised. The bidders had expressed inability to provide bags in three sizes -- two for children studying from class one to five and one for children studying in class six to eight. The bidders were unable to provide two different sizes for kids of same class and age group. Also, changes were made to enhance the quality the cloth used in the school bag. Sources said the top officials in the basic education department, instead of providing the new specifications to the bidders, opened the e-tender with both, the old and the new specifications, leaving the bidders confused. A cancellation notice issued by basic education director Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh on May 30 read the tender for school bags dated April 7 has been cancelled by competent authority due to unavoidable reasons. “Fresh tenders will be done so that children get quality school bags,” Dwivedi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-cancels-e-bids-for-tablets-school-bags/articleshow/76145534.cms||Isha Jain
June 2, 2020||Agra||Can’t pay salaries of workers, says lock industry as they appeal for urgent help||Agra: Ever since the start of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, which has been extended a few times, all activities of Aligarh's centuries-old lock industry have come to a standstill. The massive industry which comprises over 6,500 registered and 3,000 home units, employing nearly 2 lakh workers, is facing an acute financial crunch. And it has now demanded an urgent assistance from the state government for paying salaries to its workers. With no production for the past two months and no money coming in, lock manufacturers say that now they do not have any resources to pay their staff. According to industry association members, 80 per cent of the total production of locks takes place in Aligarh, and around 25-30 per cent of it is exported to countries like Bangladesh and Sri Lanka and parts of the Middle East. General secretary of Tala Nagri Industrialist Association, Sunil Dutta, told TOI that a meeting with the state government is scheduled within a day or two and they are going to put all these issues before the government. "We are not in a position to support our workers any longer. We had no business during the lockdown, but still paid salaries to them. Now, things are out of our hands. We need some urgent financial assistance to survive," Dutta said. "Though several units have started functioning, there is virtually no demand in the market right now, hence it is not possible to engage the workers. Also, there is a shortage of capital money, as nearly 50 per cent investments of manufacturers are stuck in the market as outstanding payments," he added. Notably, post-lockdown, no work had been done in April and till May 15. A few industries, which started production on a small scale, thereafter, could not sell their products due to curbs on transportation, so the turnover was largely negligible against the usual turnover of Rs 12 to Rs 15 lakh per unit per month, said sources on Monday. Echoing similar views, president of Aligarh Industrial Estate Association, Vijay Bajaj, said that financial constraints are too much. "We need some support from the government, for survival". He added that the industry will probably come back in running condition by Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cant-pay-salaries-of-workers-says-lock-industry-as-they-appeal-for-urgent-help/articleshow/76143362.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||City veg vendors to move inside market complex||Panaji: Vegetable, fruit and coconut sellers sitting outside the Panaji municipal market complex for the past two months in view of lockdown restrictions are moving back inside the complex building from Tuesday onwards. In a bid to avoid crowding, the vendors will be accommodated inside the building on the ground floor, on rotation basis. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) held a meeting with the tenants’ association affiliated with the complex on Monday following which the decision was taken. The vendors, who spent weeks under the sweltering sun all this while will now be able to sell their goods from the comfort of their kiosks inside the complex from 7am to 8pm. “Now that the curfew timings have been reduced from (pm to 5am, the Panaji market will henceforth be open till 8pm,” city mayor Uday Madkaikar said. Following the lockdown in March, the complex had opened after six weeks on May 7 only for businesses selling mobile phones, clothes and masalas. The timings all this while was from 7am to 7pm, in line with the lockdown restrictions. After accommodating the vegetable, fruit and coconut vendors inside the municipal market complex, the CCP will implement a day-wise rotation system to maintain social distancing. One row of vendors will operate on a given day while the next row will operate the next day, Madkaikar said. Besides permitting the vendors of these perishable items back inside, The CCP is also going to keep another entry gate of the building complex open. Until now, only the main entrance gate was kept ajar while the others remained sealed. However, the practice of allowing only a limited number of people at a time to shop inside the complex will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/city-veg-vendors-to-move-inside-market-complex/articleshow/76145541.cms||Nida Sayed
June 2, 2020||Agra||Government offices open, social distancing rules violated||Agra: Following the UP government orders, most government offices started operating on Monday. But in majority of them, there was no arrangement for sanitizers and social distancing norms were not followed. Thermal scanning of the visitors was also not done at some of the government offices. On Monday, businessmen were allowed to open their shops and offices for cleaning work. District administration is working on the odd-even formula to allow opening of markets from Wednesday onward. After two months of lockdown, public presence was seen at the government offices. At Collectorate, Vikas Bhavan (office of Chief Development Officer), commercial tax department, regional transport and basic education office there was no arrangement for thermal screening and sanitization. In violation of the social distancing protocol, long queue of applicants was seen at the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC). Mayor Naveen Jain said, “After two months of lockdown, opening of the public offices was much needed. Authorities must ensure the required arrangements to prevent the spread of Covid-19. I will check the arrangements at the AMC. There is need to spread more awareness among the people on Unlock-1 announced by the Central government on Monday”. On Monday, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh chaired a meeting with market and business association leaders, police, officials of district administration and other government department to plan arrangements for allowing opening of shops from July 3 onward. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Following orders of the state government, except the 41 places of the city under the Covid-19 containment zone, we have decided to open markets from June 3. Shops will be allowed to operate from 10am to 5am, with those on one side of the road be allowed to operate on even days, and shops on the other side will open on odd days. All the markets will open on Sunday, as government offices remain closed. For proper implementation of the plan, five-member committees that include businessmen, police, administration and GST officials, will be constituted at the police station level.” District administration has ordered opening of city parks too. Children below 10 years of age, elderly (60+), pregnant women and those with pre-existing illness will be prohibited from stepping outside home, except for medical reasons. All shops and offices have to be sanitized every day. Those found not wearing face masks will be penalised. Schools and colleges, coaching centres, archaeological sites, religious places, hotels, guesthouses, bars, cinema halls and multiplexes, gymnasiums and fitness centres, swimming pools, etc, will remain closed. Restaurants and sweet shops will be allowed to operate as takeaways. Customers will not be allowed to sit in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/government-offices-open-social-distancing-rules-violated/articleshow/76143376.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools add yoga, dance to schedule||Hyderabad: Not just languages, maths, science and social subjects, schools have added dedicated periods for games, art, yoga, dance, music, library, among others in the schedule of online classes. While schools claim that these co-curricular activities are added for the overall development of students and to increase their attention span, parents and educationalists said that this is just a gimmick to collect fees on time. “Most schools are taking online classes as a marketing opportunity. Instead of wrapping the classes in two to three hours, they are stretching the duration of these classes beyond six hours and are expecting students to be glued to the screen and be attentive,” said HG Pant, an educationalist, who had worked as principal of several top-notch schools in the country and outside. Parents said that instead of reducing the fee for the duration of online classes, schools have added these activities to justify the fee. “When schools are collecting 12, 000 to 15, 000 per month as tuition fee, they had to justify the fee. They are doing so by adding everything to the online classes,” said Venkata Sainath, joint secretary of Hyderabad Schools Parents Association. Several schools that have resumed classes on Monday and those who are going to start in the next few days have integrated several activities _ meditation, physical activities, life skills, theatre, debate, among others into the curriculum. Few schools, in fact, have gone ahead and instructed teachers to even conduct assembly. Teachers were asked to report at schools, decorate classrooms and take live classes.  “Parents demanded to add these classes saying that they opted for our school as we provide several activities along with academics. So, we had no option except for adding 20 minutes of arts, dance, or music to the daily timetable,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-add-yoga-dance-to-schedule/articleshow/76144325.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Life returns to normal at Ambala Cantt railway station||Ambala: Four trains halted at Ambala Cantt railway station on Monday, after services resumed after 72 days of lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus spread. The station received the Amritsar-Haridwar Jan Shatabdi, Amritsar-Jay Nagar Express, Haridwar-Amritsar Jan Shatabdi and the New Delhi-Una Jan Shatabdi. “Passengers of 18 stations in Ambala division could be catered to with these four trains. Of these four trains, three passed through Sirhind, two each from Saharanpur and Yamunanagar-Jagadhari and one each from Ambala City, Rajpura, Gobindgarh, Khanna, Doraha, Chandigarh, Mohali, Kharar, Morinda, Ropar, Kiratpur, Anandpur Sahib, Nangaldam and Una Himachal railway stations,” a railway official said. “We are seeing passengers after over two months. We have started storing packaged items and cleaning the stalls. With resumption of trains, our livelihood has returned,” claimed Ajay Rishi, owner of M/S Naveen Chander and Sons, who has several stalls at the Ambala Cantt station. “Thermal screening of all passengers boarding and de-boarding has been ensured. Only those having confirmed reservations are allowed to enter the station and board the train. A list of all passengers de-boarded at the station is being provided to the district administration to ensure tracking if necessary,” said a railway official. Ambala divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “All passengers must adhere to hygiene protocols for the safety of fellow passengers. The division is committed to provide hassle-free and safe travel to all.” Senior divisional commercial manager Hari Mohan told, “Proper arrangements have been made to restrict unauthorised movement at stations and passengers are advised to call on helpline number 138/139 for any assistance during the journey.” BOX 443 come by Jan Shatabdi, 2 sent to hosp Chandigarh: Two of the 443 passengers who arrived by the Jan Shatabdi from Delhi on Monday were sent to hospital on arrival at the railway station by the health team, as per the heightened response to the novel coronavirus outbreak. The duo included a 22-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient and his mother, who had come from Patna and boarded the train at New Delhi. The 1,500 passenger capacity train had only 1,026 on board, in keeping with the social distancing norm. While a few passengers faced problems inside the station as there were no porters, outside it was a struggle for most. There were no autorickshaws or any means of public transport barring a private cabs and passengers complained that they had not even called their family members at the station as they were not sure how long it would for medical screening. Two more Shramik trains will ply from Chandigarh to Uttar Pradesh. The train for Mhow will depart on May 3 at 2pm and will have stoppages at Hardoi, Lucknow, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar-Akbarpur and Azamgarh. The second train will run on May 5 for Gorakhpur and will have halts at Najibadad, Sitapur and Gonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/life-returns-to-normal-at-ambala-cantt-railway-station/articleshow/76144824.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||Opening after lockdown, SPU’s biggest lab gutted||VADODARA/ ANAND: A major fire broke out in a laboratory of Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University (SPU) at Bakrol campus on Monday morning. Though there was no loss of live or injuries, worth at least Rs 10 crore is feared as the entire facility was gutted. This laboratory of Department of Bioscience on Bakrol-Vadtal Road is the biggest of the university According to officials, the fire started at around 9.30am on Monday, when Ami Patel, a PhD student, opened the laboratory after two months of lockdown. All the laboratories and classrooms at the campus were closed since the third week of March. Patel could sense the heat after opening the doors of the laboratory, but she ignored it assuming it to be trapped heat inside the locked up rooms. She turned on the electric supply and switched on fans and lights along with water purifier. “It was then that she noticed an electric spark and sudden fire after which she called for help,” said SPU vice-chancellor professor Shirish Kulkarni. Hearing Patel’s cries, non-teaching staff members immediately informed the fire brigade. But till then all major equipment, chemicals, computers, files, furniture among other items inside the laboratory caught fire while a gas cylinder also blasted. “The fire brigade officials reached on time with nearly five fire fighting vehicles along with officials from the district administration,” said Kulkarni, adding that the fire has resulted in huge losses to the publicly-funded varsity. “The laboratory had all imported hi-end instruments and equipments that have been damaged because of the fire, which can be estimated to be around Rs 10 crore,” Kulkarni added. It took nearly three hours for the firemen to douse the inferno, but smoke kept billowing out of the premises till much later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/opening-after-lockdown-spus-biggest-lab-gutted/articleshow/76142586.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Jobless in Hyderabad struggle to get by, rely on aid from volunteers||HYDERABAD: Even as help during the pandemic remains focused on migrant workers, the jobless in the city too are increasingly reaching out to volunteers to make ends meet. Middle-class families, which were dependent on two salaries, have especially faced the brunt after job losses in the family. Shweta Digal of Kukatpally lost her job as a customer relations manager at a stock trading firm. Her husband, who just began working with a cab service, has not been paid for three months. “I used to earn close to Rs 20,000 a month which was more than enough to meet monthly expenses. My husband’s salary would go towards the rent,” she said, and added that though her husband has just started working, the loss of her income has meant that they had to reach out to social activists to meet grocery expenses to feed their three children. Abdul Ahad, who worked for the HR department of a private company, says his incentives have been affected since the company has reduced hiring. The resident of Jeedimetla said he now survives on his basic salary of just Rs 10,000. “I read about how people are providing food and ration to migrants during the crisis, so I decided to reach out to them,” he said. Social activist Surendra Uplanchiwar said: “I and my friends have been working since the beginning of the lockdown. Since then, several people from the middle-class have contacted us for groceries. There have even been cases when we have had to pay for LPG cylinder refills. We do not give cash but pay the local shopkeeper for ration that can be collected by affected families.” Uplanchiwar was instrumental in helping both Digal and Ahad receive ration. Abhijit Biswas, another volunteer, said: “We have been coming across dozens of cases per week of jobless youth from different sectors be it drivers, teachers or those working with smaller private firms who have lost their jobs and are seeking help. While the poor are the worst affected, the middle-class too has felt a ripple affect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jobless-struggle-to-get-by-rely-on-aid-from-volunteers/articleshow/76145557.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Exhibitors seek govt’s nod to open theatres||Hyderabad: Opening up theatres is the last thing the government may want, but exhibitors have told the state that, if granted permission, they would like to open them by following all physical distancing norms. “We are willing to issue tickets to only half the seating capacity of the theatres to maintain distancing norms. If families would like to sit together, they could be given seats without leaving any of the chairs empty between them,” former president of Telangana film chamber of commerce M Vijendar Reddy told TOI. During the recent meet with the government and cinematography minister, the exhibitors sector of the Telugu film chamber of commerce, in a memorandum submitted, spoke of all the measures it would take in the Covid-19 situation. They said these measures would be put in place whenever the government decides to allow theatres to open. “Since the lockdown single theatres have suffered great losses but managements have had to pay salaries to their employees,” he said. Asked what films the theatres would be able to screen, when no new films are ready as the shootings were abruptly cancelled due to lockdown, Vijendar Reddy said it would be the decision of the managements to screen films which have already had a run at the box-office. With the government allowing post production work of films to be completed if the shooting has already been done, small films may also want to release in whatever theatres will be available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exhibitors-seek-govts-nod-to-open-theatres/articleshow/76145544.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||In Hyderabad, teen kills grandmother for not giving him money||HYDERABAD: Upset with his grandmother for not giving him money, a 16-year-old teenager smothered her to death in her Moinabad house on Sunday night. Venkatamma (65) was killed by her grandson at her house in Sri Ram Nagar for not giving him her old-age pension money. “The boy is a school dropout. His father had died 10 years ago and his mother is a daily wager. The boy’s mother along with his two siblings went to their relative’s house, leaving him with Venkatmma,” Moinabad inspector Janaiah said. At around 10.30 pm, a neighbour heard the boy quarrelling with Venkatamma for money. “The neighbour called him home and offered him biryani. They also gave chicken curry to Venkatamma. On Monday the neighbours saw Venkatamma lying dead in the bed and alerted us. We suspect that the boy smothered her,” the inspector said. The teenager who fled from the house was later arrested from Moinabad and charged with murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-kills-grandmother-for-not-giving-him-money/articleshow/76144331.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Traders’ association want all shops to stay open||PUNE: The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune has requested the civic body to seal only the buildings or houses where Coronavirus cases are found, instead of shutting the entire area to ensure that all shops remain open in such localities. The federation submitted a letter of their demands to PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Monday morning. Federation secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said its representatives met Gaikwad and spoke on the situation. “We told him about the massive financial hardships the traders are going through. He assured us to take necessary actions,” he said. The federation stated in the later that the city “have remained shut for about 70 days, since March 17”. It stated that areas such as Guruwar Peth, Shukrawar Peth, Kasba Peth, Nana Peth, Bhawani Peth, Raviwar Peth, Budhwar Peth, Shivaji Road, Bajirao Road and Mangalwar Peth are major markets for electrical goods, utensils, timber and plywood, steel, clothes and garments, jewellery, machinery, toys and other items. “These shops supply goods to entre western Maharashtra and the lockdown has snapped the supply chain,” the letter stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-association-want-all-shops-to-stay-open/articleshow/76144915.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 2, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 tally crosses 900-mark in Agra dist, 10 new cases in Meerut||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: The Covid-19 tally in west UP's hotspot Agra district has surpassed the 900-mark on Monday, with at least eight new positive cases. The district tally is now 907. While at least 10 fresh cases were reported from Meerut, taking the tally to 444, which included one from Kanpur. The district administration in Agra also confirmed the death of a 65-year-old Covid infected man. The man - a resident of Lohamandi - was suffering from respiratory ailment and was admitted at SN Medical College where he died while receiving treatment. So far, 43 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Agra district. Also, the new Covid-19 cases included three patients of SARI at SN Medical College, a patient suffering from chest pain at a private hospital, and two women under home quarantine. The people testing positive on Monday belonged to Nai Ki Mandi, Shahganj, Nagla Padi and Shastripuram. One more person of Viprawali under Pinahat block was found positive. Seven patients were discharged on Monday. Out of 907 cases, 87.65% have recovered and discharged. There are 67 active cases in the district now. Chief medical officer (CMO) RC Pandey confirmed, "So far, 795 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checks in hotspot areas." Moreover, Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, "As many as 10 people tested positive on Monday. These include a man aged 63 from Kotwali, a 13-year-old child and a woman, 64, from Chahshor Jama Masjid, a woman, 55, from Gola Kuan, a 52-year-old woman and 27-year-old woman from Kesarganj, a man, 28, from Brahmpuri, and a man, 62, from Murgi Farm Colony." Three people tested positive in Bijnor district as well. They were migrant labourers. According to Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav, the total tally is now 103. Out of these, 53 are active cases. These people were found in Pakhanpur. Their family members were quarantined and contact tracing is on. While three more cases were reported from Bulandshahr, taking its tally to 130. In Bareilly, a private hospital nurse has been tested positive. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "The nurse was on duty at the hospital's ICU, but she had quarantined herself at the hostel since May 23. She is asymptomatic and we are tracing her contacts." Meanwhile, a 70-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment at another private hospital's ICU in Bareilly has been found positive on Monday. The woman, who is a native of Budaun district, was tested by a private lab after she was admitted to the hospital. Budaun's CMO Dr Yashpal Singh said, "Once we received the test report, we shifted the patient from Bareilly to Government Medical College in Budaun. With this, the total cases in Budaun reached 41, including seven active ones." Also, eight staff members of the private hospital where the woman was undergoing treatment in Bareilly have been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-tally-crosses-900-mark-in-agra-dist-10-new-cases-in-meerut/articleshow/76143372.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Goa||Internal panel probing Eng paper fiasco||Panaji: Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has formed an internal committee to look into the complaints over the controversial content of the Class X English paper. Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said that the members of the committee cannot be named to safeguard them from being influenced. “We have formed an internal committee. They will carry out the inquiry confidentially. The inquiry will take some time before any action can be taken,” Samant said. The directorate of education has told managements of three aided schools to take action against teachers involved in the paper setting process. A memo has also been issued against a teacher of a government school. The directorate has sought a response from the three school managements and the government school teacher within seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/internal-panel-probing-eng-paper-fiasco/articleshow/76145559.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||UPCC chief’s bail plea rejected||LUCKNOW: In a setback to UP Congress, MPMLA special court on Monday rejected the bail plea of its chief Ajai Kumar Lallu who has been in jail since May 21 in connection with bus controversy. Passing the order, special judge PK Rai said, “The offences are of serious in nature and adequate material has been collected against the applicant in the investigation. From the material prima facie his complicity is apparent and as such at this state when probe is still going on, there is no reason to enlarge him on bail.” Lallu’s lawyer had argued that there was no direct evidence against his client and he was being harassed due to political vendetta. Opposing the bail plea, district government counsel (criminal) Manoj Tripathi said there was direct involvement of Lallu as he himself wrote a letter to the home secretary after national general secretary of Congress Priyanka Gandhi Vadra offered 1,000 buses to the Yogi Government. “Lallu had sent a forged list of buses in a planned way in order to endanger lives of thousands of migrant workers. Thus he not only created disturbance in the functioning of government officials but also tried to malign the government's image,” agrued Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upcc-chiefs-bail-plea-rejected/articleshow/76145550.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Upset with hubby, minor girl ends life in Vikarabad||HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old girl who was recently married committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling at her parents house in Doma in Vikarabad district on Sunday. The girl had married a 22-year-old worker against the wishes of her parents. Vikarabad police said that the couple were residing in Hyderabad for the last three months before the girl came to her parent’s house recently to write her Class 10 exams. However, at around 6.30 pm on Sunday, when her family members had gone out, she committed suicide. “No suicide note was found, but according to her family, she was upset with her husband as he was not taking her back to Hyderabad. Family members of the deceased suspect that this could have spurred her to take the extreme step,” police said. Based on a complaint lodged by her parents, a case was registered against her husband under IPC section 305 (abetment of suicide of child or insane person).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upset-with-hubby-minor-girl-ends-life/articleshow/76145564.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Two-day shutdown in PCB limits from tomorrow||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board would implement two-day total lockdown from June 3 after two days of relaxation in norms from Monday. There are 94 active Covid-19 cases in the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) limits. The shutdown will be enforced from June 3 across all the eight wards in Pune Cantonment. “Medical shops will operate from 10am to 8pm and milk booths from 7am to 7pm. Police will provide essential services from 6am to 10am,” an order issued by PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar stated on Monday. Kumar said, “Many shops and business establishments have reopened in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. We are deliberating on whether to open such establishments on alternate days in the PCB limits after June 4. A decision will be taken after the assessment of the situation on the ground.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-day-shutdown-in-pcb-limits-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76144938.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Agra||Three murdered in separate incidents in 24 hours||Agra: Three men were murdered in 24 hours in three separate incidents in Agra and Firozabad districts. On Monday, an 80-year-old man was axed by his nephew over dispute over farmland in Pachva village of Jasrana police limits of Firozabad district. The victim, identified as Raj Bahadur, was the owner of 16-bigah land. According to police, his nephew Ramu axed him after the former refused to transfer his farmland to Ramu. In another incident, an 18-year-old youth – Vikesh Verma – was bludgeoned to death by his relative in Quri Beech Ka Pura village of Pinhat police limits in Agra on Sunday night. According to his brother, Verma was murdered by his uncle Mukut Singh and his six other family members after he confronted the group for directing rainwater towards their house. In the third incident that took place in Shobhanpur Nagal village of Shikohabad police limits of Firozabad on Sunday evening, 35-year-old Avnish was shot dead when he attempted to intervene between two groups who were engaged in firing bullets at each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-murdered-in-separate-incidents-in-24-hours/articleshow/76143392.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Agra||Jawahar Bagh, 2016 clash site in Mathura that claimed 29 lives, to open for public||Agra: Four years after Jawahar Bagh in Mathura was witness to a bloody clash between police and followers of Swadheen Bharat Subhash Sena cult leader Ram Vriksha Yadav on June 2, 2016, the park has undergone a complete makeover and is all set to be opened for public in August. The clash claimed 29 lives, including the then SP (city), Mukul Dwivedi, and SO, Farah, Santosh Yadav. The beautification of the park, redeveloped on the pattern of Ram Manohar Lohia Park in Lucknow, has cost the Mathura administration Rs 12.22 crore. It has taken almost three years for Jawahar Bagh's complete makeover. The park was scheduled to open in April this year, but was delayed due to repeated Covid-induced lockdowns. According to officials, the 280-acre park was virtually destroyed due to the use of ammunition, including explosives, stocked by Ram Vriksha's 2,000-odd followers who had illegally occupied it for two years. Over 5,000 trees, mostly fruit-bearing varieties, were destroyed -- many charred in the violence, Now, as part of a complete revamp, Jawahar Bagh has been beautified with ornamental and aromatic plants and lighting. It has a children's park with swings, open gym, a yoga platform, a 4.5-km walking track and a 1-km jogging track. It has facilities for a food court. Besides, an open air theatre with a capacity of 400 people has been developed within the complex. Talking with TOI, district horticulture officer Jagdish Prasad said, “All work has been completed and only some final touches remain. Around 5,000 plants, including saplings associated with 27 'nakshatras' will also be planted in the monsoon." Today, Jawahar Bagh is a far cry from what it was four years ago, when police entered the premises by breaking open a boundary wall to persuade Ram Vriksha and his followers to vacate the park on court orders. They had illegally occupied the park ever since they were given permission to hold a two-day demonstration at Jawahar Bagh in January 2014. The clash between policemen and the cult followers claimed 29 lives, including the then SP Mukul Dwivedi and SO, Farah, Santosh Yadav. The family of the slain Mathura SP had demanded that Jawahar Bagh should be renamed ‘Mukul-Santosh Udyan’ in memory of the two police officers who lost their lives in the violence. However, no decision has been taken in this regard so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jawahar-bagh-2016-clash-site-in-mathura-that-claimed-29-lives-to-open-for-public/articleshow/76143384.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 2, 2020||Pune||Maintenance work at NIV keeps Pune’s tally at 76||PUNE: Seventy six people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, the least 24-hour tally since May 5, as maintenance and fumigation activities kept the testing facility at NIV only partially functional on Sunday. Besides, eight more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Monday, pushing the death tally up to 345. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials confirmed the partial closure of testing facility at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) on Sunday due to the planned maintenance activity for the machines and fumigation of the laboratories. “Therefore, the PMC sent the swabs to NIV that were of high priority,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of PMC. Of 76 new cases, 64 were recorded in PMC limits, five in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas and three in Cantonment and rural parts. The addition of Monday’ cases pushed PMR’s total case load to 7,826. Of the total deaths on Monday, the PMC recorded six, while the district health office recorded eight. The deceased included a 74-year-man from Market Yard, a 58-year-old woman from the Bibvewadi area, a 60-year-old woman and a 74-year-old woman from the Pandavnagar area, a 75-year-old-woman of Yerawada. Besides, 227 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after they were declared Covid-free. PMC health officials said the discharge had increased since last few days. Over 3,900 patients have been discharged in PMC limits, they said. The region has about 2,752 active patients being treated at various hospitals and centres. As many as 210 patients were in critical condition and were being treated at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/76-test-ve-as-maintenance-hits-niv-facility-ops/articleshow/76144926.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Keep corona at bay with khadi designer masks||LUCKNOW: As you step out with the beginning of unlocking-1, you can wear a designer khadi mask that would give comfort to the face in the sultry weather. The best part is that you can choose the look and design of the mask and Khadi Gramodyog Board would get it made-to-order from the designers. “All our masks are made of designer khadi cloth, but if someone has a special demand we will make the masks on order,” said an official in the Khadi Gramodyog Board. But the board would get designer masks made only when it gets bulk order. Khadi Gramodyog Board has been manufacturing and selling fancy khadi masks that can be matched with the clothing. Until last week, the Board had manufactured about 25 lakh khadi masks. About a lakh masks are available at various khadi outlets in Lucknow. They can be washed and re-used and are easy to disinfect. Khadi masks can be easily disposed of when worn out. An ordinary mask costs Rs 20, but a designer mask will cost slightly more. Khadi masks have been made as per the medical requirement and specification. “They have been made to fit on the face as is required,” said sources. Khadi masks are getting popular in UP. About 15 lakh khadi masks have already been sold in the state. Another five lakh masks have been donated to people by various organisations in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/keep-corona-at-bay-with-khadi-designer-masks/articleshow/76145563.cms||Neha Shukla
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP to finalise revival plan for sick units||Lucknow: Pushing for industrial revival in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the industries department to prepare a plan for revival of sick units. The infrastructure and industrial development commissioner has been tasked with preparing a plan of action to push for a revival of the sick units. Officials said a majority of sick units are under MSME and also include textile units. “The revival plan will assess the reasons for closure of each unit, whether financial assistance can be provided and how much and what other steps will be required for their revival. Work will be carried out closely with MSMEs, many of which have closed over the past several years, with focus on revival of specific industries,” said an official. Along with economic activity, said an official, the revival of such units is also focussed on increasing employment in the state in light of the return of lakhs of migrant workers during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-finalise-revival-plan-for-sick-units/articleshow/76145568.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Trojan virus in guise of Covid-19 update||AURANGABAD: Banking institutions have warned customers against a Trojan virus called Cerberus which looks like a legitimate software providing updates on Covid-19, but actually is a malicious software that helps in stealing, damaging and disrupting data or network. In an advisory issued to account holders, banks have cited an alert from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and asked for the utmost caution. Trojan is a type of malicious code or software that looks genuine but with the capability of taking control of one's computer or phone“The CBI has alerted about the malicious software- Cerberus – which can infect mobile phones and steal data. Cerberus is a type of malicious software that looks legitimate,” Bank of Maharashtra (BoM), a public sector bank, has said to its customers in the latest communication. The malicious software contacts smartphone users via text messages and asks users to click on a link providing Covid-19 updates. “When clicked, the link installs a malicious application on the users’ phone, which extracts sensitive financial data. The trojan can also use overlay attacks to trick victims into providing personal information and can capture two-factor authentication details,” BoM has said. An overlay attack happens when an attacker places a window over a legitimate application on the device. The trojan virus has the ability to take screenshots, hijack messages, steal contact lists and account credentials among other things. “Do not download and install applications from untrusted sources. Install applications from reputed application market. Verify app permissions and grant only those permissions which have relevant context,” as per an advisory. In mobile settings, customers are advised not to enable an installation app from ‘untrusted sources’. Also, customers are asked to avoid using unsecured, unknown Wi-Fi network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trojan-virus-in-guise-of-covid-19-update/articleshow/76124448.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two panels to probe hospitals||PUNE: The district administration has decided to form two committees to investigate hospitals accused of overcharging Covid patients or turning people away despite having enough ICU beds. The formation of the two committees, one under the Pune divisional commissioner and the other under the Pune Collector, was announced by Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Monday. The committees will work to protect orders from the state government which has reserved 80% of beds in private hospitals to Covid patients and enforced a cap on treatment charges. Mhaisekar, who held a meeting with administration heads of 19 private hospitals, said the two committees will include medical experts. “The two committees have been formed to address issues of overcharging and even turning away of patients from private hospitals. We will soon be issuing detailed orders with the names of members and their duties,” said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-panels-to-probe-hospitals/articleshow/76144943.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||120 people recover in U’khand, highest recoveries in single day; 52 fresh cases reported||Dehradun: In some good news, Uttarakhand reported the highest number of recoveries in a single day till date on Monday with 120 Covid patients getting discharged by the health department. The state also reported 52 new Covid- 19 cases on June 1, taking the tally to 958. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that 86 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Nainital on Monday while 12 people recovered from the infection in Udham Singh Nagar. “Seven people have recovered from Champawat, six from Uttarkashi, five from Bageshwar, three from Dehradun and one from Pauri,” said Pant, adding that with 120 recoveries in a day, the recovery rate in the state has gone up to 21.53% on Monday against 12.72% on Sunday. The total people recovered in the state are now 222. Also, of the 52 new cases reported on Monday, 21 are from Champawat, nine from Dehradun, eight from Haridwar, six from Pithoragarh, five from Bageshwar and three from Nainital district. While 993 new samples were collected on Monday, the health department was awaiting reports of 6,417 people till 2 pm, according to the health department. The state till now has tested 31,703 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/120-people-recover-in-ukhand-highest-recoveries-in-single-day-52-fresh-cases-reported/articleshow/76143411.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second admission round for PG medical in June-end||Ahmedabad: The second round of admission in Gujarat for postgraduate medical and dental seats is likely to start after June 20 for state quota students once allotment of seats to All-India quota students is over. Sources said that the second round of admission on PG seats for medical and dental courses for the All-India quota will start from June 3. The final process and confirmation on these seats will take place between June 12 and 18. The second round on the state’s quota will be possible only after Gujarat gets its share of seats from the Centre. Till date, nearly 500 students have cancelled their admissions and these seats have fallen vacant. The seats remaining vacant after the second round of All-India quota will also be available for state board’s students in the second round of admission. The first round of admission for PG medial and dental courses took place during the lockdown period. While most processes took place online, students and their parents were directed to help centres arranged for guidance and other required process. In all, 362 seats have remained vacant in MD and MS courses, whereas there are 118 vacancies in MDS courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-admission-round-for-pg-medical-in-june-end/articleshow/76144388.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||Lion attacks 12-year-old boy in Jafrabad village||RAJKOT: A 12-year-old boy was injured after a lion attacked him in a mango orchard in Mota Mansa village of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district Monday morning. Forest officials said that the boy identified as Munna Vaghela was helping his father Bharat Vaghela who had taken up the contract of plucking mangoes from trees in the orchard. Nisha Raj, deputy conservator of forest Shetrunji range said, “The lion must have been resting in the orchard but it was not known to the boy. While picking up mangoes in the orchard the lion and boy all of sudden came face to face and as per a wild animal’s basic instinct, the lion attacked the boy.” The boy suffered injuries on his face and head and is admitted in Jafrabad government hospital. Boy’s father Bharat Vaghela said, “I saw my son being dragged by the lion so I started screaming for help. I had a stick in my hand which I used to scare away the lion.” With lion population increasing, many of them have moved out of forest area and are often spotted in mango orchards near the forest areas. Also, because the orchards are cooler lions come to rest there during summer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-attacks-12-year-old-boy-in-jafrabad-village/articleshow/76143409.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Doon admin identifies containment zones||Dehradun: In view of the Covid-19-positive cases identified at Kalinga Colony, Circular Road and Municipal Road in Dalanwala, Sarthak Apartment Sewlakala and Barhmapuri in Patel Nagar and other nearby localities, the Dehradun district administration has declared the areas as ‘Containment Zone’. The district magistrate has ordered complete lockdown in these areas till further orders Officials informed that the decision was taken in the interest of the residents who will not be allowed to move out of their homes during the complete lockdown period. The police will be putting up barriers on all the entry and exits points ensuring the compliance of lockdown, while no shops, office and banks will be allowed to open till further orders. The district administration has also issued helpline numbers for residents living in the areas under complete lock down in case they experience health issues like cough, cold and fever. The residents can reach out for medical help on 0135-2729250, 2626066,2726066 and 7534826066. In case of emergency the residents have been asked to call at the toll free police emergency number 112 for assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-identifies-containment-zones/articleshow/76143427.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Agra||High humidity levels grip WUP, thunderstorm predicted this week||Agra/Bareilly/Meerut: Following rainfall on Friday and Saturday, there was a significant relief from the scorching heat in several parts of west UP on Monday. According to Brij Mohan, officer-in-charge of IMD, thunderstorm is predicted for this week. In Agra, the maximum temperature was recorded at 36 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 22 degrees Celsius. However, the humidity level in Agra region increased to 86% on Monday making it difficult for people to step out of their homes. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a similar weather conditions with partly cloudy sky and mild rainfall or thunder showers till June 5. The maximum temperature in Bareilly was recorded at 32 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature was recorded at 23 degrees Celsius. In Meerut, on the other hand, the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded were 32.5 degrees Celsius and 20.9 degrees Celsius respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 81% and 54% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/high-humidity-levels-grip-wup-thunderstorm-predicted-this-week/articleshow/76143418.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man booked for murder after victim dies in attack||Rajkot: The man who was arrested for allegedly attacking an elderly couple in Dhutarpur village of Jamnagar taluka on the night of May 24 was booked on Monday for murder after one of his assault victims died on Sunday night. Police said the accused, identified as Ashok Chauhan, had allegedly attacked Chaku Rathod (73) and his wife Mani Rathod (70) with an iron rod. “The attack was the result of a dispute between Chauhan and the Rathod couple over the possession of a waste land. Chauhan, who was the neighbour of the Rathods, wanted the possession of the land which was used by the Rathods as a cattle shed,” said police. After Chaku succumbed to his injuries on Sunday night at a private hospital in Rajkot, Chauhan, who had been arrested after the crime, was booked for his murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-booked-for-murder-after-victim-dies-in-attack/articleshow/76143440.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Record free foodgrains given in UP in lockdown||LUCKNOW: UP government has achieved a record of sorts by distributing 29.66 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains in the two months of lockdown. According to a state government spokesperson, about 3.55 crore people were provided ration twice every month during the lockdown. The fifth phase of distribution cycle, which began on Monday, saw distribution of more than 81,000 metric tonnes of foodgrains on the first day itself. This included 78,325 metric tonnes of rice and over 3,000 metric tonnes of gram (chana). The distribution was made to over 31.12 lakh ration card holders. Besides, nearly 35,500 metric tonnes of foodgrains was distributed free. At the same, the food and civil supply department distributed 16.6 metric tonnes of foodgrains to 1212 migrant labourers. They were given wheat along with rice and gram. The foodgrains distribution cycle started in April when around 7.5 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains was distributed. The distribution cycle received a push following initiation of PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojana which covered nearly 3.5 crore people. According to the spokesperson, the state government mainly covered daily wagers and street vendors who were hit the most because of the lockdown. “The CM has directed to cover not only the ration card holders but also those who did not have ration cards. For this, the state government has appointed nodal officers to ensure transparency in distribution of foodgrains,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/record-free-foodgrains-given-in-up-in-lockdown/articleshow/76145572.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Agra||Two armed robbers loot cash van of over Rs 22 lakh||Agra: Two bike-borne armed youths allegedly looted over Rs 22 lakh from a cash van of Life Insurance Company (LIC) in Aligarh on Monday after a brief exchange of fire with the guards. Two bystanders were reportedly injured in the gun battle. According to Aligarh SSP Muniraj G, the robbery took place around 11am. He said the miscreants looted the cash which was to be transported to LIC’s main branch. The SSP, however, said the amount was yet to be verified and CCTV footage of the area would be screened. The matter is being investigated and the accused will be nabbed soon, he assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-armed-robbers-loot-cash-van-of-over-rs-22-lakh/articleshow/76143426.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Walled City opens, but citizens throw caution to winds, violate Covid norms||JAIPUR: The city markets in Walled City came back to life in fits and starts on Monday after the curfew was relaxed following the over two-month-long Covid-19 lockdown. While there were hardly any customers in most garment, footwear and ornament shops, huge crowds thronged some grocery and kirana shops in complete violation of social distancing and safety norms. Since public transport is not permitted in the Walled City, a huge number of private vehicles was seen in the morning. However, as the day progressed, the number of vehicles and crowds on the roads thinned out as people began going back to their homes, urged by police personnel for moving around without reason. About nine shops were sealed under the Manak Chowk police station area for violating social distancing norms and prescribed safety conditions. But no shops were sealed under Kotwali, Subhash Chowk and Ramganj police stations in the Walled City. One e-rickshaw was fined under the Subhash Chowk police station for operating despite prohibition, said SHO Bhoori Singh. “Nine shops were sealed under the Manak Chowk police station for 24 hours for not maintaining social distancing. They have to give it in writing that they will not violate safety norms. Twenty-five challans were issued for not wearing masks. Four vehicles were seized,” said Manak Chowk SHO Jitender Singh Rathore. The Walled City, currently, has 23 containment zones under curfew, where non-essentials are restricted. Five markets have not been permitted to open which include Purohit ji ka katla, Ghee waalon ka raastan, Lalji saand ka raasta, Dadda market and Dhula House. While vegetable carts, fruit and milk vendors were allowed to sell their products, roadside food stalls, including tea and juice shops, were barred from opening in the entire area. “We are circulating an audio message through various WhatsApp groups to spread awareness among people in the Walled City about social distancing and safety precautions to combat Covid-19 infection. In the Walled City, barber shops, salons, beauty parlours and roadside food stalls have not been allowed to open. We have also not allowed storage of materials and other items in corridors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/walled-city-opens-but-citizens-throwcaution-to-winds-violate-covid-norms/articleshow/76144964.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Police to intensify vigil on inter-state movement||Dehradun: In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, police have decided to increase vigil on state borders and people entering into the state. With 23 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the state tally has now shot up to 929. Meanwhile, 93 patients recovered fully from the virus on the day. “This is the most crucial time in the fight against coronavirus in Uttarakhand. We are going to strengthen the vigil on borders and anyone entering the state will have to undergo a mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order). The official further said that by strengthening vigil on state borders, we would be able to curb the increase in coronavirus cases. “Police are going to strictly enforce the guidelines issued by the government regarding Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-to-intensify-vigil-on-inter-state-movement/articleshow/76143443.cms||Gaurav Talwar
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP ropes in over 8 lakh migrants via SHGs||LUCKNOW: While the state government carries out skill profiling of migrants returning to UP following the imposition of lockdown, rural development department has managed to employ over 8 lakh people in different activities through the constitution of self-help groups (SHGs). Data accessed by TOI show that the department has constituted over 1.8 lakh SHGs engaged in as many as 68 activities like poultry, dairy and animal husbandry, production of food grain, vegetables, mushroom, pepper mint and honey, and manufacturing of face masks, incense sticks and artificial jewellery. Of these, the maximum engagement is in food grain production where nearly 1.93 lakh people have been engaged. This is followed by animal husbandry and cattle management in which nearly 1.62 lakh people have been provided employment. The department has constituted 823 SHGs for production of face masks in which nearly 2,500 people have been engaged. Mission director of State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM) Sujit Kumar said, “The focus is on providing employment to people who have migrated to rural areas in large number during lockdown. We expect the number to increase as time progresses.”According to government estimates, around 25 lakh people have already returned to UP from other states. SRLM data show that rural development department engaged people block wise while executing different categories of jobs. Officials said profiling of people helped the department in categorizing them for different jobs. Engagement of people in SHGs comes close on the heels of the state government providing work to about 38 lakh people under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). Employment through SHGs received the much-needed traction last month when the Centre released the first tranche of Rs 132 crore under its flagship scheme, National Rural Livelihood Mission, which aims at creating efficient and effective institutional platforms for rural poor, enabling them to raise household income through sustainable livelihood and improved access to financial services. The released fund is a part of Rs 806 crore allocation earmarked for the state under NRLM for 2020-21 fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ropes-in-over-8l-migrants-via-shgs/articleshow/76145578.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Unilateral hike in garbage collection charges irks residents||CHANDIGARH: With door to door garbage collectors of the city raising garbage collection charges arbitrarily, city residents are fuming. Since garbage collectors divided the city to collect garbage through their association, the civic body authority does not have a direct check on them. However, the association conceded that the move was unwarranted and assured that they would look into the matter. The problem of hiked garbage collection charges has surfaced in many sectors where residents are complaining to their respective residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). Also, charges were hiked during the lockdown period without holding a meeting either with RWAs or with the MC. Baljinder Singh Bittu, president, FOSWAC (Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh) said, “We have been getting complaints of arbitrary hike in door to door garbage collection charges from various resident welfare associations. We will write to the UT administration and MC in this regard. Charges must be collected through the association of the door to door garbage collectors and not by individual collectors as we don’t know who is taking the money.” Om Prakash Saini, chairman, door to door garbage collectors association, said, “Although we had been pressing for a hike in charges with the MC before the lockdown, no decision was taken due to Covid-19 as we have to talk to the RWAs to reach a consensus. It is wrong on the part of garbage collectors to increase charges on their own. I will personally look into the matter.” Box: Policy will be formed soon Dr Amrit Warring, medical officer, Health, who heads the MC sanitation wing said, “Although door to door garbage collector association manages garbage collectors, now that the matter of arbitrary collection charges has come to our notice, it will be taken to the general house members and senior officers for approval of policy. The issue of of door to door garbage collection was going on but was stopped midway due to Covid-19. It will be resumed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unilateral-hike-in-garbage-collection-charges-irks-residents/articleshow/76144401.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||7 held from illegal slaughterhouses||Ahmedabad: Rakhial police on Sunday raided an illegal slaughter house and rounded up seven persons. Police rescued eight live buffaloes and seized over 1,200kg of beef, worth Rs 1.24 lakh. Danilimda police raided another illegal slaughter house near Chhipa Society and seized 50kg of buffalo meat. The alleged butchers managed to escape. Police has registered a case of animal cruelty in both incidents. Rakhial police said the seven accused have been sent for Covid-19 tests and will be arrested if they are found to be negative. According to police sources, they got a tip off that Mohammed Qureshi of Mulla Ibrahim Chawl and his brother Shahrukh Qureshi, were illegally slaughtering buffaloes in one Kalubhai’s compound. “We raided the place and rounded up seven persons, rescued eight buffaloes and seized about 1,200kg of beef,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-held-from-illegal-slaughterhouses/articleshow/76144406.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||NIV develops neutralisation blood test to detect immunity after Covid-19 infection||Pune: Scientists at the Pune-based Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV) have developed a first-of-its-kind virus neutralisation assay, a blood test to detect neutralising antibodies (NAbs) in the body after a Covid-19 infection.The announcement comes weeks after the ICMR-NIV unveiled its ELISA-based blood antibody (IgG) test that tracks the extent of spread in a population. But unlike the ELISA test, which determines if a person has had the infection, the neutralisation test can prove if a person has developed some post-exposure protective immunity against the virus.Essentially, the test can help city administrations pick people who can safely return to work and resume routine activities. “The neutralisation test (NT) will be extremely useful to determine how widely a population has gained protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2. It will also be extremely useful in assessing the efficacy of a vaccine in generating protective antibodies,” ICMR-NIV director Priya Abraham told TOI.The NIV’s earlier virus-tracking tool, the ELISA-based blood test, picks up the immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody within seven days of exposure. The new neutralisation test detects neutralising antibodies two weeks after infection or exposure to the virus.A patient who has recovered from Covid-19 will have these neutralising antibodies. But it’s still not clear how long they last in the blood.“The neutralisation test is regarded as the gold standard to assess protective immunity. Research is underway to assess how long these neutralising antibodies last in human blood,” Abraham said. Gajanan Sapkal, an ICMR-NIV scientist who helped developed the neutralisation test, said: “Neutralising antibodies are specific antibodies found in the serum of Covid-19 patients. These antibodies are responsible for clearing the viral infection. The assay, or test, is capable of measuring these antibodies that lend us protective immunity.”Measuring these neutralising antibodies requires a live virus, highly-skilled operators and a level-3 biosafety facility. Not all labs then can carry out the neutralisation test (NT).“Our IgG ELISA test uses an inactivated viral antigen, which shows presence or absence of antibody. In the neutralisation test, we use a live virus to determine concentration of neutralising antibodies (expressed in titer) in an exposed person's blood sample,” Sapkal said.The IgG antibody test, which looks for history of infection, provides experts a sense of how much Covid-19 has spread in a community.“But what we must also try to know is the presence of neutralising antibodies that lend real protection against the virus. The NT test can work as one of the keys to the lockdown exit,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niv-develops-neutralisation-blood-test-to-detect-immunity-after-covid-19-infection/articleshow/76144961.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Scientists chase new tools to fight Covid-19||Hyderabad: Scientists, supported by Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), are working on six innovative ideas to develop rapid testing and diagnostic tools for Covid-19. These innovations have been selected from nearly 40 proposals. Development of a cost-effective, single-tube screening test for Covid-19, developing a rapid point of care test for detection of IgM and IgG antibodies to Covid-19 and one-step nucleic acid amplification for detection of Covid-19 are among some of the ideas being worked upon. Currently, the industry standard of testing are based on reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) laboratory technique, which requires expensive equipment and makes testing a costly affair. “Three of the projects are trying to develop a rapid way of testing and improving the sensitivity of the tests by using simpler methods. We hope with these, the cost of testing will come down,” CCMB-Atal Incubation Centre chief executive officer Dr N Madhusudhana Rao said. “These research projects (by scientists and start-ups) could be beneficial in stage one of developing screening platforms for the virus. The six projects were chosen for their feasibility. An optimised financial support is being extended to each of the six projects to see if the projects are viable or not,” Dr Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scientists-chase-new-tools-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/76145576.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||VPA protest against school managements||Vadodara: Vadodara Parents Association (VPA) started agitation against private schools on Monday, alleging that despite assurances from the state government, the management of schools are arm-twisting parents to pay fees. VPA organised a live programme on popular social networking site through which five parents each of Chhani and Atladara units of Gujarat Public School shared the problems faced by them. "On one hand, the state government has declared that schools will not hike fees this year and there will be flexibility in fee payment, while on the other hand parents and wards are being harassed,” VPA office-bearers said. “If the state government fails to act against the school managements, we will intensify our protest, ” said an office-bearer, adding that some schools have even started threatening kids of issuing LC if advance payment of fees is not done. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vpa-protest-against-school-managements/articleshow/76142603.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three suicides in city||Ahmedabad: Three suicides were reported from the Gomtipur, Khokhra and Naroda areas on Sunday. The police stations concerned registered cases of accidental death. Police sources said, Lavji Vadher, an 80-year-old resident of Khokhra, ingested acid. He was admitted to Civil Hospital but died there on Sunday. One Pooja Patel, 29, a resident of Khadawali Chawl, hanged herself with her dupatta at her home. She was taken to Civil Hospital but was declared brought dead by doctors. Raj Bhaskara, a resident of Naroda, hanged himself from the fan hook in his house with a rope. According to police sources, in all cases the reasons for the suicide are yet unknown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-suicides-in-city/articleshow/76144413.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Cops solve murder without identifying deceased||Nagpur: Social workers have helped cops crack a murder case. Recently, body of a man with his head smashed was found in an open space in Pardi area. Interestingly, thouogh police have cracked the murder, they are yet to identify the deceased. Pardi police have arrested two persons identified as Amit alias Jalya Kavde and Purshottam Vishwakarma. Police scrutinized CCTV footages from nearby spots after the body was found on May 28. They had also activated their informers for information on the murder. They there were several migrants passing through the area and several social workers were providing them food and other essential items. Police spoke to some of the social workers and learnt that some persons who used to work in the area had fled. They learnt these persons were staying near Medical Square. Police rounded them up and during questioning they allegedly confessed to the murder. Sources said that the accused had gone for drinks at the spot when they met the deceased. They brought some liquor and drank there. They wanted more so decided to rob the deceased. This resulted in the three getting into a fight and the accused stoned the man to death before fleeing the spot. Pardi police are now working on identifying the deceased. They have sent his photograph to nearby areas and also posted his photos on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-solve-murder-without-identifying-deceased/articleshow/76144966.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||IT sector continues with self-imposed lockdown||Hyderabad: Two weeks after Telangana allowed offices to operate with 100% workforce, the IT/ITeS sector seems to be in a self-imposed lockdown, with most companies sticking to the work from home (WFH) model. The result: Most offices in Hyderabad’s othewise bustling IT hubs like HiTec City and Gachibowli wear a deserted look as they are operating at below 10% capacities. Industry sources said low office occupancies may continue through June and even later if need be, given the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases with the opening up of the economy. “Most IT companies are playing it safe. They feel employees have settled into the new normal and operations are stable. Bringing employees back to work in uncertain conditions may shake up their delivery process. There’s no point in upsetting the applecart,” said HYSEA president Bharani Kumar Aroll. Nasscom’s national GCC chair V Laxmikanth said most GCCs are adopting a cautious approach to return to the work place as it is prudent and keeps the health and safety paramount. “Irrespective of whether the government is allowing 100% operations, due to the surge in virus case, curfew related problems and lack of public transport, the rest of June will see most companies continue largely with WFH. Our office too is just operating at around 2% and we have no plans to ramp up,” said ZenQ CEO Murali Bollu. And those ramping up are doing so very cautiously. “We are ramping up office operations, but cautiously and systematically while taking all precautions. We are identifying the bottlenecks and pain points, like critical projects that did not allow WFH due to client permissions or those where productivity was very low due to bandwidth or adjustment issues,” said Cyient executive chairman BVR Mohan Reddy. Former CII Telangana chairman V Rajanna, said more than 90% of Telangana’s over 5.8 lakh IT professionals are still on WFH as employee wellbeing is of utmost importance. “Industry is being very judicious and bringing as minimum a number of employees as possible to operate from office, especially those who can’t work from home for various reasons like accessing labs which are established in the industry campuses,” he said.“For now, everybody will continue to work from home. We are closely tracking the situation,” said Vipul Singh, divisional VP and head of HR, ADP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-sector-continues-with-self-imposed-lockdown/articleshow/76145580.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 2, 2020||Chennai||No info on Covid link to SARI cases||CHENNAI: The number of people walking into hospitals with cough, heaviness in the chest, breathlessness – symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) – has increased since March when hundreds of Covid-19 positive cases emerged in TN. But neither the state nor Greater Chennai Corporation has data on the number of these people testing positive for Covid-19 or those who died. “SARI is a symptomatic surveillance of the trend of respiratory illness among the community over a period of time. It is one of the strongest symptoms of the viral infection. Spike in figures indicates increase in Covid-19 cases,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. While ICMR mandates that all SARI cases in hospitals be tested, TN permits tests even if they are not in hospital. On March 30, health minister C Vijayabaskar said 956 SARI cases were reported across the state of which 38 were in various hospitals. Surveillance was strengthened and the number increased to 190 admissions including 77 hospitalisations on April 15. On Sunday, the number of cases rose to 5,493 with 365 hospitalised. Directorate of public health officials said they were still collating the number of people who tested positive among SARI cases. They also do not have data on SARI deaths or total number of deaths. Greater Chennai Corporation, which usually registers birth and death certificates within three weeks, hasn’t issued any for the past few weeks. A senior official said the staff didn’t have the time. “We will be drastically under reporting deaths and cases if we don’t monitor or record SARI cases,” said infectious disease expert Dr Subramainian Swaminathan. Since at least 60% of deaths in Tamil Nadu are at home and their death certificates are declared by family physicians, many Covid-19 deaths may be falling between the cracks, doctors warned Meanwhile, with inadequate testing, the positivity rate – the number of people infected over number of people tested – rose by 10% in the last three weeks. On May 7, when 14,102 people were screened, there were 580 fresh Covid-19 cases. But when the state and its capital dropped the number of tests, the positivity rate increased. On Monday, with just 10,964 people screened, there were 1,162 people infected, taking the percentage of people infected to nearly 10% “The infection is rapidly spreading but if all close contacts are tracked and screened, if we screen even the asymptomatic contacts, positivity rate won’t be so high,” said infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-info-on-covid-link-to-sari-cases/articleshow/76144971.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Monitor use of protective gear by workers, HC tells corpns||Madurai: Observing that strict action has to be taken to sensitize cleanliness workers about wearing protective gears for their safety and well-being of their families, the Madras high court has directed all corporations falling its jurisdiction to follow a monitoring mechanism. A division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi also said that random inspections must be conducted to ensure that cleanliness workers wear protective gear while on duty. Pursuant to an earlier direction, the assistant city health officer (ACHO) of Madurai Corporation, Dr S Vinodh Raja appeared before the court on Monday. The ACHO submitted that protective gears such as gloves, masks, boots, face shields and pull suits are distributed to all the 5,300 cleanliness workers. He said that the workers working in containment zones are wearing masks, gloves, face shield, pull suit and boots while workers in other areas require only masks, gloves and sanitizers. Taking cognizance of the submission, the judges observed that it has been brought to the notice of the court that workers were seen working without protective gear. The judges directed the sanitary supervisors to carryout random inspections at their concerned wards three times a day. “If a sanitary worker is not wearing protective gear, then the sanitary supervisors should send a WhatsApp image to the zonal officer concerned who should take action against such workers,” the judges observed. The judges also directed the officials to ensure that the workers in markets are wearing boots. The court was hearing two public interest litigations. R Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of ‘People’s Watch’ NGO, sought to distribute PPE kits to all non-medical frontline workers while members of the Louie Sanitary Workers Welfare Association sought to appoint a district-level officer to ensure the safety and welfare of the cleanliness workers who are involved in Covid-19 prevention work. After the counsel appearing for one of the petitioners, Henry Tiphagne informed that Madurai Corporation’s number ‘8428425000’ has been very effective for complaint redressal, the judges observed that public could use this number to inform when a worker in their locality is not wearing any masks or gloves. The judges further directed the city engineer of Madurai Corporation to be present before the court to inform about similar steps taken by them to provide protective gear to the 2,500 cleanliness workers involved in drainage cleaning work. The case was adjourned to June 8 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/monitor-use-of-protective-gear-by-workers-hc-tells-corpns/articleshow/76144970.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Power outage at Medical College||Kolkata: There was a power outage at Medical College and Hospital, now a designated Covid hospital, for several minutes on Monday. Sources said the power disruption had taken place at the Green Building and nursing hostel around 3.30pm. Electricity returned in 20 minutes after the hospital authorities informed the power utility. Though there were critical care patients, the power backup was sufficient, said a source. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-outage-at-medical-college/articleshow/76144421.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||‘If schools are to survive, blended learning is answer’||CBSE city coordinator and principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar Paramjeet Kaur highlights the issue of impact of coronavirus on education system in an interaction with Mehak Jain. She said teachers have bigger responsibility to make children comfortable. She also said the ongoing progress could be assessed through regular classroom assessments: in case the annual exams cannot be held, these assessments could be used for deriving evaluation grades. According to her, children from the bereaved families will have to be handled with much care. Playgrounds, sports activities, classroom interactions and co-curricular activities will have to undergo a sea change and to be carried in an improvised and restricted manner How badly has coronavirus outbreak impacted school education? Unparalleled scale and speed of the educational disruption being caused by coronavirus is really disturbing. Coronavirus outbreak has changed the face of education. It has badly touched every area of education, from primary to higher level. Not only an academic but it is an emotional and social setback as well. Although, the schools that were using more ICT based learning had lesser issues shifting to online education. But, the situation with rural schools and schools with less budgets have a difficult time handling the pandemic situation. Without the knowledge of proper technology, especially by parents, many students were forced to miss out a lot on their education until some solutions were arranged. Younger children, special-needs children and children from rural background faced more challenges. Standardised testing and school admissions are delayed across the district. Classes and semesters are being delayed as staff and teachers acclimate to the new online platforms and try to switch their material to a new teaching style. This includes learning how to use online tools, figuring out how to convert hands-on learning materials or discussion-based classes to the new platforms, and possibly changing the whole learning plan based on the inability to switch it over to an online platform. Despite the hype over online classes, the reality is majority of children do not have access? In Indian society, there is a wide disparity on the basis of socio-economic status leading to the digital divide. There is difficulty in attempting lengthy tasks, including reading long texts, writing a long answer. Less than 10% families in rural areas own a mobile phone and that too most of the times, it may not be available to the child, according to research. Therefore, every child will not have access to a smartphone and if there are two or more kids in the family, the problem is much more. Rural households have not much access to internet services. Uninterrupted electricity supply is a big issue as well. Are schools ready for blended learning? In the wake of ongoing Covid-19 crisis, it is really important to go for blended learning, it has to be a part and parcel of curriculum at all levels now. Almost everyone from education fraternity has accepted it that blended learning is the new normal, the new face of future education. We cannot deny it. If the schools are to survive and do the best for the cause of education, blended learning is the answer. What’s been seen so far is that remote learning comes with many challenges, but the switch to technological platforms also gives new opportunities to students and teachers to try out different modes of education. A lot of teacher training is to be done for making teachers adapt the new teaching strategies. We need to restructure and reboot the education system. It’s time to redesign the fabric of education to make our young generation well-equipped to face any future challenges. School re-opening is a major challenge now? No doubt, it is a major challenge, but nothing is impossible. There are apprehensions, fears, worries and insecurities in everyone’s mind. Parents are a worried lot and for any new changes, school authorities will have to keep parents aware. While staying at home due to lockdown, all daily routines might have been disturbed and children are under stress. It will take some time to bring them out of that traumatic experience, it may require a lot of counselling. Even parents will have to be strongly counselled to accept the changes done by schools. They are to play a different role with more time for their kids. Teachers have bigger responsibility to make children comfortable. They can’t heal the child with touch therapy. Rather, they will have to have a good communication channel open for them to give them emotional and social support but from distance. What is your take on over exposure to digital screens? There is a bit of extra exposure on screen but if we learn to manage well it would be better. When we do online classes, we should also give them work which does not require screen’s presence. Teachers need to give more of the work like offline creative work, project work and we have to manage like that. Off screen time without screen is the only way. Changes to be adopted by the school for post Covid-19 schooling? Reopening will have to be done in a phased manner. Same rules and regulations may not be applicable to all schools. They need to be flexible according to the situation in their localities and surroundings. Schools are located in what may be red, orange and green zones – these zones may change from time to time and will determine how schools can be operated. In addition, they may either be crowded or non-crowded (thin) as a function of student enrolment and space available. The frequency of classes, classroom arrangements, assembly and mid-day meals will be different depending on specific location, availability of space, age of students and size of school. Students can come to school in shifts provided enough teachers are available. Students of specific classes can come to school on specific days of the week. An alternative building, if available, can be used to ensure availability of extra space. Assembly could be conducted every day or on alternate days or within classrooms with due consideration for physical distancing. Classroom processes must maximise student learning during school hours and use this interaction as a basis for follow-up and further practice at home. Ongoing progress could be assessed through regular classroom assessments: in case the annual exams cannot be held, these assessments could be used for deriving evaluation grades. The children from the bereaved families will have to be handled with much care. Playgrounds, sports activities, classroom interactions and co-curricular activities will have to undergo a sea change and to be carried in an improvised and restricted manner. The mid-day meal could range from regular meals, food packets or dry rations. There must be a clear, sensible list of do’s and don’ts for schools from the school education department on safety precautions in schools. Safety and health protocols are to be fixed up and given due considerations. Cleanliness and hygiene must become part of the regular routine. Schools must ensure availability of soap and clean water along with masks for students, teachers and support staff, where necessary. A simple standard operating procedure (SoP) for schools to constantly monitor the level of risk they are in could be created by the School Education Department - this would help schools closely watch the alerts put out by the Health Department to understand what area is at what level of risk. A regular rhythm of communication between students, teachers, parents and community on the Covid-19 situation through simple key messages and small capsules on health, safety, wellness and hope could be created and disseminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-schools-are-to-survive-blended-learning-is-answer/articleshow/76143492.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Aircraft develops two snags in two days||Kolkata: An Air India plane that has been sitting idle for over two months following the lockdown has developed snags within days of the domestic operations resuming in India. On Monday, the Airbus A319-112 aircraft (registration no. VT-SCB) that flew to Silchar but had to turn back following bad weather over the town then got grounded due to a snag. On Sunday, the very same aircraft did a Kolkata-Bagdogra return flight with the front washroom out of order during both legs of the journey. The back-to-back problems have raised questions about service and maintenance regime in the carrier. Aviation industry experts said while it isn’t uncommon for planes that are in service to develop a snag despite regular maintenance, it is rare that a plane that has been rested for two months would develop two snags in two days. The aircraft is more than 14 years old. According to airline sources, the aircraft that took off for Silchar at 5.50am had to turn back due to poor visibility that prevented landing there. When the weather cleared and the plane was again ready for takeoff from Kolkata, it had to turn back from the runway following a snag. That happened not once but twice, leading to the aircraft being grounded and a fresh plane requisitioned to do the flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/aircraft-develops-two-snags-in-two-days/articleshow/76144427.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli cyber cell helps save Rs 4,500 of fraud victim||Rajkot: The cyber crime cell of the Amreli police help save Rs 4,500 to an online fraud victim after blocking the transaction made by an unidentified accused. According to the details of the case, Nehal Pandya, who works in Moti Kunkavav taluka panchayat, received a call on May 16. “The accused claimed that Pandya had won a gift voucher in a draw conducted by the PhonePe. The accused asked Pandya to open a link sent by him. When Pandya clicked on the link, Rs 18,000 was withdrawn from her online banking account,” said M M Parmar, sub-inspector with the cyber crime cell of the Amreli police. “Though we could not salvage the whole amount, we have been able to block the transaction of Rs 4,500 made by the accused which has been returned to the victim,” added Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-cyber-cell-helps-save-rs-4500-of-fraud-victim/articleshow/76143508.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Man strangled to death||Nagpur: The body of a 30-year-old man was found with ligature marks on his neck on Monday morning near Railway Yard Itwari. Dhiraj alias Bhola Salwe was found by a railway guard who spotted his body and soon informed Government Railway Police (GRP). GRP officials informed Lakadganj police as the incident took place under their jurisdiction. Soon after the murder came to light, Lakadganj police, led by senior PI Narendra Hiwre and their counterparts from the crime branch reached the spot. After conducting the spot panchanam, cops sent the body to Mayo Hospital for the post-mortem. Lakadganj police have registered a case of murder. An investigation has also been launched. Cops identified the deceased after finding some documents on him. According to sources, Salwe, who hails from Waramba village in Kuhi, was living in the city along with his wife since some years. He was working as a driver. “We have identified the deceased and are now working on the murder investigation,” said Hiwre. To take the investigation forward, police are trying to find out people with whom Salwe was last seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-strangled-to-death/articleshow/76144978.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: NIV develops neutralisation blood test to detect immunity after Covid-19 infection||PUNE: Scientists at the Pune-based Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV) have developed a first-of-its-kind virus neutralisation assay, a blood test to detect neutralising antibodies (NAbs) in the body after a Covid-19 infection. The announcement comes weeks after the ICMR-NIV unveiled its ELISA-based blood antibody (IgG) test that tracks the extent of spread in a population. But unlike the ELISA test, which determines if a person has had the infection, the neutralisation test can prove if a person has developed some post-exposure protective immunity against the virus. Essentially, the test can help city administrations pick people who can safely return to work and resume routine activities. “The neutralisation test (NT) will be extremely useful to determine how widely a population has gained protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2. It will also be extremely useful in assessing the efficacy of a vaccine in generating protective antibodies,” ICMR-NIV director Priya Abraham told TOI. The NIV’s earlier virus-tracking tool, the ELISA-based blood test, picks up the immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody within seven days of exposure. The new neutralisation test detects neutralising antibodies two weeks after infection or exposure to the virus. A patient who has recovered from Covid-19 will have these neutralising antibodies. But it’s still not clear how long they last in the blood. “The neutralisation test is regarded as the gold standard to assess protective immunity. Research is underway to assess how long these neutralising antibodies last in human blood,” Abraham said. Gajanan Sapkal, an ICMR-NIV scientist who helped developed the neutralisation test, said: “Neutralising antibodies are specific antibodies found in the serum of Covid-19 patients. These antibodies are responsible for clearing the viral infection. The assay, or test, is capable of measuring these antibodies that lend us protective immunity.” Measuring these neutralising antibodies requires a live virus, highly-skilled operators and a level-3 biosafety facility. Not all labs then can carry out the neutralisation test (NT). “Our IgG ELISA test uses an inactivated viral antigen, which shows presence or absence of antibody. In the neutralisation test, we use a live virus to determine concentration of neutralising antibodies (expressed in titer) in an exposed person's blood sample,” Sapkal said. The IgG antibody test, which looks for history of infection, provides experts a sense of how much Covid-19 has spread in a community. “But what we must also try to know is the presence of neutralising antibodies that lend real protection against the virus. The NT test can work as one of the keys to the lockdown exit,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niv-develops-neutralisation-blood-test-to-detect-immunity-after-covid-19-infection/articleshow/76144981.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Now, 2 GRP cops in Gonda test positive||LUCKNOW: The tally of infected Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel touched 27 in Uttar Pradesh with 11 constables deployed at Lucknow and Gonda railway junctions testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday. While nine constables tested positive in Lucknow, two were in Gonda. Superintendent of police, GRP Lucknow, Saumitra Yadav said, “Of those tested positive, five were deployed at Charbagh railway station, one at City Station and three others at the lines.” The SP said that the personnel were asked to proceed on leave on May 31 as the barracks were being closed following 16 positive cases since May 24. Yadav said that the nine personnel got themselves tested without any information to the SP office. “We have also closed the SP GRP office for three days and getting it sanitised after a clerk in the office also tested positive”, the officer said. In Lucknow alone, 25 GRP personnel have tested positive from May 24. All the nine constables belong to different districts in UP, including Saharanpur, Kheri, Faizabad and Gonda. SP GRP, Gorakhpur, Pushpanjali Devi told TOI that the two constables who tested positive used to do duty at platform 1. However, they were quarantined after they had complained of nausea and chest pain last week. Later, their samples and swabs were taken, which tested positive. “We have reduced duties at railway stations to protect the cops and also asked them to wear face shields and masks,” she said. She added that both the constables who tested positive stayed at a room along with two others who tested negative. Their movement to the barracks was restricted. The officer said that over 50 ‘Shramik Specials’ have either made a halt or originated from Gonda. ADG, Railways, Sanjay Singhal told TOI that more than 90% of the 27 personnel who tested positive for the virus are asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-2-grp-cops-in-gonda-test-positive/articleshow/76145582.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Keen contest for 4 Rajya Sabha seats on cards||GANDHINAGAR: The political environment in the state is set to heat-up with the Election Commission of India announcing June 19 as the date for the election of Rajya Sabha members from Gujarat. The election, initially scheduled for March 26, was deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Rajya Sabha election will be a keenly contested affair after the BJP fielded three candidates despite it not having the numbers to get three candidates elected. The Congress has fielded two candidates.  While well-known lawyer and RSS leader Abhay Bharadwaj, tribal leader Ramila Bara and former deputy CM Narhari Amin have been nominated by the BJP. The Congress has fielded former Union minister Bharatsinh Solanki and party national spokesman Shaktisinh Gohil. Just before the Rajya Sabha voting on March 26, five Congress MLAs quit the party, bringing down the party’s strength in the assembly to 68. The BJP has 103 MLAs. A candidate needs 35 first-preference votes to secure an outright win.Seven of the 182 seats of the Gujarat assembly are vacant, bringing down the strength of the house to 175 seats. While the BJP, which has 103 seats, will need 105 first-preference votes to get three candidates elected, the Congress, which has 68 seats, requires 70 to get two candidates elected. The two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), one NCP MLA and one independent MLA will play a crucial role in deciding whether the BJP wins three of the four seats or the Congress and BJP share two seats each. While Congress claims to have the support of independent MLA Jignesh Mevani, both BJP and Congress claim that the two BTP MLAs and lone NCP MLA are supporting them. Jitu Vaghani, state BJP president said the BJP is confident of winning three of the four seats. “In March itself, the Congress did not have the required numbers to win two seats and the Congress knows it will have to sacrifice one of its leaders. Even as the state is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress might again fly its MLAs out of the state before the June 19 election,” Vaghani said. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said that despite using illegal means, the BJP could not stop Ahmed Patel from winning his RS seat in 2017. “This time of also they (BJP) are using similar tactics of influencing our MLAs and misusing government machinery, but they will taste defeat again,” he said.On whether the Congress plans to shift its MLAs outside of the state to keep its flock together, Chavda, said, “It is too early to decide. We will chalk out our strategy as and when required. We have adequate votes to get both leaders elected.”Before the scheduled election in March, five Congress MLAs Mangal Gavit, Pradyumansinh Jadeja, Soma Patel, J V Kakadia and Pravin Maru resigned, bringing down the party’s tally in the assembly to 68. Three of the four MPs whose terms ended are from the BJP while one is from the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/keen-contest-for-4-rs-seats-on-cards/articleshow/76144432.cms||Kapil Dave
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Aid for cyclone victims, migrants||HYDERABAD: Uttarayan - a socio cultural association in Ameerpet donated Rs 1 lakh to the CM’s relief fund of West Bengal to help Amphan cyclone victims and Rs 50,000 to Telangana government to help migrants. “As an organisation dedicated to bringing communities close, we decided to donate the amount to help the people in distress during the current circumstances,” said Dr Chanchal Sarbajana, secretary of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aid-for-cyclone-victims-migrants/articleshow/76145581.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Construction activity begins in Nashik city||Nashik: The civic administration has given its approval to builders and developers to restart 850 residential projects in the city, which came to a grinding halt following the imposition of the lockdown in March. Moreover, the town planning department of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also given permission to 15 new building proposals in the last week. Civic officials said that the projects to which they have given permission to start operations had already obtained the commencement certificates for construction. “We have also started receiving fresh proposals for residential projects. This is a positive sign that construction activities are slowly gaining momentum in the city,” said officials. Naresh Karda, vice-president of Credai, Nashik, said that many migrant workers who have left for their home states were employed in the construction sector here. “Now, a section of the workers who were planning to return home have changed their minds and are gradually returning to the construction sites. Not just that, the builders are also getting enquiries from the workers who have left for their native villages and are willing to come back,” said Karda. He further added that the labour cost had increased due to rise in demand for construction workers. “The builders here have started construction activities with the available workforce. They are also roping in the local workers,” said Karda. “We are planning to give possession of flats to our customers on time. There may be some delay in case of non-availability of adequate workers,” he said. Some builders have already starting handing over possession of flats to their customers in the last one week. Karda said that 600 flats are already ready for possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/construction-activity-begins-in-nashik-city/articleshow/76142415.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Fishers avoid sea despite relaxation||Madurai: The fishermen in Rameswaram refrained from going into sea for fishing using mechanized boats as decided by them earlier due to various factors including manpower shortage and inability of companies to buy fish from them due to operational constraints. This move came even as the government ended fishing ban on May 31 instead of June 15. Fishermen from Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district did not go fishing due to the cyclone warning in the Arabian Sea till June 5. However, fishermen from Colachel harbour have started fishing at 50% on alternate days. Meanwhile, the revenue, fisheries and police officials conducted a meeting in Kanyakumari district to allow country crafts and fibre boats to go fishing from respective villages for six days a week instead of the existing practice of four days a week during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishers-avoid-sea-despite-relaxation/articleshow/76144980.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One child, two women among 5 killed in Churu accident||JAIPUR: Five people, including a child and two women, were killed in an accident in Churu’s Sujangarh police station area around 8.15am on Monday. While three persons died on the spot, two others succumbed to injuries at a hospital. The deceased have been identified as Sada Kanwar (50), Rajpal Singh (40), Nishu Kanwar (30), Bhumi Kanwar (2) and their driver Mahipal Shekhawat (35). Sujangarh circle officer Narendra Kumar Sharma said, “The car collided with a truck when the heavy vehicle was trying to overtake it. There were a total of five people in the car and all of them were killed.” Truck driver fled from the spotPolice said the five were returning from Khetri near Jhunjhunu.“Prima facie it appears that it was the fault of the truck driver who tried to overtake the car on the wrong side. As the truck was 18-feet long, there were no chances that the passengers of the car could have survived the impact. While three died on the spot, two were taken to a hospital where they also succumbed to injuries,” added the official. The truck driver fled from the spot. The circle officer added, “We have seized the truck as the driver fled from the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. We have the registration number and will track him down soon.” My condolences at untimely demise of international archer & Dungarpur district sports officer, Sh. Jayantilal Nanom… https://t.co/tz2e21D2jF— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1591032179000CM Ashok Gehlot expressed his condolences. “The news of the road accident in Sujangarh is very tragic in which five people have lost their lives. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. May God give them the strength to bear the loss,” Gehlot tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-child-2-womenamong-5-killed-inchuru-accident/articleshow/76144976.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Cong demands President’s rule, seeks attempt to murder case against Maharaj||Dehradun: Opposition Congress has demanded President rule in the state alleging that “when the cabinet members are in self-quarantine, who will hold meetings and take decisions for the state?” Besides, the Congress has sought an attempt to murder case against tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. “Despite a notice pasted on the boundary wall of his house after few of his associates returned from Delhi, he broke the quarantine norms and put the lives of others at stake by attending the cabinet meeting,” said a senior state Congress leader .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-demands-presidents-rule-seeks-attempt-to-murder-case-against-maharaj/articleshow/76143497.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Robbers loot petrol pump, decamp with Rs 7 lakh||Rudrapur: Three bike-borne armed robbers looted a petrol pump in Bazpur town of Udham Singh Nagar district and decamped with Rs 7 lakh cash late on Sunday night. The petrol station belongs to Inder Singh Hooda, brother of former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. According to police, two robbers came to the petrol pump, located at Nandpur Narka Topa village on National Highway 74, at around 1.30 am. Another accomplice joined them in no time and the three accused thrashed a staffer before barging inside the cabin where the cash was kept. The robbers, all wearing masks, decamped with Rs 7 lakh on a motorbike. District’s senior superintendent of police Barinderjit Singh said, “Several teams of police and a special operation group have been put on the case. We are scanning the CCTV footage to trace the accused. They will soon be arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/robbers-loot-petrol-pump-decamp-with-rs-7-lakh/articleshow/76143527.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Min hitch-hikes to PDS shop on bike, suspends salesman||Madurai: A complaint from a woman about irregularities by a salesperson in public distribution system (PDS) in Madurai, forced state minister Sellur K Raju hitch-hike on a two-wheeler, go to the shop and suspend the employee. It all began when the minister, after taking part in a party event to distribute welfare measures on Monday morning, was about to leave when a woman, P Karthigai Selvi, complained that the salesperson in a ration shop near Bethaniyapuram was embezzling rice by distributing only half the quantity. Selvi also placed a sack of rice in front of the minister complaining about the quality of rice. She told him that she was entitled to get 20kg of rice, but received only 9.5kg. The minister, though amused by the impromptu complaint, collected his composure soon. He hitch-hiked on a bullet belonging to one of his partymen, and went straight to shop number 006 located in Pandiarajapuram, about one km from the function venue. The woman was also brought to the shop. As soon as the minister started an inquiry with the salesperson identified as Darmendran, residents gathered. They too poured in their complaints of bad rice quality and embezzlement. As Darmendran admitted to his mistake, the minister placed him under suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-hitch-hikes-to-pds-shop-on-bike-suspends-salesman/articleshow/76144987.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT hears plea on Vizag gas leak||Hyderabad: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday heard two petitions, filed by former IAS officer EAS Sarma, pertaining to the damage caused to public health and environment due to the styrene gas leak at Visakhapatnam. In Sarma’s petition, he sought that the NGT issue notices to LG Polymers’ promoters. “The unit was wilfully and knowingly carrying out construction and operations without obtaining environmental clearance for the project, in violation of the environmental impact assessment notification. They were also not following the manufacture, storage and import of hazardous chemicals rule,” the petition said. He also asked NGT to issue directions regarding fixing responsibility of the officials of AP state pollution control board. Sarma said that action should be taken against them for permitting environment pollution. He asked NGT to order LG Polymers and PCB to pay damages for polluting the environment. This is in addition to the suo moto cognizanse after the gas leak, where NGT had ordered a judicial probe and directed LG Polymers to deposit Rs 50 crore towards damages. The counsel for LG Polymers argued that NGT cannot hear suo moto cases and the company’s petition is pending in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-hears-plea-on-vizag-gas-leak/articleshow/76144436.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Buses see fewer passengers as services resume||MADURAI/TRICHY: The state transport corporations on Monday resumed bus services after 68 days, albeit with low occupancy amid the virus scare. While the crew wore gloves and masks, passengers were subjected to thermal screening, made to sit a seat away from one another, and mandated to wear masks and clean hands using sanitizers. The transport department arranged 5,659 buses in rural, urban and hill areas. A TNSTC official in Trichy said, “Since major cities are not connected and buses are allowed to operate only within seven districts, the occupancy rate was less than 50% even during peak hours. Also, people are hesitating to step out of their homes. We expect the patronage to increase in the coming days.” TNSTC Madurai operated more than 375 buses within Madurai district and more than 75 buses to Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Virudhunagar districts on Monday. A higher official said “The response was not that good. Only a few routes such as Cumbum, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Rajapalayam witnessed decent occupancy. Only a few seats were occupied in the buses within Madurai district”, adding, “We are waiting for the day’s closure to analyse passengers’ movement thoroughly. A decision will be made on number of buses to be deployed on Tuesday.” “The state is making efforts to introduce cashless ticketing. The QR code-based ticketing has been introduced on a trial basis in two buses on the Secretariat route. The existing fare will remain and services disrupted owing to border issues in Kanyakumari will resume from Tuesday,” transport minister M R Vijayabaskar said. Around 150 mofussil buses connecting Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, and 180 city buses between Central bus stand, Chathiram, Woraiyur and Thillai Nagar were operated on Monday. Buses to Pudukkottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur witnessed a low occupancy rate. As Karur, Madurai, Dindigul and Salem falls in zones which cannot be connected from Trichy zone, TNSTC officials said that the passengers were dropped at the destinations near the district borders. Social distancing and personal hygiene were enforced by the crew members jointly with local body workers supervising the bus stands. Only one passenger was allowed to sit on a two-seater in city buses. In mofussil buses, two passengers were allowed to sit on a three-seater and one on two-seaters. Mask was mandatory. “It feels good to see social distancing and public hygiene maintained. Hope the precautionary practice in buses will sustain,” A Saravanan, a passenger at Trichy central bus stand said. P Sivaraman, a construction labourer from Panaiyur in Madurai said, “I felt happy to travel again in a bus as in the absence of public transportation I had to often take long walks to get to construction site as pillion riding in bikes was also restricted.” Though up to 32 passengers are allowed to travel in the mofussil buses, the fleets leave the origin point with only 20-25 passengers to ensure people at intermediate stops get to board the buses. Trichy Corporation has appointed 20 sanitation workers to disinfect the bus stand and buses returning from other districts. Madurai corporation had thoroughly disinfected terminals such as Arapalayam, Periyar and Mattuthavani well before the service started at 5 am. Buses too were disinfected frequently. TNSTC officials added buses were assigned based on demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/buses-see-fewer-passengers-as-services-resume/articleshow/76144984.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||Posters question Smriti Irani’s ‘absence’ from Amethi||LUCKNOW: Unsigned posters accusing BJP MP from Amethi Smriti Irani of missing from her constituency came up in different parts of Amethi on Monday. Shared by Congress numbers widely on social media, the poster said that the BJP MP visited the district ‘just for a few hours twice since she won the 2019 election.’ The black and white posters, containing an image of the MP, stated: “We have seen you play ‘antakshari’ on Twitter, give food to some individuals; but the people of Amethi are looking for you to address their needs and difficulties.” Stating that ‘Amethi was a tour destination for her’ it questioned Irani when she would visit her constituency. Reacting to an All India Mahila Congress tweet sharing the poster, Smriti said: “I didn’t know you loved me so much...Let me now give you some facts. I have paid a visit to my constituency for 10 times in eight months spending 14 days. But can you tell me how many times did Soniaji visit her constituency during this period?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/posters-question-smritis-absence-from-amethi/articleshow/76145586.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||One arrested with 200 kg beef in Kutch||Rajkot: One person was arrested with 200 kg beef in Nana Varnora village of Bhuj taluka on Sunday night. Police said that while the accused, identified as Dawood Mokha (20), was arrested, his father Ibrahim Mokha and another persons Saleem Patel, fled from the spot.“We recovered a cow and a calf from the slaughter house, which had been operational for quite some time. The seized beef worth Rs 10,000 has been sent to forensic science laboratory. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the Mokha father-son duo used to steal stray cows and calves, slaughter them and sell the beef,” said R N Khant, inspector with Bhuj B division police station. They had made the slaughter house inside their house where they had also created a cattle shed to tether cows and calves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-arrested-with-200-kg-beef-in-kutch/articleshow/76143530.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha moves neighbours to resume bus services||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Monday sought the consent of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal to re-start inter-state movement of passenger buses. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on May 17 approved inter-state movement of passenger buses subject to mutual consents from the concerned states. “We have written to the governments of the six states and sought their consent. If they agree, we will re-start bus operations,” transport secretary Madhusudan Padhi said. In the letters, the transport department has sought consent from the six states to exempt road tax of the buses for three months (from April to June). “We have already exempted the road tax for three months taking into consideration the losses sustained by the bus operators due to non-plying of their vehicles from mid-March till date. We have sought consent from the six states to agree on the tax exemption,” Padhi said. He informed that the passengers, who come from the six states in the buses, should register themselves with the state government’s Covid-19 portal before boarding the vehicles and stay in home quarantine. Sources said Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are reluctant to re-start inter-state bus service amid Covid-19 pandemic. “After sending them the letters, we spoke to their officials over phone. Their transport officials appeared reluctant to give consent now. Still, we are waiting for their formal letter of consent or denial,” another transport official said. The state government ordered resumption of intra-state movement of passenger buses on May 26. However, only a handful of buses are currently plying in different districts owing to low turnout of passengers. The private bus owners have been demanding Rs 50 lakh insurance coverage for bus staff among other facilities to start full-fledged movement of inter-district buses in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-moves-neighbours-to-resume-bus-services/articleshow/76143486.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Offensive video on PM Modi made viral, case lodged||Roorkee: City police booked unidentified persons for circulating an “obscene” video disrespecting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the national flag on Sunday night. The case was lodged by Chandan Singh, a local BJP functionary. Police have registered a case under sections 505 (statements conducting to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and section 2 of Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act of 1971 against unknown offenders. However, no arrest has yet been made in this connection. Reportedly, it is a doctored video with obscene material on PM Modi and the national flag. “We have got an important clue about the wrongdoers. Arrests will be made after they are identified,” said Amarjeet Singh, inspector of Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/offensive-video-on-pm-modi-made-viral-case-lodged/articleshow/76143540.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||60% patients have recovered in UP: Government||LUCKNOW: While Gautam Budh Nagar continued to top the Covid-19 chart on Monday with 27 fresh cases, Gorakhpur and Sant Kabir Nagar followed with 24 cases each. Amid discussions that ‘rising number of cases were a result of good surveillance’ the state added 296 new patients in 24 hours. As a result, the Covid-19 tally for UP reached 8421. Meanwhile, the 187 patients were discharged in the state taking the total number of recoveries to 5,030. The state also saw five deaths taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 222. According to a state Covid-19 bulletin, two deaths were reported from Meerut and one each from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Lucknow and Aligarh. Speaking to reporters, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the total number of active cases in state as on date stands at 3,109 while the tally of Covid-19 positive migrant workers reached 2,288. “There are 3,109 active cases now and the state’s recovery rate is 59.71 per cent, it said, adding that 5,030 patients have been discharged from hospitals,” he said. Stating that the tracking of migrant workers was underway, Prasad said: “We have tracked over 11.47 lakh migrant workers with the help of ASHA workers of which over 70,000 showed symptoms and were tested. Of these, 2288 were found to be suffering with Covid-19.” The bulletin also revealed that only three districts in the state had less than 10 cases – Sonebhadra, Hamirpur and Lalitpur – while 27 districts had more than 100 cases. District with maximum Covid-19 cases Agra saw just nine cases. The other districts in the top five, namely Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur and Ghaziabad saw 12, 13, three and four cases respectively. In terms of active cases, GB Nagar accounted for the maximum active cases – 194 – followed by Basti where 145 active cases are being treated. Amethi is at the third place in terms of active cases with 119 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/60-patients-have-recovered-in-up-govt/articleshow/76145594.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks status report from government on polluting industries in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The high court on Monday sought a status report from the state government on the action it took on illegal polluting Industries at Katedan, Sastry Puram and Tatanagar areas in Hyderabad. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by P Vinay and MA Rasheed questioning the inaction of the Pollution Control Board (PCB) and GHMC. The bench earlier obtained letters from the polluting industries in which they stated that they will close their units. The GHMC and PCB had issued notices, including closure notices, to a few such industries. The bench wondered whether the officials were misusing their orders because it came across a closure notice issued to a godown owner who was storing floor tiles. “How this causes pollution and how such godowns could be described as polluting industries must be answered by the authorities,” the bench said. The bench also refused to accede to a plea of the petitioners that power connection should be disconnected to all the polluting industries. “This is lockdown period and we cannot issue any such directions,” the bench said, and posted the case for a final hearing after three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-status-report-from-govt-on-polluting-industries/articleshow/76145590.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||RS polls for 3 seats in stateon June 19||The EC on Monday announced that the Rajya Sabha polls postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak in the state will be held on June 19. State chief electoral officer Anand Kumar said that voting would be held from 9am to 4pm on June 19 and the counting would take place at 5pm on the same day. The polls will be held in the assembly building. P 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-polls-for-3-seats-in-stateon-june-19/articleshow/76145010.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘No leniency towards Covid rule violators’||Bhubaneswar: As the state government sounded a high alert about a possible surge in Covid-19 cases in June, Odisha Police have decided to adopt a policy of zero tolerance against people who ignore social distance norms, do not wear masks and promote large gatherings. “We are not going to show leniency to violators. Massive enforcement activities will be carried out in June to ensure that the people obey social distancing norm, wear masks and avoid large congregations,” director general of police Abhay said after chief secretary Asit Tripathy read out the guidelines for unlock 1.0 on Monday. The DGP said enforcement drives would be stepped up in Ganjam, Puri, Nayagarh, Khurda, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Balangir districts where shutdowns have been ordered on Saturdays and Sundays in June. SPs in those districts have been asked to form special enforcement squads to take on the violators. “The government has already said June is crucial to our fight against Covid-19. We have conducted a series of awareness drives to persuade people to wear masks and maintain safe distance from each other. Now it is time for strict enforcement as we found many people disobeying the government’s lockdown guidelines,” Abhay said. The head of the police department said the enforcement drive involved realisation of fines, registration of cases and arrests. Police said first-time offenders would be fined whereas habitual violators might face arrest. “We will strictly enforce night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am although the Centre advised night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am. Our personnel will remain on roads, conduct night blocking and enforce the rule. Movement of people for non-essential activities is prohibited during the curfew. Only medicine stores will remain open,” Abhay said. The DGP expressed concern that many people misused the earlier relaxations granted for livelihood purposes. “We found that people behaved carelessly and organised functions by ignoring social distance norms. Police stations have been asked to raid such parties and act against the violators,” Abhay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-leniency-towards-covid-rule-violators/articleshow/76143534.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Holidays on, but teachers may be called to school from June 8||CHANDIGARH: Even though schools will remain closed for now, the UT education department is considering calling teachers to school from June 8. The education department has declared summer vacations till June 7. The department is considering starting live classes from schools or getting video lessons recorded and distributed among children from June 8. Director, school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said this would help monitor online teaching and also help teachers prepare lessons better. A final decision is yet to be taken after consultations with stakeholders. “It is too early to say anything right now as everything is at discussion level. Once we have some points, we will discuss these with other stakeholders, including parents, private schools and teachers,” Brar said. The committee formed to decide on reopening of schools will submit its report on June 4. On Monday, UT education department shared a timetable with teachers, which is to be followed by all government schools for online teaching for classes VI to VIII. Education department also held a meeting with the new CBSE chairperson regarding the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) wherein UT education department has been asked to share within one week how it plans to continue teaching in a way that PISA preparations do not suffer. PISA is scheduled for 2021 but is expected to be rescheduled, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/teachers-may-be-called-to-school-from-june-8/articleshow/76144435.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||75% of property tax collected in Madurai||Madurai: Madurai Corporation which had set a target of collecting 85% of property tax owed to it by April, had managed to collect 75% by mid-March before the lockdown kicked in. “We would have achieved at least 80% collection had we got a couple of weeks more. Due to lockdown and hardships faced by people as a result, we did not press people to cough up tax, which has now been added to arrears as the 2020-21 financial year has started,” said an official. Madurai Corporation’s revenue through various taxes and non-tax income was estimated to be around Rs 207 crore for the financial year 2019-20, of which property tax alone accounts of Rs 110 crore - only Rs 97 crore out of it was collectable since the rest was under various litigations. Another official said the local body has now started operating only one collection centre in each of the four zones from Friday onwards to facilitate those who want to pay up the tax. “We have not stressed people to pay tax so far, since residents would be under financial stress. However, residents can pay if they want to do so. Every penny is welcome for Madurai Corporation since the civic body is spending a lot of money towards Covid-19 prevention work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/75-of-property-tax-collected-in-madurai/articleshow/76144998.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Man ends life after uncle who raised him kills self||Madurai: Assuming that he was the reason for the death of his maternal uncle, a 25-year-old man committed suicide in Madurai on Monday. The deceased has been identified as S Yuvaraj of K Pudur in Madurai. He was raised by his uncle, R Jeeva, 60, after Yuvaraj’s mother remarried and settled elsewhere. Following the lockdown, he lost his job. Jeeva insisted Yuvaraj to take up another job. On Sunday night, Yuvaraj consumed alcohol and came home. Angered over this, Jeeva questioned Yuvaraj and this resulted in a fight. Yuvaraj tried to hit his uncle, when Jeeva’s son intervened and pacified the two. Soon after the incident, Jeeva left home and did not return. Later that night, Jeeva was found hanging from a tree at Sipcot industrial estate. The body was retrieved and sent to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Yuvaraj visited the hospital and to see his uncle's body. Later, he left the place and could not be found anywhere. When Jeeva’s son went to his house in search of Yuvaraj, he found him hanging. The K Pudur police registered two separate cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-ends-life-after-uncle-who-raised-him-kills-self/articleshow/76145004.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Two hacked to death in illicit affair row||Madurai: Two people were hacked to death by a 50-year-old man in a dispute over an extra-marital relationship issue. The murder took place near Melur in Madurai district on Monday morning. The deceased were identified as P Murugan, 45, and his friend N Alagappan, 55, from Thumbaipatti near Melur. A police officer said that Murugan developed an extra- marital relationship with the accused, A Annadurai’s wife. Annadurai had warned the two to end the relationship multiple times, but they continued. So, he decided to eliminate Murugan. On Monday, at around 8.30am, Annadurai intercepted the two-wheeler in which the duo were travelling and started attacking Murugan with a sickle. Alagappan, who came to Murugan’s rescue, suffered cut injuries on his neck and hand. While Murugan died on the spot, Alagappan was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case was registered with the Melur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-hacked-to-death-in-illicit-affair-row/articleshow/76145007.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||RTI activist exposes gaps in free ration distribution||Ahmedabad: A right to information (RTI) activist in the city exposed gaps in the state government’s free distribution of ration for APL card holders. He has filed a complaint under the National Food Security Act in this regard.Alpesh Bhavsar, who stays in Saraspur, said he visited the designated PDS outlet in his area on May 20, but was not given the approved amount of sugar. “When I inquired, I was informed that the shop had not got the approved amount of sugar,” Bhavsar said.Then he contacted several officials, including the vigilance officer, the deputy director and the zonal in-charge of the food and civil supplies department, and learned that all the 38 shops in the area had not received adequate stock of sugar on that day. “I checked on the portal and found that my designated shop was to receive 610kg of sugar, but only 400kg was provided,” Bhavsar said.“Interestingly, within two hours of my raising the issue, all the 38 PDS shops in my area received the rest of the sugar. The question is, why was the sugar not provided earlier,” asked Bhavsar. He added that since Saraspur is in the red zone, risk of Covid spread increased when people had to visit the ration shop multiple times, unnecessarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rti-activist-exposes-gaps-in-free-ration-distribution/articleshow/76144438.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Pillion riding allowed now’||Q: I have to drop my mother to her office daily as she cannot drive. Will the police stop us for pillion riding? | Nisha Agrawal A: According to the new guidelines, two persons are allowed on two-wheelers. Both must wear mask and helmet. | Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate Q: I am a trainee in a private academy to learn make-up techniques. I usually change my clothes after coming home from work. Do I need to wash them regularly as well? | Harish Kumar A: It is advised to wash your clothes or office wear since the virus can survive for a few hours on fabric. Use one tablespoon of detergent and four tablespoons of disinfectant (any antiseptic liquid) in 10 litres of water. You should also clean your hands and feet after coming home from work and change in fresh clothes. Dr Sheetal Verma, associate professor, microbiology, KGMU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pillion-riding-allowed-now/articleshow/76145607.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||AP to test 5% passengers in trains from T||Vijaywada: The state health department has decided to randomly test 5% passengers in each compartment of trains originating from Telangana. The decision was taken in anticipation of a huge number of passengers coming to Andhra Pradesh from Hyderabad. After observing the positivity pattern and disease prevalence for a week, the 5% sampling strategy may be modified. Currently, the state is collecting swabs from all people arriving from other states. The travel history of passengers will be determined based on their tickets and passengers would be thermally screened upon disembarkation from the trains. If found asymptomatic, they will be allowed to go home. This comes in the backdrop of a state secretariat employee, who had had travelled from Hyderabad, testing positive two days ago. The employee, a junior level employee working in agriculture department, was stranded in Hyderabad for the last two months due to lockdown. He reached Amaravati as the AP government arranged buses for stranded employees to travel back, after getting permission from Telangana government. While all the employees who returned were taken to a private convention centre and screened for Covid-19, the officials allowed them to attend duties without waiting for the results. After results of three people turned out to be positive, the senior officials directed closure of two blocks of the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-to-test-5-passengers-in-trains-from-t/articleshow/76144449.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Banyan trees on highway burnt, forest dept launches probe||HYDERABAD: A year after protests against the felling of banyan trees on the Hyderabad-Chevella-Bijapur highway prompted the authorities to temporarily halt a road-widening project, an activist said that dozens of banyans are quietly being burnt. “I personally saw these trees before the lockdown. On Sunday, on a routine inspection, I saw many of the trees had disappeared. All of them were burnt initially and then let to die or fall. Dozens more are either fully or semi- burnt with some falling down. This is shocking,” asked Uday Krishna, founder, Vata Foundation, which has been involved in the translocation of trees. Krishna further said: “While we were trying to protect these trees last year, several donors had come forward to help translocate them. If the highway expansion is going to happen and the trees have to be felled, the government will need to save every single tree as per WALTA. If the government cannot or does not want to save, they should allow us to save them by translocation.” Adding that no public authority is taking responsibility for these Nizam-era banyan trees, the activist said at this rate, not even one tree will survive. Last year, Krishna had launched a campaign on change.org which received 35,000 signatories to save the banyans. Speaking to TOI, chief conservator of forests, Rangareddy district, Sunita Bhagwat said: “We received reports that some trees are being damaged. I have asked our staff to carry out an investigation as to who is burning these trees. They will book cases against whoever is found violating the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/banyan-trees-on-highway-burnt-forest-dept-launches-probe/articleshow/76145606.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||State incurs Rs 1.6k cr loss in 2 months; may suffer Rs 6k cr revenue this fiscal||Dehradun: The consecutive lockdowns to prevent spread of Covid-19 have strongly hit Uttarakhand’s revenue with the state suffering a massive loss of Rs 1,600 crore in the first two months (April and May) of the ongoing financial year (FY). According to initial estimates, the state is expected to lose around Rs 6,000 crore-to-Rs 7,000 crore revenue in FY 2020-21. State finance secretary Amit Negi told TOI, “This fiscal, we are assuming a revenue loss of Rs 6,000 crore to Rs 7,000 crore. In the first two months, the losses have already mounted to Rs 1,600 crore.” The revenue sectors most affected in the ongoing FY are GST, excise, stamp, and automobile tax. Negi pointed out that the state has already incurred certain losses which cannot be recovered. “Vehicles were not sold, there was no tourist footfall, and liquor shops were also shut for a considerable period. These factors adversely affected the state revenue,” he said. Claiming that it is too early to reach any conclusions, the official added that the state’s financial scenario will also depend on the decision of the Centre regarding funds to be provided for Centrally-sponsored schemes (CSS). “The Centre may not cut the CSS funds but we may have to trim down on some of the expenditures,” he added. As tourism has remained the backbone of the state’s economy, the financial situation remained dismal with tourist activities remaining at a standstill for over two months. The Char Dham Yatra alone contributes a total revenue of Rs 2,000 crore to all the stakeholders including government, hotels, restaurants, priests and others involved with the sector. The months of May and June are regarded as the peak tourist season but things are not looking up as flight, train, and bus services are yet to fully restore. Excise department, which has an annual revenue target of Rs 3,600 crore, is also staring at losses. “Tourism is linked with GST and even excise duty. A good tourist footfall increases the revenue of a state,” Negi explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-incurs-rs-1-6k-cr-loss-in-2-months-may-suffer-rs-6k-cr-revenue-this-fiscal/articleshow/76143581.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Traders decide to keep shops open till 7 pm after meet with officials||Dehradun: In a meeting conducted between Dehradun district administration and traders, it was decided that shops in the city will remain open between 7 am and 7 pm, according to official guidelines. Earlier, the traders had demanded that the administration must not allow opening of shops after 4 pm in view of the Covid-19 threat. Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, said “We have worked in coordination with the district administration throughout the lockdown and we will continue to follow the guidelines. However, if any shopkeeper wishes to close his shop before 7 pm, the traders’ body will not interfere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-decide-to-keep-shops-open-till-7-pm-after-meet-with-officials/articleshow/76143579.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bargarh gears up for possible locust invasion||Sambalpur: Apprehensive about attack of locusts, the agriculture department of Bargarh district has become alert and started making preparations to deal with the possible invasion. The Bargarh district shares border with Chhattisgarh to where the locusts are currently moving in. The agriculture department in Bargarh has created WhatsApp group for all the 253 gram panachayats of the district to disseminate the information to the farmers regarding how to deal with the locust attack. Each WhatsApp group consists of the farmers of gram panchayat concerned besides agricultural field-level officials. “On the WhatsApp group, the villagers have been advised to form groups and make noise by beating utensils, tin boxes to drive away insects. Moreover, the farmers are also being asked to take preventive measures like spraying neem seed kernel extract (NSKE) or neem-based insecticide on standing crop to protect it from the locust attack. Moreover, the department has also started distributing leaflets among the farmers to sensitise them and create awareness among them on how to tackle the locust attack,” said an official of agriculture department of Bargarh. Chief district agriculture officer (CDAO), Bargarh, Dinabandhu Gandhi said locusts are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behavior. As locusts stop movement and settle on vegetation and trees after dusk, farmers have been asked to shake of the host trees with large polythene spread underneath and kill the fallen insects by drowning them in kerosene-mixed water, he said. He further said the locusts have already invaded Chhattisgarh. “There is possibility that the insects would invade Western Odisha also and hence, we have started making preparations. The locusts stay for 48 hours in a place and wreak havoc. However, if heavy wind and rain take place here in this period, the insects will not come here and they will go back,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bargarh-gears-up-for-possible-locust-invasion/articleshow/76143557.cms||Subrat Mohanty
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court seeks report on biomedical waste disposal||NEW DELHI: How are the AAP government and three municipal corporations disposing of biomedical waste generated during the Covid-19 pandemic? Delhi high court on Monday termed it a “critical area” and sought a detailed report, pointing out that such waste collected in common dumping grounds could “be a breeding ground of Covid-19 if any person unknowingly comes in contact with the infected PPE kits, gloves or masks.”  “This is particularly a matter of concern as scavengers will be the first ones to be exposed to the infection” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted and asked one officer from each of the authorities to remain present on the next date to assist in the matter. The court also expressed concern for sanitation workers in the forefront of Covid-19 battle and sought details of their numbers and the number of PPE kits provided to them daily during the pandemic. It asked the AAP government and the three municipal corporations to inform it of the number of such workers in their jurisdiction, after it found that the affidavits and status reports filed by these authorities were incomplete as they did not disclose “the number of safai karamcharis in their jurisdiction vis-a-vis the number of masks, gloves and other PPE kits provided to them daily.” The court said there was no information about the number of containment zones declared in each of their jurisdiction to verify if the requirements of the workers in those areas were adequately met. The bench gave the government and the civic bodies one week to file a complete report. It also asked if sanitising cubicles had been installed by the civic authorities in each ward, and if not, what steps were being taken to ensure the workers were adequately sanitised after the end of work. The court was hearing petitions filed by Harnam Singh and All India Municipal Corporation Staff Union seeking direction to the authorities to provide PPE gears to sanitation workers deployed on Covid duty. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Singh, told the court that, while the authorities claimed to have distributed PPE kits, the workers on the ground do not have them. Meanwhile, the Centre and the AAP government said they have reconciled the inventory of PPE kits, N95 marks and gloves, and there was no major discrepancy in their respective figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-report-on-biomedical-waste-disposal/articleshow/76145041.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Poachers fined Rs 1.8L for selling wild boar meat||Madurai: Forest department personnel arrested a gang and slapped a fine of Rs 1.8 lakh on them for poaching, consuming and selling meat of wild boars. The accused poached the wild boars in the buffer zone outside the forest areas of the Kadayam Range in Ambasamudram division of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, Tirunelveli district. The accused were arrested based on a tip-off. Kadayam range officer C Nellai Nayagam said that they picked up a couple of people from the gang and inquiries led to the arrest of nine people. They were booked under sections of The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, after they reportedly confessed the crime. A compounded fine of Rs 1.8 lakh at Rs 20,000 per person was slapped on them, following which they were released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/poachers-fined-rs-1-8l-for-selling-wild-boar-meat/articleshow/76145012.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Enhanced relief for unorganized workers: Plea||Madurai: A public interest litigation was filed before the Madras high court seeking enhanced Covid-19 relief of Rs 9,000 to unorganized sector workers. P Priya, president of the Amaippusara Matrum Kattumana Tholilalar Sangam from Virudhunagar district stated that due to lockdown lakhs of workers have lost their livelihood. She said the state government had announced relief of Rs 1,000, however, the amount would not be sufficient to manage their family expenses. Though the government had announced several relaxations, it would be difficult for them to get employment. Hence, she moved the high court Madurai bench to enhance the relief amount. When the case was taken up for hearing on Monday, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi adjourned the case to June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/enhanced-relief-for-unorganized-workers-plea/articleshow/76145017.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Two arrested for killing security guard in Haridwar||Haridwar: Two persons were arrested in connection with the murder of security guard of a scrap godown on Monday. The accused have been identified as Mukram and Shahjad, both residents of Sarai village under Jawalapur police station. SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Guard Shahid was beaten to death two days ago. Several items were missing from the godown. We managed to nab both the accused after scanning CCTV footage. We have also recovered the stolen items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-arrested-for-killing-security-guard-in-haridwar/articleshow/76143566.cms||MS Nawaz
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Safeguard kids’ mental health during online classes, urges Kochi NGO||KOCHI: A Kochi-based NGO Together We Can (TWC) working for parent-empowerment and training to help children in need of special attention has urged the state government to set some basic minimum guidelines and safety protocols in place to safeguard the right of the child to both emotional and social health. Urging chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan not to hastily shift education ‘online’ and instead look into the mental health effects of this step also. Advocating for more pre-recorded video classes which will ensure that children can learn at their own pace, TWC said that schools, teachers and parents are not well equipped to guide the children properly into e-learning processes. “There is ample research and literature in the scientific realm indicating how screen time influences a child’s developing brain. Even before introducing this online education, most schools, teachers and parents were stressed dealing with the issues arising due to excessive and unhealthy use of screen among children. Every psychiatric and psychological clinic were filled with referrals of children with various neurological and mental health disabilities and disorders that were augmented, thanks to this screen time. Despite all the evidence, we have now made this sudden shift,” said Seema Lal, special educator and executive trustee of TWC. Ideally, spare the pre-schoolers, she said. The RTE (Right to Education) talks about education from 6 to 14 years only. However, online education even without it being defined has resumed for the preschoolers too. Screen time before 6 years of age, when the neurological development of the child is most crucial, can play havoc in their foundation years. For students of Classes 9-12, pre-recorded videos or powerpoints instead of live sessions should be encouraged. Reading is an important skill and not everything needs to be audio or visual. There needs to be a balance of teaching time and encouraging students to question and ask doubts where the teacher only plays a facilitating role. A lot of what happens in schools such as social and emotional connect, physical activity and the much-needed peer support is cut during these virtual classes. It is difficult for children to cope with the same pressure of performing and completion of assignments all from home if not guided appropriately. The objective is not to keep the children engaged or entertained. Attending live streaming sessions where it is a monologue by one instructor for more than even 10 minutes takes its toll on one’s attention and concentration not just for students but adults too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/safeguard-kids-mental-health-during-online-classes-ngo/articleshow/76143588.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 2, 2020||Hubballi||Industrial activities will pick up soon: Shettar||Hubballi: Industries will start functioning like before and all migrated labourers will also come back to the state and work in next couple of months, said large and medium industries minister Jagadish Shettar. Shettar, who is also the district in-charge minister, said on Monday that after the relaxation of the lockdown, most industries have resumed work. “Now, 80% of the industries are working. As most of the skilled labourers migrated to their respective states, there is a dearth of skilled labourers now. We are hopeful that they will come back, and industrial activities can pick up pace soon,” he said. “People should maintain social distancing, wear masks, use sanitisers and follow other precautions to help the government contain the spread of coronavirus,” he said. All wards in Hubballi-Dharwad will be brought under the 24X7 drinking water network in next 18 months and Rs 1,200 crore has been sanctioned for it, he added. MLAs Shankar Patil Munenkoppa and Amrut Desai, MLCs Pradeep Shettar and SV Sankanur, BJP leaders Mahesh Tenginkai, Lingaraj Patil, Nagesh Kalaburgi, Santosh Chavan and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/industrial-activities-will-pick-up-soon-shettar/articleshow/76144178.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru needs more BMTC buses post lockdown||BENGALURU: With the city slowly moving towards normalcy and people increasingly preferring private vehicles over public transport, experts suggest urgent steps to expand Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) fleet and better cycling infrastructure. BMTC, with a fleet of 6,161 buses, had a daily ridership of 36 lakh before the lockdown. While the buses are back on the road, at a time, only 30 passengers are being allowed per bu to ensure social-distancing norms. Namma Metro’s ridership was about 4.5 lakh passengers a day before it stopped operations. However, it’s yet to get back on track. With most offices and industries in the city having resumed operations, Bengaluru may witness a spike in traffic congestion and pollution as many people may prefer private vehicles over public transport because of Covid-19 fears. Amit Bhatt of World Resources Institute, an NGO, said: “In pre-Covid times, the average density was four passengers per sqm during peak hours inside a 12-metre bus of around 20 sqm. This is the right time to scale-up the number of buses to ensure social distancing and to provide quality public transport to citizens.” He said those who can afford to buy private vehicles may shift from public transport, further leading to congestion on roads. Urban expert Ashwin Mahesh said Bengaluru required at least 7,000 more buses before Covid-19. “But now we need at least 16,000 buses to ensure social distancing since the vehicles are allowed to carry only half the capacity. But purchasing these many buses will take several years. The immediate solution is to hire them. Underutilised buses of educational institutions and companies can be used to run as BMTC services. This will ensure social distancing as well as provide a source of revenue for those drivers who lost their livelihood.” BMTC managing director C Shikha said: “We are planning to purchase 2,143 buses and also lease another 390. The ridership now is only around 6 lakh since schools are closed, many workers have gone home and many techies are still working from home.” Experts say the way forward is to encouraging non-motorised modes like cycling as well as opt for a combination of work from home and staggered office timings. This, they, say, will help reduce congestion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/expand-bmtc-fleet-to-prevent-spurt-in-pvt-vehicles-experts/articleshow/76144153.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Welfare and agri schemes top priority as Telangana turns 6||HYDERABAD: Since the formation of state in 2014, the Telangana government has implemented as many as 63 schemes and welfare initiatives. The TRS government, which came to power a second time in December 2018, claims that it has spent as much as Rs 40,000 crore in welfare schemes such as monthly pensions (Asara scheme), farmer welfare schemes among others. The government claims that its spend on welfare schemes is highest in the country. With Hyderabad housing nearly 25% of the state’s population, the government has focussed its efforts towards creation of infrastructure facilities and has taken up projects such as the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) through which it seeks to improve connectivity in and around Greater Hyderabad by constructing more flyovers and junctions. The Greater Hyderabad region alone has seen development projects worth nearly Rs 30,000 crore taken up. The government has announced that it will be spending another Rs 50,000 crore on improving infrastructure in urban areas. The goverment believes that it was the welfare schemes that helped it win successive elections with the party winning more seats in the assembly elections of 2018. It followed this success with dominant displays in local body polls — panchayats and municipals, cooperatives and Zilla Parishads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/welfare-agri-schemes-top-priority-as-telangana-turns-6/articleshow/76144539.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Upset with families, cousins commit suicide||Tuticorin: Two cousins committed suicide by consuming beer mixed with poison upset with their families reprimanding them. The incident took place near Srivaikuntam in Tuticorin district. The deceased have been as V Thoosi Muthu, 18, and his cousin Ajithkumar, 22. The boys were working in Coimbatore and had returned home due to the lockdown. Unable to find any jobs, the duo was roaming around in a two-wheeler every day and also consumed alcohol. Their families reprimanded them. On Sunday evening, as Muthu came home drunk, his fathershouted at him. Depressed with their families, the two then bought a pesticide and mixed it with beer and consumed it close to a railway track. Around 11pm they found the bodies. The Kurumbur police retrieved their bodies and sent it to for postmortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/upset-with-families-cousins-commit-suicide/articleshow/76145026.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Cases dip, south TN sees 17 +ve, central districts 11||Madurai: After reporting around 100 Covid-19 cases daily for the three consecutive days, south Tamil Nadu saw some respite on Monday with only 17 testing positive for the disease. This includes four imported cases, which took the tally in the region to 1,505. Meanwhile, the central region of the state reported 11 more cases including four transgenders in Ariyalur district on Monday, taking the total count in the region to 908. Madurai district, which has seen 20 cases and one death during the last two days, reported no new cases on Monday. The most cases were in Dindigul district with five local cases, which took the district tally to 145. The five cases were recorded after a gap of three days without any local case in the district. Kanyakumari, Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram all saw two local cases each. Tuticorin saw one local case, while Tirunelveli saw one local case and two imported cases. Tirunelveli continues to remain at the top of the list in south Tamil Nadu with as many as 355 cases, followed by Madurai with 268 cases and Tuticorin with 227 cases. Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts meanwhile reported one imported case each on Monday. Under railway quarantine, as many as 16 more people who had returned from Maharashtra via train to Tirunelveli tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. Out of the around 3,500 people tested so far who had returned from Maharashtra to Tirunelveli via train, 193 people have tested positive under railway quarantine. Five people including four transgender tested positive for Covid-19 in Ariyalur district. The four transgender returned to Ariyalur from Maharashtra last week. They were tested based on their inter-state travel history. One 26-year-old man, a native of Nagapattinam district who had visited his relative’s house in Meensurutti in Ariyalur district after returning from Chennai also tested positive. There were 14 active cases in Ariyalur, of which, 11 are admitted to Ariyalur medical college hospital. As many as 17 villages were under containment zones in the district. Four positive cases were registered in Thanjavur on Monday. A 34-year-old man from Dabeerkulam and 55-year-old from Manambuchavadi tested positive, both are Chennai returnees. A 34-year old man and 46-year old woman of Chennai staying at Dabeerkulam also tested positive. In Perambalur, a 33-year-old man, a native of Alathur, also tested positive for Covid-19. The patient was employed as a staff nurse in a private hospital in Chennai to treat Covid-19 cases. The patients did not visit Perambalur district in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-dip-south-tn-sees-17-ve-central-districts-11/articleshow/76145043.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Courts will be closed if lawyers don’t behave: Chief justice of Karnataka high court||BENGALURU: Chief justice of Karnataka high court Abhay Shreeniwas Oka on Monday indicated that if lawyers don’t behave properly and crowd the courts without appreciating the prevailing situation, courts will have to be closed. “Please tell lawyers that let them not create a situation where we have to close the courts again. Already Chhattisgarh and Delhi courts have closed after reopening,” the chief justice told the chairman of Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) during a video-conference hearing of a PIL related to the standard operating procedure on the conduct of court proceedings. “Lawyers need not come to court unless they have a case or have to file a case physically after taking appointment as per SOP. If large number of lawyers start coming to courts then we will have to close the courts,” the chief justice said. The chief justice said some lawyers created a scene at high court gate no. 5 and he had to rush there, because of which proceedings in his court were delayed by five minutes. Justice Oka said one lawyer asked him when Covid-19 will end, to which he replied that he can’t answer that question and another sought to know why lawyers were being forced to take appointments for filing of petitions. ‘Anxiety among lawyers’The KSBC chairman told the chief justice that he will appeal to the bar to cooperate and because Monday was the first day when court reopened, there was anxiety among lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/courts-will-be-closed-if-lawyers-dont-behave-cj/articleshow/76144233.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hubballi||Folk artistes compose songs to spread awareness on Covid-19||Hubballi: In addition to carrying the essence of the region in their songs, folk artistes have always tried to incorporate into their works the essence of the times. Members of the Talemaaru Kutir culture troupe of Hulimangala in Kolar’s Malur taluk have done exactly this. They are composing songs on the pandemic, coming to the streets with the ekadaari instrument strumming to the words ‘Corona bantu nodanna...,’ hearing which brings people out of their homes to offer foodgrains to the performers. Vaddagere Nagarajaiah, the singer, is accompanied by Jayamala MC, a human rights activist and writer Padmalaya Nagaraj, are using folk music to raise awareness about the pandemic. Furthermore, the foodgrains that the trio collects are given away to the 30 students who are an extended part of the team. “We take no more than a handful of grains, and never more than Rs 50 person from one household. So far, we have composed 10 songs to raise awareness on Covid-19,” he added. The Malur troupe’s songs on Covid-19 are not an isolated set. The cyberspace is swarming with videos of Kannada folk songs on the pandemic. Perhaps it is ironic that the songs– dollina pada, riwayat songs, etc., – are turning into carriers of misinformation about the pandemic that the social media abounds with. For instance, among the songs that has attained a considerable amount of popularity on social media is ‘Corona roga odi bandaite/ Chinadinda jigidu bandaite (Corona has come running/ It has hopped into our country from China)’, a composition by comedian Mallapa Honga, popular among his fans as Mobile Malla. The song has reached more than 10,000 people on Facebook, and is being shared on other portals. “I have composed eight songs on Corona and all of them have been received well by listeners,” Mallappa said. A young folk singer Gavisiddayya Hallikerimath, based in Gadag, has been singing ‘Manava nee jagrutanaagu/ Corona bandaite’. The song has helped drive the message on the need to maintain hygiene to his many listeners. Vijayapura’s Sadev Mastar Devanagan is another folk artiste who has incorporated corona as a motif in his songs. Meanwhile, a song by Sumitra Yellappa Dalawai of Savadatti taluk, a Dollina pada artiste, ‘Sulle madabyadao kalaharana/ Barataiti corona’ has gone viral on WhatsApp. “I wanted to record the song in a studio but could not do so owing to the lockdown, so I decided to record it on the phone and circulate it on WhatsApp,” she said. Folklore enthusiast Arun Joladkudligi said that these songs had helped mitigate the damage caused by circulation of fake news on social media. “But it’s sad that some folk songs are also promoting myths about the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/folk-artistes-compose-songs-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/76144255.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Support the stranded 1.5L brick kiln workers: HC||Hyderabad: Taking a serious view of the plight faced by nearly 1.5 brick kiln workers who have been abandoned by contractors in Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Medchal, the Telangana high court on Monday directed the state to provide the workers with food and shelter till arrangements are made for their transport to their native state, Odisha. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while giving its directions, sought to remind advocate general BS Prasad of the Supreme Court’s guidelines which made it the responsibility of the official machinery to take care of stranded workers. The bench was hearing a plea by S Jeevan Kumar of the Human Rights Forum (HRF) who brought to the court’s notice the plight of migrant brick kiln workers from various districts in Telangana. The petitioner’s counsel, Vasudha Nagaraj, informed the court that there are around 810 registered brick kilns in the state. “Each kiln employs around 200 to 400 workers. This takes the number of registered brick kiln workers in the state to 1.5 lakh. In addition to this, there are unregistered kilns and workers too and if we add that figure as well the number may cross 2 lakh,” the counsel informed the court. The petitioner contended that the workers are brought by contractors in November and they work till around mid-May or early June after which they head to their villages for the sowing season. At the end of their work at the brick kiln, the workers are paid just enough money to afford a train ticket back to their home state. “All kilns worked during the lockdown period too but once the season was over their contractors are now taking advantage of lockdown and dumping workers in twin cities...This is leaving them stranded in Hyderabad city with no avenues to return,” Jeevan Kumar said in his plea. The bench posted the case to Tuesday to hear it along with other PILs related to migrant labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/support-the-stranded-1-5l-brick-kiln-workers-hc/articleshow/76144594.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Foundation ensures the poor don’t miss dialysis in coronavirus times||BENGALURU: As the world fights a pandemic, kidney patients from Mumbai to Manhattan have lost lives due to lack of dialysis. In the state capital, Bangalore Kidney Foundation has come to the rescue of many patients struggling to avail renal care, especially the underprivileged, providing them everything from transport to free dialysis, PPE kits and nutrition. Even when the lockdown has been eased, the 41-year-old trust and one of the largest dialysis centres in the country, continues to serve those in need. “We have about 300 dialysis patients and most are daily-wage workers or those below the poverty line. Every day, 120-130 patients come for treatment. When we first heard about Covid-19, there wasn’t an alarming drop in the number of patients. But once the lockdown was announced, it dipped by about 40%,” recalled Kartik Sriram, a BKF trustee. With most of the other trustees aged above 60, Sriram, who is also a successful businessman with interests in the engineering industry, handed over the reins of his company to the Chief Finance Office to focus on critical renal care. “The older people among the trustees would have been immunologically compromised if they had continued to show up. So almost overnight, most of the top management could not come into the centre. We then formed a team comprising administrative and medical staff to take stock of the situation, and decided to ensure no patient missed dialysis,” said the BITS Pilani graduate. There was a sense of urgency in the team members because they knew the repercussions that would follow if the patients didn’t receive timely care. “Our priority was to ensure every single patient gets three dialysis sessions a week. If they don’t, their immunity gets compromised and they become extremely prone to Covid-19...Most of them live in clustered housing, and practising social or physical distancing is extremely tough. If one of them tests positive, the infection is likely to spread very quickly,” elaborated Sriram. Five-pronged planThe prime reasons for the dip in number of patients were loss of income and non-availability of public transport. Issues like diet, nutrition and hygiene also needed to be addressed. To tackle the multi-layered problem, the team came up with an inclusive plan. “Typically, in Bengaluru, a dialysis session costs Rs 2,500-5,000. At BKF, we charge a maximum of Rs 750. We came up with a comprehensive renal care plan which covered five elements, including transport. The second problem was justifiable fear: We made sure our patients and healthcare workers wore appropriate PPE. Next was nutrition because even if we provided dialysis, if the patients did not have adequate nutrition, immunity levels would drop. Fourth was immune supplements. The fifth and most important issue was all our patients had no access to income. If we didn’t offer unconditional free dialysis to many of them, they would stop coming,” elaborated Kartik. “For transport, we spoke to a few donors, borrowed cars and called an ambulance driver. We mapped our patients’ locations and scheduled their pick up and drop. For other elements, we raised money through the BKF Covid-19 fund,” said the trustee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/foundation-ensures-the-poor-dont-miss-dialysis-in-corona-times/articleshow/76144167.cms||Manuja Veerappa
June 2, 2020||Madurai||HC extends various interim orders till June 30||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday extended various interim orders till June 30 except for those relating to grant of parole/leave which are extended only till June 8. Following similar directions by the principal seat, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi in a suo motu plea initiated due to lockdown, extended the interim orders. The judges said that with regard to extension of remand, they noticed that courts in only nine districts have become functional from June 1. “It will be very difficult for production of remand prisoners for extension of remand either under Section 167 or Section 309 CrPC., before various courts in the state, either in person or via video conferencing,” they said. Hence, the judges directed that all remands, both under Section 167 CrPC. and Section 309 CrPC., will stand extended till June 30, without prejudice to the right of the prisoner to be released on bail in the meanwhile. The judges said they are bound by the orders passed by the Supreme Court with regard to extension of limitation period. The judges also clarified that the high court Madurai bench has not become completely operational from June 1 and what has been permitted is staggered opening of the court for physical appearance. The case was adjourned to June 8 for deciding the issue relating to extension of parole/ leave of convicts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-extends-various-interim-orders-till-june-30/articleshow/76145037.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Vadodara||12-year-old Vadodara boy creates noodle-making robot||VADODARA: While the lockdown turned many into chefs, experimenting with their newfound culinary interest, this 12-year-old Vadodara boy, however, turned into a technical food innovator. Rudra Waghela’s experimentation with robotic skills to prepare food for himself raised the bar quite high for others his age, when the Class VII student designed a robot using Lego parts to make two-minute noodles! “During the initial days of the lockdown, I had online classes and I couldn’t wait for them to get over and I get busy with my robot making,” said Rudra, who claimed the idea sparked when he was randomly searching for creative works on the internet. Rudra said he chanced upon a robot making noodles, but that was an advanced model. “So I decided to make a basic one which could cook the instant noodles,” said the young genius who designed a program on his computer with all the Lego parts. “The program did not work for a couple of times, but then I was successful,” gushed the young resident of Pratapnagar who is very interested in robotics. “He keeps working on different models since a very young age and is extremely fond of working with gadgets and wires,” said Rudra’s mother Usha. Besides making robots using Lego parts, Rudra has also designed remote-controlled aeroplane which he often tests at Navlakhi ground and two-wheeled self-balancing personal transporter. Mukesh Bind, who has been training Rudra for robotics for five years now said, “I only advised him wherever he got stuck on coding and programming. For a student his age, making a model like this one is quite innovative and really difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-year-old-vadodara-boy-creates-noodle-making-robot/articleshow/76142628.cms||Jay Pachchigar
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||T torchbearer for other states: Guv||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday said Telangana has made rapid strides in all spheres of development, besides becoming a torchbearer for developmental and welfare programmes for other states to emulate it in the last six years after it was carved out of Andhra Pradesh in 2014. Wishing the people of the state on the occasion of the sixth formation day of Telangana, she said that after a hard-fought movement of people, the state was formed. “The country has never witnessed such kind of a struggle for a state,” she said. She said Telangana has become a barometer for innovative people’s happiness quotient. “I am confident that the combination of the state government and the people of Telangana will prove its mettle and realise the most cherished goal of a ‘bangaru Telangana’ soon,” she said in her message. The governor pointed out that people of Telangana are fighting courageously to combat the critical situation in the aftermath of Covid-19. “With our positive spirit, we will definitely come out successfully proving Telangana will be a wealthy and healthy state,” the governor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-torchbearer-for-other-states-guv/articleshow/76144689.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City ‘unlocking’ slow as night curfew reduced by only 2 hours||Bhubaneswar: The first phase of India’s unlocking kicked off on Monday but life in the capital city saw little change as the state government has relaxed night curfew only by two hours. Night curfew will now be on from 7 pm to 5 am as compared to 7 pm to 7 am so far. This is stricter than the Centre’s advisory, which recommends night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am. “Non-essential shops and markets will remain open till 7 pm but morning walkers can now set out for their walk at 5 am instead of 7 am. In fact, we will advise non-essential stores to see off customers at 6.30 pm as it takes time to shut the shops. The curfew will be strictly imposed,” said Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) deputy commissioner Subhendu Sahu. With coronavirus cases still being reported in the city, many residents have welcomed the night curfew. “People are acting as if the city has got rid of the virus. This will only worsen the situation. It is good that we get to come out at 5 am instead of 7 am to start our daily chores,” said Bidhan Mishra, a resident of Bapuji Nagar. A section of residents, however, said non-essential stores should have been allowed to remain open till 9 pm instead of 7 pm, in line with the Centre’s guidelines. Rishab Routray, a resident of Nayapalli Brit Colony, said residents had learnt how to act with restraint and follow safety measures and social distancing norms. “If we want to put the economy and life back on track, we need to stretch business hours. Closing non-essential stores at 9 pm was good enough,” he said. The capital has recorded 60 Covid-19 cases, of which only 10 are active now. In the past 10 days, the city has recorded eight cases — all returnees from other states. On May 18, the city recorded zero active cases but it reported two cases a day later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-unlocking-slow-as-night-curfew-reduced-by-only-2-hours/articleshow/76143600.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Monsoon arrives in Kerala, orange alert in Kozhikode district||KOCHI: Even though large parts of Kerala were left looking into the skies for some rains, the India meteorological department (IMD) declared the onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala on June 1 based on the parameters fixed for declaration of an onset. To declare an onset, IMD looks at certain parameters like rainfall, wind field and outgoing longwave radiation (OLR). If after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations, viz. Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore report rainfall of 2.5mm or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala will be declared on the second day. On Monday, IMD said that widespread rainfall occurred over Kerala during the past two days. More than 70% of the 14 rainfall monitoring stations for monsoon onset over Kerala have reported rainfall during the last 48 hours. There is an orange alert for Kozhikode with a warning of very heavy rainfall of 11-20cm. Vadakara had recorded 15cm of rain on Sunday. Several districts including Kollam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod will receive isolated heavy rainfall. Three shutters of Malankara dam were opened at 40cm each as the water level was at 40.32m against the full reservoir level of 42m. While at the Bhoothathankettu reservoir, five shutters remained opened at 50cm each. Other than Vadakara which received the state’s highest of 15cm, Quilandy (Kozhikode) got 9cm while Thiruvananthapuram city and airport, Kannur, Mavelikkara and Ponnani got 5cm each. Kayamkulam got 4cm of rainfall. IMD has also predicted the possibility of a thunderstorm with lightning and wind speed reaching 40kmph accompanied by moderate rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kasaragod and Kannur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/monsoon-arrives-orange-alert-in-kozhikode-district/articleshow/76147005.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man whose emotional appeal stirred authorities into action loses his mother||NEW DELHI: A man whose emotional appeal on video led Delhi high court to demand answers about Covid-19 preparedness in the capital, lost his mother to the disease on Monday. To make matters worse, Dharmendra Bhardwaj also tested positive and is now under home isolation. It was an anguished video made by Bhardwaj on his ordeal in securing a hospital bed for his Covid-positive mother that had triggered a suo motu intervention by the high court wherein it asked the Centre and the AAP government to inform it about the steps taken by them to treat seriously-ill corona patients in the city, including ambulances and hospitalisation. Bhardwaj’s mother succumbed to the virus and her last rites were performed on Monday, Bhardwaj told TOI, confirming that even he was under quarantine after testing positive. In the video Bhardwaj alleged that the “tall claims” of both the governments on arrangements for Covid-19 patients “were far from the reality.” He said his mother was admitted to a private hospital on May 19 and she tested Covid-positive on May 21, following which the hospital asked him to arrange for a ventilator. Bhardwaj said he visited several hospitals and called both the helplines, but in vain. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar took a grim view of Bhardwaj’s plight and had noted that “anyone should be able to call the helpline numbers to not only report Covid-19 cases, but also seek guidance with regard to hospitals, if hospitalisation is necessary. The helplines should render meaningful help to the callers.” It had noted “if the experience of Bhardwaj is anything to go by, it appears, that this aspect has not been adequately addressed,” pointing out that the video raised serious issues of public concern on status of helplines. Treating the video as a PIL, the court asked both the governments to give details of functional and responsive helpline numbers and also appointed an amicus curiae to examine the effectiveness of the helplines. It had further directed the government should consider providing ambulance facility to serious Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-whose-emotional-appeal-stirred-authorities-into-action-loses-his-mother/articleshow/76145054.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Unlock 1.0 sees Trichiites hit roads in large numbers||Trichy: The first day of the unlock 1.0 on Monday turned out to be an almost usual day in Trichy as Trichittes hit the roads in large numbers with the resumption of public transport and reopening of major outlets.However, Trichy collector S Sivarasu issued prohibitory orders extending the lockdown till June 30 and prohibiting the congregation of more than five people.The resumption of 50% public transport system renewed a new hope among the people for the revival of the economy and saw paramedical staffs, employees working in textile outlets and other showrooms to reach their workplace at ease.Except for the commercial establishments such as gyms and movie halls that were prohibited to operate, most of the shops including major textile outlets in the commercial streets namely NSB Road, Singarathope and West Boulevard of Trichy city resumed their business after two months. “We have insisted the employees and customers on maintaining at least six feet distance between each as a precautionary measure. Customers were told to avoid touching the handrails,” M Sharath, managing director, Trichy Sarathas, said.Heavy traffic prevailed across various parts of the city since morning. ATMs at Cantonment and other commercial streets witnessed people waiting in queues.Close to 2,000 teachers from government, government aided and self-financing schools are engaged in evaluation of answer scripts of class XII state board examinations. A total 16 special buses were operated for them to reach the evaluation centres. Now that the public transport has been made operational partially, teachers will be able to come on their own, said Trichy district CEO S Santhi.This will also help Class X students reach examination centres to appear for the state board exam starting on June 15. Office of the CEO had plans to request special bus service for the students, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unlock-1-0-sees-trichiites-hit-roads-in-large-numbers/articleshow/76145048.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhopal||Bustle of shops as Bhopal limps back to normalcy||BHOPAL: Though there were no extra relaxations offered to people on the first day of lockdown-5 on Monday, the city’s atmosphere seemed to have changed overnight. People were far more relaxed, shops and showrooms had their customers back, roads had more traffic, private offices, particularly in M P Nagar and New Market, who had not opened their establishment under some confusion or under instructions from the administration, also opened up. Though it was the turn of shops selling readymade garments, sarees, stationery and footwear traders to open their shops, at some places, other shops like the electronics or mobiles were also open and full of customers too. An electronics showroom in MP Nagar would have cheered anyone up who were “sick” of closed or empty shops and deserted market places during the earlier four rounds of lockdown. Despite it being a hot afternoon, customers queued up in front of the showroom for thermal screening, signed in the register with their telephone numbers and finally sanitising their hands before they could be welcomed into the showroom by the salesperson. Ramu, a vendor selling mangoes for Rs 100 per kg (Badam variety) and Rs 150 per kg (Kesar variety) told an old man who asked him to lower the price, “Lockdown gaya, aam mehanga ho gaya” (lockdown is over and mango has become dearer now). Then, he explained to his other customers, “Maal us samay bhi itna aa raha tha par customer kam the, to Badam humne pachas rupye kilo bhi becha, par ab customer badh gaye hain to daam bhi badh gaye hain,” (during the lockdown, there were less customers, so the mangoes were cheap, but now, there are more customers and the prices have gone up. This Badam, which I am selling for Rs 100 per kg now was sold at that time for Rs 50 per kg).” Amid normalisation of life, the sight of a vendor, who ran a paan shop at 7 no. stop, selling coconut water (nariyal.pani) was a grim reminder that not everything is normal. Not because there was anything wrong is selling “nariyal pani”, but becaus0e the once ‘cash rich’ vendor said he was hardly earning anything. Domestic helps, who are also without a job since the lockdown, were also seen going to houses where they worked to ask if they could resume work from Tuesday. While in some houses, they got a favourable response, some others asked them to “wait”. People engaged in salons, chai-paan shops, ironing shops, hawkers\ stalls selling food items are among the most vulnerable sections financially, who still do not have any earnings after four rounds of the lockdown. They are looking forward to opening their shops in lockdown-5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bustle-of-shops-as-city-limps-back-to-normalcy/articleshow/76143594.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Madurai||Two private laboratories in Madurai carry out around 200 Covid-19 tests||Madurai: At the two private hospital labs approved for Covid-19 testing in Madurai, as many as around 200 Covid-19 tests have been carried out since the labs started functioning. As per protocol, the labs are testing only suspected cases with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). “Week after we received approval, we procured necessary testing kits and started functioning from May 8 onwards. Out of the 150 people tested here so far, a cardiac patient has tested positive,” said J Adel, GM (operations), Meenakshi Mission. The 150 people tested include outpatients and inpatients at the hospital with Covid-19 symptoms. The manager said that as per protocol, only after detailed examination by doctors, those with symptoms are asked to take the test. At the other private Covid-19 testing lab in Madurai at Apollo Hospitals, officials said that around 40-50 samples have been tested since it started functioning a week ago. “We were strictly asked to test only those with symptoms of Covid-19. Though many Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, it is not possible to test so many people every day. There is no need to test if someone is simply having a sore throat. We are getting around 5-10 tests done per day now,” said a senior official at the hospital. The current procedure for Covid-19 testing at private labs involve uploading details of any patient undergoing testing via an app which is monitored by government health officials including the state health secretary and ICMR. The official added that a detailed report from the time of admission to lab test results are updated as and when done to ensure there is no room for ambiguity. The hospitals are charging Rs 4,500 for a test, which is expected to be revised soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-private-laboratories-in-madurai-carry-out-around-200-covid-19-tests/articleshow/76145045.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 2, 2020||Surat||Covid-hit Gujarat braces for cyclonic storm tomorrow||RAJKOT/SURAT/GANDHINAGAR: The cyclonic storm brewing in the Arabian Sea was barrelling towards Gujarat and is expected to hit the coast near Daman on the night of June 3, forcing the state government to brace up for any eventuality. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the cyclonic storm is packing strong winds and expected to pound heavy rain in the region on June 3 and 4. “The low-pressure system is around 900km away from Surat at present. We expect the cyclonic storm to hit the southern Gujarat coast near Daman on June 3 evening with a wind speed of 90 to 100 km per hour,” said Jayanta Sarkar, director, IMD, Ahmedabad. High alert has been sounded in Surat, Navsari, Bharuch, Valsad and Dang while Bhavnagar and Amreli have been kept on alert. Over 100 vulnerable villages in these seven districts have been alerted and shelter homes are being prepared to bring in people in the event of evacuation. After chairing a high-level meeting to assess the preparedness, chief minister Vijay Rupani said 10 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have already reached five districts of south Gujarat as well as Bhavnagar and Amreli districts. “District collectors have been asked to shift people from low-lying areas to safer places and a control room has been activated in Gandhinagar to monitor the situation,” said Rupani. On Monday, heavy rain accompanied by strong winds lashed Bhavnagar and Tapi districts. The rainfall resulted in water logging in low-lying areas of Bhavnagar city while gale uprooted large number of trees and blew away hoardings and solar panels fitted on the rooftop of Bhavnagar University. Glass windows of a newly constructed building were also shattered due to winds and rain. Electricity supply to many areas was snapped for nearly three hours as a transformer near Barton Library got damaged Vadod taluka of Tapi district received nearly 60mm rainfall while wet spell also prevailed in hill station Saputara on Monday. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Pankaj Kumar said rescue teams will be equipped with masks, PPE kits and hand sanitisers and district administrations have been asked to prepare a list of Covid-19 patients in vulnerable areas to arrange for their shifting in shelter Homes and Covid hospitals in nearest schools and colleges. In Surat, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said precarious structures and hoardings are being removed and residents have been told to remain indoors on June 3 and June 4. Surat collector Dhaval Patel said, "Popular beaches like Dumas, Suvali and Dabhari have been closed for public.” Valsad district development officer (DDO) Arpit Sagar said shelter homes have been set up for possible evacuation from 35 villages close to the coast and NDRF teams have reached the district. The effect of the storm in Saurashtra is expected on June 4 and June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-hit-gujarat-braces-for-cyclonic-storm-tomorrow/articleshow/76143622.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||With 105 new cases, Andhra’s tally at 3,676||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 105 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 3,676. The state also registered two more Covid-19 casualties, increasing the toll to 64. The novel coronavirus cases related to migrants and people travelling from other states increased to 446, while the number of positive cases among the foreign returnees stood at 112. Eight of the 105 new cases reported on Monday are linked to Chennai’s Koyambedu market. There are currently 1,246 active cases in Andhra Pradesh, with the discharge of 2,366 patients and death of 64 persons. The state has so far tested 3.83 lakh samples, including 10,567 people screened for Covid-19 between 9 am on Sunday and 9 am on Monday. The disease, which was predominantly limited to the plains, has started spreading to tribal pockets of the state as two persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the interior Donkarai village of East Godavari district on Monday. A five-month-old boy was diagnosed with the disease in Rampachodavaram about a week ago. This has emerged as a new challenge for the East Godavari district officials, who are already battling with an outbreak in Pedapudi and neighbouring mandals. East Godavari district officials suspect that easing the lockdown curbs over the last few weeks and increased public movement might have set off the chain of transmission. In addition to the numbers in the bulletin, as many as 28 people were found positive for Covid-19 in East Godavari district on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-105-new-cases-andhras-tally-at-3676/articleshow/76144460.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Monsoon arrives in Kerala, orange alert in Kozhikode district||KOCHI: Even though large parts of Kerala were left looking into the skies for some rains, the India meteorological department (IMD) declared the onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala on June 1 based on the parameters fixed for declaration of an onset. To declare an onset, IMD looks at certain parameters like rainfall, wind field and outgoing longwave radiation (OLR). If after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations, viz. Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore report rainfall of 2.5mm or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala will be declared on the second day. On Monday, IMD said that widespread rainfall occurred over Kerala during the past two days. More than 70% of the 14 rainfall monitoring stations for monsoon onset over Kerala have reported rainfall during the last 48 hours. There is an orange alert for Kozhikode with a warning of very heavy rainfall of 11-20cm. Vadakara had recorded 15cm of rain on Sunday. Several districts including Kollam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod will receive isolated heavy rainfall. Three shutters of Malankara dam were opened at 40cm each as the water level was at 40.32m against the full reservoir level of 42m. While at the Bhoothathankettu reservoir, five shutters remained opened at 50cm each. Other than Vadakara which received the state’s highest of 15cm, Quilandy (Kozhikode) got 9cm while Thiruvananthapuram city and airport, Kannur, Mavelikkara and Ponnani got 5cm each. Kayamkulam got 4cm of rainfall. IMD has also predicted the possibility of a thunderstorm with lightning and wind speed reaching 40kmph accompanied by moderate rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kasaragod and Kannur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/monsoon-arrives-orange-alert-in-kozhikode-district/articleshow/76143616.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Monsoon arrives in Kerala, orange alert in Kozhikode district||KOCHI: Even though large parts of Kerala were left looking into the skies for some rains, the India meteorological department (IMD) declared the onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala on June 1 based on the parameters fixed for declaration of an onset. To declare an onset, IMD looks at certain parameters like rainfall, wind field and outgoing longwave radiation (OLR). If after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations, viz. Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore report rainfall of 2.5mm or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala will be declared on the second day. On Monday, IMD said that widespread rainfall occurred over Kerala during the past two days. More than 70% of the 14 rainfall monitoring stations for monsoon onset over Kerala have reported rainfall during the last 48 hours. There is an orange alert for Kozhikode with a warning of very heavy rainfall of 11-20cm. Vadakara had recorded 15cm of rain on Sunday. Several districts including Kollam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod will receive isolated heavy rainfall. Three shutters of Malankara dam were opened at 40cm each as the water level was at 40.32m against the full reservoir level of 42m. While at the Bhoothathankettu reservoir, five shutters remained opened at 50cm each. Other than Vadakara which received the state’s highest of 15cm, Quilandy (Kozhikode) got 9cm while Thiruvananthapuram city and airport, Kannur, Mavelikkara and Ponnani got 5cm each. Kayamkulam got 4cm of rainfall. IMD has also predicted the possibility of a thunderstorm with lightning and wind speed reaching 40kmph accompanied by moderate rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kasaragod and Kannur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/monsoon-arrives-orange-alert-in-kozhikode-district/articleshow/76147008.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal zilla parishad chief fines himself Rs 500 over garbage pile||WARANGAL: Warangal zilla parishad chairmen Dr M Sudheer Kumar imposed a fine of Rs 500 on himself after garbage was found dumped outside his residence during a sanitation drive. The drive was being conducted by Mulkanoor sarpanch Komraiah and gram panchayat secretary Mounika at Bheemadevarapally. Kumar asked for a receipt for the fine and handed over the amount to panchayat secretary. Speaking at the occasion, he also called upon the residents to maintain sanitation across the village to keep away infections and viruses. MPP Jakkula Anitha, ZPTC Vanga Ravi, MPDO Bhaskar, Tahsildar Umarani and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zp-chief-fines-himself-rs-500-over-garbage-pile/articleshow/76144471.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists ask PSERC for fixed charges waiver||Ludhiana: Several office bearers of the city-based business associations on Monday attended the hearing of Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) and urged it to waive off fixed charges during lockdown for the industrial consumers. Sometime ago, Punjab government had announced it would waive off the fixed charges for two months for industrial consumers. Later, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had filed a petition with PSERC that it cannot waive off the charges and can only allow businessmen to pay them in instalments. Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “During my presentation before the PSERC committee I insisted that the fixed charges should be waived off for at least one year. I also drew the attention of the committee towards the fact major share of department’s revenue is from us. PSERC committee has assured us that the interest of the businessmen will be taken into consideration before taking a call on the petition. We are hopeful that the decision will be in our favour” Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation, said, “PSPCL decision will further increase the problems of the industry, which is already struggling for survival. How can the industry pay the fixed charges when the factories were shut? In fact, we requested PSERC to completely waive off the fixed charges not only for the period of lockdown, but till March 31, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/industrialists-ask-pserc-for-fixed-charges-waiver/articleshow/76143628.cms||Mohit Behl
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Woman killed, hubby seriously hurt in attack||Kottayam: An elderly woman was murdered and her husband was seriously injured in an attack at their house near Kottayam on Monday. The husband was admitted to Medical College Hospital. The car that was parked in the compound at Parappadam near Thazhathangady was stolen. The attack on Saly, 63, and his wife Sheeba, 60, came to light around 5.30pm. Two people who arrived at the house grew suspicious after getting the smell of cooking gas being leaked. They informed the fire and rescue personnel who then broke open the door of the house and found the couple lying in a pool of blood in the hall. Both were taken to hospital; however, Saly died on the way to hospital. Police suspect that an attempt was made to electrocute them. The hands were found tied and both suffered injuries on head. Only the couple were residing at the home and their daughter was staying abroad. Saly had health issues and had run a tea stall in the private bus stand in Nagambadom. Police have launched a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-killed-hubby-seriously-hurt-in-attack/articleshow/76143638.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Son tests positive after man, 65, dies of Covid||TRICHY: A 23-year-old man from Pudukottai, whose father died of Covid-19 on Sunday, tested positive on Monday. The 65-year-old comorbid patient was the first casualty from the central region. Pudukottai has recorded 26 positive cases so far and currently there are 11 active cases undergoing treatment. The rest have recovered. According to Pudukottai government medical college dean A L Meenakshi Sundaram said the patient arrived with cardiac failure. “Anybody who is coming with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) we test them for Covid-19. He arrived on Saturday, tested positive on Sunday and died in the evening. Though the patient tested positive, he died due to his comorbid condition,” said the dean. Pudukottai district deputy director of health services K V Arjun Kumar said his son also tested positive for Covid-19. While the source of infection is being verified by health staff, he said they suspect the infection could be from Chennai as the two had travelled to Chennai recently. Six close contacts of the two have been tested and their results are awaited, said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/son-tests-ve-after-man-65-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76145058.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Fair price shopkeepers go on strike||Nashik: The fair price shop owners on Monday went on an indefinite strike demanding insurance for themselves, claiming that they too were Covid-19 warriors just like health and police personnel. Though the association of the fair price shopkeepers claimed that the ‘bandh’ was successful across the district, the district supply officer (DSO) countered the claim saying that most of the shops were open. Nivrutti Kapse, district unit president of the shopkeepers’ association, said the shopkeepers where engaged in providing foodgrain to the people during the lockdown period. “While doing so, they are exposed to Covid-19 infection just like the policemen on the streets or medical teams in the hospitals,” Kapse claimed. He said the members of the association had met food and civil supply minister Chhagan Bhujbal with the same demand. “The discussions were successful and but there was no decision. So the shopkeepers went on an indefinite strike,” Kapse said. However, DSO Arvind Narsikar said, “There could be some shopkeepers who may have closed the shops. But in most places, the supplies were normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fair-price-shopkeepers-go-on-strike/articleshow/76142516.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil outfit member arrested for burning CM’s effigy||Trichy: A member of a Tamil outfit was arrested on sedition charges for setting fire to an effigy of Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in a live broadcast on Facebook on Monday. The accused G Ragu, 29, of Thiruverumbur in Trichy is a central committee member of the Tamil Desa Makkal Munnani. In the 7.47 minute live video, Ragu spoke about his outfit’s demand to carry out massive Covid-19 testing across the state. He also alleged that the government had ignored their demand for lifting the lockdown. Halfway through the speech, he set the effigy, he was holding afire. The Thiruverumbur police detained him and slapped him with four sections including sedition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-outfit-member-arrested-for-burning-cms-effigy/articleshow/76145052.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||24 Pune cops recover from Covid-19, ready for duty||PUNE: As many as 24 Pune police personnel have recovered from Covid-19 and are ready for duties. Most were discharged by May-end and have been placed under the mandatory 14-day home quarantine before they resume work. Traffic constable Sanjay Abanave, attached to the Mundhwa traffic division, was discharged on May 13 and is back at work. “I resumed duty on May 27. I had been waiting for the quarantine to get over quickly to resume work and share the workload. I developed fever on April 27 and my report came positive on April 29. I was on nakabandi duty at Keshavnagar and I stay at Bhawani Peth police lines. In hospital, I practised yoga every day and consumed warm water.” Raju Pawar, a sub-inspector at Dattawadi police station, was discharged from the hospital last week. “I am waiting to resume duty. I was at a nakabandi on Satara Road and was patrolling around Parvati Darshan. On May 14, I started feeling the symptoms and when medicines did not help, I went to Naidu Hospital where my sample was taken and I stayed in isolation for two days. When I tested positive, I took my wife and children for tests. They were free of the contagion. My condition was bad for the three days, but I recovered. I focused on devotional songs and Bollywood music until discharge,” he added. Head constable Dattatreya Yele was on nakabandi and patrolling duty in Kasba Peth. “Our colleague tested positive on April 16 and 14 of us were kept under institutional quarantine. On April 20, I was among the four to test positive. I was stuck in the ambulance for almost an hour. I was asymptomatic, but fear made me feel things. I could not eat dinner or sleep the first night. A youth in the ward encouraged me to battle this virus,” Yele said. He said he walked, exercised and practised yoga till he was discharged on May 6. A police naik attached to a police station in central Pune said four hospitals and 25 days later, he is ready to resume duty. “Two tests on April 22 and April 23 came inconclusive. I was taken to Sassoon, then moved to Bharati Vidyapeeth, then KEM Hospital and finally Symbiosis. I am under home quarantine now. Nobody in contact with me caught the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-cops-recover-from-ncov-ready-for-duty/articleshow/76144477.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 2, 2020||Rajkot||Europe eateries shut, fish pile up in storages||RAJKOT: Fish of all varieties and sizes,estimated to be worth nearly Rs 1,000 crore, has piled up in cold storages of Gujarat, mostly the coastal town of Veraval, as restaurants and hotels in Covid-hit Europe yet to start fully-fledged. The storages are running out of space to store high-value fish such as cuttlefish, pomfret as well as lobsters and jumbo shrimps, which are highly savoured in the European countries. Even as countries like Spain, Italy and France have permitted restaurants and cafés to open, the exports have hit a roadblock with large number of orders getting cancelled. Kenny Thomas, an exporter from Veraval, said, “Many buyers cancelled their orders due to worldwide lockdown. A few consignments were shipped for sale in supermarkets of European countries, but as the restaurant and hotels are closed, exports have been hit.” According to exporters, there are very few buyers in the domestic market for high-value fish varieties some of which cost as high as to Rs 2,000 per kg Jagdish Fofandi, president of All India Sea Food Exporters Association said, “June is the end of fishing season and all the exporters clear their stock from the cold storages. However, this is the first time that such a massive stock is still lying in store.” Cold storages can store up to 30% of the fish produce only. Meanwhile, China has started exploiting the situation by dictating all-time low prices on several fish varieties. China has been importing low-value fish which cost around Rs 400-Rs 500 per kg. “Knowing that exports to Europe have been stalled, Chinese importers are refusing to pay as per earlier rates,” said Fofandi, who is also one of the big exporters in Veraval. “The price of cuttlefish and croaker fish has been slashed to half by Chinese buyers, which has dealt a jolt to exporters.” There are nearly 100 fish processing factories in Veraval which process fish from Porbandar, Jakhau, Rajpara (Una), Navabandar, Okha and Mangrol towns also. 30k fishermen return without advance pay Fishing activity at Gujarat’s coast has been shut ever since the lockdown started. According to the fishermen association, nearly 30,000 migrant fishermen of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and south Gujarat have returned to their natives, a month before the season officially ended. Tulsi Gohil, president of Akhil Gujarat Machchimar Maha Mandal said, “We generally pay advance to the fishermen before the end of the season in June, but this year we don’t have money to pay them. The maintenance of one boat costs Rs 3 to 4 lakh which is done during monsoon. We demand a relief package for small fishermen from the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/europe-eateries-shut-fish-pile-up-in-storages/articleshow/76143663.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Railway start disbursing ticket refund||Trichy: The railway division has commenced disbursal of refund of ticket fares for trains cancelled. Railway authorities have informed commuters who booked their tickets can get their refund from six stations including Trichy. Southern railway is arranging full refund to ticket fares for trains cancelled between March 22 and June 30 due to Covid-19. The refund of ticket fares are being granted through the website www.irctc.co.in for all tickets. Passengers may note that for counter tickets, 100% refund will be made available for all the cancelled trains after March 22 up to 180 days from the date of journey. Refunds will be available in passenger reservation counters in Trichy junction, Thanjavur junction, Kumbakonam, Ariyalur stations, Mayiladurai and Villupuram junctions. Passengers those booked between March 22 and 31 can collect their refund from June 1 onwards. Those booked between April 1 and 14, will get their dues from June 6 and those booked their tickets between April 15 and 30, will be disbursed from June 11. Likewise, commuters those booked between May 1 and 15 can collect their dues from June 16. Refund will be given to passengers from June 21 onwards for those booked tickets between May 16 and 31. While the disbursal would begin from June 26, for those booked between June 1 and 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railway-start-disbursing-ticket-refund/articleshow/76145067.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Resumption of public transport to help stranded Class X students||Trichy: The decision to partially operate public transport in the fifth phase of lockdown has come as a relief for Trichy district chief education office.While many Class X state board students are stranded in other districts due to lockdown, the office of the CEO was planning to make special arrangements to get them back to appear for the examination which starts from June 15. Till a few days back, more than a 1,000 students from various state board schools in Trichy and about 150 teachers were stranded in other districts, said chief education officer (CEO), S Santhi. Close to 2,000 teachers have been engaged in evaluating the answer scripts of Class XII state board students across 13 centres in Trichy district. A total of 16 special buses were operated from various parts of the district to get the teachers to the evaluation centre. A similar measure was planned for students if lockdown was not eased before June 15.Asked about the students stranded outside the zones as buses are operated only within districts in a zone, she said students can travel through public transport till the border of a zone. They can cross the zone along with parents showing their identity cards or explaining the reason and get public transport once they enter their respective zones, she said. Principal of a government-aided school said that some parents and their children managed to reach their homes in Trichy in the last week of May.However, there are still many families that could not return to their homes in the district and the lockdown ease will help them get back before the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/resumption-of-public-transport-to-help-stranded-class-x-students/articleshow/76145063.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Sessions court hearings via video conferencing||NAGPUR: The lockdown extension has led to the closure of the district and sessions court between June 2 and June 8. During this period, urgent matters would be heard through video-conferencing. Principal district and sessions judge SJ Mehare has issued a circular that urgent matters related to police remand, registration of cases, hearing and also bails would be heard online through video-conferencing facilities available at the court premises between 11am and 2.30pm. As per the circular, litigants and their counsels should use the district court’s portal for e-filing of their cases or pleas. An instruction has also been issued to ensure only 33% attendance of court employees. Different courts, with their judges, have been allotted separate rooms. The employees residing in containment zones in the city have been asked to share their mobile numbers with the court administration so they can be contacted at any time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sessions-court-hearings-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/76145082.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichiites celebrate Trichy Day on social media||Trichy: Trichy residents celebrated the completion of 26 years of Trichy Corporation. Though the urban local body was hesitant in observing the fete, residents, mostly the youths displayed their spirit and affection towards the city by sharing memes, videos and pictures of the city’s landmarks with #TrichyDay hashtags on social media platforms. The history dates back to July 8, 1866, the day when Trichy was constituted as a municipality. However, recognizing June 1, the formal elevation of Trichy Corporation in the year 1994, the residents are demanding authorities to recognize June 1 as official Trichy day. Memes and musical videos promoting Trichy city’s credentials such as cleanest city and the most livable city of the state went viral on Monday. “Celebrating Trichy day is recognition to the city. An attempt to revive and propagate the spirit of locals to do something back for the city and to develop it,” Maria Christy, a resident of Palakkarai said. Apart from youths, even commercial establishments celebrated Trichy day with hashtags on social media platforms. A few shops had also offered discounts for customers in the view of Trichy day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichiites-celebrate-trichy-day-on-social-media/articleshow/76145070.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao & ministers cheating people of Telangana since 2014: Congress||HYDERABAD: On the eve of Telangana formation day, Congress has asked chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, his ministers and TRS leaders to stop lying to the people and fulfil the pending promises made since 2014. Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy, in separate media conferences on Monday, listed out the failures and unfulfilled promises made by KCR. Uttam said KCR and his ministers derive pleasure by making false claims. The state government has been cheating farmers on all issues. “The implementation of Rythu Bandhu is erratic. The scheme was meant to provide investment support to farmers at the beginning of cropping season, but it is turning out as a reimbursement scheme, where majority of farmers are being paid money after the end of the season,” he added. Revanth said KCR’s pormises such as three-acre land distribution to SCs, enhancement of reservations to STs and Muslims, filling up of over a lakh jobs in government sector, Rs 1 lakh crop loan waiver, 2-BHK, KG to PG free education, fee reimbursement, unemployment allowance, developing Old City as Istanbul, Warangal and Karimnagar as London and Greater Hyderabad as a world class city, making Hussainsagar water potable, Mission Kakatiya, numerous irrigation projects such as Kalwakurthy, Bima, Koilsagar, Dummugudem, Rajiv Sagar, Indira Sagar, Pranahitha-Chevella, Nettempadu, Sriramsagar, Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation projects — all these have either not been implemented, left pending or discontinued mid-way. “KCR has cheated the people of Telangana on all the fronts,” Revanth alleged. Revanth threw his support behind Uttam, stating energy minister Jagidsh Reddy did not have the locus standi to abuse Uttam. Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy said he will furnish a list detailing posts given by KCR to his family members, relatives, friends and those belonging to his caste. Congress president Uttam Kumar Reddy said KCR derives pleasure by making false claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-ministers-cheating-people-of-t-since-2014-cong/articleshow/76144479.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||On the first day, train operation fails to attract commuters||Madurai/Trichy: More than 500 passengers started from Madurai in the Madurai-Villupuram and Trichy-Nagercoil special trains when the services were resumed after nearly 10 weeks on Monday. Railway officials said that 281 passengers travelled in the Madurai to Villupuram direction, 238 from Madurai to Nagercoil direction and nearly 30 in the Nagercoil to Trichy train. Passengers reached Madurai junction at 6 am to be screened for fever and checked whether they had downloaded ‘Aarogya Setu’ app and they had obtained an e-pass if they were travelling to other zones (zones 3, 4 and 6). Revenue officials helped those without one apply for e-pass. Masks were made mandatory for everyone including children. Travelling ticket examiners checked passengers for fever using thermal scanners. Railway protection force and government railway police personnel ensured that fool proof arrangements were made to avoid trespassing to the platforms. Railway officials said that the trains ran full. Since there was no time to apply for e-passes to travel from one zone to another, several commuters could not travel despite they booked for their journey. Rail users and passengers have appealed to the state government to revoke the order as all the trains are travelling across various zones. Last time announcement of e-travel pass forced several travellers to cancel their travel, rail users said. The Trichy-Nagercoil Superfast Daily Special left Trichy at 6 am with 227 passengers, while Madurai-Villupuram Intercity Superfast Special Daily reached Trichy at 9.10 am. As many as 55 passengers boarded the train at Trichy. Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai special train arrived Trichy at 11.05 am, with around 500 passengers. In return, around 410 passengers boarded the train from Trichy junction. Nagercoil special registered 35% occupancy, while 22% passengers travelled by Madurai-Villupuram (operated in Vaigai express time) train. The Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Express witnessed 39% occupancy. Deputy general secretary of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) D Manoharan told TOI that when the train was travelling across various zones, what was the need to stress upon e-travel pass. Barring Chennai and Kancheepuram, for all other zones, e-passes should be revoked, he stressed. “Hundreds of labourers and office goers arrive at Trichy by Erode-Trichy passenger. So, Karur should be included with zone 4 or e-travel system should be lifted to benefit both passengers as well as railways,” Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavors (TIDES) VB Jaganath said. Meanwhile, on Monday evening 783 guest workers from West Bengal who were stranded in Ramanathapuram district started home in the Shramik special train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/on-the-first-day-train-operation-fails-to-attract-commuters/articleshow/76145073.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress: Order CBI probe into OU land grabbing||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress leaders on Monday met governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and urged her to order a re-survey of Osmania University land by the Survey of India and also a probe by CBI into its encroachment. “Not just we, all the opposition parties are also expressing concerns over encroachment of university land. We are confident that you as chancellor of OU will initiate action and safeguard the university,” AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao said in a memorandum submitted to the governor. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy alleged that a majority of over 1,600 acres of land given by the Nizam OU had been encroached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-order-cbi-probe-into-ou-land-grabbing/articleshow/76144487.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||MGM govt hosp quarantines contacts of nurse who tested Covid-19 positive||Trichy: After a 37-year-old staff nurse working at Mahatma Gandhi memorial (MGM) government hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, the hospital administration has taken several precautionary measures including compulsory leave for her colleagues. The hospital administration asked around 15 staffers including doctors, nurses and hospital workers to home quarantine themselves for six days starting Sunday and they should give their samples for testing on the sixth day. In case they test negative, they will be allowed to resume duty. If they test positive, they will be admitted to the isolation ward for treatment. The nurse was on duty to take care of a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman. The hospital administration said the nurse might have contracted the disease from the positive patients. The husband of the nurse was also admitted to the hospital as he had few symptoms. Meanwhile, some nurses expressed their inconvenience in wearing the personal protective equipment (PPE) kit during their duty in isolation wards at MGMGH. “We have been going through unbearable pain of excessive perspiration by putting on the PPE kit during our shift in the isolation ward. As we feel dehydrated, we tend to open the kit and drink water, risking our health,” said a nurse. They should not open the kit during their duty at the isolation ward, sources said. “The safety measures for the staff are paramount. We have been insisting on all the safety protocols during their duty and home quarantine. No one should compromise on their health,” dean of MGMGH Dr K Vanitha told TOI. Trichy district administration has also been providing hotel accommodation facility to the MGMGH staff on Covid-19 duty for over a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mgm-govt-hosp-quarantines-contacts-of-nurse-who-tested-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76145084.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest merging of village branch of school with main campus||Ludhiana: Parents protested outside Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS) in Model Town Extension, as the students of another branch of the school situated at Birmi village have allegedly been asked to attend the Model Town Extension campus. However, the principal of the school said those are mere rumours. She also alleged that the people who protested outside the school were not even parents. But when TOI spoke to people protesting outside, they claimed that their children were studying at GNPS Birmi village branch. Dapinder Singh, who was protesting outside, he said his children are studying in Class IX at GNPS Birmi branch. Another protester Sidhwan Bet, a resident of Bhundri village, said, “The school has already taken fee from us and we get to know that the school will be shifted, though there is no written message circulated by the authorities. We are worried as they already have more than 500 students. How will they accommodate all the students in the main school? Model Town Extension is also very far away for us — as it is my children get up at 6am to reach school and now they have to get up an hour earlier to reach school on time.” Jagjit Singh Grewal, a resident of Jhammat village, whose children are studying in Class III and Class I, said , “This is sheer harassment as we would have to buy new books and uniform. We also have to travel 14-15km extra. If would have known earlier about this earlier, we would have admited our children in other schools.” Principal Mona Singh said, “We have never sent any such message to parents. Besides, the main branch is affiliated to Indian Certificate of Seconday Education and the other branch to Central Board of Seconday Education. We cannot run two boards in one school.” She also added, “Half the people who visited the school today are not even parents. We have identified these people and will lodge a complaint against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parents-protest-merging-of-village-branch-of-school-with-main-campus/articleshow/76143669.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Education logs on to online as schools, college remain shut||305 words Thiruvananthapuram: Amidst hope, scepticism and protest in almost equal measures, Kerala switched to remote learning mode on Monday. As schools and colleges remained shut under the shadow of the pandemic, lakhs of students took the first lessons from their homes by watching the videos broadcast and live-streamed by schools and colleges. Victers education television channel run by state government started broadcast of lessons with greetings by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “We are passing through a very complex and arduous time. Regular classes are not desirable at this point of time. We will have to live with the virus for some more time. But at the same time, we need to take forward the education of our children. Online education cannot be an alternative to the traditional method of education. But, for the timebeing, we have to use new methods, at least until the trying times are over,” he said. Higher education minister K T Jaleel opened the online classes for college students. As if to pacify the protests from teachers, the minister said the government has no plans to impose online education on anybody. “Government doesn’t want to thrust upon online education on students. Online classes can’t be an alternative to classroom transactions. There is no attempt to change the working time of colleges unilaterally. The proposal to conduct classes from 8.30am to 1.30pm was to help students. Such changes would be carried out only in consultation with all stakeholders,” he said. After seeking the confidence of teachers and students, the minister donned the role of a history lecturer, an attire he hang-up 14 years ago. “History is a record of unique events in the life of mankind. In other words, it’s a barometer to record the progress of mankind,” said Jaleel as he swooped back into his old profession. While students following state syllabus followed the lessons broadcast on Victers channel, students under CBSE, ICSE streams, majority of schools have arranged Live Online classes, using videoconferencing platforms offered by various service providers. While online classes for primary classes lasted for a few minutes, for high school students it was more or less as per schedule. Most of the school authorities maintained that they are ready to make changes in the class schedule as it progresses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/education-logs-on-to-online-as-schools-college-remain-shut/articleshow/76143676.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||25-day-old leopard cub spotted||Nashik: A 25-day old female leopard was found in a sugar cane farm in Pathardi village, which falls in the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), on Monday. Farm workers were engaged in cane cutting at the field when they spotted the leopard cub. They immediately brought the matter to the attention of the forest department. Officials from the forest department said, “We have left the cub in the cane farm. We are expecting the female leopard will return to the farm to rescue her cub.” Forest officials clarified that there was no connnection with the leopard which had injured three people in separate incidents in the College Road and Indira Nagar area of Nashik city around two days ago. “That leopard has gone back. We found the pug mark near the airport in Gandhinagar,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/25-day-old-leopard-cub-spotted/articleshow/76142551.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 2, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy students to appear for online open book test||Trichy: The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has decided to publish final semester results by end of June for the online examinations currently underway for undergraduate and postgraduate students. NIT-T is one of the institutions in the country to conduct online examination for outgoing students by developing a dedicated portal. A total of 1,786 students have appeared so far for examination in 74 subjects starting from May 26 and there were only 12 absentees, which is less than 1%. Students can write their examination from anywhere and they require a minimum 2G connectivity to appear for the online examination. They can also download question papers from the dedicated portal using credentials. While it is an open book test, questions of higher order thinking are being asked, which cannot be answered without applying their brain, sources said. Apart from uploading the soft copy of the answer script in the portal, students can also mail it to the institute. Being fully residential, we have students from India and abroad as well and Ii the prevailing condition, we cannot bring students from all over India, said Mini Shaji Thamas, director, NIT-Trichy. She said the institute had a deadline to graduate final year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they can join the companies in which they are already placed as about 1,000 students from the final year are already placed in various companies and they must join the companies by July therefore we want to publish the results by the end of June, said Thomas. “We do not want the companies to say that students have not completed their course, so they cannot induct them. The government, too, has asked companies to honour their promises on placements,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-trichy-students-to-appear-for-online-open-book-test/articleshow/76145079.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctor gets bail to serve Covid-19 patients||PUNE: A city sessions court has granted temporary bail for 60 days to a medical practitioner, Indrakumar Deorao Bhise, who is in the Yerawada jail for a year in a case under the MCOC Act, on condition that “he shall offer his services as a doctor at Sassoon Hospital for treatment of Covid-19 patients at least five days a week”. Additional sessions judge A N Sirsikar observed, “ ... in the larger interest of society it is necessary to grant him temporary bail subject to certain conditions.” The Baramati police had arrested Bhise (52), among other accused, in an alleged Rs30 crore extortion bid on the then state cabinet minister, Mahadev Jankar, and the latter’s associate, Balasaheb Dodtale. The police invoked provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOC) Act in the case, making it difficult for the accused to get bail. Recently, Bhise moved a temporary bail plea on medical grounds. Through a hearing on videoconferencing, he pleaded that he was diabetic, suffering from various ailments, his old mother, wife and two minor children were dependent on him and he was willing to utilize 20 years of his experience as a medical practitioner for the service of Covid-19 patients if granted bail. Public prosecutor Vilas Patare opposed the plea, citing the Supreme Court-mandated High Powered Committee’s (HPC) decision against grant of temporary bail relief to all accused facing prosecution for serious offences, including those under special enactments such as the MCOC Act. Bhise’s lawyer, P D Durge, argued that his client be granted bail for rendering services to nCoV patients. Judge Sirsikar acknowledged the HPC’s decision, but observed, “The question is, as to whether request of temporary bail on the ground of rendering services to Covid-19 patients can be considered favourably?” “It is a fact that our country is facing an unprecedented public health emergency with Covid-19 pandemic affecting several parts of the nation. Maharashtra is one of the worst affected state which has more than 56,000 patients of Covid-19 positive. In Pune there are more than 5,000 Covid positive patients. The cases are increasing day by day,” the judge observed. “The central and state governments are making exceptional efforts to combat the crisis. Our public health facilities are facing tremendous load to take care of large number of patients. The Government of India has made appeal to the doctors who are willing to provide their services in the public health facilities,” the judge said. “According to accused, he is gynecologist having practice for more than 20 years, running hospitals at Shirur in Pune district, Karjat in Ahmednagar and in Sangli. I think the accused being experienced medical practitioner his services can be utilized in public health system,” the judge added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctor-gets-bail-to-serve-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76144480.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy draws kolams again to check public littering||Trichy: As more people began stepping out following relaxations in the lockdown, public littering has also resumed in Trichy city after a gap of two months. To check the menace, Trichy Corporation has mooted ‘Kolam’ drive, an initiative to draw Kolams in the littering spots to prevent people from dumping waste in public places. The relaxations announced in the lockdown have led to public places getting littered. With a majority of the workforce was deployed in disinfection activities and Covid-19 preventive efforts, Ariyamangalam zone of the corporation has opted to relaunch the Kolam initiative. Parts of Kattur, Palpannai and Madurai Road were surveyed by sanitary officials. ‘Littering hotspots’ were identified and sanitary workers were asked to draw Kolam patterns on the sites. Officials said that the patterns indeed prevented residents from dumping waste there. “We have been experimenting with the Kolam initiative for the past 3-4 days. So far, the spots covered by Kolam patterns were clean and free of litter,” E Parasuraman, sanitary inspector, Trichy Corporation said.Officials said that people have the tendency not to spoil the Kolam patterns. To penalize the offenders, local body officials have been coordinating with the commercial establishments near the littering zones to keep a watch on people polluting the space. As the Kolam powder is inexpensive, officials consider it as a cost-effective method. Civic body sources said that the initiative will be gradually expanded to other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-draws-kolams-again-to-check-public-littering/articleshow/76145077.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 2, 2020||Business||MSMEs receive a capital boost as govt clears new definition||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday cleared a new definition for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and went beyond its earlier plan to broaden the scope of medium-sized units to allow them to have greater scale. Besides, the Cabinet decided to keep the export turnover outside the ambit of the overall turnover for calculating the categorisation of businesses. The new definition allows businesses with an investment of up to Rs 50 crore and annual turnover of up to Rs 250 crore to be classified in the medium enterprises segment. Over the last few weeks, the Centre has announced a series of steps to help MSMEs cope better and encourage them to scale up. While the Cabinet cleared some of the announcements that had been made two weeks ago, PM Narendra Modi announced a new platform called Champions — Creation and Harmonious Application of Modern Processes for Increasing the Output and National Strength — for handholding, grievance redressal, harnessing entrepreneurial talent and discovering new business opportunities of MSMEs. The idea is to help them capture new opportunities: including manufacturing of medical equipment and accessories such as PPE and masks, and supply them in national and international markets. The Cabinet also approved provision of Rs 20,000 crore as subordinate debt, or loans from unsecured creditors, to give equity support to nearly 2 lakh stressed MSMEs. The plan is seen to be useful at a time when financial stress, especially for small businesses, has increased due to Covid-19. Equity infusion of Rs 50,000 crore for MSMEs through Fund of Funds was also cleared. “This will establish a framework to help MSMEs in capacity augmentation and also provide an opportunity to get listed on stock exchanges,” an official statement said. As part of the package to tackle Covid-19, the Centre had announced a top-up loan facility for small businesses, based on a guarantee. “On a single day, June 1, public sector banks sanctioned collateral-free loans worth Rs 3,200 crore... MSMEs in more than 3,000 Tier-II towns were covered in one day... that will enable them to pay salaries, rent, and restocking expenses,” the finance minister tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/msmes-receive-a-capital-boost-as-govt-clears-new-definition/articleshow/76146096.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Signals at vital junctions restart in Nashik city||Nashik: The Nashik civic body has restarted important road signals that had been shut for more than two months since the Covid-related lockdown was imposed. Senior officers of the city traffic branch said the signals at junctions that have heavy traffic flow have been restarted. The aim is to stop vehicular chaos at the crossings. The police said they had written to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to restart all the signals in the city given the increase in vehicular traffic on the roads after the relaxation in lockdown. There are 51 signals in the city out and 28 of them have been restarted, said a traffic police officer. Officials said that motorists need to ensure that they are wearing a mask and using a helmet that would cover their face so that the chances of infection are reduced when they halt at the road signals. The road signals were also necessary considering that rash and fast driving at the junctions was rampant across the city. Apart from this, the flow of traffic has been continuous and pedestrians have been facing problems while crossing roads. Police officers said that all the signals will be restarted in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/signals-at-vital-junctions-restart-in-nashik-city/articleshow/76142577.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man, 40, arrested for raping, impregnating minor daughter||NAGAPATTINAM: The Mayiladuthurai all women police on Monday arrested a 40-year-old cab driver for raping and impregnating his daughter. Police said Kumar (name changed) was a native of Sembanarkoil town near Mayiladuthurai in Nagapattinam district. He is married and has two minor daughters. The victim, who is 14 years old, had just given her Class IX examination. For the last three months, Kumar had raped the girl. Police said the family members, his wife, two minor daughters, including the 14-year-old girl, used to sleep together in a room. A few days ago, the girl developed stomach pain and vomiting. Assuming she was unwell, her mother got her checked at a government hospital. The doctor there revealed that she was pregnant. On questioning her daughter, the girl told her mother about what she was going through for the last three months. Following this, the mother lodged a complaint with the police against her husband. Inspector R Kopperundevi said, “Based on the complaint, we inquired the minor girl and arrested Kumar. He has been booked under section 6 of the Pocso Act. Kumar was remanded in judicial custody.” The girl, who is admitted in the hospital, on discharge would be handed over to the child welfare committee (CWC) and given counselling, police sources said. “If the victim is sent back home again, there would be chances of the girl turning hostile, an official from the district child protection unit of Nagapattinam district said. “The girl has undergone severe trauma for three months. Since she is good at her studies, we, along with CWC, have planned to admit her in any one of the government homes. Isolating the girl from her family would help come out of the shock and pursue her studies without any disturbance,” the official added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-40-arrested-for-raping-impregnating-minor-daughter/articleshow/76145093.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 2, 2020||Delhi||NDMC extends all trade licences||New Delhi: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has announced automatic extension of health and trade licences that expired in March 2020 till next March. Applicants don’t have to visit any office and no inspection will be done this year, said a senior official. However, to be eligible, traders need to have a valid fire no-objection certificate (NOC), zero outstanding in licensing fee payment and medical fitness certificates of staff. “In view of the lockdown in the country and in pursuance of a letter from the lieutenant governor, various existing health & trade licences issued by NDMC and expired after March 1 are given a one-time special renewal or automatic extension till March 31, 2021,” stated the order issued by M L Sharma, director of health licence, on Monday. About 500 licences are issued for restaurants and eateries in the NDMC area and the renewal of around 250-300 of them have been pending. Licences are renewed for three-five years. Usually NDMC officials visit an establishment to check if all norms are fulfilled, following which the owners submit all documents. “As this procedure couldn’t be followed due to the lockdown, we have taken this decision to save them from any harassment,” said the official. As per the NDMC order, a licence will stand cancelled without any notice if the fire NOC is not renewed before its expiry and the new document is not submitted to the council on time. While the licence renewal fee can be paid online, a licensee will also have to arrange and submit the medical fitness proof of his staff to the local chief medical officer of public health on time. Both documents can be submitted online. NDMC will carry out a physical survey next year, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-extends-all-trade-licences/articleshow/76164624.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Covid fight is first priority: New CS||Thiruvananthapuram: Senior IAS officer Vishwas Mehta took over as the 46th chief secretary of the state here on Monday. He assumed charge from Tom Jose, who retired from the service on Sunday. After assuming the charge at 9.35am, the IAS officer from the 1986-batch said his immediate priority is on government’s initiatives in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. He said it is not enough if the government alone is engaged in fighting the pandemic, but it should be a people’s movement. Urging the people to be cautious, Mehta said every citizen should ensure that the pandemic does not spread, especially when more people are returning to the state from elsewhere in the country and abroad. “Until there is a vaccine to eradicate the pandemic, we will not be able to relax,” he said. Mehta also participated in a high-level meeting chaired by the chief minister with regards to Covid-19 control measures. Other than his wife Preeti Mehta, additional chief secretaries T K Jose, Asha Thomas, R K Singh, Teeka Ram Meena, state police chief Loknath Behera and other secretaries were present during the charge handing-over ceremony. Mehta will hold the office till February 28 next year. Outgoing chief secretary Jose said he is stepping down after a satisfying stint as the chief secretary. Jose said he was part of government’s fight during the floods, Nipah outbreak and Covid-19. He said he has also been able to successfully initiate projects for waste management in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-fight-is-first-priority-new-cs/articleshow/76143702.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corpn seeks to expedite tax collection, Madurai to go easy now||Trichy: April and May every year used to be an active period for civic bodies to expedite tax collection including current and pending taxes. As there was exemption to paying taxes due to the lockdown, only 15.47% of property tax for the financial year 2020-21 was collected by Trichy Corporation as of June 1. Official sources said that any further delay in collecting outstanding tax may impact the civic body’s coffers. As on June 1, the total property tax demand of the civic body including the previous year’s arrear stands at Rs 97.4 crore, of which the corporation has collected only Rs 15.06 crore. Around Rs 82.33 crore in property tax is yet to be collected. Only Rs 10 lakh per day is being collected as property tax in the last few weeks. Similarly, the professional tax owed to the civic body lingers at Rs 17.82 crore, but it has managed to collect only Rs 89 lakh - only 5% of the total demand. Same is the case of water charge collection as only Rs 92 lakh out of the Rs 45.43 crore (2%) was collected. Apart from state grants and central finance commission fund, revenue through tax collection helps the civic body meet operational and maintenance expenditure. As the state government has postponed the tax collection drive till June 30, the civic body will have a tough time to complete outstanding tax collection before September. “Even if the lockdown is lifted, residents and commercial establishments may delay tax payment citing lockdown woes. Entertainment tax is also down as movie halls were closed for over two months,” a corporation official said. Having collected only Rs 19.84 crore out of Rs 241.34 crore, civic body sources said that July to September will be crucial to complete collection to keep the civic body’s coffers competent enough to run the local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-seeks-to-expedite-tax-collection-madurai-to-go-easy-now/articleshow/76145087.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Delta farmers protest, demand loan waiver||Trichy: Farmers staged protests accusing the state government of not taking any steps to disburse crop loans even after the date of release of the Cauvery water from Mettur has been announced. Farmers have demanded the government to write off their loans as they are struggling to carry out kuruvai cultivation. A section of farmers affiliated to Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam headed by its district president MP Chinnadurai gathered in front of the district collector office and raised slogans demanding the state government to start sanctioning crop loans as the days were nearing to release water from Mettur for kuruvai cultivation. “After many years, the chief minister has announced to release water from Mettur on the customary date of June 12. Even then, farmers are keeping their fingers crossed, as the government is keeping mum on crop loans,” he alleged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delta-farmers-protest-demand-loan-waiver/articleshow/76145095.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Contactless home delivery of food is the new normal in Covid season||BHOPAL: As the restaurants, cafes and bakeries of the city start reopening, one after the other, the delivery partners of restaurants as well as the chefs in the kitchens have been given special guidelines to follow while preparing and delivering food to the customers in the safest possible way to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Contactless food delivery options are also becoming popular. Restaurants of the city are now taking extra care to clean the vegetables, meat and dairy products before use and giving special attention to hygiene while preparing the food. "District administration has given specific guidelines for restaurants, bakeries and cafes for preparation and handling of food. From cleaning vegetables with vegetable wash, keeping fish and meat in lukewarm water and thermal checks of all the chefs, we have instructed all the restaurants to adhere to the guidelines, as even one negative experience can shut down the entire business. Restaurant owners are also taking all the possible measures," said Tejkul Pal Singh, president of the federation of restaurants and hotel association of Bhopal. General manager of a restaurant said, “We have implemented strict guidelines We conduct a temperature check of the delivery men before accepting delivery.” "We had realised that new normal scenario will have stricter guidelines so, all our chefs have been staying on the hotel premises for the past two months, without coming in contact with even one person from outside the hotel. Even then we keep monitoring their health and check their temperature every few hours. They have all been given masks, caps and gloves that they have to wear while preparing the food," he added. Hussain, outlet manager at Bake n Shake, a restaurant cum bakery said, "We have installed a sanitization station outside the bakery and everyone from customers to chefs, managers and delivery boys have to sanitise their hands and feet before stepping inside the bakery. While we are cleaning the vegetables with veggie-wash , we put meat and fish in lukewarm water to kill the germs. All the surfaces and food parcels are also sanitised with surface sanitisers.” The food security department conducted a thermal check of around 2000 delivery men of the city a few days ago, providing them with online training for the guidelines they need to follow while picking up and dropping the food parcles. Chief Food Security Officer D K Verma said, “We are conducting the thermal checks and supervising the management of the delivery partners at their outlets. We also asked all the delivery boys to download Arogya Setu application so that we can monitor their health closely. The restaurants as well as the delivery partners are also keeping a record of all the customers the delivery men served, so that it is easy to track and quarantine them if the need arises.” Amit Rajani, area sales manager of Swiggy said, "All our delivery men have been given mask, gloves and hand-sanitisers that they have to mandatorily use every time they make a fresh delivery. We have also asked them to ensure social distancing at the restaurant waiting area and make contactless delivery possible." A spokesperson of Zomato, Bhopal said, "We are encouraging more and more cashless transitions as well as contactless deliveries. While delivering the parcel, the delivery person also keeps the packet outside the doorstep of the customer and the customer receives the message on the phone that the food has been delivered. This is one of the safest ways of delivering food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/contactless-home-delivery-of-food-is-the-new-normal-in-covid-season/articleshow/76143673.cms||Shuchita Jha
June 2, 2020||Hyderabad||‘People of T at loss’: State BJP to launch stir on river water sharing with Andhra||Hyderabad: The state BJP has decided to launch an agitation against the government’s policy on usage of river water. During a social media round table meeting organised by BJP with experts on Monday, the party decided to take up injustice being meted out to Telangana in water sharing with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay said that though Bachawat Tribunal had given a clear-cut formula of water sharing between both Telugu states, Telangana did not get its due share. “The time has come for us to demand our share of water with the tribunal,” he said. He alleged that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao could not utilise the opportunity to get state its share of water.Expressing concern, he said that southern Telangana would be at a great loss due to the recent GO issued by AP on Pothireddypadu project. Senior BJP leader DK Aruna alleged that CM KCR and his AP counterpart Jaganmohan Reddy have a secret understanding. Former MP G Vivek said that BJP will fight against this injustice, a action plan will soon be announced with a committee to look into the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-of-t-at-loss-state-bjp-to-launch-stir-on-river-water-sharing-with-andhra/articleshow/76144492.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||273 migrants refuse to return home despite permission||NASHIK: With the hope that the situation will improve after the lockdown and avenues for employment will open up, at least 273 migrant workers, according to the district administration, refused to take the trains leaving from Nashik for their respective home states despite obtaining the permission to travel. Many workers had registered with the local administration to travel back home as they did not have any means of sustenance once the lockdown came into effect. Many workers, who are from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, decided to stay back in Nashik. Officials from both the city and the district administrations said, “There may be thousands of workers across the district who decided not to go home but their names did not come up on record. There are many who changed their minds in the last minute and refused to return despite getting the opportunity.” Ramesh Maurya, a resident of Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, currently putting up in Satpur area in Nashik city, works in the industrial sector. He and his wife took to selling fruits to make ends meet during the lockdown. “Since a lot of people have gone back, I am sure we will be the first to get a job when everything opens,” said Ramesh. Shabbir Raza, who lives with his three children in the Old City area of Nashik, wanted to return home. “My parents in Ghaziabad said that the situation was no better there hence, I dropped the plan. Now, business has picked up in the last one week,” said Raza. Ramesh Kumar, a native of Katihar district in Bihar currently staying in Nashik, said, “My village already has at least 6,000 people along with their families. What will they do till they get job? I decided to stay back and have started selling vegetables. After the industries open, I will get a job there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/273-migrants-refuse-to-return-home-despite-permission/articleshow/76142604.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Pillion riding is legal again, but spitting is not||Ludhiana: Releasing the new guidelines for the Lockdown 5.0 as well as Unlock 1.0 on Monday, district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal urged the people to adhere to the lockdown guidelines, as its violation will invite serious action under various provisions of law. The new lockdown period will last till June end. Under the new guidelines, movement of individuals for non-essential activities will remain prohibited in the district between 9pm and 5am, said the DC. He also said persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years were advised to stay at home as much as possible. While cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools and bars will still remain closed, two-wheelers are allowed one pillion rider and four wheelers can carry up to two passengers, said the DC. No pass is needed for shopping and going to workplace between 7am and 7pm, he said, adding that liquor vends will remain open from 8am to 8pm. He further said spitting, consumption of liquor, pan, gutka, tobacco and others in public places are not allowed. Till June 7, religious places/places of worship will remain closed and so are hotels and other hospitality services and shopping malls, said the DC. But sports complexes and stadiums will be allowed without spectators, he added. He also said domestic flights/trains/buses/cars etc was allowed but passengers will be required to either download Cova-app and get self-generated 'e-pass' or declare their particulars at the airport/railway station/bus stand/inter-state border as the case may be. Movement of passenger vehicles like taxis, cabs, stage carriers, tempo-travellers and cars will be permitted against self-generated e-pass. Agrawal said all categories of industries are allowed to operate in both rural and urban areas and no passes are required for workers between 5am and 9pm. The situation is same for construction, agricultural, horticultural, animal husbandry, veterinary and other services, he added. //||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pillion-riding-is-legal-again-but-spitting-is-not/articleshow/76143708.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Trichy||Farmer hacks wife to death in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: A 35-year-old farmer was arrested for hacking his wife to death in Thanjavur during on Sunday night over a domestic scuffle. The accused has been identified as Udhayarajan, farmer and a native of Kuruvikarambai village near Peravurani taluk in the district. The deceased was identified as U Sasikala, 33. The couple got married 12 years ago. However, they had no children and this led to frequent fights between them. On Sunday, they again picked up a a quarrel over the same issue. Following that, Udhayarajan went out of the house and returned around 10pm. The accused was visibly upset over the frequent fights between them. In a fit of rage, Udhayarajan took a sickle from his house and hacked her. On hearing her screams, neighbours rushed to their house. However, Sasikala could not be saved. The Peravurani police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry with Udhayarajan and based on his statement, police arrested him. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-hacks-wife-to-death-in-thanjavur/articleshow/76145105.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VS challenges Oommen Chandy’s claims about Victers channel||Thiruvananthapuram: Former chief minister V S Achuthanandan has flayed former CM Oommen Chandy for claiming the ownership of Victers education channel. In a Facebook post, VS said the project for the channel was conceived during E K Nayanar’s regime and the same was inaugurated by VS himself in 2006. “Chandy’s statements regarding Victers channel are of substandard. The concept of IT@School derived in a report prepared by Professor U Rao committee appointed by Nayanar. It was the Nayanar government that first ensured the presence of IT in school education. It was LDF that later fought against the UDF government’s attempts to promote the use of Microsoft products in school education. It was following protests by teachers organisations like KSTA that free software replaced Microsoft products and platforms,” VS said. He alleged that UDF always tried to commercialise education. It was the LDF government that succeeds the A K Antony government that made Victers channel a reality. “Victers channel was one among the several aspects of IT@School project. The LDF had never opposed the setting up of Victers channel. In fact, the LDF always welcomed the use of IT in the education sector. It was me who inaugurated Victers channel in August 2006. If the name plaque was not destroyed during the UDF rule, it must there to tell the truth,” VS claimed in his Facebook post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vs-challenges-oommen-chandys-claims-about-victers-channel/articleshow/76143715.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||PMPML hopes to resume services in PMC limits in a fortnight||PUNE: Officials of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) are hoping to resume bus services in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits in a fortnight. Officials said that the passenger load in buses after the services were resumed partially in Pimpri Chinchwad was not encouraging. "The losses are now close to Rs90 crore in the past two-and-a-half months. We resumed services in Pimpri Chinchwad last week, but the response has not been as expected. While there can be several factors, mainly fear, we desperately need to increase the number of buses across the city and find which passenger segment requires them. We hope to start the services in some parts of the PMC jurisdiction by June 15," a senior PMPML official told TOI on Monday. The official said that 70 buses are operating in Pimpri Chinchwad, but not more than 22 passengers are being allowed in each bus. "The average passenger footfall is not more than 10. The state government has started unlocking many services and we are hopeful that this will lead to an increase in passenger footfall," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-hopes-to-resume-services-in-pmc-limits-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/76144509.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fewer cases in rural parts after migrants’ arrival halts||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad on Monday said the number of Covid-19 infections reported every day over the last one week in rural Pune had gone down to an average of six to seven as against nearly 25 cases per day before. “Much of this is because of a decline in the number people moving from Mumbai and Pune to villages in the district. A spread out structure of residential hamlets and village business hubs has helped in social distancing and keeping the spread of the contagion under control,” Prasad told TOI.  Somes had caught the virus after they visited places in Pune where Covid-19 cases were rampant. Till 9pm on May 31, the 13 tehsils in Pune district had 688 Covid-19 cases with Junnar, Bhor, Velhe and Ambegaon tehsils reporting a majority. The Zilla Parishad has been carrying out door-to-door surveys through ASHA workers. District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI, “Our teams are visiting homes in villages/hamlets for collecting swab samples. They have tracked down people who returned from cities and have taken their samples. If required, our teams have shifted them to quarantine facilities created by tehsil administration.” Ram said, “Fewer cases per day is a good sign, but the challenge is to bring it to zero. It is possible in villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-cases-in-rural-parts-after-migrants-arrival-halts/articleshow/76144502.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: HC orders immediate arrest of man accused of raping minor||KOCHI: In an unusual case, the high court on Monday ordered to immediately arrest a 32-year-old man out on bail in a case of raping and murdering a minor girl after it was prima facie found that bail was obtained by playing fraud on the court. Justice P V Kunhikrishnan issued the order after considering a plea by senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy seeking cancellation of bail granted on May 12 to Safarsha of Muttingal Road at Kumbalam in Ernakulam. He was arrested on January 8. Seeking bail, Safarsha had claimed at the high court that the investigation officer failed to submit the final report in the case within the statutory period of 90 days and that he is entitled to bail. During a hearing on the bail plea conducted over videoconferencing, a prosecutor had also submitted that chargesheet has not been filed. Based on the submission, the court granted the bail on May 12. On Monday, Chakravarthy told the court that bail was granted on the erroneous submission by a prosecutor that chargesheet has not been filed whereas it was filed on the 84th day, on April 1. An application has therefore been filed to cancel the bail, the senior prosecutor submitted. Following this, the court summoned for the recording of the proceedings through video conferencing and verified the submissions made by the prosecutor and the counsel of the accused at the earlier hearing. After verifying the recording, the court pointed out that the order of May 12 shows that the court was not inclined to grant bail but did it because the accused was entitled to statutory bail, as per the submissions. The counsel who represented the accused submitted an unconditional apology for the wrong submission and cited inexperience and communication gap as reasons. The court has scheduled the next hearing on Wednesday.  (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-orders-immediate-arrest-of-man-accused-of-raping-minor/articleshow/76143727.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||NMC allows markets to open on odd & even basis from June 5||NAGPUR: After 72 days, markets excluding malls and shopping complexes will open in the city from June 5 as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has on Monday decided to implement new guidelines issued by the state government. Individual shops in markets, excluding bars, will open on odd and even dates while government offices will function with 15% capacity from June 3 and private offices with 10% capacity from June 8. Apart from malls, shopping complexes, bars, religious places, cinema theatres, gyms, swimming pools, halls etc will remain shut. Wine shops and restaurants can continue home delivery. Saloons, parlours, Spas etc along with educational institutions will also continue to remain prohibited till June 30, an order issued by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Monday states. In Nagpur, only essential shops will be permitted in containment zones notified by the NMC. At present, there are 27 such zones in various parts of the city. The state government has placed the city in a category where several restrictions will continue in lockdown-5 till June 30. Collector Ravindra Thakre issued an order for Nagpur Rural with very less curbs. Mundhe has asked CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay to continue enforcement of Section 144 of CrPC and night curfew between 9pm and 5am. Mundhe in his order clarified that shops on road facing North to East and South to East will open on odd date while those on the other side — North to West and South to West — on even dates. Thus, shops will be subjected to opening on alternate days which comes to three days in a week. Mundhe told TOI, “All have to abide by the guidelines issued by the government. In case of any confusion, shopkeepers can contact respective assistant commissioners of the NMC.” Timings will be from 9am to 5pm. The restrictions will not be applicable to shops dealing in essentials which have already been allowed to open since lockdown-1. All non-essential shops were closed from March 21 after the city witnessed first four cases of Covid-19 beginning March 11. Mundhe added, “All these are exceptions and measures. We cannot compromise on health. That’s why all the precautionary measures and Covid-19 guidelines have to be obeyed in letter and spirit so that we can prevent spread and transmission of Covid-19. Our target is to bring cases to zero and enter in green zone on permanent basis. With the beginning of economic activities, we will have to keep focus on health. Other activities should always be in conformity of the Covid-19 guidelines.” Mundhe further said that shop owners would be penalized and their establishment closed if they fail to ensure strict implementation of guidelines such as mandatory mask and Covid distancing among customers. Outdoor physical activities will be permissible from June 3. Mundhe said, “Gardens and open spaces with walking tracks will be opened between 5am and 7pm only. No recreational activities will, however, be allowed.” Before the Monday’s order, only stand-alone and up to five non-essential shops in a lane were allowed. Despite this, many shops in a few markets were seen open from May 22 onwards. The NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) had also slapped penalty on some of the shops for violating norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-allows-markets-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-from-june-5/articleshow/76145116.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Govt procured only 31% of mustard & gram||Jaipur: Sowing for kharif season has almost begun, but the government has procured only 31% of mustard and gram till now. According to Centre’ orders, the state government was supposed to procure 16 lakh tonnes of mustard and gram, but were able to procure only five lakh tonnes till June 1. An official at the Rajasthan State Marketing Co-operative Federation (RajFed) said that due to lockdown they started procuring both the crops from May 1 and this will continue till the end of July. Sushma Arora, managing director, RajFed, told TOI, “Our procurement is a three-month process and this will continue till July. To help farmers and lower the burden on mandis after the lockdown, 782 procurement centres have been established in the state. Every day, we are procuring in record numbers.” Procurement of wheat is done by the food department of Rajasthan. None of the officers were reachable to get the data. Farmers across the state, however, deny any relief that these procurements are giving them. Gajanand Singh, a farmer from Sawai Madhopur, vehemently denies any benefit that farmers are getting. “Last year, procurement started from April, while this year in May. The government is claiming that they will continue to procure till July-end, but then the monsoon season will start. On Monday, due to mild rainfall, all the 23 procurement centres in Sawai Madhopur district were shut as there is no facility to secure the farm produce from rainfall. How is the government planning to continue it till July,” Gajanand said. Another farmer, Lapur Singh from Hadoti region, said that sowing has started and the government has not procured the produce yet. “Procurement was late due to lockdown and farmers are in dire need of money to purchase seeds, fertilizers and deposit EMIs for equipment. Before monsoon starts full-fledged, farmers know that their produce will not be procured, hence they have already started selling it in the market to private agents. Last year, when situation was normal government couldn’t procure all the produce target produce. The government will not be able to procure even 50% of the produce this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-procured-only-31-of-mustard-gram/articleshow/76145124.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Students’ union demands online refund of exam fees||PUNE: A students’ union has demanded that the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges refund the semester-end exam fees to the pupils’ accounts, considering many have already gone back to their homes. The Maharashtra wing of the AAP Youth Front said the move would be useful for students during the lockdown. “We have written to the SPPU to cancel the exam fees and send them back to the students’ accounts. The students want a refund as the exams, except the last semester, would not be held,” said Sandeep Sonawane, vice-president of Aam Aadmi Party, Pune and the coordinator of AAP Youth Front, Maharashtra. The SPPU had directed all students to fill the exam form online irrespective of the exams being cancelled. “Recently, the university also extended the last date to fill the form to June 5. The university rule also stated the forms need to be physically submitted at the respective institutes. This should be exempted this year,” Sonawane said.  “The decision about the exam fees is being reviewed by the management. It will be communicated to students soon. Also, there is a lot of exam-related work happening at university and colleges. The system needs to be changed and a new software is required for marks calculation. So, fees are utilized for new of assessments methods,” Mangesh Kakde, the controller of examination at SPPU, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-union-demands-online-refund-of-exam-fees/articleshow/76144512.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Reopening of schools ‘online’, clarifies edu min Gaikwad||Nagpur: Clarifying on CM Uddhav Thackeray’s statement about schools being reopened on June 15, education minister Varsha Gaikwad said it pertained only to ‘online’ mode. “Whether it is June 15 or June 26 (for Vidarbha), our plan is to first start schools via online mode,” said Gaikwad. She added that while no date for physical reopening has been set, extensive discussions with stakeholders are going on to prepare standard operating procedures (SOPs). “We are only taking about online opening for now,” Gaikwad said. “Obviously sometime in the future we have to physically reopen schools and that is why we are preparing aggressively for that moment as it’s not something you can plan in a single day,” added Gaikwad. Feedback is being taken from stakeholders on what safety measures must be put in place. “These suggestions will help us formulate a policy and come out with SOPs on physical reopening. We have to standardize the sanitization process for premises, how health check up of teachers and students is to be done etc,” said Gaikwad. She added that physical reopening can’t be a statewide diktat. “Areas where Covid-19 cases have not been reported for a stipulated period of time, where movement of teachers won’t be restricted etc can be candidates for school reopening,” said Gaikwad. On Monday, the minister spoke to state chief secretary (CS) Ajoy Mehta and kicked into motion another part of the physical reopening plan. “If we have to open schools say after month and a half, then in which specific places should it be done? I asked the CS to start discussions with collectors. Then we (education department) will give an SOP which can be implemented,” said Gaikwad. She asserted that the physical closure of schools should not mean a complete halt of the learning process. Last week, Gaikwad wrote to the central government seeking 12 hours of air time on Doordarshan and two hours on the All India Radio (AIR) to broadcast educational content in Maharashtra. “Our focus for now is online teaching. Through TV/radio we can cover up to 85% of the area. We are constantly thinking of ways to increase the reach. The continuity of education is to be maintained at all costs because if that link is broken, children in marginalized areas will drop out of the radar,” said Gaikwad. As the education department works on a plan for the physical reopening of schools, Gaikwad is proceeding in a phased manner for the online version. “Firstly, textbooks need to reach the children. Parents can be called to collect them by maintaining proper distance or we can send them to their homes. Then online, TV/radio teaching can be started by increasing the coverage area. Even if parents take the phone to work, TV remains the medium of instruction,” said Gaikwad. In its latest notification, the ministry of home affairs had mentioned that the discussion on the reopening of schools will be held in July. Gaikwad added that even if the green signal is given, Maharashtra will remain cautious. “We will look at the situation at that point of time and take a decision accordingly. I don’t want schools to close down after reopening,” said Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reopening-of-schools-online-clarifies-edu-min-gaikwad/articleshow/76145130.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Wadalagaon in Nashik sealed||NASHIK: The civic administration declared Wadalagaon and its premises a major hotspot in Nashik on Monday as over 30 people have tested positive for Covid-19 from these areas. “We have sealed Wadalagaon and its surrounding areas to curb the spread of Covid-19. We have also conducted a survey and traced 44 high-risk contacts of positive patients identified in these areas. They have been admitted in the isolation ward in hospitals,” said officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). There are four small containment zones in and around Wadalagaon. The areas are densely populated and also have many slums. “People in the slums are not following social distancing norms due to which Covid-19 is spreading. Hence, we have installed CCTV cameras in three areas apart from Wadalagaon,” said officials. Apart from Wadalgaon, three other thickly populated slums are— Mumtaz Nagar near Wadalagaon, Shivajiwadi in Bharat Nagar, Kranti Nagar and Ramnagar — in the city havealso come under the radar due to a rise in Covid-19 cases. “Most of the workers from Mumbai and Pune have returned to the city and are staying in slums and densely populated areas.Hence, cases from these areas have increased,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wadalagaon-in-nashik-sealed/articleshow/76142637.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Virtual class a distant dream for tribal students||Idukki: Virtual classes that the education department has started for school students in the state on Monday have left out tribal and Tamil medium students in Idukki district. A total of 6,288 tribal, SC/ST and guest labours’ children are enrolled in schools in the district, as per the data from Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK). Students from tribal settlements and plantation areas are enrolled at residential schools at Marayoor and Munnar. But due to the lockdown, there were confined to their homes at tribal settlements which neither have TV nor any communication facility. While for Tamil medium students in Peermade, Udumbanchola and Devikulam taluks, lack of class in Tamil language at KITE Victers channel has kept them off from the academic sessions. Dhanya, programme officer, Samagra Shiksha Kerala, said, “We are planning to provide online classes to the tribal students through resource persons.” For Tamil students, “classes will be downloaded from YouTube and they will be shared in WhatsApp groups of teachers. They will then either visit students’ home or share the videos with people accessible to students. Range issues and lack of connectivity are a big hurdle to download classes,” said Munnar Government High School headmaster Lobin Raj. Idukki DDE Sasindaran has assured that the education department will take steps to provide online education to the tribal and Tamil medium students. “We collected details of tribal students in the district. We will make arrangements to reach out to all tribal settlements in the district,” said Sasindaran. However in Thrissur district, there are a total of 600 students from tribal settlements. “In some remote tribal settlements inside the forest, there are no communication facilities and it is a big hurdle to provide virtual class. We plans to shift the tribal students from the remote settlements to hostels and provide online classes to them,” said Santhosh Kumar, tribal development officer, Chalakkudy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virtual-class-a-distant-dream-for-tribal-students/articleshow/76143733.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pune village uses Kerala umbrella model to maintain social distancing||PUNE: The good old umbrella is turning out to be the new tool for the residents of Manchar village in the district to maintain social distancing in the time of Covid-19. Taking a cue from Thanneermukkom village in Kerala’s Alappuzha district, the gram panchayat of Manchar, located nearly 64km from the city off the Nashik highway, has embarked on a mission to encourage the residents to use the umbrellas as a tool for social distancing while venturing out of their homes. In the Kerala village, the administration had made the use of the umbrella a must and provided it to the residents at a subsided rate. But in Manchar, the experiment has been voluntary and the villagers have to use their own umbrellas. The Pune village, with a population of 50,000 and a major market place, has not seen a single Covid-19 case ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. Its 17-member gram panchayat is, however, conscious about the need for self-discipline and maintaining physical distancing norms to keep the virus at bay. “The gram panchayat held a meeting a fortnight ago and decided to promote the use of umbrellas. It took a few days for our advice to reach the residents. But now the use of umbrella has become normal,” Manchar village sarpanch Datta Ganjale told TOI. As demonstrated by the Kerala village, the experiment is spurred by the fact that a gap of two opened umbrellas between two people — with one person holding up each — ensures at least one metre distance between each of them. The residents have to ensure that everyone carries an umbrella when they go out of their houses. Ganzale said, “Women and senior citizens in the village are particular about using umbrellas in the ‘bazaar’ and crowded places. We learnt about the Kerala experiment through the social media and discussed the same with our gram panchayat members before taking the decision.” Anjana Bhavari, a woman member in the gram panchayat, said, “During Lockdown 4.0, the ‘bazaar’ lanes had started getting crowded and maintaining social distancing was becoming a challenge. Now, people are responding positively to our move.” Resident Manik Gawde said, “Maintaining the social distancing norms at a busy place like Manchar is a challenge. But our gram panchayat successfully replicated the Kerala model and people have realised the importance of umbrella in a short period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-village-uses-kerala-umbrella-model-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/76144521.cms||Sandip Dighe
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s agriculture calendar on schedule as sowing begins||JAIPUR: When Covid-19 brought economic activities to a standstill in the state, the countryside in Rajasthan followed its agriculture calendar as per schedule as lockdown wasn’t imposed on these activities. Farmers were given exemptions as the harvesting season was at its peak. Though there were initial glitches in transportation, farm produce was taken to the mandis. Farmer Mithalal Singh at his farmFarmer Mithalal Singh at his farmThe agriculture department, too, hasn’t diverted from its annual planning of area of production, sale of seeds and fertilizers. Last year, 162 lakh hectares were under cultivation for kharif and this year’s target is 163 lakh hectares. Farmers have started preparing for sowing in monsoon/kharif season. As per the figures given by the department, sowing of cotton has begun. Ram Gopal Sharma, joint director, inputs, said, “Cotton is usually planted in the month of May and other kharif crops are sowed on the arrival of monsoon. Last year, cotton was sowed in 6.5 lakh hectares, but this year due to late harvesting, sowing was delayed by 10 days. According to the figures received, cotton has been sowed in around 4 lakh hectares and, in a week, we are expecting it to cross the 6 lakh hectare figure.” Similarly, sale of seeds is almost similar to last year. During kharif season, 7.5 quintal seed is sold to farmers and the department has a stock of 9.5 quintal. For cotton crop, in 2019, 44 lakh packets were sold and in 2020, till now 34 lakh packets have been sold. The figures will rise up in next the ten days, Sharma said. Till last year, the state government used to organise ‘Beej Rath’ to provide seeds at subsidized rates to the farmers in Rajasthan, which has not been organised in 2020 due to coronavirus. Dashrath Kumar, general secretary of Hadoti Kisan Union, said that economically weaker farmers will face difficulties. “We agree the portion of subsidized seeds given was small due to lockdown as the government didn’t organise Beej Rath, which will have an impact on the farmers’ pockets,” Kumar said. Another issue raised by farmers was of perishable produce —vegetables, flowers and fruits, which couldn’t be transported to mandis during the first and second lockdowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-agriculture-calendar-on-schedule-as-sowing-begins/articleshow/76145136.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyclone Nisarga: High alert issued for south Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani presided over a high-power committee meeting on Monday to review the precautionary measures being taken by state and district administration for the cyclone, which is likely to hit south Gujarat and Saurashtra regions on June 3. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the cyclone accompanied with heavy rains and wind velocity of between 90 and 100 kmph is likely to hit the coastal areas of Surat, Navsari, Valsad, Dang and Bharuch in south Gujarat, besides the UT of Daman, and Amreli and Bhavnagar districts in Saurashtra region. A high alert has been issued in south Gujarat, and an alert warning has been issued in Saurashtra. Revenue minister Kaushik Patel, chief secretary Anil Mukim and other senior secretaries were present at the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) in video-conference with concerned district collectors, and also DGP Shivanand Jha, IMD Gujarat state director Jayant Sarkar and senior officers of NRDF and SRDF. Rupani appealed to people living in these districts not to go out unless necessary on June 3 and 4. He directed district collectors to ensure that those living in low-lying areas in these coastal areas, including fishermen, those engaged in prawn farming and salt pan workers, be shifted to safer places by Tuesday. He directed the administration to post 10 disaster management teams of NDRF and five teams of SDRF along the coastal districts likely to be affected, and told administration to keep more teams on standby at nearby places to meet any eventuality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyclone-nisarga-high-alert-issued-for-south-gujarat/articleshow/76144519.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Pune||Pending finals keep nursing students away from service||PUNE: These days, an online search for nursing jobs can throw up multiple advertisements from top hospitals across the state. In fact, almost all hospitals have done away with the requirement for experience, instead they welcome freshers to apply. There are 14 nursing colleges in Pune district with 7,000 students completing the undergraduate programme annually. But, despite gleaning all skills required for the job, the final year students in this academic batch cannot be recruited as their final exams remain pending. Clearing the final exam is crucial for the graduates to get a Maharashtra Nursing Council Registration that is required to secure a job. Retired lieutenant colonel Rosamma Basil, principal at DES Society’s Smt Subhadra K Jindal College of Nursing, said, “The demand for nurses is huge in the state. This is largely due to increasing number of private hospitals, especially around cities. There is a demand for speciality nurses. With the Covid-19 situation, there is increased requirement of nurses. But, the government cannot deploy final year BSc nursing students because their exam are yet to be held,” said Basil. The principal at a nursing college under a deemed university said, “Our college, with intake capacity of 50, has 100% placements. About 20% students usually go abroad.” Secretary of Talegaon General Hospital and Convalescent Home D P Bhoge said, “We have 60 candidates till the third year. We may deploy second- and third-year students. The second- and third-year students do not have the required certificates so it may not be possible to place them on duty. The Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research in Talegaon may get a Covid-19 centre where nurses will be required,” said Bhoge. A senior official at the nursing institute run by B J Medical College said all their nursing students have gone home.“If they had degrees, their registration as nurses and their recruitment would have been possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pending-finals-keep-nursing-students-away-from-service/articleshow/76144520.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown impact: Grape exports from Nashik district go down by 25% in 2019-20||NASHIK: The export of grapes took a major hit due to the lockdown, registering a 25% decline during the 2019-2020 season — December to April. During the 2018-19 grape season, the district exported around 1.44 lakh tonne of grapes (an all-time high), but the figure dropped to 1.09 lakh tonne in the last season. According to sources in the state agriculture department, of the 1.09 lakh tonne, 80,433 tonne was exported to European countries, while remaining 29,454 tonne was exported to non-European countries. “Grape farmers did not receive containers and also faced scarcity of workers for harvesting. This has led to drop in grape export,” M Patil, senior member of Maharashtra state grape growers association, said. In 2017-18 grape season, the export from the district had declined by 22% to 1.02 lakh tonne against 1.31 lakh tonne during the 2016-17 season. The drop in yield due to climatic conditions had badly-affected the grape production that year. Of the total 3.5 lakh acre under grape plantation in Maharashtra, 2 lakh acre is in Nashik district. As per guidelines issued by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), it is mandatory for the grape exporters to register their vineyards. Accordingly, around 28,500 farmers had registered their vineyards on a total of 18,000 hectare for 2019-20. In 2018-19, 38,400 grape farmers had registered their vineyards on 24,575 hectare across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-impact-grape-exports-from-nashik-dist-go-down-by-25-in-2019-20/articleshow/76142665.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Dropout rate likely to increase post lockdown||Visakhapatnam: The prevailing pandemic and socio-economic crisis are likely to increase hardships for children in the state and district. Women and child welfare department and other child rights organisations point to various children-related issues, which need to be addressed as they apprehend that school dropout rate, child labour apart from child marriages and malnutrition are bound to increase in the coming days. Speaking to TOI, Andhra Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), chairperson, G Hymavathi said, “Due to the Covid-19 crisis, various socio-economic problems are surfacing. Incidence of child labour, child marriage, malnutrition and school dropout rate among children will rise. We are asking the women child welfare department, volunteers of education and panchayat raj departments to survey and check the enrolment of children as schools are set to reopen in August.” President of Child Rights Protection Forum, G Seetaram, has written to the chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy and state chief secretary Neelam Sawhney about the enhanced risk of children from poor and lower-middle households dropping out of schools and being engaged in child labour both in the state and Visakhapatnam district. “If a comprehensive survey were to be done on the effect of the lockdown, there is a high probability that many children will drop out from schools and take up small-time work. Schools are closed due to the pandemic and many poor families would urge their children to earn as they are battling financial crunch. Also, although digital education is promoted, as per official data, only 23 % of students have access to internet. The department of education, in coordination with ward volunteers, village and town secretarial staff should take the necessary steps to bring the situation under control and see to it that all children attend their schools,” said Seetaram. Speaking to TOI, district child protection officer (DCPO), A Satyanarayana, said, “We have discussed this issue with the labour and education departments and we will be working in convergence with various departments to check child labour and prevent school dropouts. For nutrition, government is providing ration at their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dropout-rate-likely-to-increase-post-lockdown/articleshow/76142676.cms||Sulogna Mehta
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Small industries stutter with starting troubles||Chennai: Nearly two weeks into the staggered reopening of businesses, the fulcrum of industrial activity in the state — small businesses or Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) — are seeking life support from the governments — both central and state. This is because one in every two units is struggling to pay salaries and rent, 40% of the units haven’t been able to collect their receivables on time and a fourth of the units expect the inventories to have either become degraded or obsolete due to the nearly 60-day Covid pandemic induced lockdown. Given the low demand, 78% of the units are working at 50% capacity and 40% of the units feel it will take at least six to nine months for demand to reach pre-Covid levels, says a survey by the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI). While the units need to face business risks, they are seeking relief and support for financial, labour and compliance related issues that require urgent intervention. For larger businesses, issues relating to electricity is an add-on.The survey covered 1,218 small businesses to understand the extent of the impact on their operations, liquidity position and challenges that lay ahead in restarting operations over the past few days. About 65% of these units employ less than 50 people and 89% of them are micro and small units (turnover of less than `50 crore).In the largest ever survey done in recent times, a significant majority of the respondents felt that interest waiver during the lockdown period and loans at concessional rates would help them tide over the crisis. Around 60% of respondents felt relaxations of NPA or bad loan classification norms would be beneficial. "As many of these challenges are addressable by the state government, if implemented quickly, they will enthuse greater confidence in MSMEs to restart their operations and scale them up," said Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, president, MCCI. In terms of finances, two-thirds of the units surveyed were moderately leveraged. This is evident from the fact that more than 40% of the units have not used sanctioned limits, indicating headroom for borrowing. However, higher interest rates are a cause for concern. Though 75% of the respondents were aware of the government loan schemes that have been announced, they haven’t availed of the same either due to non requirement of loan now, higher interest cost or due to repayment concerns.On the manpower front, 36% of the units have more than 30% guest workers. Consequently, 40% of the respondents feel it is imperative to train and reskill new employees. Changes to the labour laws like the ones in Gujarat or Madhya Pradesh which, among other things, increase the work timings to 12 hours a day from the present 8 hours a day are being suggested. The units feel that transportation of men and material will be a challenge as operations restart. "This can be done at the state-level which will go a long way to help the units," said Srivats Ram, vice-president of MCCI and MD of Wheels India.For compliance significant time and efforts go into filing various returns to the government agencies. "Online filing of statutory documents, waiver of other requirements of eye test for employees fitness certificates for buildings can be exempted for six months," Ram said.Email your feedbackto southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/small-industries-stutter-with-starting-troubles/articleshow/76144524.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||37 new degree colleges to come up at block levels||Jaipur: The state higher education department will start 37 new degree colleges at tehsil and block levels from this academic session (2020-21). It is expected to create additional 10,000 to 12,000 seats, giving a much-needed stimulus to the gross enrolment ratio of the state, which is just 3.7% behind the national average. These colleges will operate from abandoned government buildings or community centres till they get their own buildings. These colleges were announced in the state budget 2020-21, weeks before the lockdown was announced, putting the plan in a fix. Thereafter, no progress was made for opening of these colleges till May due to Covid-19 situation in the state. State higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said that last year they had opened 50 new colleges which had taken the gross enrolment ratio close to the national average. “The new colleges would help us achieve the national average of 25.7% in higher education. Despite the adverse situation, we pursued the opening of these colleges with a belief that the government colleges will provide higher education opportunities to those who otherwise could not afford in the private colleges,” Bhati said. Of the total, seven are all-girls’ colleges and girl’s education in government colleges is free. These colleges are coming up in the areas or blocks where the education scenario is very poor. The GER is a percentage of population in the age group of 18-23 enrolled in any of the higher education institutes. The state recorded the highest ever gross enrolment ratio of 4.29 lakh students in 2019-20 against 4.05 lakh students enrolled in 2018-19. For most of the colleges, the local administration has identified the buildings for the said purpose. Pradeep Borad, college commissioner, Rajasthan, said, “These colleges will begin with common courses or subject combinations. Teachers will be drawn from nearby colleges to begin with and soon new recruitment will be announced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/37-new-degree-colleges-to-come-up-at-block-levels/articleshow/76145151.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||300 railway cops to be deployed for bandobast in Malegaon||NASHIK: A force of 300 railway police personnel would be replacing the same number of police personnel in Malegaon, who have been doing bandobast duty in textile town from last two months. Once the railway police from Mumbai arrive, the policemen who have been serving in Malegaon for the last two months would be relieved. Superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh said that the process of relieving policemen serving in Malegaon for two months has been already initiated. “Recently 71 police personnel were relieved and put in institutional quarantine following which they would be deployed in non-containment zones. The same would be done once the force from Mumbai arrives.” Currently, Malegaon has a force of 1,600 police personnel deployed for bandobast. The district currently has 1,203 Covid-19 patients out of which 779 have been found in the textile city alone. Out of those 779 patients, 55 have succumbed to infection while 611 have been cured of coronavirus and 113 are undergoing treatment. During the lockdown, more than 170 policemen were tested positive out of which 150 have recovered, said police officials. Singh said that the policemen were working around-the-clock over the past two months to ensure that the people remain indoors, which would eventually control the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/300-rly-cops-to-be-deployed-for-bandobast-in-malegaon/articleshow/76142707.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 2, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur BJP MLA booked for violating social distancing norms||Rudrapur: A case has been registered against controversial BJP MLA from Rudrapur Rajkumar Thukral for allegedly violating social distancing norms related to the ongoing Covid-19-enforced lockdown by asking people to gather at his residence to get free ration, police said on Monday. A case has been registered against Thukral under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) late on Sunday, SHO of city police station, Kailash Chandra Bhatt said. The BJP MLA had earlier announced that he is going to distribute free ration to the poor and labourers on Sunday and asked them to assemble outside his Adarsh colony residence at 9 am. Dozens of people from different colonies gathered outside his house violating social distancing norms and prohibitory orders. The photos of the same went viral on social media. The MLA did not take any permission for such a gathering and thus violated rules in force to contain the spread of Covid-19, the police officer said. Meanwhile, Thukral denied the charges and said that people gathered outside his house hoping to get free ration. "I had called the nearby police outpost in-charge twice to disperse the crowd. I will soon meet senior police officials and present my part with facts."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-bjp-mla-booked-for-violating-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/76143759.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||App-based smart meter readers launched on pilot basis in Guntur||Guntur: In a move to fine tune revenue collection, the Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) started testing smart-meter readers on Monday. The app-based system developed by the discom was put on trial in several circles in the district. Senior officials, including CPDCL director technical K Santosh Rao, superintending engineer M Vijay Kumar inspected the functioning of the new meter readers during a field visit. A specially designed dongle is attached to a mobile phone that can pick up the reading and reflect it in the electrici meter when it taken close to the meter point. The reading will be automatically uploaded to the central server of the discoms to help the senior officials manage the accounts on real-time basis. A small bluetooth enabled printer will also be supplied to meter readers who can take a print of the bill and hand it over to the electricity consumers. The discoms have so far been using the IR sensor readers, which can generate instantaneous bill after scanning the meters. However, the IR readers do not have the facility to upload the data to the server from the spot. The meter readers have to visit the local AE office regularly and upload the data to the system available in the office. It is believed to have been taking a lot of time due to technical glitches. Sometimes, the data would get erased leading to errors in accounts. The new mobile-based smart meter readers would not only transfer the data on real-time basis but also have the facility to store about 1.5 lakh accounts. “We will go for new meter readers across the discoms after studying the results of the pilot project. It is working well at present,” said Santhosh Rao, director of CPDCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/app-based-smart-meter-readers-launched-on-pilot-basis-in-guntur/articleshow/76142706.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Use eco-friendly practices against grasshopper, experts||Thrissur: Farmers in Wayanad and Konni have been advised to go in for integrated management practices (IPM) for containing the attacks of spotted grasshopper among banana and mango fields in their areas. Insecticides should be sprayed only if pest problem aggravates and damage leads to economic loss to the crops, experts said. The experts at Kerala Agriculture University (KAU) said studies conducted elsewhere have categorised the insect as a near-threatened species. Those study reports have pointed out that there is even a dilemma in the management versus conservation strategy to be followed in controlling the species, the KAU said in a statement. IPM methods recommended included raking up the soil and spraying of azadirachtin, a repellent, on nearby economically important crops, the KAU experts said. The release justified the use of the term locust for spotted grasshopper and said it belongs to the Pyrgomorphidae family. The incidence of the pest has also been reported from several parts of the state such as Konni in Pathanamthitta and Anakkayam in Malappuram. In Konni, the insect has caused heavy damage to standing banana crop, the statement said. Emphasising that the pest can cause economic damage to crops, the insect needs to be managed in an eco-friendly manner even though it is categorised as Near-threatened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/use-eco-friendly-practices-against-grasshopper-experts/articleshow/76143783.cms||---
June 2, 2020||India||Migrants are just 20% of workforce, says Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Dispelling fears that migration of workers will impact industries in a big way as they gradually start operation with easing of the lockdown, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said migrants constitute only about 20% of the workforce in industries. He said some industries are keen to bring back migrant workers and they should reach out to the collectors of districts to which migrant workers have returned. They should also take up the matter with administrations of the districts where the plants are located, he added. He said people move to cities and industrial areas in search of work as there are no opportunities in their native places. “I read some reports of how some Shramik Special trains had to be cancelled as states could not get enough migrants who wanted to go home,” Gadkari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-are-just-20-of-workforce-says-gadkari/articleshow/76146123.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19: Aurangabad case-count rises to 1,543||AURANGABAD: The total number people testing positive for Covid-19 crossed the 1,500-mark (1,543) on Sunday with addition of 45 more cases. Also, with more and more people recovering from the infection, the total number of recovered patients in Aurangabad has reached 1,029 and the district has 442 active cases. Medical authorities along with district administration officials said people should maintain personal hygiene and ensure physical distancing while stepping out of their homes for essential works. On Sunday, a 62-year-old woman and a 75-year-old man succumbed to the infection while being under treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), taking the total number of deaths due to the contagion to 72 in the district. As per the official figures, of these 72 patients, 61 have died while undergoing treatment at GMCH, 10 at private hospitals and one at Chikalthana-based regional Covid-19 treatment centre. Of the 45 cases reported on Sunday, four were reported from Bhavani Nagar and Juna Mondha areas, three each from Kailash Nagar, Kiradpura and N-6 Cidco, two each from Junabazar and Manjitnagar-Akashwani area, and one each from Sanjay Nagar-Mukundwadi, Rahimnagar-Jaswantpura, Vyankatehsnagar-Jalna road, New Baijipura, Ahimsanagar-Akashwani area, Bajanagar, Pisadevi Road, Deolai, Hamalwadi, Bhoiwada, Suranagar, Azam Colony, Sadar Nagar, Mehmoodpura-Hudco, Nizamganj Colony, Shahgunj, lSanjaynagar, Beed bypass road, Swapnanagari, Champa Chowk and Shatabdi Nagar. Meanwhile, the district administration has reserved a building at GMCH for treating co-morbid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-case-count-rises-to-1543/articleshow/76124469.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Two nurses test positive, Chennai private hospital shut for a week||CHENNAI: A private hospital in Nanganallur was shut down by its management after two of its staff tested positive for Covid-19. Greater Chennai Corporation said Margaret Sydney Hospital downed shutters last Friday. However, the management did not inform the corporation about the positive cases, said Alby John, regional deputy commissioner, south region. The corporation does not close hospitals when its staff test positive for Covid-19, he said. “We ask the hospitals to close the area or the floor that the patient had used. We disinfect the entire hospital and it is shut for a couple of days. The facility can reopen as per our standard operating procedures,” said John. John said one fever patient who had visited the hospital on May 21 tested positive after which the staff were tested. Two members of the staff tested positive as they might have come in contact with the patient. But as a precautionary measure the hospital was shut down for a week, he said. When TOI called the hospital, a staff said the facility would reopen on Friday. The hospital management could not be reached for a comment. V Rama Rao, a social worker from Nanganallur, told TOI that many nurses who are out of jobs have joined the civic body as health workers. “In Naganallur, we have seen several cases including one death. We request officials to ensure that all senior citizens are tested as it is slowly becoming a small cluster. Since senior citizens are most vulnerable, at least they should all be tested to ensure early detection and treatment,” he said. John said Alandur zone, under which Nanganallur falls, has the lowest cases in the city. “We have taken strict measures to contain the spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-nurses-test-positive-city-private-hospital-shut-for-a-week/articleshow/76144536.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nagpur||Akola crosses 600 cases with 24 +ves, 14 in Nagpur, 8 in Amt||NAGPUR: Swab samples of a 60-year-old truck driver from Nashik, who was found dead in his parked truck, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday at Yavatmal. Two more patients died in isolation ward of Akola GMCH on Sunday and Monday, taking death toll of Akola to 34 and Vidarbha to 69. With 24 patients testing positive in a day, Akola also surpassed the 600-mark. Nagpur also recorded 19 new cases. Overall, 33 patients recovered from Vidarbha and went home on Monday. The truck driver, who came from Nashik to Ner with his loaded truck, is the third Covid-19 death in Yavatmal district. The driver was a resident of Wadala Road in Nashik, where several positive cases have been reported earlier. The administration is awaiting a nod from his family to bury him at Yavatmal. Yavatmal also reported a new positive case on Monday from the remote village Mudhana of Mahagaon tehsil. There was panic among villagers, particularly jewellers. Six persons who had come in contact with the goldsmith who tested positive have been taken to institutional quarantine, and their swab samples collected. In Akola, a 55-year-old woman admitted in GMCH on May 29 died late on Sunday night. She had high BP and renal failure. A 60-year-old man from Balapur village, admitted on May 24, also died on Monday. Akola also recorded 24 new positive cases – 12 men and 12 women – taking total cases in the district over 600. The administration has announced full curfew in Akola for six days, up to June 6. Amravati saw 12 confirmed case on Monday, taking the total to 230. While ten cases were from containment zones, two were from new areas of Shikshak Colony and village Kakda in Achalpur. Of the 12, nine are male and three female. Shikshak Colony on Gadgadeshwar Road became a new containment zone after a 47- year-old person tested positive. He runs a grocery shop at Shegaon Chowk, and came in contact with a Ratanganj positive, who has a mutton/chicken centre close to his shop. The family members of the grocer have been quarantined and his contacts are being traced. Also, a 30-year-old Mumbai returnee quarantined at Nathe School at village Kakda in Achalpur tehsil tested positive. Masanganj also saw three cases — males aged 75 and 55, and a female, 31 — to take its count to 35, the highest in any Amravati locality. Chetandas Bagicha in Masanganj ward also saw a father-son duo aged 61 and 30 respectively testing positive. Budhwara in the walled city saw four neighbours of a Covid positive policeman testing positive. A boy aged 18, a man (52) and two women aged 54 and 42 took Budhwara’s tally to six. The locality has now been sealed. In Chandrapur, a person was found positive at Rajura late on Sunday night, taking the district total to 23. However, no patient was found in Chandrapur, and one patient was discharged Monday, leaving 10 active cases. Sources said the 27-year-old Rajura youth working at Goregaon Film City in Mumbai had arrived on May 25. He was in institutional quarantine and developed symptoms on May 30. After a positive report on Sunday he was shifted to Chandrapur GMCH. So far 13 of 23 patients have recovered in Chandrapur. The latest to be discharged, on Monday, was a nurse of Babupeth locality who had came from Mumbai. The first day of June saw recoveries all around, and no new cases in five of 11 Vidarbha districts. In Wardha, two patients from other districts were discharged. A migrant labour from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, and a young woman from Dhamangaon (Railway) of Amravati district were discharged in Sawangi. The man tested corona-free in 14-day test. Doctors and nurses applauded the patients, gave certificates and wished them good health. Wardha district has not seen a new positive patient in two days. Gadchiroli, however, reported one positive patient. Gondia and Bhandara recorded no new case, but 15 travellers from Mumbai and Pune who had tested positive between May 17 and 20 have recovered. This indicates the travellers were detected at early stage, when they had low viral load.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-crosses-600-cases-with-24-ves-14-in-ngp-8-in-amt/articleshow/76145178.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||In Kadapa, mother and son die after drinking hand sanitiser to get a high||TIRUPATI: A mother and her son died on Monday after consuming hand sanitiser at Chennur in Kadapa district. Vijayalakshmi and her son Sriram Naik, residents of Ellamma Gudi street, drank the contents of a hand sanitiser bottle on Monday as a substitute for alcohol. The police were alerted after neighbours noticed that the duo had collapsed. The two were immediately rushed to RIMS hospital at Kadapa, where they were pronounced dead. Police said the two drank hand sanitiser, hoping to get intoxicated. A case has been registered and an investigation is underway. Kadapa district superintendent of police KKN Anburajan advised the public against getting addicted to ganja, alcohol solutions, whiteners and sanitisers. “The state government has established de-addiction centres across the state to save such persons,” he said, requesting the public to dial 100 to inform the department about persons addicted to alcohol and narcotic substances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mother-and-son-die-after-drinking-hand-sanitiser-to-get-a-high/articleshow/76142741.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man hacks younger brother to death||KOTA: A man axed his younger brother to death over a trivial domestic issue in a village under Mangrol police station area in Baran district on Sunday evening. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Monday morning and detained the accused for interrogation, however, he is yet to be interrogated. The deceased man Ramhet Gurjar, 35, was a resident of Gujaravani village in Baran district. Ramhet and the accused, Radheshyam Gurjar, 45, are brothers and live separately in the same house, SHO Umesh Maheria said. A scuffle over a minor domestic issue erupted between the two brothers on Sunday evening following which they grappled with each other in the foreyard of their house, he said, and added that Radheshyam got hold of an axe and he lashed it on Ramhet’s head, injuring him severely. Ramhet was taken to a local hospital from where he was referred to district hospital in Baran, but he succumbed to his injuries on the way, the SHO said. A case of murder under Section 302 of IPC was lodged against Radheshyam, he added. Preliminary investigation revealed that the wife of the deceased has a rift with her mother-in-law and she had had a spat with her on Sunday morning, Maheria said, adding that the accused had urged his younger brother to persuade his wife on Sunday evening when a scuffle erupted between the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-hacks-younger-brother-to-death/articleshow/76145180.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Delhi||Golf club shuts F&B segment, to focus on sporting activities||New Delhi: In a course correction, Delhi Golf Club has decided to focus on the sport (golf) and get out of the food and beverage (F&B) services, which is now going to be outsourced. The premier club, which has often been accused of focusing more on wining and dining, took this decision because of the long-lasting impact of the coronavirus pandemic on dining out and social get-together as well as huge losses incurred by the F&B segment. Sources said the losses in the F&B segment were being made up for by the earnings from sporting activities. “After taking a decision on getting out of F&B activities, we have made a final settlement with 59 employees and transferred Rs 10.3 crore into their accounts, as required by the law,” said club president Major (Retd) Ravinder Singh Bedi. A club official said the payout to the F&B staff was exorbitant. The main cook was drawing a monthly salary of Rs 2.15 lakh, while the waiters were being paid around Rs 80,000. On average, the club paid the employees Rs 15-16 lakh and Rs 39.3 lakh to the main cook annually. Raghav Chandra, a former secretary in central government and a member of the club, said the intent was to plough back the earnings from sporting activities in providing better infrastructure facilities to golfers. “Our club is on government land and our main activity is promoting golf. In the past couple of years, golf had taken a backseat and the course was ruined. We have now revamped it with the help of corporate entities,” Bedi said. Because of a “bad” wage agreement in 2015, the salary of F&B segment employees had increased by two-and-a-half times, Bedi claimed. From Monday, only minimal service of coffee, tea and packaged snacks was being provided. “We are in the process of selecting a food chain to run the F&B services, which will have a multi-cuisine menu with controlled prices,” he added. The club paid nearly Rs 42 lakh to 350 caddies to ensure that they didn’t leave for their hometowns, added Bedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/golf-club-shuts-fb-segment-to-focus-on-sporting-activities/articleshow/76164708.cms||Dipak K Dash
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Local bodies seek fund to clean canals||Kochi: Monsoon is at the doorstep and still many panchayats in Ernakulam are yet to take up canal cleaning works due to fund crunch, raising flooding concerns. This has forced the panchayat officials to approach the district panchayat seeking funding in this regard. Some attribute the delay to Covid-19 prevention activities in their limits. “Panchayats have earmarked plan fund for various other projects to be implemented in the 2020-21 financial year. If they need to divert the fund for some other projects, they should secure government order. Many had to spend a lump sum for running community kitchens. Kadambrayar, which flows through panchayats including Kizhakkambalam, Vadavukode – Puthencruz and Kunnathunad, needs to be cleaned. Same is the casde with Onni thodu at Alangad panchayat. Many more canals need to be cleaned at various panchayats. Presidents of these panchayats have raised fund issue with us. Cleaning of a canal using JCB for three or four days requires only Rs 60,000 to 70,000. Though the district panchayat can provide the amount, it needs government permission,” said district panchayat president Dolley Kuriakose. Mazhuvannur panchayat president K K Soman said the panchayat has not taken up cleaning works on Manchanad-Thrikkalathur thodu. “Two-km stretch of the canal in ward number have been reclaimed. Huge fund and workforce are required to clean the stretch. MGNREGS workers cleared bushes along the stretch two years ago. We need to deepen the canal using JCB and construct sidewalls at a cost of around Rs 5 to 8 lakh. We have raised the issue with the district panchayat,” he said. Some panchayat officials said they would take up the cleaning soon. They said the Covid-19 works delayed pre-monsoon works in the local bodies. “Canal cleaning works in the panchayats are conducted with the support of MGNREGS workers. For other major cleaning works, we have formulated projects allotting special funds. We have formulated a Rs 3-lakh project for the cleaning of Thuruthithodu and the works will start soon. Work on Chalakkal thodu is also yet to start,” said panchayat president K A Ramesh. Alangad panchayat, which was almost completely submerged in the flood in 2018, is yet to take up cleaning works of three canals. “Cleaning works of two canals have been completed and works on another one will start on Wednesday. Tenders of two other canals are completed and the works would start soon,” said panchayat vice-president K V Unni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-bodies-seek-fund-to-clean-canals/articleshow/76142775.cms||T C Sreemol
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||To boost attendance, RTU raises internal marks from 20 to 30||Jaipur: In a major relief to engineering colleges, Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) has allowed its affiliated colleges to increase internal marks from 20 to 30 from the coming session. The revised internal marks will help increase the attendance of students and improve learning outcomes among them. RTU vice-chancellor RA Gupta said students appear for two-semester exams while remaining under the watch of teachers throughout the year. “The teachers give them assignments and closely follow the learning outcomes of each and every student. It will be fair if teachers can have a greater say in the assessment of the students,” said Gupta. Every student during a span of 4 years appears in 40 papers with 100 marks each. It includes 80 marks for theory and 20 for internal which has been revised from the coming session. Highlighting the other impact of this decision, Puneet Sharma, a technical education expert, said this was a much-needed step taken by the RTU which would at least fill the classes. “Attendance has been a major problem in many colleges. By adding 10 more marks, it will allow the colleges to add more assessment activities which would require the students to remain present in the classrooms,” said Sharma. This has been the demand of most of the 150 affiliated engineering colleges. Jaipal Meel, director SKIT Engineering College, said it was a step towards greater autonomy for engineering colleges. “More attendance means more interaction which eventually would improve the learning of students. It will make colleges more relevant which would help in innovation in technical education,” said Meel. RTU has announced the last and final mercy chance for engineering students who failed to clear their engineering in the maximum of eight mercy chances after four years of their engineering period is over. The chance is for those who enrolled for engineering from 2006-2012 and have not yet clear their back papers. The exam will be held in July. “The last and final mercy chance is for those who have studied for four years but failed to get the degree as they are yet to clear some exams which are known as back papers. RTU has extended the last chance on the grounds of compassion and belief that this chance can change their lives,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/to-boost-attendance-rtu-raises-internal-marks-from-20-to-30/articleshow/76145168.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Neighbours attack elderly man in Wani||NASHIK: Three women of a family allegedly beat up their neighbours who had called relatives from Covid-affected places like Mumbai and Nashik to come and stay with them. The Wani police have booked the three women under different sections of the IPC. The Wani police said that Lahanu Jadhav, a 72-year-old resident of Jawai Nagar, Lakhmapur in Dindori taluka, said in his complaint that on Sunday morning, a woman in his neighbourhood picked up an argument with him for calling his son, daughter and grandchildren from Mumbai to stay with him. The woman said that Lahanu Jadhav has “invited” coronavirus in their village by calling his son and daughter from Mumbai and Nashik. The woman also said that her children had fallen ill after Jadhav’s children and grandchildren came to the village. Jadhav alleged that as the argument escalated, the woman picked up a sharp weapon and hit him. He suffered an injury on his forehead. Meanwhile, Jadhav’s daughter Manisha Gangurde also got injured on her finger when she attempted to shield her father. Jadhav complained that soon two more women from the neighbouring family joined the fight and beat him, Manisha and other members of his family. APSI R Sonawane of the Wani police station, who is investigating the case, said Jadhav’s family members who have come from Mumbai and Nashik have proper permissions from the departments concerned in their respective places. Sonawane said none of them is infected with Covid 19. The argument only escalated over suspicion that the Jadhav’s son, daughter and grandchildren could be infected with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/neighbours-attack-elderly-man-in-wani/articleshow/76142770.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Finally, 2 long-route trains chug out of city with passengers||Ludhiana: After a gap of more than two months railway authorities have resumed the service of long-route passenger trains on different routes. City travellers were relieved as two trains arrived at the city station at their respective schedule for carrying the passengers to their designated places. Almost nine trains will be passing through the city station daily in the coming days on regular basis carrying thousands of regular passengers. Amid tight security around the station premises, the railway authorities have reopened their main entrance for giving easy passage to local passengers who have confirmed tickets of the seven coaches of Jan Shatabdi Express (Amritsar to Haridwar), which reached platform number 1 around 9am. As many as 77 local passengers boarded the Jan Shatabdi Express from the city after undergoing screening and verification process. As per directions of higher officials, local railway authorities didn’t allow any passenger to sit inside the waiting rooms of the city station and they were made to sit in big halls under the supervision of ticket checking staff while following the social distancing norm. Entry was allowed to all passengers 90 minutes before the schedule arrival of both two trains. Apart from that, the 22-coach Saryu Yamuna Express heading towards Jay Nagar arrived during afternoon hours for carrying the second batch of local passengers here on Monday. As many as 100 passengers boarded the Uttar Pradesh-bound train after undergoing formalities. The railway authorities have also taken the help of the district health department team for conducting medical screening of passengers who had arrived in the Amritsar-bound train. All the inbound passengers were told to remain home quarantined for next 14 days by health officials and they were asked to submit a self declaration form on previous health issues. According to passengers, arrangements at the city railway station as far as security, cleanliness, availability of pure clean drinking water was concerned were satisfactory. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “The number of passengers on-board the passenger trains from here were quite large. Railway authorities have installed special check points for entry and exit of passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/finally-2-long-route-trains-chug-out-of-city-with-passengers/articleshow/76143826.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Scientists rule out locust attack in north Andhra||Visakhapatnam: Scientists from the Vizianagaram Centre of the Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University on Monday ruled out the entry of desert locust in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. The six-member team of scientists headed by agriculture department deputy director (plant protection) A Nagabhushana Rao and entomologist M Swathi visited Sivadavalasa village in Vizianagaram district. Speaking to TOI, Rao said the insects they spotted in the village are grasshoppers or coffee grasshoppers and not locusts as rumoured in social media platforms. Rao said they toured a near 15km radius of the village to check for the insect before drawing the conclusion. They submitted their study report to Vizianagaram collector Hari Jawaharlal. Swathi said there is a small difference between grasshoppers and locusts. While grasshoppers fly in hundreds, the locusts in lakhs and crores. “There were no reports of entry or attack of desert locusts in southern India so far. The locusts are commonly seen in desert places like Rajasthan whereas grasshoppers are commonly seen in places like Andhra Pradesh” the entomologist told TOI. Another scientist N Lakshman said they sprayed Chlorpyrifos (2.5ml/liter) on the plants – Ankudu in Telugu – where the grasshoppers were found in a large number. “We also visited nearby places where coffee and jackfruits are grown. Usually, these insects are attracted to coffee and jackfruit plants,” Lakshman said. The Visakhapatnam in-charge minister Kurasala Kannababu has confirmed that there are no locusts in the state; the insects that were seen in Vizianagaram and Anantapur were grasshoppers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/scientists-rule-out-locust-attack-in-north-andhra/articleshow/76142778.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Two stone mine workers end lives in Kota over two days||KOTA: Two stone mine workers committed suicide by hanging at separate places in Suket town of Kota district on Sunday and Monday. The labourers were alcoholic and reportedly distressed over their poor economic conditions, further shattered in the two months of lockdown. The exact reasons of the suicides would, however, be ascertained after investigation into the matter is over. Police handed over the bodies to their respective family members after postmortem on Monday. In the first case, Prem Singh, 36, committed suicide by hanging in the foreyard of his house on Nayagaun Road in Suket town on Sunday evening. Prem Singh was a native of Aagar district in Madhya Pradesh and had been working in a stone mine in Suket, while living with his wife and 11-year-old daughter in on Nayagaun Road, SHO Suket police station Mohan Singh said. He was alcoholic and suspected his wife’s fidelity. Scuffle between husband and wife was order of the day, he further said, adding that his wife and daughter had been to market when he committed suicide. In another case, 37-year-old Jugraj Bairwa, also a stone mine worker and alcoholic, hanged himself to the ceiling on Monday morning at his house in ward number 6 in Satalkhedi village of Suket police station area, the SHO said. The deceased labourer was a native of Kapren area in Bundi district and had been living in Satalkhedi village. He also seemed to be running short of money as on Sunday night he had borrowed Rs 100 from his father-in-law, who also lived in the same village. Bairwa did not move to his native place during the lockdown, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-stone-mine-workers-end-lives-in-kota-over-2-days/articleshow/76145193.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Nashik||Government order may halt road works worth Rs 75 crore in Nashik||NASHIK: The Government Resolution (GR), dated May 18, asking to stop all road development works is likely to halt projects worth Rs 75 crore in Nashik, a senior officer from the state PWD said. The state government has decided to cut down on expenses on construction of roads to certain levels in order to bring down the load on budgetary expenses and further help in arranging things required to fight Covid-19. “Due to this, projects worth Rs 25 crore under Special Repairs (SR) and Flood Damaged Repairs (FDR) will be affected along with budgeted works of around Rs 50 crore,” the official said. “All the works that were sanctioned before March 2019 and were yet to start or orders still not issued have to be cancelled. Also, all the works under the FDR which have not yet started should be cancelled at once. The order, however, excludes the construction of the bridges,” he added. The government has at the same time ordered the PWD to stop the works of the construction of the roads under the FDR by ensuring the constructed works are stopped at safe levels to avoid any kinds of accidents. Similar orders have been issued for the construction of roads being carried out after receiving budgetary allocation. “Some of the works included in the budgetary allocation will have to be stopped. But they can be resumed later with availability of funds unlike the non-planned works that may not resume any soon,” the officer added. The total quantum of works in the district is around Rs 300 crore and Covid-19 is likely to affect works worth Rs 75 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-order-may-halt-road-works-worth-rs-75cr-in-nashik/articleshow/76142748.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 2, 2020||Kochi||No ‘breakthrough’ in Rs 16cr project||Kochi: With monsoon round the corner, Kochi corporation authorities have neither completed desilting of Thevara-Perandoor canal nor the construction of wall. The Rs 16-crore project under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme had started in December 2018 though nod for the project was given in August 2016. Apart from desilting and removal of weeds, the project had envisaged construction of retaining walls and fence. For facilitating speedy completion, the work was divided into five reaches or phases. First reach consisted of the area from Thevara to Kallupalam near Pallimukku, while second reach was from Kallupalam to P&T Colony. The stretch between P& T Colony -Kaloor was the third reach. Kaloor-Pottakuzhy and Pottakkuzhy-Perandoor stretches were the fourth and fifth stretches. “According to the contractor, identifying the boundary of canals delayed the work. Various departments like revenue and survey should have identified the boundaries and handed over the sketch to the contractor,” said P M Harris, chairman, works standing committee, Kochi corporation. As the local body had shelled out Rs.16 crore from Amrut scheme for desilting the canal, Kochi corporation authorities are unable to spend more for the same. Hence, desilting of the canal is unlikely to be completed in the near future. Thevara-Perandoor canal is the arterial canal in Kochi which is linked to small canals and drainsAs the canal is filled with silt, it will overflow a few days after the monsoon begins. At the same time, other major canals, river mouths etc., in the city are being desilted under the second phase of Operation Breakthrough. The works under the second phase of Operation Breakthrough are fast progressing. But, many works under the first phase of the project are still incomplete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-breakthrough-in-rs-16cr-project/articleshow/76142805.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Union HM assures CM all help||Gandhinagar: Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday assured chief minister Vijay Rupani of all possible help to meet any situation arising out of impending cyclone ‘Nisarga’. Nisarga is likely to hit south Gujarat and Bhavnagar and Amreli districts of Saurashtra region. The chief minister apprised the union home minister about the preparedness of the state government to face the cyclone in a video conference from Gandhinagar. Rupani also briefed Shah that as precautionary measures, the state government has kept National Disaster Response Force teams ready and has also made preparations to shift people living in low-lying areas — fishermen, salt pan workers and people working at prawn farms — to safer places. The video conference was also attended by deputy CM Nitin Patel, MOS home Pradipsinh Jadeja, chief secretary Anil Mukim and K Kailashnathan, chief principal secretary to the the CM, DGP Shivanand Jha and other officials of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/union-hm-assures-cm-all-help/articleshow/76144643.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer intensifies anti-locust operations||JAISALMER: Several kilometre-long locust swarms entered India from Indo-Pak border and reached the city on Sunday evening. The locust control department and agriculture department started joint action to destroy the pests, which continued till Monday morning. The locusts are being destroyed using 14 different resources, including six sprayer machines and other means. District collector Namit Mehta, in a letter to agriculture department, has requested to fill the vacant posts and writing to locust control department, has asked to provide additional sprayer vehicles and other resources. Swarms of locusts that came from across the border on Sunday evening attacked Jaisalmer city as people tried to shoo them away by beating drums etc. Mehta and officers of agriculture department and locust control department visited the city and directed to destroy locusts after they settle down. The pests settled down near the city at Mukteshwar Mahadev temple and Gadisar lake banks. Confirming this, temple committee member Jugal Kishore said that the locusts have eaten up Neem and Peepal trees and also damaged many plants in the temple premises. Agriculture department deputy director Radheyshyam Narwal said that a campaign has been launched to destroy the locusts in different areas. He said the pests were destroyed in 2-3km area on Airport Road and in various villages. Six vehicles, five fire brigade vehicles and three tractors were used to destroy them. He said on Saturday, locusts were killed in Raghava, Seuwa and other areas. Locust control department officer Dr Rajesh Kumar said that the department has been destroying locusts for the last two days. He said locusts were killed in the 2-km area in Lanena village, 2-3km area on Khuhadi Road and also in Hamira village. He said three posts have been set by the locust control department at the Indo-Pak border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-intensifies-anti-locust-operations/articleshow/76145219.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Mental health experts switch to teleconsultation mode||BENGALURU: Much has been written about the effects that staying cloistered within four walls for prolonged periods has on the mental wellbeing of individuals, and experts have weighed in on how best these problems can be overcome. However, the logistics involved in treating those with psychological disorders have not been given the attention they deserve. Despite lockdown norms being eased, doctors have not been able to see patients who come from far-off places. Teleconsultation has, to some extent, helped bridge the distance, but the jury is still out on its efficacy. Dr Suresh Bada Math, head of telemedicine centre and forensic psychiatry services, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans), said that telepsychiatry consultation is no less effective than interpersonal sessions. “There is a very large number of patients who need follow-up consultations and will benefit greatly from teleconsultation. Each doctor will perhaps have around 30-40% of patients from distant places for follow-ups and refill of medication,” he said. His colleague Dr Rajendra HM, assistant professor, department of child and adolescent psychiatry, said: “Nimhans launched a system wherein those seeking a consultation can book an appointment by furnishing their name and patient number. For in-patients, we call parents of kids to get their consent and thenn speak to children over the phone.” Dr Vinay HR, assistant professor, department of psychiatry, Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences, in Bellur, Mandya district, has not been offering teleconsultation. “Patients who had exhausted their medication and were exhibiting violent behaviour, and those unable to cope with the non-availability of alcohol and were displaying severe withdrawal symptoms that included disorientation, hallucination and severe agitation, were among cases we had to treat on priority,” he said. “Social distancing norms have made our job difficult,” said Dr Shivanand Hiremath, consultant psychiatrist, Aantharya Neuropsychiatric Centre, Hubballi. He uses apps such as Practo and Telearogya to prescribe medicines. The lack of internet connectivity in rural areas hampers telemedicine. Dr Bada Math says the the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines have legitimised consultation via sms, phone and email. One problem in reaching the unreached is aggressive marketing of IT intermediaries trying to sell products to doctors under the pretext of offering security. Such a commercial mindset will keep quality healthcare out of the reach for rural patients.” First consultation to be in person’ “Physical examination is very important while we prescribe medication. Teleconsultation can be a boon for followup patients. Often, patients with mental illnesses are required to take medicines for periods lasting months, and sometimes, years. Around 40-50% of patients can have follow-up sessions through teleconsultation,” said Dr Suresh Bada Math, head of forensic psychiatry sciences, Nimhans. (With inputs from B Kishansingh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mental-health-experts-switch-to-teleconsultation-mode/articleshow/76143891.cms||Santosh Kumar R B
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||‘From now on 2 persons on two-wheeler will not be challaned’||Ludhiana: From now on, Ludhiana police will not challan or impose fine on two persons riding a two-wheeler. This was stated by Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal during his Facebook live session on Monday evening. In this session, the top cop answered queries of residents related to lock down 5.0. The maximum queries the CP got were over challans of two-wheelers for having two people on it, followed by opening of educational institutes, inter-state travell, doing morning walk, necessity of wearing mask where there is less people. A resident, Rahul Ahuja, asked why police are issuing challans to those riding pillion on a two-wheeler. To this, the CP replied that considering the requests of residents, the Ludhiana police have allowed two persons to travel on a two-wheeler from Monday onwards. They will not be challaned. Further Sohan Singh questioned whether four members of a family can travel in one car in case of an emergency. Agarwal said according to rule, only three persons, including driver, can commute in a car even if it is seven-seater. Further answering queries, CP he said people could go for a walk between 5am and 8pm. However, they will have to wear mask, ensure proper distance and also won’t use open gyms in parks. Preeti Dhiman said autorickshaw drivers were over charging, to which the top cop replied that the traffic police would be asked to check it. In autos too, total only three persons, including driver, are allowed to sit. Further Abhimanuy Singh asked about the timing for running factories. Agarwal said factories could run 24 hours, but they will have to set the timing of labour movement accordingly. Harish Dutt questioned if his daughter could travel from Delhi to Ludhiana and would require any pass. Agarwal replied, “No pass is needed to travel from other states to Punjab or Ludhiana. But 14 days home quarantine and installing COVA mobile application is a must for them.” A city resident, Rajat Sharma, asked if he could give home tuition. The CP replied that home coaching can be given to one person only. Agarwal said educational institutes could open for office work or for preparation of online classes only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/from-now-on-2-persons-on-two-wheeler-will-not-be-challaned/articleshow/76143895.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Shortage of workers hits food stalls operations at railway station||Ludhiana: Shortage of workers affected food stall owners who couldn’t function properly or deliver packed food items to local passengers who had reached there to catch the long-route trains. The Railways have given permission to food stall owners for starting take-away packed food items from their retail counters after following all standard protocol. Apart from that, it has also been decided to reopen the pantry car service on for passenger trains crossing the city after issuing of the health advisory about implementation of safety norms while delivering packed food items to on-boarded passengers. There are more than seven stalls and 20 trolleys which used to serve food items to thousand of rail commuters before the enforcement of lockdown in country. But after rail service was resumed, only one food stall owner operated on Monday as it had become difficult for most of them to re-open their food stalls as they had suffered huge losses in the past two months. Kishori Lal, an owner of a food stall operating on the station premises, said, “The Railways have decided to not charge any rental for the past two months following the lockdown period as we didn’t operate food stalls and faced huge losses.” “Only one food stall opened on Monday after the authorities requested them to reopen the vends for providing food items to passengers,” a stall owner said. Sources in railway department said, “Food stall owners are not in a position to operate their food stalls as passengers are not in mood of even purchasing packed food items from them because of the sense of fear. But on other side, the higher authorities had assigned special duties to the local health department officials to run a special drive to check maintenance and cleanliness of food stalls and impose penalty on those found not adhering to norms.” Senior divisional commercial manager of Ferozepur division Vivek Sharma said, “It’s not mandatory for food stall owner to reopen these as we have made it clear in the notification that it’s up to the owner of food stalls whether they feel save to operate or not.” Apart from that, it has been made mandatory for all vendors to wear hairnets, masks, gloves (disposable, non-disposable) and aprons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shortage-of-workers-hits-food-stalls-operations-at-railway-station/articleshow/76143858.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Teen shot dead over loud music||KOTA: Scuffle between two neighbouring families over loud music claimed the life of a 15-year-old boy at Punniyakhedi village under Kamkheda police station of Jhalawar district on Sunday evening. The two families are related to each other, police said. A 21-year-old youth allegedly fired with his countrymade pistol and killed the boy on the spot. The accused fled away from the crime spot and is yet to be nabbed, police said. Kamkheda police lodged a murder case against the youth and six others of his family. A scuffle over loud sound of speakers erupted between two neighboring families in Punniyakhedi village on Saturday night, but it was brought under control after sometime following exchange of hot words between the members of two families, Kamkheda SHO Madan Lal said. On Sunday evening, the key accused, identified as Kamlesh Lodha (21), still irked over last night’s scuffle, rushed to the neighbor’s house with a countrymade pistol and shot a bullet that penetrated through the temple of the boy identified as Jugalkishore Lodha, the SHO said. The accused fled away from the spot after crime and is yet to be nabbed, he added. The boy was rushed to local hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-shot-dead-over-loud-music/articleshow/76145230.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pre-monsoon showers in city||Ahmedabad: Amdavadis experienced a sudden change in weather on Monday evening as the overcast sky brought light drizzles accompanied by lightning in several parts of the city. Areas such as Navrangpura, Paldi, Ambawadi, Satellite, Anandnagar, etc. recorded light showers. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said these are pre-monsoon showers and due to a depression in the Arabian Sea, the city and district could get a few sporadic spells in next 2-3 days. In Satellite, there was light drizzle even as strong winds swept the areas in evening. “The weather change has come as a major relief from the oppressing heat. But one only prays the rains that lash Ahmedabad as part of Nisarg cyclone do not cause any damage or give impetus to spread of coronavirus in the city,” said Preetu Patel, a resident of Vejalpur. Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) received several calls over trees falling. But no one was reported injured, said officials. ‘Landfall likely between Raigad in Maha and Daman on June 3 afternoon’ Ahmedabad: India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday said that the depression in Arabian Sea now lays about 570km south-southwest of Mumbai and 800km south-southwest of Surat as on Monday night. The depression could take form of a cyclonic storm as it approaches the Gujarat and Maharashtra coasts in subsequent two days. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director of IMD, said they are keeping a close watch on the course of the depression. “It’s likely that the landfall may take place between Raigad in Maharashtra and Daman on the afternoon of June 3. It’s going to bring heavy to very heavy rainfall with strong winds in several parts of Gujarat,” he said. The IMD forecast on Monday stated that heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in Navsari, Valsad, Dang, Tapi, Narmada, Surat, Bharuch, Bhavnagar and Amreli along with Union territories of Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and all the above-mentioned districts along with Vadodara and Chhota Udepur on June 4. Majority of the coastal districts are likely to get rainfall on both the days. The maximum temperature on Monday was recorded in Surendranagar at 41.5C, followed by 41.2 degrees in Ahmedabad and Rajkot. ‘No large change in maximum temperature is likely over the region during next 24 hours. Thereafter a fall by 2-3 degrees is very likely over subsequent three days,’ stated the forecast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pre-monsoon-showers-in-city/articleshow/76144585.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Experts find way to better tomato yield with less water||JAIPUR: Scientists in Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI), Jodhpur can now grow tomatoes and cucumber in low amount of water in the arid region.  Water conservation has always been a priority of people in the arid region of the state. With the use of grafting technique, drip irrigation in poly houses, scientists of CAZRI were able to produce one kilogram of tomatoes in 35 litres of water as opposed to 250 litres required in open fields. Director of CAZRI, O P Yadav explained, “This method is very efficient in economizing water use in vegetable cultivation in arid region. Our scientists have used the rootstock of a wild tomato (Solanum piminellifolium) attaching it to the cultivated/commercial tomato cultivator. This was done because wild tomato rootstock was found suitable to provide water and nutrients more efficiently even under water stress conditions to the aerial part of the plant. Wild tomatoes are resistant to diseases and utilise less water. With grafting, not only water but also nutrients are transferred to the cultivated tomatoes, thus helping it attain better growth and produce high yield.” In cucumber, rootstock of pumpkin is used which considered to be disease resistant. The project was directed by senior scientists Pradeep Kumar and P S Khapte. They are hopeful that this will help resolve the water crisis in arid zone. “In open field, it takes around 250-300 litres of water through flooding methods to grow one kilogram of tomatoes. We have brought it down to 35 litres and in cucumber to 24-27 litres in poly houses using grafting and drip irrigation. Moreover, it will also increase the production by 40%. So, a farmer’s recurring issues of water, low production and soil-borne disease in poly-houses will be resolved through this approach,” Pradeep said. He said that tomato grafting is relatively easier than cucumber in terms of technicality involved. A trained farmer can do tomato grafting, but for cucumber grafting, a farmer will have to approach vegetable nursery for grafted seedlings as it involves technicality and relatively particular environment for grafted seedling production. There will also be 25% to 50% increase in cost of inputs for farmers for using grafting technique which scientists say will be compensated by the higher production rate in the field with lesser risk from adverse growing conditions .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/experts-find-way-to-better-tomato-yield-with-less-water/articleshow/76145240.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Uthra murder: Sooraj’s father Surendran arrested||Kollam: In snakebite murder case, Crime Branch arrested the father of Uthra’s husband from his residence at Parakkode near Adoor on Monday night. A Crime Branch team led by DySP A Ashokan arrested Surendran around 9.30pm after unearthing part of gold jewellery weighing around 37 sovereigns from Sooraj’s house premises. Police dug out the gold from two places on the house premises. Based on a statement by Sooraj, police interrogated his father Surendran, who was in the knowhow of the crime, for several hours. The women’s commission had asked the police to register a case against the family members of Sooraj. Uthra’s family had alleged that Sooraj and his family members were continuously harassing Uthra to extract more money from her family. They also alleged that Sooraj’s family had taken away a major portion of gold given to her as dowry from the bank locker. In the coming days, Sooraj’s mother and sister also will be interrogated. It was on May 7 that Uthra of Eram, Anchal, died following snake bite .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uthra-murder-soorajs-father-surendran-arrested/articleshow/76143850.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Panel with entomology professors set up to keep an eye on locusts in state||Visakhapatnam: Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu on Monday said officials have not spotted any desert locusts so far, only local grasshoppers. “We have constituted a committee with entomology professors on the directions of the CM,” said Kannababu. Speaking to the media here after a review meet on various developmental activities with several ministers, MPs, MLAs and district officials, Kannababu said the government will go to any extent to protect government land in Visakhapatnam, which is slated to become the executive capital. The district officials informed him that they have invited bids to prepare a DPR for the water project, which will bring water from Polavaram to Visakhapatnam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/panel-with-entomology-professors-set-up-to-keep-an-eye-on-locusts-in-state/articleshow/76142795.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Four cops among 77 confirmed infected in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Udupi/ Mangaluru: The coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada saw biggest spike of Covid-19 patients with 77 fresh cases being reported in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday. This was on a day that Karnataka recorded 187 fresh cases. While Udupi accounted for 73, including four policemen, including a DSP, Dakshina Kannada recorded four, taking the total number of the active cases in Udupi to 195, and Dakshina Kannada to 74. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said 68 of the 73 cases have been detected and shifted to TMA Pai Hospital. “We were not able to trace five people as their cellphones are switched of,” the DC said, adding they will also be traced and shifted to the hospital. “Four of those tested positive are policemen, and they have been shifted to the Covid-19 hospital for treatment,” he added. Three of those tested positive had returned to the district from Dubai, the DC said, adding the rest are those returned from Maharashtra. On the other hand, DK recorded four new cases. While one of them, a 45-year-old woman from Belthangady, has Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), the other is a 24-year-old youth who had returned from Bahrain in February, and wanted to return there. He approached a private lab for a test, that confirmed him to be positive. Steps have been taken to ascertain his primary and secondary contacts, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/four-cops-among-77-confirmed-infected-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/76144581.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 40 not enough, government buses to ply on 100 routes from today||KOLKATA: Long queues at bus stands across the city and traffic choke points at some busy intersections marked the first day of Unlock 1.0 on Monday morning. While state buses plied on 40 routes, private buses of seven routes hit the roads on Monday. Taxis, bike taxis and metered cabs operated nearly 50% of their fleet strength but it wasn’t enough. To ease the pressure, the state will press buses into service on 60 more routes on Tuesday and private buses will ply on 18 routes. Several mini-buses are also likely to ply on Tuesday. “When you resume normality after a long lockdown, there would be some teething issues. But with the progress of the week, there will be gradual easing out of troubles. We are scaling up services to optimum level so that passengers don’t need to wait long for buses,” transport minister Suvendu Adhikari told TOI. Passengers, particularly those who do not board buses from terminal points, faced the maximum problem on Monday. “I board Dalhousie-bound buses from Taratala. But for more than two hours, I got no bus as all the seats were full from the bus terminus. So, I walked upto 14 No. bus stand to queue up for S3B. It took me more than three hours to board the bus,” said Anish Chakraborty, a private firm employee. The long queues returned to haunt STU operators during the evening peak hours. Clogged roads added to commuters’woes on Monday. Damaged traffic signals, a surge in the number of cars and two-wheelers, fallen trees eating up road space and the inability to centrally monitor the traffic movement due to technical issues paralysed by Cyclone Amphan — all contributed to the chaos. Police sources said with Tallah Bridge shut and ongoing work on a portion of the RG Kar bridge meant that it took close to an hour to cross BT Road and reach CR Avenue. “This was probably the first time in the past three months that cars crawled on Chitpur Lockgate Bridge,” said bank official Asim Roy. For others, crossing the Rabindra Bharati University stretch took over eight to 12 minutes alone. With north-bound traffic trying to take the new Chitpore Level-Crossing Road cutting flow from north to south, the jam stretched all the way to Sovabazar Metro station. South Kolkata, though, managed to escape with minor snarls though the two EM Bypass connectors witnessed heavy traffic. At certain stretches, like Southern Avenue and Lake Gardens, fallen trees obstructed the free flow of vehicles. In central Kolkata, Sealdah-Entally did not witness usual snarls in the absence of train services but CR Avenue and Park street saw moderately high traffic. Police though are worried about two-wheelers that have thrown up a challenge in prosecution in the absence of CCTV footage. Traffic police are planning to introduce barricades for night patrolling and propose a zig-zag pattern of movement so that vehicles are forced to cut down on speed. Days after multiple complaints of excessive charges against autos originating in Salt Lake, Ultadanga and Phoolbagan, the respective unions have stepped in and decided to regulate the fares. Reports of norms being flouted were reported from routes like Ultadanga-Baguiati, Beliaghata ID-Phoolbagan-RG Kar and Park Circus Lohapool-Dharmatala. Auto drivers from the Sovabazar-Ultadanga route claimed it was due to “passenger pressure” that they were being “forced to carry extra passengers”. “We are looking into the complaints,” said DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/40-not-enough-govt-buses-to-ply-on-100-routes-from-today/articleshow/76143916.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Only 30 lightning arresters in Marathwada region||AURANGABAD: Environmental activists have been demanding more protective devices in the region as a considerable number of deaths are reported every year. Currently, the 65 lakh hectare area has only 30 lightning arresters in eight districts. As per official data, Beed the district has maximum six lightning arresters, followed by four each for Aurangabad, Nanded, Parbhani, Latur and Osmanabad districts while two each in Jalna and Hingoli districts. Civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil said the government must install lightning arrester per each revenue circle. “The existing number of lightning arresters installed is insufficient considering the large geographical spread of the region. The government must analyse the incidents and install the protective devices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/only-30-lightning-arresters-in-marathwada-region/articleshow/76142811.cms||Prasad Joshi
June 2, 2020||Mysuru||Kannada folksong raises Covid-19 awareness||Mysuru: Vijayalakshmi Manapura, an assistant professor in the department of folklore at Maharaja’s College in Mysuru has come out with a folk song in Kannada on the dos and don’ts to effectively tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Her husband Premkumar P Wellington and son P Praneel have translated the song to Tamil and Hindi. which has become viral on social networking sites. The song ‘Corona Bandaite Jopaana’ written and composed by Vijayalakshmi has been shared widely on social media and has become popular among the rural population. This song also lessens the burden of district administration in spreading awareness among masses. Vijayalakshmi told TOI, “Folksongs are a good means of raising awareness among rural people. Hence I decided to write such a song on Corona virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kannada-folksong-raises-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/76144206.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Former minister wants mandatory test for all returnees||Mangaluru: Calling it a serious lapse on the part of government, former health minister U T Khader said the new protocol issued by the Karnataka government on May 31 with regard to inter-state travellers to the state during the Unlock Phase I will lead to a disaster. Khader said the government has utterly failed to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “Making RT-PCR test mandatory only for symptomatic travellers and reducing the institutional quarantine period to seven days is an illogical decision. All inter-state travellers coming from high risk states should be made to undergo test compulsorily. The Congress Task Force will meet ministers to amend the guidelines,” Mangaluru MLA Khader said. Citing an example of a person testing positive after completing seven days of institutional quarantine in Mangaluru, Khader said all inter-state and international travellers entering the state should mandatorily undergo 14 days’ quarantine and test for Covid-19. “Government must consider the issue very seriously. In fact, the number of Covid-19 tests should be doubled during the unlock phase when people move in public places without much restrictions,” Khader said. He questioned the logic of enforcing lockdown when the disease was in its initial phase of spreading and unlocking it when it is widespread. “What was the intention of the government to announce lockdown and damage the entire economy? People have cooperated with the government in the past two months during the lockdown. Initially, inter-state travellers were made to undergo 28 days of quarantine and later it was reduced to 14 days. Now, it seems that the state government is sending the virus to people’s doorsteps by relaxing the rules again,” he said. “Let state government clarify what makes them desist from making tests mandatory for travellers from outside. Let government open more RT-PCR laboratories and increase the capacity of existing facilities,” Khader demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/former-minister-wants-mandatory-test-for-all-returnees/articleshow/76144165.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Endowment dept ready with SOP to open temples: Kota||Mangaluru: Unlock 1.0 will bring devotees much closer to the almighty across 3,000-odd temples under the department of religious endowment. With the Union government fixing June 8 as the date when temples and other religious institutions will open their doors to the devout after more than 70 days of lockdown, the department has readied SOP to ensure that the devotees’ visit is a smooth and safe affair. Commissioner for religious endowment, Rohini Sindhuri, told TOI that SOP is presently with the government and will be notified soon. “It will not be much different, and mandates basic principles of social distancing, cleanliness and reducing contact between devotees and temple staff,” she said, adding the practice of giving ‘theertha’ will largely be discontinued. Other practice of giving ‘gandha prasada’ and ‘kumkum’ will be cautiously observed, she said. Echoing these sentiments, minister for religious endowment, Kota Shrinivas Poojary, told TOI that the officials have worked out the SOP keeping in mind various guidelines that the Centre has issued. “We are seriously considering not allowing devotees to bring their hands close to ‘aarati’ given that people use sanitisers that have highly inflammable liquid (alcohol) in most of them,” he said. Even giving ‘theertha’ will be avoided to a large extent, he said. The SOP will also have clear guidelines on the number of devotees who can enter the temple at any given point of time, and the safety precautions they must take. All religious functions like temple utsavs will continue — either as an in-house event or the one with limited number of devotees and staff. There will be no temple jatras that attract large number of devotees for the time being, keeping in mind the Covid crisis, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/endowment-dept-ready-with-sop-to-open-temples-kota/articleshow/76144367.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur grappling with dengue besides Covid||Kolhapur: The civic administration, while trying to prevent the spread of Covid-19, is also grappling with another problem — the rise in dengue cases in the city. Over the past few days, dengue suspects with high fever have been reported from Rajarampuri, Daulatnagar, Rajendranagar, Sathmari and Tatakadil Talim Mandal areas in Kolhapur city. Officials of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said there have been atleast four confirmed dengue cases from these areas. The untimely showers a couple of weeks ago led to waterlogging in many areas, providing a conducive environment for dengue-spreading mosquitoes to breed. Most dengue cases are usually reported in May and June every year. The KMC’s health department has appealed to the citizens to not get confused between the symptoms of dengue and Covid-19. KMC’s chief health officer Dilip Patil said, “Both diseases have distinct symptoms. While in dengue, high fever is accompanied by headache, bodyache and joint pain, the symptoms of Covid-19 are dry cough and rise in body temperature.” “We have already started looking for dengue suspects. Private hospitals have been asked to notify the details of the patients who get admitted for dengue treatment. We are collecting blood samples of the suspects and getting them tested in the Sentinel laboratory at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje hospital,” said Patil. The civic administration has also appealed to citizens to donate blood as the blood banks are facing shortages. Plasma with platelets is injected into dengue patients as their platelet-count plummets drastically. Without blood donation, adequate amount of plasma cannot be prepared. While the platelet count in a healthy individual is around 1.5 lakh to 4.5 lakh/microlitre of blood, the count drops to 20,000/microlitre of blood in dengue patients. In a worst case scenario, the situation may turn fatal if plasma is not injected in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-grappling-with-dengue-besides-covid/articleshow/76124512.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||KMRL hopeful about Phase II extension||Kochi: In spite of the financial crisis, the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) is hopeful about getting the required sanctions for phase II extension of Kochi Metro project. Though the Metro agency does not face any shortage in funds for executing various projects which are already approved and is in the process of execution, officials are concerned about implementation of projects like Bliss City being planned at Kakkanad. “The financial crisis has in no way affected ongoing projects like Kochi Water Metro project, Petta-Tripunithura extension of Kochi metro and widening of the stretch between Cochin Special Economic Zone and Collectorate Junction at Kakkanad,” said a Kochi Metro official. He said funds have already been released for these works. Moreover, KMRL has also received financial assistance from foreign funding agencies. “So, there will not be any shortage of funds,” he added. However, senior officials familiar with Kochi Metro project said though the state government is in favour of implementing the phase II from Jawaharlal Nehru stadium to Kakkanad, the Centre has not yet accorded a green signal. “The hope is that the Centre will approval for extension plans as it will give a much-needed impetus to the economy,” said a senior official. Meanwhile, there are sceptics who expressed fear that Kochi Metro would end up as another white elephant. Due to lockdown, Metro operations have been halted. In the meantime, KMRL will have to meet expenses related to maintenance of its assets as well that of staff. “More than Rs 5,000 crore has already been spent on the project. The returns are disappointing. If Kochi Metro does not start moving it will be a huge burden on the exchequer,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmrl-hopeful-about-phase-ii-extension/articleshow/76142815.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Focus shifts to home quarantine, neighbours to keep tabs||BENGALURU: Karnataka appears to have shifted its Covid-19 surveillance strategy from institutional quarantine to home quarantine and vigil by local bodies and neighbours, given the logistics involved in handling a minimum of 27,000 persons estimated to enter the state every day. “With travel restrictions easing, there could be many asymptomatic carriers and testing all of them won’t be possible. We will have to move to home quarantine taking logistics into consideration. Anyone who enters Karnataka and is in home quarantine must alert the health department if they develop any symptom and go to a fever clinic,” said health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey. According to the new standard operating procedure (SOP) announced on Sunday evening, institutional quarantine for seven days is mandatory only for travellers without symptoms from Maharashtra. Earlier, travellers from Delhi, Gujarat, Rajashthan, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu too had to undergo institutional quarantine. As per a rough estimate by the health and family welfare department, a minimum 6,000 people will be entering Karnataka via domestic flights every day. With train services resuming, there would be 7,000 people entering the state, apart from close to 10,000-15,000 entrants through roadways. “To enter Karnataka, Seva Sindhu registration continues to be mandatory. Also, health screening at border check posts continues,” Pandey said. Experts involved in chalking out Karnataka’s surveillance strategy say Covid-19’s trajectory in the state will henceforth depend on how asymptomatic carriers behave and vigilance on the part of gram panchayats, ward committees, RWAs and neighbours. Officers admitted that some people have been entering the state skipping the Seva Sindhu portal and such instances are likely to increase in future. The BBMP on Sunday identified two people, one each in Vrishabhavathi ward and Shankar Muttt ward, who entered the state evading the authorities. Acting on tipoffs, BBMP officials visited their houses and hand-stamped them for home quarantine. Posters of home quarantine, bearing names of the inter-state returnees, were also put up in front of those houses. The experts, however, pointed out that returnees from other states could also be carriers of the infection and hence14-day home quarantine must be strictly be followed. “A father-son duo who returned from Rajasthan tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru on May 30 after they were sent home post seven days of institutional quarantine. As their test results came positive, they were taken to a Covid-19-designated hospital. Though it’s not possible to test all asymptomatic persons, it’s essential to strictly isolate inter-state returnees during home quarantine,” said a member of the Covid-19 taskforce. In another flip-flop, the state government which recently issued a circular to set up private labs for Covid-19 testing at airports and railway stations, now says asymptomatic persons needn’t undergo testing. “Asymptomatic passengers need not undergo tests at kiosks in airports and railway stations. The kiosks will be used for those who come to Karnataka for business purposes and need the test result within 24 hours,” said Pandey. “No one knows who could be a carrier. It’s a mystery. Maharashtra is said to be a Covid-19 hotspot in the country and we will have to continue with seven-day institutional quarantine for those returning from the state,” said Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer, testing and labs, Covid-19 taskforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/focus-shifts-to-home-quarantine-neighbours-to-keep-tabs/articleshow/76143956.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Response lukewarm, but traders in New Market happy to open shutters||KOLKATA: Over 2,700 traders resumed their business at New Market on Monday. Armed with masks and sanitizers, traders in all major sections opened their shops early in the morning. Though there were hardly any shoppers initially, a section of loyal customers turned up as the day progressed. At the day’s end, traders were happy as came back to business after more than two months. Mohammed Naushad, a trader who sells readymade garments, said he was happy with whatever he could earn on the first day. “It is true that I could not sell much of my wares as there were not enough customers. But I am happy to have at least some loyal customers back,” he said. For Samarnath Sen, another trader who sells hosiery products, it was a frutiful day just because he could open the shutters after long. “I did not expect a roaring business as this is just a beginning amid a pandemic. With the passage of time, I hope we will start earning as before,” Sen said. According to KMC sources, traders at bakery, cosmetics and flower range did good business on the first day compared to other segments. Leaders of the trade associations were busy to arrange for safety measures. The KMC markets department officials accompanied them and inspected whether the anti-Covid norms were being followed. Ashok Gupta, the president of SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association, said a section of traders was warned for not clearing piled-up goods from the common passage inside the market. However, Gupta complained about non-functioning of a sanitization tunnel that was set up by KMC on Lindsay Street. “We have asked the traders to keep adequate stock of sanitizers so that they don’t run out of stock. But the sanitization tunnel should work immediately,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/response-lukewarm-but-traders-in-new-market-happy-to-open-shutters/articleshow/76143929.cms||Saikat Ray
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||New month begins with 26 new cases in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: Monday saw the addition of 26 new Covid-19 cases taking Aurangabad district’s tally to 1,569. There have also been 2 new casualties — one each on Sunday and Monday. The district administration said 1,029 Covid-19 patients have been discharged, while 74 have succumbed to the infection. The new cases were reported from Juna Bazaar (2), Chistiya Colony (2), Osmanpura (1), Cidco N-8 (2), Bhawani Nagar (4), Shivshankar Colony (1), Ahinsa Nagar, Akashwani premises (2), Azam Colony (4), Cidco N-6 (1), Yunus Colony (1), Mukundwadi (1), Misarwadi (1), Naregaon (1), Rahemaniya Colony (1) and Vaijapur (2). Thirteen women and as many men are among those diagnosed with the infection on Monday. Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), said a 60-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Baijipura died at 10 pm on Sunday. “The cause of death is cardiogenic shock with anterior wall myocardial infarction, Covid-19 with bilateral pneumonia with Parkinson’s disease,” Gaikwad said. A 66-year-old woman, a resident of Jalgaon, died at 5.30 am on Monday. “The cause of death is acute respiratory distress syndrome in case of bilateral pneumonitis in Covid-19 with acute anterolateral myocardial infarction thrombolysis with hypernatremia,” he said. The woman was staying temporarily at city’s Eknathnagar. So far, 63 Covid-19 patients have died at GMCH, 10 in private hospitals and one in the district civil hospital. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said of the 91 Covid-19 patients under treatment at the dedicated covid hospital of GMCH, 28 are critical. Hingoli case-count has touched 182 with two new detections on Monday. So far, 105 patients have been discharged and 77 are under treatment, district civil surgeon Kishor Prasad Shrivas said. At Nanded, two positive cases were detected on Sunday evening and the total Covid-19 count in the district now stands at 146. In Latur, the total number of active cases is 66 and the number of discharged patients is 68. Latur has seen 3 Covid-19 deaths until Monday, district administration stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/new-month-begins-with-26-new-cases-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/76142836.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid delays ambitious Sidhwan canal project completion||Ludhiana: Touted as one of the most ambitious projects of the city, the Sidhwan canal water front project, started as part of TOI’s Let’s Save Sidhwan campaign, is all set to face delay due to Covid-19 related lockdown. The project that is being executed as part of Smart City programme, seeks to provide much needed place for amusement and enjoyment here. Superintendent engineer, Smart City Project Rahul Gagneja, who is getting the project executed, said the first phase of the project from Ferozepur road to Zone D was to have been completed by April end, but due to lockdown, the work on it remained suspended. He added that now work had started again and they expect it to complete by June end. The senior officer said even the second phase, which was to be completed by June end, will take two more months for completion. He added that even now the agency constructing it is facing about 40% shortage of labour, including workers who do iron related work. “Till now, we have got a cycle track, footpath, ramps and chairs, wall between water front and leisure valley and fencing on the side of water front constructed, apart from getting grass planted on the first phase of project. As of now plantation of plants is going on apart from other works. As far as the second phase (from zone D to Pakhowal road) of the project is concerned, we have to get a wall constructed between the water front and leisure valley, while fencing is to be done even as we had got poles installed for the same,” said the officer. The officials said they had got benches placed around a few trees along the 21m width of the 1.15km stretch that has a 3m width for canal inspection, a 6ft high mesh, flower beds between 1.5 to 2m wide, a cycle track of 3m width, 2m green area and a walking track of 3m width. They added that the front has a zig-zag footpath for those coming for a walk along with landscaped area of width 2-3m. The officials further said that the 1ft 4” wide retaining wall that has come up, separates the Sidhwan water front from the leisure valley down south and there are entrance at four places from leisure valley to water front in the first phase of the project. They added that there would be stairs and ramp here so that elderly person or those on wheel chair can access the water front easily. Meanwhile, Sidhwan warriors are waiting for the Water front to get completed. “It will be a great place in the city for amusement and enjoyment and that too on the sides of canal. We hope it gets completed soon,” said Pradeep Dhall, a Sidhwan warrior. Box 1: About the project On September 8 in 2019, work on the project was inaugurated by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in the presence of councillor Mamta Ashu and other dignitaries at the zone D office of the municipal corporation on the side of the Sidhwan canal. The project envisages development of the stretch along the Sidhwan canal, starting from Pakhowal Road till Ludhiana MC zone D office near Ferozepur Road, and includes development of a green belt, dedicated cycling track, playing zone, dedicated footpath along canal, sitting areas, wall climbing activities, etc. Councillor Mamta Ashu, who worked on the project, along with her husband and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, had said that 1.15km stretch had been identified for landscape development of Sidhwan canal front in the first phase of Smart City Project. She added that as part of the project, green belts, plus dedicated cycle track on both sides of the double road along the canal, etc. would be developed. The total cost of this project is Rs 4.75 crore and the total length of this stretch is approximately 1.15km while the width is around 21m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-delays-ambitious-sidhwan-canal-project-completion/articleshow/76143926.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Low occupancy helps train passengers keep physical distance||CHENNAI: Inter-city train services resumed in a small way across Tamil Nadu on Monday with eight trains running half empty. The bar on trains to Chennai remains. Occupancy was around 50% or less on most of the trains. Though e-pass was compulsory, special desks at railway stations helped passengers obtain them for their further travel by road. In Coimbatore, people started to reach the station much earlier than the stipulated 90 minutes before departure. While the Coimbatore-Katpadi train’s air-conditioned coach was nearly empty, the AC coach on Jan Shatabdi to Mayiladuthurai had occupants. Of the 183 people expected to board the Katpadi train, only 117 turned up. The Shatabdi saw 69% of its seats being booked, but actual occupancy numbers were less. “Many passengers who booked did not turn up because of confusion over e-passes. However, we are allowing those without e-passes to travel after taking down their addresses,” said Coimbatore deputy station manager, commercial, Chitti Babu. With low occupancy, it was easy for passengers to maintain social distancing. While families sat next to each other, the row in front of them was left empty. Some travelling alone managed to get a whole row for themselves. Similar was the situation at Madurai and Trichy. On the first trip, the Trichy-Nagercoil Superfast daily special had 227 passengers, an occupancy of only 35%, while around 50passengers boarded the Madurai-Villupuram Intercity Superfast special at Trichy. The Coimbatore to Mayiladuthurai special train arrived at Trichy at 11.05 am, with around 500passengers. On the return journey, 410 boarded at Trichy junction. The Madurai-Villupuram intercity express had only 22% occupancy because a majority of the passengers on the route are usually headed to Chennai. The Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Express witnessed 39% occupancy. Though, the Madurai district administration had arranged e-passes instantly for rail passengers, rail users have appealed to the state government to revoke the order mandating e-passes as all the trains are travelling across various zones. J Michael, 50, said no one asked him for an e-pass when he boarded the train at Coimbatore. “After arriving at the Trichy junction railway authorities asked me to produce it. But there was a special desk at the station where I got a pass to proceed by bus to my village,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/low-occupancy-helps-train-passengers-keep-physical-distance/articleshow/76144580.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Cash-strapped Kochi corporation gets Rs 97 crore bill from Kerala Water Authority||KOCHI: Giving a shock to the cash-strapped Kochi corporation, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has sent a water bill of a whopping Rs 97 crore to the local body. The local body hadn’t paid the water bills of public water taps provided by it and various offices of the local body for the past several years. The cash balance of the corporation as on June 30, 2020 is around Rs 4.5 crore. If the corporation fails to clear the arrears, the state government will deduct the sum from the plan fund allocation to the local body. “It is a grave situation. A couple of years ago, the KWA had offered a one-time settlement of the bills at Rs 39 crore. The local body failed to respond to it and the bills accumulated over the next couple of years also,” C K Peter, councillor from Konthuruthy division. As per the KWA’s data, there are 5,909 public water taps in Kochi and the tariff for each tap is Rs 7,884 per year. So, the local body will have to pay Rs 4.8 crore as water bills every year. “There aren’t as many public taps in the city as calculated by KWA. Many of the taps had been disconnected over the years. Corporation has not taken measures to find out the correct number and get the mismatch in the numbers rectified. Had the local body authorities taken the initiative, water bills would have come down considerably,” Peter said. According to the corporation authorities, they have started measures to find out the actual numbers. “The amount is the arrears over the past few years. Moreover, there are less public water taps than KWA has calculated. So, we conducted a joint inspection last year. On the basis of the inspection it was found that the number of public water taps in the city is less than the number given by KWA. The agency had assured to take steps to rework and reduce water bills,” said K R Premakumar, deputy mayor, Kochi corporation. “We will be approaching the state government seeking a solution in this regard,” he said. At the same time, opposition councillors allege that the lackadaisical attitude of the corporation authorities has led to the crisis. “Financial mismanagement and lethargy are causing heavy losses to the corporation. We had been demanding for conducting a joint inspection with KWA for identifying the exact number of public water taps in the city for the past several years,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. “Similarly, the local body has to shell out more and more money for giving compensation in land acquisition cases. With the corporation authorities failing to disburse compensation for owners of land acquired for constructing roads and other projects, interest the civic body owes to them is inflating,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cash-strapped-corp-gets-rs-97cr-bill-from-kwa/articleshow/76142830.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||‘30% of products damaged in 2 months’||Kolkata: Their worst nightmares stared at them as owners of New Market shops opened their shutters on Monday morning. The stench from damp unopened spaces, combined with a thick layer of dust, hit them hard as they coughed and fanned themselves for air, walking into shops that had remained shut for over two months. Soon, wet clothes, dry fruits nibbled on by rodents, fungus on leather products poured out from shops on the pavements for drying and discarding. Most shopowners said 20%-30% of their stocks had been damaged due to the lockdown and, later, Amphan. They said that there was waterlogging inside the market and this had damaged the goods.Water had seeped into many shops from the ceilings and walls and the damp had spread inside. “Some of our silk sarees have got completely wet and are bleeding colours. We are trying hard to retrieve what we can,” said Vinay Mangalani, owner of Bombay Silk Store. The musty smell was so strong that most shopowners had to spray room fresheners. Uday Shaoo — owner of Travellers’ Home, a luggage store — had a tough time drying up his wares. There was a musty smell all around due to the fungus on many of the leather products. “Such products need air and daily dusting. We are trying our best to dry the items first and then deal with the fungus,” Shaoo said.Rodents had run amock and a large number of garments stores complained that they had chewed on expensive dresses, etc. Dry fruit shops were seen throwing off cellophane packed products that were half-eaten by rodents. “It was a sad sight. It’s an old market and rodents are a major problem here, along with the damp,” said Sunil Aswani, who owns Menka, a women’s wear store.Most shopowners took back spoiled stocks home to dry them and then prepare an inventory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/30-of-products-damaged-in-2-months/articleshow/76144588.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Amit Shah to hold ‘digital rally’ of BJP leaders on June 9||PATNA: Union home minister Amit Shah is set to formally sound the poll bugle in Bihar on June 9 by addressing the BJP functionaries and workers across the state through digital platforms and videoconferencing. Assembly election in Bihar is due in October-November. BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said on Monday that Shah would address the party functionaries and workers in the north Bihar districts using the Facebook platform, while those in the south Bihar districts would hear him through videoconferencing. He, however, said it would be premature to say anything about holding of the “digital elections”, as the Supreme Court has to give its ruling with regard to the verification of the Aadhaar numbers. As the BJP functionaries of the newly formed Saptarishi units at the booth level heard PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, Shah’s address would set the pace of party’s electioneering exercise in the state. Till now, BJP state headquarters had received 38,000 photographs of the Saptarishi units that heard the PM on Sunday. “I will not say that PM Modi has already made the ‘chunaawi agaaz’ (blown the poll bugle) for the BJP workers. Nor even that Shah will do it on June 9. For, the BJP is always ready to face elections as and when announced,” Jaiswal said. The West Champaran MP added that what the PM has done and Shah would do on June 9 is separately stressing on the use of the digital and videoconferencing platforms for electioneering purposes in the state. Jaiswal described the scheduled address of Shah as his “digital rally and videoconferencing”. It would be the first of its kind in the state, which has been necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic and accompanying compulsions to abide by the social distancing norms that prohibits holding of the traditional rallies. Jaiswal also said Bihar would get its share from the Rs20 lakh crore package that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced. On the issue of crime incidents raised by RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, he said, “We should respect the judiciary. The guilty will be punished.” Chirag holds videoconference with party functionaries Jamui MP and president of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Chirag Paswan, held videoconference with the party’s MPs, MLA and functionaries on Monday for one and a half hours. LJP is an NDA ally. Besides, instructing them to hold videoconference with the party’s district and other functionaries regularly, Chirag asked them to go the “digital way”. Those who heard Chirag included the party’s state president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj, MPs Chandan Singh and Veena Devi, MLA Raju Tiwari, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shah-to-hold-digital-rally-of-bjp-leaders-on-june-9/articleshow/76143963.cms||Abhay Singh
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||No Hathi, Ghoda, Palkhi this year||AHMEDABAD: In its 143-year history, the Jagannathji Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad – the second biggest procession in India after Jagannath Puri – will be carried out without pomp and ‘sea of humanity’ on June 23. The Jagannathji Temple trustees on Monday said that all the pre-event rituals such as Jal Yatra, Netrotsav, Mameru, etc. will also be held with bare minimum persons. Mahendra Jha, trustee of Jagannathji Temple, told TOI that a meeting was convened on Monday to decide on the procession. “Keeping in mind the current situation and Covid-19 epidemic, it’s been decided by the temple mahant Dilipdasji that the procession will be simple. It will have three chariots, the chariot pullers and bare minimum persons accompanying it,” he said. “Decision on whether to integrate a couple of elephants on the route will be taken later after discussion with experts.” Jha said that there will be no akhada, no trucks and tableaux and no bhajan mandali in the procession which often stretched up to 1km on the 18km route. “We appeal to the devotees to witness the procession this year on their TV sets or mobile screens and avoid crowding,” said Jha, adding that even before the event, norms of social distancing will be followed strictly on the temple premises. The temple officials indicated that there will not be more than 150-odd persons in the event that usually sees participation of more than 1 lakh. The number will include 30 to 40 chariot pullers for each of the three chariots, temple mahant and trustees and a few other vehicles. According to the government directives, the temple will be open for devotees only after June 8. On June 5, Jal Yatra, the first major event before Rath Yatra, will take place on the banks of Sabarmati River. Temple officials said that only the temple mahant and trustees will be part of the event this year. Moreover, on June 21, there will be Netrotsav ritual to open the blindfold from the deities’ eyes which will take place at 4pm due to eclipse. “Even for the mameru — gift from the maternal family of the deities — only a couple of persons will be allowed along with a few from the Ranchhodraiji Temple from Saraspur,” said a temple official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-hathi-ghoda-palkhi-this-year/articleshow/76144583.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Making agriculture profitable again: Maps to be drawn up for crop regulation in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: In a move aimed at making agriculture profitable, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to undertake crop regulation so as to provide a better market for agricultural produce. Crop regulation will be done on the basis of a crop planning roadmap prepared by field-level agriculture advisory boards. The chief minister reviewed crop planning and marketing of agricultural produce at his camp office on Monday. Crop planning will be implemented from the village level. The chief minister has directed officials to prepare a comprehensive blueprint for the implementation of crop regulation in the state. He said that crop mapping should be done in order to guide farmers on which crops they should cultivate. In course of the review, the chief minister said that farmers should not suffer losses due to unscientific planning and that they should be offered guidance to go for crops that could command better prices in a particular season. “We will be appointing agriculture advisory boards at the district and mandal levels which will go deep into crop planning issues,” the CM said. Jaganmohan Reddy further said that the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) would act as nodal centres for implementation of crop planning and regulation. “We need to advise farmers in a proper manner to prevent them from growing crops which would not fetch them good prices,” the chief minister said. He asked officials to publish the e-cropping guidelines in RBKs and village secretariats. The CM also asked officials to prepare an action plan for the purchase of at least 30 per cent of the produce directly by the government so as to make private players pay better prices to cultivators. Further, he directed officials to prepare an e-marketing platform to help farmers sell the remaining 70 per cent of their stock in the open market. The chief minister said that proper grading and packaging of agricultural goods will help yield good prices to farmers and asked officials to make arrangements for packaging the produce at RBKs. He said that the packaging system should be in place at all RBKs by the end of the Kharif season. Interestingly, the chief minister of Telangana, K Chandrasekhar Rao is also batting for crop regulation in order to get cultivators better prices for their produce. The Telangana chief minister has even decided to not provide financial assistance to those who don’t follow the crop regulation plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/making-agri-profitable-again-maps-to-be-drawn-up-for-crop-regulation/articleshow/76142846.cms||Samdani MN
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||Joy of resuming office overshadows virus fear||Kolkata: Responding to calls from their employers, several anxious employees set out from the safety of their homes to head to office on Monday. While a section of employees — under pressure over the security of their jobs, especially with news of large-scale retrenchment coming from almost every sector during the lockdown period — are relieved to join work, there are many who are worried as they spending long hours in office and getting exposed to infection while commuting to and from home. But for a majority of those heading to office, the fear of contracting the virus has been overshadowed by the fear of losing job. New Barrackpore resident Dipankar Dey Bhowmik, who had not received salary for April and May, was struggling to make his ends meet when he got a call from his employer last week, asking him to resume office from Monday. “More than the fear of contracting infection, the sheer joy of getting back to workplace made me relieved. I had survived on loans and foodgrains from local ration shops for the last two months and was finding it difficult to run my family. But thankfully, the struggle will come to an end,” said Bhowmik, an accountant at a private firm, who plans to cycle from his home to BT College, then take a bus to reach Ballygunge Phanri and walk for 15 minutes to reach his office on Hazra Road. Pharma executive Avijit Roy, who had barely left home for work unless emergency during the entire lockdown period, was also on his way to office on Monday. “It was getting claustrophobic. It is depressing to stay at home all this while. But I am also concerned about the spread of infection. I have already charted out a list of precautions to maintain and that includes taking medicines to increase my immunity, use gloves and sanitizers and avoid socializing at office,” said Roy. Behala resident Anirban Bose, who has already resumed office, said he struggled wearing full-sleeve shirts, masks, gloves and head caps but was adjusting to the discomfort as that was the call for the situation. “We have already had a massive paycut. Since I am into marketing and sales, I practically had no work from home and hence no salary last month. I was just dying to get back to work. There is always a fear of contracting the disease while travelling in public transport, so I borrowed a scooter from a neighbour, who is still working from home, and headed office on Monday,” said Bose, a senior sales executive with a cement company. But those who were heavily reliant on public transport had a tough time on Monday. “I had been to office even last week but with so many people out on the road today and buses too few and too crowded, I couldn’t manage to board a bus even after standing in the heat for two hours from 8am till 10am. I went back home and tried again at noon but the situation was worse. I finally had to call office and inform that I won’t be able to make it to office on Monday. They agreed for the day but I can’t skip office every day with the same excuse,” said Lopamudra Bag, a resident of Bhowanipore who works at a private firm in Maniktala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/joy-of-resuming-office-overshadows-virus-fear/articleshow/76143948.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Parks will remain open for extra time for joggers, walkers||JAIPUR: On the demand of residents, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has increased the timings to open city parks under its jurisdiction. Now, the parks will be open for five hours in the morning and four hours in the evening. Officials believe if the parks are opened for lesser duration, there would be greater possibilities of crowding. A senior JDA official said, “People can now walk in different slots. As parks were open for short duration, many people were reaching at same time. We also received requests from the residents to open it for more time. A decision has been taken to open the park between 5am and 10am in morning. Similarly, joggers and walkers will be allowed between 4pm and 6.45pm.” Earlier, parks were open for three hours in the morning and 2.45 hours in the evening. The JDA has issued guidelines that assembling of more than five people is prohibited in parks. For visitors, the JDA has made it mandatory to wear masks and follow Covid-related health protocol such as social distancing. Open gym equipment, swings and group yoga or exercise sessions are prohibited. A penalty will be imposed by guards on those who will not adhere to the norms. “We have also requested the residents to follow the rules voluntarily for their own safety as the authorities do not have enough staff to keep strict vigil on everyone,” said an official. Residents in the city were requesting the civic bodies to open the park as people need fresh air and exercising to maintain immunity. However, authorities fear people in large numbers, including old citizens and children below 10, will reach these parks. “There is no announcement on restriction of age from our side. Moreover, the JDA cannot do a thermal scanning of people. Also it cannot deploy guards to enforce social distancing. Users will have to impose self-restriction for their own good,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parks-will-remain-open-for-extra-time-for-joggers-walkers/articleshow/76145261.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Amaravati||Making agriculture profitable again: Maps to be drawn up for crop regulation in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: In a move aimed at making agriculture profitable, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to undertake crop regulation so as to provide a better market for agricultural produce. Crop regulation will be done on the basis of a crop planning roadmap prepared by field-level agriculture advisory boards. The chief minister reviewed crop planning and marketing of agricultural produce at his camp office on Monday. Crop planning will be implemented from the village level. The chief minister has directed officials to prepare a comprehensive blueprint for the implementation of crop regulation in the state. He said that crop mapping should be done in order to guide farmers on which crops they should cultivate. In course of the review, the chief minister said that farmers should not suffer losses due to unscientific planning and that they should be offered guidance to go for crops that could command better prices in a particular season. “We will be appointing agriculture advisory boards at the district and mandal levels which will go deep into crop planning issues,” the CM said. Jaganmohan Reddy further said that the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) would act as nodal centres for implementation of crop planning and regulation. “We need to advise farmers in a proper manner to prevent them from growing crops which would not fetch them good prices,” the chief minister said. He asked officials to publish the e-cropping guidelines in RBKs and village secretariats. The CM also asked officials to prepare an action plan for the purchase of at least 30 per cent of the produce directly by the government so as to make private players pay better prices to cultivators. Further, he directed officials to prepare an e-marketing platform to help farmers sell the remaining 70 per cent of their stock in the open market. The chief minister said that proper grading and packaging of agricultural goods will help yield good prices to farmers and asked officials to make arrangements for packaging the produce at RBKs. He said that the packaging system should be in place at all RBKs by the end of the Kharif season. Interestingly, the chief minister of Telangana, K Chandrasekhar Rao is also batting for crop regulation in order to get cultivators better prices for their produce. The Telangana chief minister has even decided to not provide financial assistance to those who don’t follow the crop regulation plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/making-agri-profitable-again-maps-to-be-drawn-up-for-crop-regulation/articleshow/76149555.cms||Samdani MN
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Curbs by apartment assns put tenants, owners in a fix||Kochi: With apartment owners’ association imposing restrictions on movement of people in their buildings, several flat owners are losing their monthly income. Many flat owners, mostly retired people, complain that those who want to take their houses for rent are unable to come and check the properties. "Some associations are insisting on health certificates and are also reporting to police when outsiders come to stay in apartment complexes even if they are not from containment zones. For entering and checking flats, a prospective tenant needs approval from the association. As a result, owners are unable to find tenants. The rent is their source of income and elderly people are deprived of it," says Manjula Balakrishnan, a resident of Kadavanthra. At some apartments there are association members who want new tenants to disinfest their belongings before entering the premises. However, these demands often end up as a bone of contention between the apartment owner and association. Tenants too are confused about the new regulations imposed at apartment complexes. As house owners are returning from foreign countries and other states, many tenants are given advance notice to vacate the premises. "They are coming back to their flats. It is not possible to ask them to postpone or delay the process. After the mandatory institutional quarantine, they will have to go on home quarantine. They will find their homes the most suitable place. But, before they arrive, we will have to move out," said Thajudeen Akbar, a businessman. Though there has been lay offs and salary cuts, many house owners have not reduced the rents. It is another reason why tenants are looking for cheaper accommodation. Even businessmen who have taken houses on rent are keen on getting rentals reduced. "There are house owners who understand the financial burden of tenants and come forward quoting lower rates. Such owners have other sources of income. But, those who are primarily dependent on the rent as an income are unable to do so. They have invested their lifetime’s earnings on these buildings expecting that it would bring them good returns," said Satyajith Mohan, a retired engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/curbs-by-apartment-assns-put-tenants-owners-in-a-fix/articleshow/76142843.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Communities couldn’t access entitlements: IIM-A survey||Ahmedabad: A survey carried out by Prof Ankur Sarin of IIM-Ahmedabad and his associates highlighted that several communities affected by the ongoing Covid-19 epidemic were not able to access their entitlements and did not know about precautions. Respondents of the survey were 66 representatives of 64 NGOs working at the grassroots.‘Almost half the leaders did not find relevant government functionaries they need to work with on the ground, to be accessible... Responses of only 10% of organizations indicate that they’re involved in efforts directly with the government,’ mentioned the findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/communities-couldnt-access-entitlements-iim-a-survey/articleshow/76144642.cms||---
June 2, 2020||India||Pakistan eyeing tit-for-tat action with false charges: India||NEW DELHI/ ISLAMABAD: After Pakistan "condemned" India's decision to declare two high commission officials persona non grata for espionage activities, the government on Monday accused Islamabad of making false allegations possibly to prepare the ground for tit-for-tat action. Official sources expressed fear that Pakistan could torture Indian officials. Following India's move, much like its reaction in 2016 when India had declared a Pakistani official persona non grata for the same offence, Islamabad is likely to expel two Indian officials from the Indian mission there in a retaliatory move. Pakistan on Monday summoned India's charge d'affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia for a "strong demarche", rejecting all "baseless Indian allegations". It also alleged India's action violated the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Official sources described the assertions of the Pakistan foreign office as false, saying the two officials were caught red-handed while indulging in espionage activities. "They did not disclose their identity that they were high commission officials. When they were taken into custody and questioned, they confessed to indulging in espionage and also informed that they were high commission officials," said a source, responding to Pakistan's allegations. The Pakistan high commission, the source said, was immediately informed and the two handed over. "They were never subjected to any torture. They have also undergone medical examination. Pakistan appears to be making false accusations and possibly creating ground for some tit-for-tat reaction and torture of Indian officials in Islamabad," added another source. Pakistan had on Sunday accused Indian authorities of torturing the Pakistani officials to make them accept "false charges". The officials were identified as Abid Hussain Abid, 42, and Mohammad Tahir Khan, 44, an assistant and a clerk respectively. They were expected to arrive in Pakistan via the Wagah border crossing on Monday night. Islamabad condemned the move, called the Indian charge d’affaires to the foreign office and handed him a demarche in this regard. Aamir Ghauri, a prominent Pakistani analyst on South Asian affairs, said New Delhi and Islamabad had regularly indulged in such practices and following the rule of reciprocity, Pakistan is expected to send back two junior staffers of the Indian high commission in Islamabad soon. “I am sure Pakistan must be assessing the right response and would act accordingly,” he said. Official sources here said the espionage activity by Pakistan was not a one-off thing. After the developments on Sunday, official sources said the government was following reports which suggested anti-India subversive activities by Pakistani officials in neighbouring countries. Such activities had been noticed in countries like Sri Lanka, a source said. In a statement, the Pakistan foreign office said it was conveyed to the Indian diplomat that Delhi’s action was in clear violation of the Vienna Convention and diplomatic norms. Pakistan’s foreign office had said on Sunday said the two were lifted by Indian authorities on “false and unsubstantiated charges”. Sources had claimed the Pakistani staffers were physically tortured. “They were, however, released on intervention by the high commission. We condemn the detention and torture as well as threatening and pressuring of diplomatic officials to accept false charges,” the foreign office said. The Indian action and Pakistan’s reaction is seen as yet another event adding to the already frozen relations between the two nuclear neighbours. In Novembers 2016, both countries had expelled each others’ officials at high commissions in New Delhi and Islamabad over similar charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-eyeing-tit-for-tat-action-with-false-charges-india/articleshow/76146128.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Alcoholics Anonymous switches to online sessions||AHMEDABAD: There has been a threefold increase in people seeking support and fellowship of members of Alcoholics Anonymous during the lockdown. With physical meetings not possible, the Ahmedabad fellowship of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) kept up their activities by shifting online. Sessions that normally took place in rented premises in Ahmedabad and other cities of Gujarat, were taken online, as members took to applications like zoom, BlueJeans, WhatsApp and other virtual meeting platforms to share experiences and encourage each other to stay sober. Apart from discussions and meetings between members, experienced members in various fields have also been holding online guest lectures for AA members. Sukun A (name changed), who has stayed off the bottle for over six years now has played a key role in encouraging others to do so. He said, that while AA meetings normally have one new member attend their interactive sessions every week, there has been one new member attending the online sessions every two or three days after the lockdown. “We are anonymous, but not alone. And even during trying times as the lockdown, we have been encouraging and talking to each other to abstain from consuming alcohol,” said Sukun, 42, who has been spearheading AA in the city. “Our weakness is also the reason for our strong bonding. We realize that we need to constantly talk to each other and ensure we are not tempted to consume alcohol. The lockdown has been extremely distressing and stressful, more so for people with alcohol dependence. The online sessions have been very helpful for members during the lockdown,” said Surat based Rajesh D, 67 (name changed), another member, who has not consumed even a drop of liquor for the past 34 years. Alcoholics Anonymous has been active in Gujarat for 27 years with a sizeable presence in Surat, Ahmedabad, Vadodara and other cities of Gujarat. There are about 2,500 active members in the state who have abstained from consuming alcohol. The only requirement for membership of AA is a desire to stop drinking alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alcoholics-anonymous-switches-to-online-sessions/articleshow/76144639.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Missing bank guarantee: Corp files police plaint||Kochi: Local body authorities who failed to keep the bank guarantee furnished by a private partner of Kochi corporation’s waste to energy project has lodged a complaint with city police seeking a probe into the missing document. According to opposition councillors who raised the issue first, civic body authorities are trying to delay the investigation. “It was at the council meeting held on May 5 that we raised the issue about the missing bank guarantee. Then, the council had decided to recommend a departmental probe. Later, corporation secretary lodged a complaint with the police following mayor’s advice. But, the complaint was filed only on May 21. This proves that corporation authorities are trying to delay the probe,” said councillor Benedict Fernandez of CPM who raised the issue at the council meeting held on May 5. “Moreover, local body authorities didn’t record the missing and decisions taken by the council meeting held on May 5 in the minutes of the meeting. I have submitted a complaint before the government against the corporation secretary,” Fernandez added. It is learnt that police have started probe into the missing bank guarantee. G J Eco Power Private Limited, the private partner of Kochi corporation in implementing waste to energy project, had furnished bank guarantee for Rs 75 lakh after the local body and the private firm signed an agreement regarding implementation of the project. “We have lodged a complaint with police. Missing of bank guarantee is a serious issue. So, there should be a more serious probe into the incident. This is my opinion,” said K R Premakumar, deputy mayor. Now, opposition councillors are planning to approach the state government seeking a vigilance probe. “With the private firm failing to ensure the financial closure even after three years, the state government has asked Kochi corporation to cancel the agreement with them. It is at this juncture that bank guarantee has gone missing. There is something fishy. So, I will be lodging a petition seeking vigilance probe into the incident,” Fernandez said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/missing-bank-guarantee-corp-files-police-plaint/articleshow/76142851.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolkata||You may soon be able to order your booze on food delivery apps in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Food delivery majors Swiggy and Zomato are keen to start home-delivery of liquor in the state, but a major roadblock has put the distribution model in uncertainty. Bevco, the wholesale liquor distribution arm of the West Bengal government, had introduced e-retail on May 5 through their website by enlisting off-shops, which was reported by TOI. Bevco had asked for an expression of interest (EoI) for home-delivery of alcoholic beverages through its platform on May 28. Both Swiggy and Zomato told TOI that they are in “advanced stages of discussion” with Bevco for the home-delivery of liquor across the state. A Swiggy spokesperson said, “We are in advanced stages of discussion with multiple state governments, including the government of West Bengal, to provide support with online processing and home-delivery of alcohol. We are currently offering home-delivery of alcohol in Jharkhand and Odisha.” Swiggy has also incorporated an AI-based face-recognition system to automate the age-verification and user authentication process for all alcohol deliveries. This additional layer of security ensures that the delivery complies with all laws. Replying to an e-mail, a Zomato spokesperson wrote: “We look forward to partnering with the liquor retail industry to enable safe and compliant delivery of alcoholic beverages in West Bengal.” Like Swiggy, Zomato has already started its alcohol delivery services in Jharkhand and Odisha. However, a leading liquor retailer in the city told TOI that it got calls from both Swiggy and Zomato last week, but had not shown interest as the food delivery majors were asking for three-seven days’ credit for payment. “It is not possible for us to give products on credit in a trade where the margin is very thin. We mostly deal in cash,” the retailer added. The retailer margin in the liquor trade is between 4.5% and 5%. Sources said Swiggy and Zomato would have to tie up with retailers via the Bevco platform if they want to deliver liquor due to excise rules. “The food majors may not get permission to take orders on their platforms. Besides, if they (food delivery majors) want to make money from this, they will have to charge extra. It may work in case of premium brands, but it will be difficult for the lower- and mid-range brands,” said another retailer. In the last financial year, the state had raked in Rs 11,000 crore from liquor. West Bengal is a market of 1.4 crore cases of hard IMFL that includes whisky, rum, vodka, etc and 80 lakh cases of beer annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/you-may-soon-be-able-to-order-your-booze-on-food-delivery-apps/articleshow/76144611.cms||Sovon Manna
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Offices open, but firms prefer work from home for now||CHENNAI: Work from Home (WFH) was an option given to employees earlier, with some companies even in IT sector reluctantly offering that facility due to productivity and security issues. But with the rampant spread of Covid-19, WFH has now become the new normal not just with IT, but other sectors as well. Even though IT parks have opened, the footfall continues to be just a trickle in and around Chennai. Several IT companies have started functioning, after government relaxed the restrictions in Chennai. “But getting even those 10% - 25% employees to office is becoming a big task here, especially with the growing Covid numbers. While some employees fear about contacting the virus, they also worry about passing it off to their family,” sources in the IT industry said. IT companies too do not seem to be in any hurry to force employees to attend work at office. Even the communications sent to employees only hint at the need to return to work in case the need arises to handle critical operations. Companies too fear that in the event of even a single employee testing positive, it could put the whole operation in jeopardy with the need to shut the whole office. The reaction of government authorities, in case someone tests positive, need to be kept in mind as companies may not be able to access even the critical servers and data in the event of a shutdown. “But WFH cannot continue for long. While productivity is up to the desired level now, the use of trackers is putting pressure on employees,” the sources added. “Companies have become proactive. Against earlier expectations of returning to office by June-end, some of them are now asking employees to continue to WFH for the present. Returning to office could happen may be in August or even September,” said Bhargavi Natesan, SEZ consultant for IT companies. Players in the real estate industry too seem to be tuning in to the new normal. “Whatever work one can do from office can be done from home today. Unless there is any compulsion to be physically present in office, most things can be done remotely,” said Sajid Sathak, managing director, Inno Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/offices-open-but-firms-prefer-work-from-home-for-now/articleshow/76271599.cms||D Govardan
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||South Korean rapid test kit is 70% efficient: Karnataka doctor||BENGALURU: A South Korea-based rapid testing kit was found to be 70-85% efficient in detecting Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, according to a validation exercise undertaken at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) lab. Six rapid testing samples were validated at the BMCRI lab. “Of the six, we have got validation of one. The sensitivity of the kit depends on the viral load,” said Dr KN Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, Covid-19 taskforce of Karnataka. To determine the sensitivity of the kits, serum from a Covid-19 positive patient under treatment at Victoria Hospital was used. Experts, however, insist RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) process is the gold standard in Covid-19 testing. Antibody rapid testing kits can be used in containment zones and for surveillance activities, but cannot be a substitute for RT-PCR test, say experts. The rapid immune-based testing kit is used to detect the coronavirus antigen. The testing kit, which was widely used in China and South Korea, detects both immunoglobulin (Ig) M and IgG antibodies, which are released during the initial and later stages of an infection respectively. “The rapid testing kits may not be able to detect infection at a very initial stage. In the initial stages, its sensitivity is 30% and between 1and 14 days of the disease’s progression, the sensitivity goes up to 65%. In the third week of the infection, the testing result becomes more acute with 70-85 % efficacy,” Dr Manjunath explained. The kits use capillary blood or serum plasma of Covid-19 suspected individuals to confirm the test. Results are available in 15 minutes. As of now, an RT-PCR-based confirmatory test will be conducted only if a person tests positive in rapid testing. The price a test using the rapid kit works out to Rs 400, which is considerably lower than an RT-PCR test and is likely to be the dominant diagnostic tool going forward. It can be recalled that the efficacy of rapid testing kits from China, that were sent to the state by ICMR in April, were found to be faulty with just about 47% sensitivity. Following this, the state government cancelled orders for two lakh rapid antibody testing kits it ordered from Chinese firms. On May 19, ICMR has approved 99 rapid testing kits of several varieties including ELISA (the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), based, antibody based, fluorescent rapid antigen based test. Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society had called for tenders recently to procure antibody based rapid testing kits in May. About 15 companies participated in the process and six gave test kit samples for validation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/south-korea-based-rapid-test-kit-found-to-be-70-85-efficient/articleshow/76143970.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to examine land allotments done at subsidised rates||JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) department will examine the status of land allotments done at concessional rates in the past. On Monday, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal had sought the records such land allotments within 15 days. In the past, the state government had allotted land at concessional rates to educational institutes, hospitals, trusts, newspapers and social and religious organisations. Directions have been issued to the development authorities, urban improvement trusts (UIT) and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) to prepare a list mentioning the size of the land and date on which these plots were allotted. As allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government will also carry out a scrutiny of such land deals. To ensure that land allotted at concessional rates was not being misused for other purpose, a survey will be conducted to verify its usage. An UDH official said, “The departments receive several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place, which is against the norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details.” Officials claimed many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical checkups to poor patients at the outdoor patients department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official source said. The state government in 2015 made and attempt to tighten the rules to allot land at concessional rates a transparent policy was devised. Status of the land will be checked that whether it used as per the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-examine-land-allotments-done-at-subsidised-rates/articleshow/76145267.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Four travel agents who duped US deportees nabbed||KARNAL: Haryana Police continued its action against immigration agents who duped people who were deported from the US last week for entering the North American country illegally. Karnal police on Monday arrested four such agents — Rajkumar alias Raju, a resident of Dhanda village in Kaithal district; Deepak Narwal alias Dulichand, a resident of Joshi village in Panipat district; Hardeep Singh, a resident of Kabulpur Khera village under Assandh subdivision in Karnal district; and Ravinder of Jundla village in Karnal district. Police have booked them under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sectons of the Immigration Act. They were produced before court, which emanded them in three-day police custody. According to police, the agents forced youth wanting to settle abroad to use the “donkey route”, via South America, to enter the US. To enter US through this route, the youth had to travel to the US via Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Gautemala and Mexico, before making a dash across the border. Of the 73 persons from Haryana who were recently deported from US, 25 belong to Karnal district alone. Superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said eight of the 25 US deportees from Karnal had tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula district. “We have registered 25 FIRs on complaints either by the deportees or their families” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/4-who-duped-us-deportees-nabbed/articleshow/76144590.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Road accident fatalities reduce by 65%||AURANGABAD: In a meeting through video conference on Monday, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) administrator and municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said that road accident fatalities have reduced by 65 % over the last four months The meeting was held with the elected representatives of the civic body. Citing official data, Pandey said, “Against the 243 deaths that occurred due to road accidents from February to May in 2019, 83 road accident deaths were recorded in the same period in 2020. According to the government forecast based on detailed analysis, Aurangabad was projected to see 9,236 cases as on Monday but we have been successful in limiting the cases to well under 1,600,” Pandey said. He explained the AMC’s strategy to reduce Covid-19 fatality in city. “The analysis of the Covid-19 deaths have shown that delay in diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 patients, co-morbidities and old age have been key factors that contribute to deaths due to Covid-19. We have decided to implement a plan called ‘catch them early’,” Pandey said. As per the plan, the AMC will be conducting door-to-door screening to check people aged 55 years or above for temperature and blood levels. For this, the health teams will be using thermometer gun and oximeter. He also appealed to all the public representatives to facilitate such screenings in their respective wards and upload the data on AMC’s mobile application ‘Majhi health majha haathi’. “This measure will help identifying critical cases early,” Pandey said. He said that all private hospitals with less than 150 beds are non-covid hospitals. But those with more than 150 beds must reserve 80% of its beds for Covid-19 patients. Office bearers of the previous AMC body including Nandkumar Ghodele, Rajendra Janjal, Jaishri Kulkarni, Sarita Borde, Raju Shinde, Gokul Malke, Pramod Rathod, Gajanan Barwal attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/road-accident-fatalities-reduce-by-65/articleshow/76142857.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 2, 2020||Vijayawada||CM to meet Amit Shah in Delhi today||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will meet Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Tuesday. The chief minister is likely to explain the important decisions taken by the state government and seek Shah’s support in implementing them. Sources said the chief minister would also seek more financial support from the Centre keeping in view of the state’s poor financial condition due to Covid-19. Jaganmohan Reddy would also brief the Union minister about the measures taken by the state government to contain Covid-19 and that have been initiated following the relaxation of the lockdown. The chief minister will leave the Gannavaram airport at 10.30 am and reach New Delhi by 1pm. He will go directly to the chief minister’s camp office from airport. He is likely to meet Shah in the evening at the latter’s residence. Sources said that several other issues related to the state’s development and the Bill related to the abolition of the state council. Sources said that Jaganmohan Reddy is also planning to meet the Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawath during the visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-today/articleshow/76142859.cms||Samdani MN
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Three PSUs in district join Kerala’s farming initiative||KOCHI: Three state PSUs in the district - Travancore Cochin Chemicals, Traco Cables and Kerala Electricals & Allied Engineering (KEL) -- have joined Subhiksha Keralam bandwagon opening up fallow land in the property owned by them for farming activities. Together, these three companies have started farming in around 11 acres of land, cultivating mostly tubers, plantain and vegetables. TCC employees had been farming in a five acres of land adjacent to staff quarters at Container Road for the past three years. Few days ago they added two more acres as part of Subhiksha Keralam programme. “We had identified 16.5 acres of land owned by state PSUs in the district. Two more PSUs, Forest Industries Travancore Ltd and Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd (TELK), have evinced interest in farming,” said Sujith Karun, district coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission. Shibu S Dev, HR manager and nodal officer for Subhiksha Keralam in TCC said they have formed a committee with elected union representatives and employees for managing the farming activity. “The experience had been quite rewarding for employees in the two staff quarters at Pathalam and Container Road. We also have plans to undertake vegetable farming in company premises for our canteen,” said Shibu. TCC employees are cultivating plantain, long beans, bittergourd, papaya, spinach and ladies finger. Vinod T K, purchase manager and nodal officer for agricultural activities under Traco Cables said they have started organic farming in two acres of land at Irumbanam. "We have two other units in Thiruvalla and Thalassery where farming has been undertaken. The total area would come to 3.5 acres," he said. They are farming tubers like elephant yam, greater yam, ginger and turmeric. Traco Cables has enlisted MGNREGA workers to help with farming. “We were working with reduced workforce during the lockdown period. Employees have just started rejoining,” said Vinod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-psus-in-district-join-states-farming-initiative/articleshow/76142869.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Done waiting, schools take their PE classes online||CHENNAI: At most schools, the arts and science classes have gone online. But there are some making attempts to get their physical education classes online as well, a few even outsourcing the sessions. “We’ve got to keep the children physically, mentally and emotionally fit through these times,” says Bharathi Lakshmi, principal of Hindustan International School. At Hindustan, when the school “reopens” online this month, PE teachers will conduct exercise classes every morning. “Drills, stretches, aerobics, even dancing, it’s all going to be included,” says Bharathi. While the morning session is optional, there will be a once a week compulsory graded PE class for students. “We’ve got to get them moving,” she says. In an ASSOCHAM-Primus Survey of online education during the lockdown, released on May 26, it was found that around 90% of the student respondents missed interactions with their teachers, peers, and friends. Of the 500 students surveyed in different states, 51%of the students said they sorely missed their extracurricular activities such as physical education, sports, art, music, and dance. To get them moving and stretching, The Indian Public School (TIPS) is going the yoga route. Sonali Geed, chief academic officer, says that this month, there will be a daily yoga class for every grade, which will be part of the timetable. “It will be compulsory for students to attend. We wanted to find something that could be done in the home space,” says Geed. The exercise classes, say the schools, will range from 30 minutes to an hour. The World Health Organisation recommends that children and youth aged five to 17 should accumulate at least 60 minutes of moderate- to vigorous-intensity physical activity daily, with most of it aerobic. Some schools have decided to outsource the PE classes during the lockdown period. Prathima Koppolu, co-founders of Fitb.ee, which offers online workout regimes for children, says the company is working with several schools in Hyderabad and Chennai to become their official physical education (PE) partners for the next academic year. “We will work with teachers, parents and students to organise PE sessions,” she says. One of the ways, she says, is through a pedometer like function that the app offers, where the distance a child walks in a certain period can be sent to the school, which can then be used for grading. According to recent statistics, around 5%-8% of school children in India are obese. The predictions from the World Obesity Federation’s Atlas of Childhood Obesity, are bleaker – by 2030, India, China and the US are expected to have the highest number of obese children globally in absolute terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/done-waiting-schools-take-their-pe-classes-online/articleshow/76144631.cms||Kamini Mathai
June 2, 2020||Pune||Ornaments worth Rs 4.27L stolen from techie’s flat||Pune: A tenant of the housing society at Sainathnagar in Wadgaonsheri was arrested by the Chandannager police on Monday for stealing gold ornaments worth Rs4.27 lakh from the unattended flat of a 30-year-old woman software engineer. The woman techie, Rajshree Gite, had lodged a complaint in this regard on Sunday. “Gite, along with her son, had shifted to her parents residence at Chandannagar on May 23 because of the lockdown. Her husband was in Qatar. When she visited her home on May 31 to collect some of her son’s books, she found that the lock to her wooden cupboard was broken and ornaments worth Rs4.27 lakh was missing,” senior inspector Shankar Khatke from the Chandannagar police said. The officer said the woman had also visited her apartment on May 28, and claimed that everything was in its place then. “We began our investigation following the techie’s complaint, over the course of which it was found that 22-year-old Rohan Nitin Gadre — a tenant living in the same housing society — was responsible for the burglary. He confessed to his involvment in the crime during the questioning on Monday,” the officer added. Khatke said the tenant had entered the apartment from the window by using a ladder. “He then used a sharp weapon for breaking the wooden cupboard lock and decamped with the ornaments,” he added. Police have recovered the ornaments from Gadre’s possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ornaments-worth-rs-4-27l-stolen-from-techies-flat/articleshow/76145915.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Techie flouts rule to get haircut, now 11 isolated in Kolar||KOLAR: A 25-year-old techie, who broke home quarantine rules by stepping out for a haircut on Sunday morning – just hours before his throat swab sample tested positive for Covid-19 – has sent authorities scrambling to trace his contacts in Bangarpet, Kolar district. By Monday, authorities have quarantined his parents, niece, the hairdresser and 10 other customers, Dr Vijayakumari, taluk health officer, confirmed. She said throat swab samples of all have been sent for testing. The techie had returned from Malaysia on May 22 and was sent to institutional quarantine on arrival in Bengaluru. His throat swab samples were collected on May 27, but he was allowed to go home where, rules state, he was to remain in quarantine for a mandatory seven-day period, even as his test results were awaited. The man was in his Bangarpet home when his results came through on Sunday evening. District authorities immediately sent him to a designated Covid-19 hospital in Kolar and swung into action to identify his contacts. The man’s three family members were sent to an isolation hospital in the town on Sunday evening. On Sunday night and Monday morning, taluk officials and healthcare workers using a public address system, went around Bangarpet asking all those who had visited the hairdresser on Sunday to get in touch with officials. The hairdresser and 10 customers who had visited on Sunday have been quarantined. Though SOP protocol requires district authorities to be kept in the loop whenever a foreign returnee is sent to home quarantine, Kolar district authorities were kept in the dark about the Bangarpet man’s presence in their jurisdiction till Sunday evening when the results were announced, officials said. The Kolar district surveillance unit was informed of the man’s positive results. “Had state authorities informed us earlier about his arrival, taluk authorities would have monitored him and ensured he adhered to quarantine norms,” said a doctor attached to the surveillance unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/techie-breaks-quarantine-rule-his-hairdresser-lands-in-isolation/articleshow/76144009.cms||K RANGANATH
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||3 arrested for NRI couple’s murder||Phagwara: Phagwara police have arrested all three accused allegedly involved in the murder of an NRI couple, who were found dead in their home in Onkar Nagar here on Saturday night. Police said a tenant, Anil Kumar alias Jassi Dholi, living in the upper portion of the couple’s house allegedly hatched the conspiracy along with two other accused — Sooraj Kumar, a resident of Friends Colony, Phagwara, and Ranjit Singh. While Sooraj was arrested with a knife on Sunday, Ranjit was arrested from his village in Fatehabad district of Haryana earlier on Monday. Anil was arrested from Patran village in Kapurthala district on Monday afternoon. “While Sooraj has given us the details that how they committed the crime, but the real motive of murder would be clear only after Anil is questioned in detail,” said Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh. He said Sooraj disclosed that Anil had returned with Ranjit on May 28 from Haryana and the next day, he also joined them at Anil’s room. “They murdered Kirpal Singh, 67, by repeatedly stabbing him on May 29 evening. When his wife Devinder Kaur, 65, returned home, they strangulated her to death,” he said. They left the house a few hours later around 3am on May 30. Jassi and Soorah had even burnt their clothes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-arrested-for-nri-couples-murder/articleshow/76144641.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Heart transplant patient discharged||Kochi: The 49-year-old woman from Kothamangalam who had undergone a heart transplant at a private hospital here on May 10 was discharged from the hospital on Monday. Impressed with the fact that the heart transplant had saved their mother’s life, Leena Shibu’s children – Shiona, an MTech student, and her brother Basil, a law student — pledged to donate all their transplantable organs. After five days of treatment in the ICU, Leena was shifted to the room and is now perfectly hale and hearty. She left for the residence of her sister at Vaduthala as it was more convenient for her further follow-up treatment and rest. Health minister KK Shailaja, who participated in the farewell function through videoconference, complimented Leena’s children for their initiative. Dr Jose Chacko Periappuram, who performed the heart transplant surgery on Leena, said that her condition is perfectly satisfactory and she will be able to lead a normal life. This was the 24th heart transplant surgery performed at Lisie hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heart-transplant-patient-discharged/articleshow/76142885.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Raj’s main Covid-19 centre goes back to be a general hospital||Jaipur: The SMS Hospital, which was the main Covid-19 treatment centre in Rajasthan since early March, began treating and admitting non-Covid patients with precautions from Monday. It is the state’s first major step after easing lockdown in bringing healthcare facilities back on track. All Covid-19 patients in SMS Hospital have been shifted to the RUHS Hospital in the city. Healthcare workers were seen screening patients with thermal scanning before registering them for treatment on Monday. Those who needed surgeries were admitted in a separate ward. They will be operated upon only after their Covid-19 tests are negative. When 38-year-old Om Prakash Tailor, a resident of Kalyanpura of Mansarovar area, came to know about the SMS Hospital starting treatment for general patients like earlier, he rushed to the hospital in the morning. The healthcare staff positioned at the registration counter checked his temperature with thermal scanner before allowing him to get registered. “We are checking here to identify patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) or having fever. Those who have ILI symptoms, have to go to Charak Bhawan,” said a healthcare official at the hospital’s entrance. After passing through the thermal scan, Tailor got the registration slip and he went to the out-patient department of general surgery. Tailor told the doctors that he had developed gallbladder cancer for which his surgery was conducted in February at the hospital. “He had received first chemotherapy at the hospital. The second was scheduled for April. But, due to lockdown, he could not receive it. We came here for the chemotherapy,” said Mukesh Tailor, Om Prakash’s brother, who accompanied him, adding that they are taking all the precautions. Doctors informed the Tailor duo that the patient will have to undergo Covid-19 test before getting chemotherapy. His sample has been taken and they have to wait for the result. Kalulal, 58, a farmer, hired an ambulance to reach the hospital from Jhalawar. “The doctors had performed a surgery and created an opening of intestine on the stomach (colostomy) earlier. I had a liver problem for which the surgery was performed. Now, I need another surgery. I was waiting for the lockdown to open and for SMS Hospital to return to normal functioning,” Kalulal said. Besides, Anita Devi, who has a tumour in her stomach, was also waiting for the hospital to function normally. The doctors said that they have admitted her to perform biopsy to ascertain if she has cancer. “We have admitted only those patients which are semi-emergency cases. We are taking up emergency cases regularly, but with precautions,” said Dr Jeewan Kankaria, professor (general surgery) SMS hospital. SMS Hospital is taking all precautionary measures after it turned into a non-Covid-19 hospital. “Our OPDs have started functioning normally. We have registered 2,120 patients at the OPD and admitted 137 patients,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS hospital. Besides, ILI cases are still pouring in at the hospital as it registered 301 such patients and admitted 18 of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-main-covid-19-centre-goes-back-to-be-a-general-hospital/articleshow/76145276.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan monuments, tourist places to open for public from today||JAIPUR: While monuments and tourists places in Rajasthan re-opened with cultural events and performances by folk artistes on Monday, the visitors were not allowed to enter. From Tuesday, the tourists will be allowed inside the monuments free of cost for the next two weeks and will remain open for four days. From the third week till October 31, the tourists will be charged 50 per cent of the total fee. “In the first week, the tourists will be allowed to enter the monuments on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday from 9 am to 2 pm. In second week, the tourists will be allowed on the same days from 9 am to 1 pm and from 3 to 5 pm. From the third week, the monument will be thrown open to tourists for all days in a week,” said Prakash Chandra Sharma, director, department of archaeology and museum in a statement. Folk artistes performed at the iconic Hawa Mahal, Jantar Mantar, Aamer, Albert Hall in Jaipur and tourist places in other districts to promote tourism as it resumed after 2.5 months and to attract visitors. On Monday, the monuments were cleaned up and sanitised by the staff and they were asked to maintain social distancing and trained to conduct thermal screening of the tourists. It will be mandatory for the tourists to wear masks, thermal screening of the tourists will be done and their hands will be sanitised, social distancing will be maintained and the tourists will be allowed to enter in a group of five. The iconic Hawa Mahal, which is also going to reopen from Tuesday, incurred a loss of 76.85 lakh in the past two-and-a-half months due to the lockdown (since March 18, 2020). In April 2019, the earning was Rs 32.09 lakh and in May 2019, it was Rs 21.82 lakh. From March 18 to March 31 in 2019, the corresponding period during which Hawa Mahal was closed in 2020, the earning was Rs 22.93 lakh. Sarojini Chanchlalani, superintendent, Hawa Mahal, said, “Cleaning up and sanitisation was done at Hawa Mahal today (Monday). Folk artistes performed in the morning to promote tourism in presence of the authorised guides and other officials. The average footfall at Hawa Mahal is 1,000 per day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monuments-tourist-places-to-open-for-public-from-today-free-of-cost-for-first-two-weeks/articleshow/76145295.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Officials seek cyber cell’s help as patients hide travel history in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Attempts by persons, who had travelled to other states, to conceal their interstate travel history have become a headache for Wayanad authorities in their fight against Covid-19. Health authorities had to seek the help of cyber cell to ascertain the travel history of a person who sought treatment for a burn injury at a private hospital. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Department officials said the person who brought vegetables in his goods vehicle had told the private hospital that he didn’t have an interstate travel history and had only visited Palakkad. However, after health department approached the police cyber cell, the team found that he had visited Nanjangud in Karnataka. He had reached the district on May 27. Authorities shifted him to Mananthavady district hospital after confirming his travel history and he later tested positive. “We had a suspicion about his travel and after we confirmed his travel to Karnataka, we shifted him to Mananthavady district hospital. His sample was sent for testing on May 29,” said a health department official. Earlier too, authorities had trouble with some patients who were reluctant to share their travel history for contact tracing exercise. Even policemen had to be roped in to interrogate one patient at the Covid-19 ward after the youth came up with conflicting statements regarding his travel history. Wayanad police had recently stepped in with ‘ABCD model’ for fast and efficient contact tracing in Wayanad, deploying technological and technical expertise of the police. Wayanad police chief R Ilango said that police was preparing separate contact list of all Covid-19 patients and handing it over to the district administration to see if they were discrepancies in their travel accounts. District surveillance officer Dr S Soumya said that it is very challenging to find the travel history of a person if one is not forthcoming. “We can only expect that people are socially responsible and provide accurate details about their travel and the contacts they have met,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/officials-seek-cyber-cells-help-as-patients-hide-travel-history/articleshow/76142886.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre abandoning migrant workers a sin, says Manpreet||Bathinda: Attacking the Union government on the migrant issue, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal has said it was nothing less than a ‘sin’ to abandon migrants, who were forced to take troublesome migration to their home states on foot or under other compelling circumstances, which brought back to life the gory scenes of 1947. The way caravans of poor migrant workers were treading arduous paths, it has shown the country in bad light internationally, he said. Speaking to media persons art Bathinda on Monday, Manpreet said as the Union government miserably failed to provide any succour, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to take the blame. Further taking on the Narendra Modi government, Manpreet said the way the demonetisation and GST was brought without any homework in haste, these actions made people especially business and poor classes to remember former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who had governed the country wisely. He said the foreign policy of this government is so lopsided that even a small country like Nepal is not with India now and looks towards China. Manpreet praised the Punjab government saying it tried to take care of the migrants and poor fellows as nobody must have slept hungry in Punjab. He said for the last two days, he had been meeting people, especially shopkeepers, poor fellows, cobblers, rehriwallahs and disabled, to listen to their grievances. He provided a tricycle to a poor disabled person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-abandoning-migrant-workers-a-sin-says-manpreet/articleshow/76144654.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Passengers jittery but happy to board train||JAIPUR: After a two-month wait, Jodhpur-bound passengers finally got lucky and arrived at Jaipur railway station at 5.30 am on Monday to board the train. Though they had to undergo thermal screening, get sanitized and fill up their personal details, the passengers looked happy. “I am preparing for civil services. It was a tough two months but my neighbours and landlord helped me. My parents kept insisting to stay at home. I am happy to be boarding the train. I will travel up to Jodhpur and from there my parents will take me to my home in our car,” said 24-year-old Geeta Kumari traveling in D-3 coach of Jaipur –Jodhpur Express. At the station only those having confirmed tickets and RAC were allowed to enter. “It is good to be boarding a train. However, I am missing the hullabaloo and the food stalls. Hopefully things will get to normal soon,” said Ganesha Ram, who was wearing mask and gloves. The coaches were spic and span. “All the coaches were sanitised in the morning,” said a railway officer. The train conductor, train ticket examiner and other staff were happy to be handling passengers again. However, the train had a very minimal number of passengers. “It is just a beginning. Passengers who have urgency are only traveling,” said a train staff. Hemant Pareek, a native of Jaipur who works in Jodhpur, was asked to rejoin the duty. “I am nervous yet careful as I am traveling with my wife and son. The two months were scary. But, one has to start working,” he said. Some passengers complained that while trains were being started gradually, the railways should start pantry car in long-distance trains. “In long-distance trains, things like packed food, snacks and water should be allowed,” said Subash Garg, a businessman, who runs a handicraft business in Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passengers-jittery-but-happy-to-board-train/articleshow/76145301.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Hosp launches app for online appointment||Kochi: Aimed at providing hospital services at fingertips, Aster Medcity has launched ‘One Aster’ app. The app can be used for availing various hospital services, including booking, online registration, payments, self check-in, viewing medical history and downloading reports. “We launched the app to offer our patients and their family members with conveniences that improve their overall experience at our hospital,” said Dr Harish Pillai, CEO Aster Hospitals – India. He added that the facility will be soon extended to all the hospitals under Aster DM Healthcare. Amid Covid-19, private hospitals in the state have been discouraging patients to come to the hospital without prior appointment. “The app brings a lot of convenience to the patients. We alleviate their pain through quick access to doctors and medical records and reduce their frustration of waiting,” said Cdr Jelson Kavalakkat, CEO, Aster Medcity. The app can be downloaded from Apple App Store and Google Play Store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hosp-launches-app-for-online-appointment/articleshow/76142901.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Nerul banker, wife robbed on way to Nagpur; 2 held||AURANGABAD: A couple from Nerul in Navi Mumbai was robbed of cash and jewellery totally worth around Rs 1 lakh by three men on the Beed-bypass near Aurangabad city around nine days back and the complaint was registered only on Sunday. Soon after receiving the complaint, Aurangabad city police swung into action and took two suspects into their custody and recovered 4.5gm gold jewellery of the couple. The complainant, Prashant Shirbhate, orignally hails from Nagpur and is posted in a public sector bank in Nerul. He was heading to his home town in a car with his wife and daughter when the incident happened. According to police, Shirbhate took a brief halt on the Beed-bypass because his daughter was feeling unwell. The three suspects, astride a motorcycle, approached the family and threatened them with dire consequences. The criminals then snatched the family’s belongings, including Rs 12,000 cash, a couple of gold bangles and a gold ring and escaped under the cover of darkness. “A shocked Shirbhate drove for a while before halting in the limits of Aurangabad rural police, who refused to register an offence while citing that it was not their jurisdiction. The then banker went to Nagpur and lodged a complaint through email, which landed at the Mukundwadi police station and it was shared with the crime branch,” MIDC Cidco police station inspector Vitthale Pote told TOI on Monday. The officer said the complainant was requested to personally come to Aurangabad so that the exact spot of incident could be identified for registering offence with the area police station. “While heading back to Mumbai on Sunday, Shirbhate stopped at Aurangabad and took police to the scene of the crime, following which his statement was recorded and an offence of robbery registered,” he said. Inspector Pote said that the two suspects were recently arrested for robbing commuters and sent to judicial custody. “We moved an application seeking their custody. Under interrogation, the duo confessed to robbing the banker and his wife,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nerul-banker-wife-robbed-on-way-to-nagpur-2-held/articleshow/76142904.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Clerk accused of cruelty to wife||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old woman, Kajal Gol, lodged a complaint at the Women’s police station (west) alleging cruelty by her husband, Praveensinh Gol, who is a junior clerk at the Karai Police Training Academy in Gandhinagar. Kajal stated that she married Praveensinh in 2014 in Dhandhuka. When he got the job of junior clerk at Karai Police Training Academy, she went to live with his joint family in Gandhinagar. According to the FIR, after her husband was given government accommodation in Vastrapur, she and her 15-year-old daughter went to live with Praveensinh at the government house. From 2016, her husband started quarrelling with her over petty issues and continuously harassed her. “Kajal even complained about her husband’s misbehaviour with her to her parents and her in-laws but they told her to put up with his behaviour to keep their marriage intact,” said a women’s police official. Kajal stated that to see that their son behaves, his parents also came to Vastrapur to live with them but Praveensinh harassed her more and more. According to the complaint, Praveensinh finally stopped giving Kajal money for domestic expense had left them for about a month. “We are verifying the details stated in the FIR and will summon Praveensinh for questioning,” said a senior women’s police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clerk-accused-of-cruelty-to-wife/articleshow/76144686.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Give support to mask, PPE makers’||Ahmedabad: Federation of Kutch Industries Associations (FOKIA) has suggested that the state government should provide special support to sunrise sectors such as mask and personal protective equipment (PPE) makers. The industry association has made this suggestion to the expert advisory committee for economic revival formed by the Gujarat government. According to FOKIA, a turnover incentive of at least 7% should be given to these new sunrise sectors. Stating that this industry has participated with the government in their efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Kutch industry association added, “With the improvement in supply side, the prices of these products are on a downward trend. However, a huge global market needs to be captured, where there is stiff competition from China and Vietnam.” The association further added that while free market economics in these segments has improved the supply side and over-rationalized the prices, this segment would require support to continue participating in global trade. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/give-support-to-mask-ppe-makers/articleshow/76144687.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh welcomes reduction in power tariff||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has welcomed the decision of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) to reduce the domestic power tariff despite the revenue gap resulting from the Covid lockdown. The CM said he hoped that the rates would be further rationalised in future, adding that while his government had recommended even further reduction in tariff not just for the domestic consumers but also for industry, the PSERC had been unable to accommodate the state’s request in view of the steep fall in revenue collection. In April alone, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 30 crore a day on account of the total shutdown of business and industry, he noted. Pointing out that the process of rationalisation of domestic tariff had been carried out for the first time in many years in the state, Amarinder said even with the current reduction in load up to 50 kW (50 paise per unit and 25 paise per unit for consumption slabs of 0 to 100 units and 101 to 300 units respectively) would give relief of Rs 354.82 crore to 69 lakh domestic consumers. The most benefitted were the poorer section of the society who had been the worst affected by the pandemic, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-welcomes-reduction-in-power-tariff/articleshow/76144667.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: When thalassemia patients motivated blood donation||AHMEDABAD: Dharmesh (name changed), 25, knew firsthand what it means to be a thalassemia major patient. “It’s like we get the extension of life every fortnight with each transfusion,” he says. “And thus, when the lockdown was announced in March, the first thought I and my fellow patient friends had was about the 1500-odd thalassemia patients in Ahmedabad.” Thus, when the scarcity of blood was a reality for majority of the organizations, the Thalassemic Gujarat and Jalaram Sadbhavana Trust carried out 35-odd camps and gathered over 800 units of blood for the thalassemia major kids. “It was not possible to organize major camps keeping in mind the lockdown rules and also the safety concerns. Thus, we started spreading the message in our own localities, through our social circles and also appeals on social media. Our message was – each of the donations would give a new lease of life to the children,” said Dharmesh, adding that they got a very encouraging response. The organizations with which Dharmesh and his team worked primarily catered to 110-odd children associated with treatment at Civil Hospital. While multiple blood banks work closely with the children, Dharmesh and his team worked with Prathama Blood Centre. “We sent vehicles even when there were only five to ten persons ready to donate blood,” said Dr Ripal Shah, medical director of Prathama Blood Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/when-thalassemia-patients-motivated-blood-donation/articleshow/76144685.cms||Parth Shastri
June 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Power subsidy bill up, slight relief for low consumption consumers||PATIALA: The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission on Monday passed the tariff orders for the year 2020-21 with a slight relief for the low consumption domestic consumers (below 100 and 300 units a month), while increasing the state’s power subsidy bill and hiking the cost of power for high consumption domestic consumers by 10 paise per unit. Those consuming less than a hundred units a month will be paying 50p a unit less from June 1, as compared to the tariff that was in force till Sunday. Similarly, those consuming between 100 to 300 units have been given a relief of 25p a unit. It will result in financial relief to the tune of Rs 354.82 crore to these consumers. However, the cost of power for those consuming more than 300 units a month has been increased by 10p a unit. In the new tariff order, the price of power being supplied to the general industry and the power intensive units (PIU) has also been increased ranging between 15 to 22 p based on total power load. The PSERC has, after many years, also increased the cost of power supplied to the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple by 5 p per unit. The PSERC has also jacked up the cost of power supplied to the agricultural connections by 29 p per unit or Rs 22 per BHP per month, which is all set to increase the power subsidy bill of the state government. Other than these, the regulator has kept the tariffs of all other categories of the consumers more or less unchanged. The commission has determined the annual revenue requirement (AAR) of PSPCL as Rs 31,100.62 crore against a demand for Rs 41,720.97 crore. It includes, ARR of Rs 1,345.28 crore determined for the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) against a demand for Rs 1,500.24 crore and also the financial gap of previous years of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). As per the regulator, with expected revenue at the existing tariff being Rs 30,875.79 crore, the consolidated gap (deficit) works out to Rs 224.83 crore, which is required to be recovered through tariff in remaining 10 months of FY 2020-21 as the new tariffs will be enforced from June 1. In the orders, the PSERC has maintained that the main reason for the revenue gap is the reduction in projected sales due to the lockdown imposed by the central and state governments to prevent the spread of the pandemic, resulting in a disproportionate decrease in revenue as compared to the cost of power purchase. All fixed cost components of the discoms such as fixed cost and capacity charges payable to power generators, transmission charges, operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation, interest on loans, return on equity and other such features have remained unchanged. Special night tariff with 50% fixed charges and energy charge of Rs 4.83/kVAh for industrial consumers using electricity exclusively during the hours of 10pm to 6am continues The facility of this special tariff has been also extended to small power (SP) industrial category consumers Night category consumers will continue to get power at normal tariff during the extended 4 four hours from 6am to 10am for the entire year including during the paddy season of FY 2020-21||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govts-power-subsidy-bill-up-slight-relief-to-low-consumption-domestic-consumers/articleshow/76144664.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Pandemic takes the shine off wedding shopping||Kochi: Shops are now open for business after nearly two months of total lockdown. As shoppers and outlets adapt to the new normal, shopping experience in the city has undergone a drastic change. The prospective bride and groom, who used to try on a dozen outfits before choosing one, now clad in gloves and masks just point toward the one they like and take it home without even trying. The stylist in his/her blue gloves and sterilized scissors looks all the more like a surgeon. At liquor outlets, which are finally abuzz, tipplers as usual are a very disciplined lot as they hop from circle to circle waiting for their turn. With the end of the pandemic not in sight, couples who had their weddings scheduled during the lockdown have started to stop waiting and conduct a wedding following restrictions. Their shopping options however have now become drastically limited. “We obviously wanted a big fat wedding but it has been a year since the wedding was fixed and we were done waiting. I guess for women shopping is easier if they are selecting sarees as the fitting issue doesn’t arise. However, for men buying a suit without trying it on is a gamble,” said Bijoy Mathew, who is slated to tie the knot this week. At most major outlets, the customer’s phone number and name are noted at a front desk set up exclusively as part of the containment strategy. The staff then record their temperature and sprays sanitizer on both hands. Later, the customers are made to wear plastic disposable gloves before they are allowed to touch the clothes. “We kept the shirt against my shoulder to see if it fits. For the pants, the saleswoman showed me something called the neck trick. She placed the waistline of the jeans around my neck. Apparently, if the waistline comfortably meets the back of your neck, then the pants will fit. She also took measurements to help me pick the pants. It did fit,” said Mathew. Meanwhile, the salons are also becoming lively. At major salons, the stylists wear rubber gloves and use disposable cloth sheets to cover customers while cutting hair. “We used to keep our sterilizer in the backroom. Now, we have placed it in the main hall itself so that customers would feel more comfortable and safe. We are asking customers to bring their own towels if they require a hair wash. All customers are made to use sanitizers and wear plastic gloves before entering the salon,” said Sujith, a Kochi-based stylist. Liquor shopping has also undergone a makeover. Most bars now have circles drawn for maintaining social distancing in the queues. Some have even employed bouncers to manage the queue. The staffer approaches the customers one by one and take their temperature reading. Also, disinfectant solutions are handed out to those in the queue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pandemic-takes-the-shine-off-wedding-shopping/articleshow/76142917.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Guards assault elderly man at GMCH in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The situation was tense on Monday morning at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, after 65-year old Ali Bin Hilabi was tied with rope and brutally assaulted by the security guards deployed at hospital premises. The video of the incident went viral. The excesses committed by the private agency providing security to the region’s leading medical institution drew sharp criticism. GMCH deputy dean Kailash Zine issued a written communication to the head of the private security agency, seeking immediate action against the guards. He also sought a detailed probe, before police action against them is initiated. Ali Bin Hilabi, who sustained visible injuries, had gone to the GMCH to meet his daughter, who had recently delivered a baby. He told TOI, “Security guards allowed two others to go inside the building, but stopped me.” On being questioned, the guards started arguing with the elderly man. The five security guards then tied his hands and assaulted him with a baton. The man said he has lodged a written complaint with Begumpura police station. However, inspector Sachin Sanap could not be reached for comment. Former corporator Syed Mateen said, “This is not the first time that these private guards have misbehaved with relatives of patients.” He said that if the GMCH does not initiate action, major protests and agitations would be carried out against GMCH administration. He even warned of taking GMCH to the court, if it is found that they are trying to shield the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/guards-assault-elderly-man-at-gmch/articleshow/76142920.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 2, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC to start inter-state bus services soon||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) is planning to resume inter-state services again. As lockdown 5.0 guidelines paved way for inter-state bus movement with mutual consent of different state governments, the RSRTC management is in touch with its counterparts in Delhi, Uttrakhand, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to start sending and receiving buses. Authorites on Monday were in touch with their counterparts and were chalking out plans to work out modalities to restart services. RSRTC officials have been in constant touch with authorities of other states. On Monday, authorities said Rajasthan can start inter-state bus services with Haryana. “Haryana has been positive so far while we have got a very good response from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab too. though it depends on Covid-19 figures, we are hopeful to start inter-state bus services gradually,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC. “I think we would be able to start inter-state bus services with Haryana and which would be followed by states like Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Delhi,” he added. Haryana border connects with districts such as Jhunjhunu and Churu and has a good frequency of buses from the state capital too. He said Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir were not much willing. “J&K was the first state that withdrew its buses much prior to the lockdown. I think buses to Delhi and J&K it will take some time,” Jain added. Senior officers said that from Uttar Pradesh, buses from places away from containment zones would be introduced first. “We are focusing to connect cities which are not in containment zones. So far we have discussed cities between which we can restart the operations,” said a senior officer of RSRTC. Meanwhile, intra-state bus movement has been smooth so far from Jaipur. “The number of passengers is gradually increasing. However, it will take some more months to see the normal passengers load,” said an officer at the central bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-to-start-inter-state-bus-services-soon/articleshow/76145308.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 2, 2020||Kochi||Schools to conduct assembly & opening day events online||Kochi: Though the lockdown has forbidden schools from conducting opening day celebrations, many city schools are set to hold them online. Ceremonies, including lighting the lamp, prayer songs, school choir in which members would be singing from their respective houses, principal's speech, announcements of etiquette to be followed during online classes etc., will be held through video conferencing. Most schools reopen on Monday with online classes while some on Wednesday. School authorities said the opening ceremony is an important part of a new academic year but owing to the present situation they can neither hold celebrations on the school premises nor conduct first assembly of students. Teachers of Assisi Vidyanikethan have come up with an agenda for the opening day prayer service 2020 programme. “All students will come online at 8am on Monday via Google Classroom and the programme will start with choir,” said Suma Paul, school principal. In Toc H school, there will not be any live programmes except principal address. “Teachers will also read excerpts from Bhagavad Gita, Bible and Quran followed by its explanation,” said principal Juby Paul. At Global school, ‘Back to School’ orientation sessions for all classes were conducted online. “We are opening in a phased manner, and will begin with grade IX to XII on Monday. Teachers met parents online in groups of five over the weekend to allay their fears.,” said Susanna Sunil, vice principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/schools-to-conduct-assembly-opening-day-events-online/articleshow/76142923.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Staring at Rs 280 crore loss, Milkfed seeks relief to stabilise system||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited, popularly known as Milkfed, has asked for at least Rs 250 crore relief package for stablising the system hit due to Covid-19 crisis. Milkfed also plans to increase its milk procurement and processing capacity, and to ultimately provide relief to milk producers. Milkfed, which markets its products through its flagship brand Verka, is likely to incur an overall loss of Rs 280 crore. This includes Rs 185 crore due to the current crisis situation, Rs 70 crore because of additional milk handling, and Rs 25 crore per annum additional carrying cost of the commodities in stock. Milkfed’s managing director (MD) Kamaldeep Singh Sangha told TOI that the Milkfed had to borrow an additional amount of Rs 250 crore during the Covid-19 lockdown period for enhanced working capital requirements and to pay remunerative prices to the farmers even in adverse conditions. “We have asked the state government to lend us support in interest subvention for the loans taken from various banks so as to keep the system afloat, as we have incurred extra burden because of the pile up of stocks which are likely to remain with us for long due to no extra demand,” said Sangha. He added that the interest subvention will ensure that milk producers’ supply did not get affected and the long term system of the Milkfed did not fail. In a detailed report prepared by a committee of the cooperative department, it has also been urged that extra liberal support is needed to strengthen and expand the Milkfed infrastructure to meet extra burden of the milk production in the state and to double the processing capacity in the long run. “We have also suggested that the skimmed milk powder (SMP) can be distributed to the government schoolchildren in the mid-day meals. Similarly, the milk powder can also be distributed through the public distribution system (PDS) to the kids of poor strata of the society to fulfil their nutritional requirements,” said the Milkfed MD. Adding to Milkfed’s financial crisis, the prices of commodities have decreased up to Rs 100 per kg for milk powder. Though the international giant Nestle has reduced its milk procurement during the Covid-19 crisis but on the contrary, the Milkfed has increased its milk procurement capacity. Punjab produces around 105 lakh litres of milk per day. Though the production of milk decreases during the summers but the Milkfed is looking at handling the increased milk supply from October onwards. The state government had proposed to come up a with one big Verka milk plant in Bassi Pathana by this year-end but the project might delay. Similarly, the Creambell ice cream company also has plans to come up with a big plant in Pathankot which would increase milk demand in Punjab. Milkfed’s lockdown crisisThere are 10 state government owned Verka milk plants in Punjab with around 27 lakh litres per day handling capacity, besides 30 big and small plants owned by private players As milk producers in the unorganised sector suffered a huge setback during the Covid-19 lockdown starting from March 23 because of the closure of hotels, marriage places, dhabas, sweet shops and other eateries, Milkfed had to increase its procurement capacity Milkfed’s milk procurement increased by 26% from 19 lakh litres per day to 24 lakh litres per day. As there was a simultaneous decrease in liquid milk utilisation by 25%, Milkfed had to convert 7.4 lakh litres more milk per day into skimmed milk powder and white butter. Therefore, the Milkfed has already accumulated 10,500 metric tonnes of skimmed milk powder and 7,000 metric tonnes of white butter. Additional items are worth Rs 220 crore During the lockdown period from March 23 to May 23, the Milkfed procured a total of 1,448 lakh litres of milk amounting to Rs 501 crore. The average price paid by Milkfed during lockdown period from March 23 to April 30 was Rs 3.79 per kg higher as compared to the same period last year. From May 1 onwards, Milkfed is paying Rs 2.16 per kg higher than the same period of last year despite huge increase in milk procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/staring-at-rs-280cr-loss-milkfed-seeks-relief-to-stabilise-system/articleshow/76144671.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Counsellors help Covid-19 patients||AHMEDABAD: It’s not just the viral infection of Covid-19 itself that affects the patients. It can be anything ranging from the food to their environs in the hospital to even domestic issues on the back of their minds, said experts. As an initiative to address these issues, a total of 18 students of social work with training in psychology have been assigned at GCRI, IKDRC and UN Mehta Heart Institute on the Civil Hospital campus by Government Hospital for Mental Health (HMH). Dr Ajay Chauhan, medical superintendent of HMH, said that the students daily spoke to the patients, tried to understand their issues and also assess them for any signs of distress that could require medical intervention. Arpan Nayak, coordinator for the initiative, said that social work in medical field was still a new concept and that the students were getting into the field at the most difficult times. “They wear PPEs, observe the entire hospital management and try to redress several issues that can lead to potential flare-ups,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/counsellors-help-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76144683.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam to get India’s first coastal resource management centre||VISAKHAPATNAM: To increase the fish stock in Bay of Bengal while maintaining the ecological health along the coastline, Visakhapatnam is set to have a Coastal Resources Management Centre – the first-of-its-kind in the country. “This would be the first coastal resources management centre in the country and we want to make it a model, which every state can follow. If everything works according to plan then the centre might come up by the end of the year, or early next year,” Anupam Ghosh, the secretary general of Asian Marine Conservative Association (AMCA), which has the special consultative status of the United Nations Economic and Social Council. Earlier, several experts have attributed the dip in fish stock off the Visakhapatnam and Andhra coastline to pollution and overfishing. Pollution has an adverse effect on the growth of the planktons – food for small marine creatures and fishes – that are, in turn, food for big fishes, which humans consume. “Such a centre would be established to reverse the decline in capture fishery production along the coast of Visakhapatnam. For the last three decades we have been demanding for such a centre and finally, it seems, it would become a reality. An organisation from Norway has already showed interest to invest and a team might visit Visakhapatnam as soon as the lockdown norms are relaxed,” Ghosh added. Among several activities, the centre would primarily concentrate on two important roles. First, they would try to find out and implement ways to reduce marine pollution and second, they would try to find lternative ways to reduce human dependence on marine fishes.  Recently, at the Ocean Day meeting organized by United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific in Bangkok, AMCA emphasised the urgent need to deploy coastal resource management throughout Asia and Pacific nations for faster job generation, higher production of coastal agriculture and coastal captured fishery produce. “Our points were highly appreciated and countries like Fiji have invited us to prepare the draft for coastal resource management centres in their country,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-to-get-indias-1st-coastal-resource-management-centre/articleshow/76142932.cms||Arpit Basu
June 2, 2020||Kolhapur||In Solapur, 3 civic officials test positive||Kolhapur: In Solapur, three officials of the civic administration, who had been involved in coronavirus management, tested positive for the infection on Sunday. A health worker attached to a private hospital was also identified as a Covid-19 patient. Officials said a civic official, who was working with the corona control room of the civic body, is a confirmed patient. Moreover, an official working with quarantine facilities set up by the civic body, and an officer with the stores department had also tested positive. Civic employees testing positive has sparked concerns as all the officials are understood to have attended several meetings. The administration has undertaken a massive contact-tracing exercise. Initially, most Covid-19 patients in Solapur, were from the city area. But cases are now being reported from the rural parts of the district. On Sunday, 10 patients were recorded from rural tehsils like Pandharpur, Akkalkot and Barshi. Moreover, five deaths were reported on Sunday. All the deceased were above the age of 70. Municipal commissioner P Sivsankar issued an order on Sunday night asking the use of a cashless system. He has warned of stern action against the shopkeepers not maintaining social distancing. Shops in Solapur will be opened on June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/in-solapur-3-civic-officials-test-positive/articleshow/76142942.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh rejects ‘paltry’ paddy MSP hike||CHANDIGARH: Rejecting the paddy MSP hike announced by the Centre as “totally inadequate”, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said the Union government had failed to address the extreme distress faced by the farmers even amid the Covid crisis. “The debt-ridden and stressed farming community was looking to the Centre to come to their rescue in these times of unprecedented woes, but the much-needed support once again eluded them,” said Amarinder, describing the “paltry” Rs 53 per quintal hike in paddy MSP as “shamefully woeful”. Far from compensating the farmers for the increased cost of production, particularly the hike in the labour cost, the increase was not even sufficient to compensate them for the crops losses suffered by them due to the untimely rains in March and April, Amarinder claimed. The Centre had not come out with any special package for the farmers, nor had it accepted the state’s demand for incentive for staggered wheat procurement or the Rs 100 per quintal bonus for paddy straw management, he said. Amarinder added that despite the Covid pandemic, Punjab’s farmers had ensured successful completion of a mega Rabi harvesting and procurement operation to once again provide the nation the much-needed food security amid this unprecedented crisis. What they wanted in exchange was not charity but their due, but the BJP-led government at the Centre continued to ignore their justified demands and needs, he said. He also referred to his letter to the Prime Minister early last month, he had requested paddy MSP to be hiked to Rs 2,902 per quintal, as against which the Government of India had announced MSP of only Rs 1,868 per quintal. He urged the Centre to immediately review its decision and come out with a comprehensive support package, including higher MSP, incentives to check stubble burning and compensation for the crop losses as well as the staggered wheat procurement process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-rejects-paltry-paddy-msp-hike/articleshow/76144679.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Chennai||Partial lifting of lockdown cuts Tamil Nadu unemployment rate to 33% in May||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s unemployment rate fell from 49.8% in end of April to 33% in end of May as per the CMIE unemployment data for states and Union territories for the period ending May 31. Despite the fall, the state’s average unemployment rate was higher than the national average of 23.5% last month. Economists attributed the fall in unemployment rate to partial lifting of lockdown restrictions in May. Permission to cabs and autorickshaws to ply in districts with fewer containment zones provided employment to a significant section of people, they said. April saw a steep rise in unemployment rate — from 6.3% to 49.8% — compared to the previous month, according to the survey. The year-on-year shift has also been significantly higher – from 0.9% in May 2019 to 33% now. A senior official said it was not proper to look at unemployment rate during lockdown, when all activities had come to a standstill due to the pandemic. Tamil Nadu has a large number of micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs), which are labour-intensive. Since the lockdown began on March 25, they had remained shut for more than a month and their employees were jobless. “Since May 15, factories and other establishments have been reopening in rural and suburban areas with one-third of the workforce and labourers have returned to agricultural fields to start kuruvai cultivation. This has significantly reduced unemployment rate,” said M Vijayabaskar, professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies. He cited the high number of non-agricultural workforce in Tamil Nadu for the spurt in unemployment rate in the state during the lockdown period. Moreover, migrant workers went without employment in April. Several lakh migrant workers left Tamil Nadu for their native states in May, thereby bringing down unemployment rate last month, he said. Trade union leaders feel much more needs to be done to bring down unemployment rate in the state. Slowdown in the economy had set in much before the lockdown. Covid-19 came as a double whammy, increasing the unemployment rate, said A Soundararajan, CITU vice-president. People working in cashew, beedi and match industries in northern and southern parts of the state were badly hit by the job loss. Unless lockdown was completely lifted, unemployment rate would not fall to single digits, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/partial-lifting-of-lockdown-cuts-tn-unemployment-rate-to-33-in-may/articleshow/76144680.cms||B Sivakumar
June 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bail denied in stone-pelting case||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court on Tuesday denied bail to 27 persons who were accused of pelting police with stones in Shahpur last month, saying attacking ‘corona warriors’ is a demoralizing act because they put their lives at risk in the interest of society.The accused were arrested after the alleged stone pelting took place in Shahpur on May 8, when police personnel were enforcing the lockdown. Police invoked charges of attempted murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy as well as charges under the Disaster Management Act against the accused. During the bail hearing, the prosecution as well as the defence disputed the veracity of video footage placed before the court and blamed each other for violation of the law.After hearing the arguments, the court said that police carry out patrolling to enforce the lockdown and save people from Covid-19 by putting their lives at risk. Instead of supporting these corona warriors, attacking them would demoralize them. This should be viewed seriously and the accused cannot be granted bail. On Monday, the city sessions court refused anticipatory bail to 60-year-old Altaf Hussain Ansari, who was one of the accused in an incident of stone pelting on a police party in Rakhial last month. The court said that while cops try to protect people by risking their lives in the interest of the nation, such an attack on these corona warriors should be considered a grave offence.On Monday, the Gujarat high court granted bail to one Mohammed Tehsil Ansari, who was booked on similar charges by Gomtipur police in another stone pelting incident in the city. Members of the public had clashed with cops in April when the state government started free distribution of grain at PDS shops. People thronged the shop in Gomtipur and police tried to enforce social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-denied-in-stone-pelting-case/articleshow/76164061.cms||---
June 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: One arrested for assaulting sarpanch||KOLHAPUR: Shiroli police have arrested a member of gram panchayat of Sadle Madle village for allegedly outraging modesty and assaulting a woman sarpanch following a dispute over an arrangement to be made for a prison inmate, who was released on parole due to Covid-19. The incident took place at Sadle Madle village in Shirol taluka of Kolhapur district on Saturday night. Shiroli police inspector Kiran Bhosale confirmed the incident with TOI. Bhosale said that gram panchayat member Vasant Maruti Korve has been arrested under the sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Police said that an inmate, who is native of Sadle Madle village, was in Amravati jail and was released on parole as the government decided to release some inmates due to coronavirus. Police said that inmate had come to the village in May and had tested positive for Covid-19. The inmate, who was admitted to Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Bhosale hospital in Kolhapur, returned to Sadle Madle village on Saturday after being discharged. The police said that the sarpanch was discussing the arrangements for the patient when a group objected to the issue. Sarpanch, police said, was discussing the arrangements for the patient when a group objected to the issue. Sarpanch tried to convince them that they were duty-bound to make the arrangements. Korve, who was leading the group, suggested the sarpanch to make arrangement of stay and meal at her home. Sarpanch had complained that Korve assaulted and behaved in an objectionable manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/one-arrested-for-assaulting-sarpanch/articleshow/76142949.cms||---
