June 3, 2020||Mysuru||Life has become more tough for differently-abled people: para-swimmer Vishwas KS||For para swimmer-turned-actor Vishwas KS, life in the first half of the lockdown was nothing less than a nightmare. The swimmer had no access to essential services. He says that very little was done by the government for the differently-abled community. Vishwas, who has won medals at various national and international events, is making his debut in Sandalwood with his biopic, Arbbie, which highlights his journey as a swimmer with no arms. Vishwas says, “I was living alone when the lockdown was imposed. Movement was restricted and I had to struggle to get my meals. I was relying on hotels for food and they were closed. Groceries were available, but it was difficult for me to cook by myself. To go outside, I have to depend on other people, which was again not possible due to the lockdown rules. I survived on instant noodles until some relaxations were announced by the government. Being a swimmer, I couldn’t get the required calories to keep my body in shape.” Vishwas further says that after the lockdown, it will be a different world for the physically challenged, especially those who are living independently. “There are no particular norms for disabled people in the current situation. Just imagine if a physically-challenged person needs to board a train without any help. He/she has to rely on other people, but how do they help when there is social distancing? If a visually-impaired person needs to cross a busy road, he can’t do it with anyone else. Now people are living in fear of the pandemic, so they might think twice to help out,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/life-has-become-more-tough-for-differently-abled-people-mysuru-para-swimmer-vishwas-ks/articleshow/76163422.cms||Vinay Lokesh
June 3, 2020||Allahabad||TTE-less travel introduced at Prayagraj railway station||PRAYAGRAJ: Soon, you won't have to show your ticket to the travelling ticket examiner (TTE) in the train as the pilot project by North Central Railways (NCR) is all set to introduce a TTE-less travel across all stations. The project was introduced and tested at Prayagraj railway station on Monday night, even as different zonal railways of the country resumed operations the same day. As per chief public relation officer of NCR, Ajeet Kumar Singh, as the New Delhi-bound Prayagraj Express was to commence its journey after a gap of 70 days on Monday night, each of the 1,153 passengers going to board the train were issued a QR code on their ticket and the same was scanned by a QR code scanner from a distance as they entered the station. The unique QR code was sent to each passenger through message on their mobile phone and database of all QR codes are maintained in the computer locally at Prayagraj station. After thermal screening and QR code scanning, the passenger was automatically confirmed in the system, explained senior divisional commercial manager, Anshoo Pandey. "This ensured that the passengers didn't have to physically produce ticket to the TTE in the train as their boarding status was already confirmed in the system," said Singh. The chart available with TTE had prior confirmation on passengers onboard, he added. As many as 807 passengers out of 1,153 checked in through this system introduced by the Prayagraj division on a pilot basis. Anshoo Pandey, Sr DCM of Prayagraj division, who got the system developed under the overall guidance of general manager of NCR, Rajiv Chaudhry, informed that IRCTC has been approached to make available unique QR code to each reserved category passenger on their mobile phone directly from IRCTC server. This will facilitate implementation of the TTE-less system across all stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/tte-less-travel-introduced-at-prayagraj-railway-station/articleshow/76164243.cms||Rajiv Mani
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP home minister supports replacing 'India' with 'Bharat', says it gives a 'feeling of affinity'||BHOPAL: After former chief minister Uma Bharti advocating change in the name of India to Bharat, Madhya Pradesh health minister Narottam Mishra has also supported the suggestion saying it gives a `feeling of affinity' with our motherland. Several BJP leaders have also come forward to support the move. "There is nothing wrong in replacing `India' with `Bharat'. The word `Bharat' gives a feeling of affinity with the motherland. `India' gives a sense of Westernisation," Mishra told reporters on petition seeking replacing the word `India' with `Bharat' or `Hindustan'. The BJP minister further said, "There is no other country where motherland is used with the name. We call it Bharat Mata. But, we never heard saying Pakistan Pita or Father Honolulu. Only Bharat is called as Mata (mother). We call it `Janani Janmabhumishcha Swargadapi Gariyasi' (Mother and motherland are greater than heaven. This is our culture. So feel the change is for good." Recently, former chief minister Uma Bharati had also raised the issue referring Jain seer Acharya Vidyasagar Maharaj who had advocated for a change in the name from India to Bharat. The former union minister said that India is a name given by the British and a memory of slavery. "A country or a person does not have two names, such as Surya Prakash that is Sunlight. There will be no such name. In the same way `India that is Bharat' is ridiculous to be a name. `Bharat' is named after `Bharat', son of Dushyant and Shakuntala, who became the ruler of Aryavrata," Bharti had said adding, "Perhaps Bharat Mata (motherland) was waiting for Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) to wipe the India word that was stained on her forehead." Several BJP leaders have also endorsed for the change in the name to Bharat. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayavargiya said that in principal he will support this demand. BJP said that party leaders were eagerly waiting for Supreme Court directions on a plea which has sought to amend the Constitution and replace the word India with ‘Bharat’ or ‘Hindustan’ as it will “instill a sense of pride in our own nationality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-home-minister-supports-replacing-india-with-bharat-says-it-gives-a-feeling-of-affinity/articleshow/76164376.cms||Rajendra Sharma
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Seven more Covid-19 cases reported in Ludhiana: DC||LUDHIANA: The district reported seven more Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said on Tuesday. The new positive cases include, three from Ludhiana, while four belong to other districts. Agrawal said that unfortunately, an 86-year-old person died due to coronavirus infection. Agrawal further said the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 201, while 94 patients are related to other districts or states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/seven-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-dc/articleshow/76164491.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two girls attempt suicide, die at hospital||PATNA: Two girls died at PMCH on Tuesday. They had attempted suicide in separate incidents after their mothers scolded them on domestic issues. Priyanka Kumari (20) hanged herself from the ceiling at her residence in Nadhari under Sigori police station in rural Patna on Monday night after she was scolded by her mother Baby Devi for not cooking food. PMCH police outpost in-charge Amit Kumar said the victim remained under treatment for a few hours but could not survive. Kumar said the statement of victim's mother had been recorded. She alleged that her daughter took the extreme step after being scolded for not cooking food. In the second incident, one Khushbu Kumari (15) died during treatment after she attempted suicide by burning herself at village Lai under Bihta police station in western Patna on May 24. "She was also scolded by her mother for not helping in domestic work," Kumar said, adding she had just passed her Matriculation examination. The SHO said both the bodies were handed over to the family members after postmortem and recording statements of their respective mothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-two-girls-attempt-suicide-die-at-hospital/articleshow/76164533.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 3, 2020||India||ED files chargesheet against Chidambaram, son in INX case||NEW DELHI: Amid lockdown, the Enforcement Directorate on Monday filed a prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against former FM P Chidambaram and his son Karti in the INX-Media money laundering case in a Delhi court. The chargesheet was filed through the e-filing facility even as the court refused to take cognizance of the matter and directed the agency to file it once again when the normal court functioning begins. The court it seems has deferred taking cognizance of the prosecution complaint. This is first chargesheet against Chidambaram and his son in the INX-Media case being investigated under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act though the CBI and ED had earlier filed another chargesheet against the father and son in the Aircel-Maxis case. If the special PMLA court at Rouse Avenue in the Capital takes cognizance of the chargesheet, the trial of the former FM begins. In the INX-Media money laundering case, the former FM has already spent 106 days in custody of CBI and ED and was released on bail. During his custodial interrogation, Chidambaram was confronted with lot of evidence the agency has gathered related to his son’s association with shell companies that allegedly received tainted money and invested in acquiring foreign properties using front entities. Karti is accused of having received bribes from the company which received foreign direct investment (FDI) clearance from the finance ministry when his father was the FM. Widening the probe, the ED later traced several shell companies registered in tax havens and assets acquired in foreign countries, all allegedly linked to Karti Chidambaram. The ED had earlier told the Supreme Court that it has “collected documentary evidence such as emails exchanged between the co-conspirators on behalf of the appellant (Chidambaram) and documents to indicate investment of laundered money in benami properties whose beneficial owners can be traced to the appellant and his family members”. The agency had also argued that Chidambaram was aware of the benami properties acquired in foreign countries and provided evidence showing share holding pattern of the 16 shell companies associated with Karti Chidamdbaram. The ED had also brought to the notice of the courts that there were at least 17 overseas bank accounts opened by the accused to layer transactions and launder money earned through illegitimate means. The apex court, while granting bail to Chidambaram in the INX-Media case, had recorded the facts relating to Karti Chidambaram’s association with “opening of shell companies and also purchasing benami properties in the name of relatives at various places in different countries”. After his release from jail, the former FM was again summoned by the agency on January 3 and questioned in connection with the bribes paid in the Air India-Boeing deal signed during the UPA regime. Chidambaram was chairman of the Empowered Group of Ministers that had cleared the deal. Former Civil Aviation minister Praful Patel is one of the accused in the case and has already been questioned twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-files-chargesheet-against-chidambaram-son-in-inx-case/articleshow/76164591.cms||Pradeep Thakur
June 3, 2020||Patna||Amit Shah to sound bugle for Bihar assembly polls through virtual rally on June 7||PATNA: Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposed virtual rally in Bihar will now be held on June 7, instead of June 9. Shah will sound the bugle for Bihar assembly polls through this virtual rally, which will be held through social media platforms. Assembly polls in the state are due in the month of October-November. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal on Tuesday said Shah’s virtual rally was earlier scheduled to be held on June 9. “But now it will be held on June 7. The date has been changed due to some reasons,” Jaiswal said. “BJP will organize a series of virtual rallies in Bihar in coming days in view of the state assembly polls. The series will begin with Shah’s virtual rally on June 7,” Jaiswal said. He said, since big political rallies like the previous years could not be organized due to the Covid-19 crisis, the BJP decided to take maximum advantage of different social media platforms for organizing virtual rallies. BJP’s state vice president Rajib Ranjan told TOI on Tuesday that his party was making all out preparations to ensure that Union home minister’s speech is listened by the party workers at all 9,300 ‘Shakto Kendra’ across the state. “We are making arrangements to ensure that around 50 party workers and sympathizers gather at each ‘Shakti Kendra’ while maintain the norms of physical distancing, to listen the speech of our big leader Amit Shah,” Ranjan told TOI. The BJP has formed ‘Shakti Kendra’, an organizational unit of the party, at Panchayat level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amit-shah-to-sound-bugle-for-bihar-assembly-polls-through-virtual-rally-on-june-7/articleshow/76164625.cms||Madan Kumar
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana issues SOPs for taxis, cabs and autorickshaws||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has issued guidelines regarding taxis, cab aggregators, maxi cabs and autorickshaw drivers. Taxis and app-based cabs will be allowed to ply with two passengers in addition to the driver. The maxi cabs will be allowed to ply with a maximum of half of their seating capacity. Autorickshaws and e-richshaws are allowed to ply with two passengers apart from the driver. Likewise, one pillion rider will be allowed on two-wheelers and it shall be mandatory for both the peole to wear helmets, masks and gloves. The manually-driven rickshaws shall carry not more than two passengers.  A government official said that only essential activities are allowed in the containment zones. Therefore, the movement within containment zone shall be strictly regulated and allowed only for emergency and essential goods or service vehicles. He said that the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between 9pm to 5am except for essential activities. He said that people above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and the children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for essential and health services. All drivers and passengers should cover their face with mask or cloth at all times. Motor vehicles should be regularly sanitized and the drivers and passengers should regularly use sanitizers. Social distancing should be followed by all at all the times. Provisions of hand wash and sanitizer will be made at all taxi or auto stands. Drivers at taxi or auto stands shall maintain social distance from each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-issues-sops-for-taxis-cabs-and-autorickshaws/articleshow/76164689.cms||Ajay Sura
June 3, 2020||Business||Cyclone Nisarga impact: Mumbai Airport to handle 19 flights today||NEW DELHI: Mumbai Airport will handle only 19 flights on Wednesday, instead of the about 50 daily it sees these days, when cyclone Nisarga is expected to make a landfall. In a statement, Mumbai Airport operator said "Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will be operating 19 flights, which include 11 departures and 8 arrivals on Wednesday (June 3). The flights will be operated by five airlines including Air Asia India, Air India, IndiGo, GoAir and SpiceJet. There could be changes to the schedule and passengers are requested to check the schedule with their respective airline before leaving for the airport.” With Mumbai expected to get 200 mm of rainfall in 24 hrs and strong winds with speed of up to 110 kmph likely between 11 am to 5 pm, the megacity airport has asked small plane operators to park their aircraft in hangars. Air India has also been asked to park ATR 72 in hangar. “Special precautions have been taken for general aviation aircraft since they are small and light and are vulnerable to strong winds. Some GA aircraft have flown out of Mumbai, some have been asked to park inside the hangars and minimum aircraft are parked on the apron,” said an official. A senior aviation official said: "Cyclone Nisarga is expected to affect Mumbai on Wednesday between 11 am to 7 pm. The cyclone will result in heavy rainfall in Mumbai (especially south Mumbai and Navi Mumbai), from morning onwards." With the severe cyclonic storm just miles away from Maharashtra and Gujarat, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has issued a list of precautions that airlines must oversee to fly safely in this adverse weather. The “monsoon circular” has also been issued as airlines have restarted domestic flights only from last Monday after a two-month suspension of schedule operations. The DGCA circular issued to operators and pilots to reiterate some existing guidelines on adverse weather operations says: “The low pressure area developing over the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm and cross the north Maharashtra and South Gujarat coasts in the evening/night of June 3…. In view of the COVID-19 situation, aviation related activities have been very limited… Operators and individuals have a challenge at hand in restarting flying after a prolonged period of non-flying and the associated weather at this time of the year across India.” The regulator has asked airlines to deploy more experienced crew at these times. “Runway surface condition and effect of the same on aircraft performance should be understood and taken into account. Runway condition has a direct impact on aircraft maximum allowable take off weight and decelerating capability. Fuel uplift calculation should be done very judiciously and it should take into account enroute and destination weather and trend forecast. Selection of a suitable destination alternate is also an important aspect during adverse and monsoon conditions,” it says. Last monsoon had seen a spate of runway incursions during monsoon after which the aviation authorities had cracked down on airline and airport operators. “The available fuel should be constantly monitored, as enroute weather avoidance and use of anti-ice devises may end up consuming more than the planned fuel for such activity. Prior to descend, diversion station and fuel for diversion should be discussed and clearly understood by the crew members, as this can create uncertainties at a later stage of the approach,” it says. “Selection of appropriate auto brakes or usage of adequate manual brake (where auto brake system is not available) should be done to ensure safe stopping of the aircraft. Landing distance requirement for actual landing weight, environment and runway conditions should be calculated for every landing,” the circular adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyclone-nisarga-impact-mumbai-airport-to-handle-19-flights-today/articleshow/76164820.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Cycling, the solution to commuting fears during pandemic?||As cities around the country are gradually emerging from the long lockdown and trying to get life back on track, experts are rooting for the cycle as a safer way to commute. So much so, Mumbai will see 24 bicycle councillors taking charge of a ward to make it cycle-friendly starting from today, on World Bicycle Day. Here’s looking at why this two-wheeler is seen as a safe alternative for a traffic-heavy and congested city as ours... ‘A cycle is the best way to have a personal vehicle and keep social distance’If you have always treated cycling as just a hobby in Mumbai, it may just turn out to be a lifesaver now. A report quotes Morton Kabell, who co-chairs the European Cyclists’ Federation, as saying that the transition to bike-friendly urban environments “is necessary if we want our cities to work”. Bicycle Mayor of Mumbai, Firoza Suresh, endorses it, saying, “The air quality has improved drastically in Mumbai during the 60-day lockdown. Do we want to go back to the old ways of taking motorised transportation for short commutes? Why not cycle, instead?” Across the globe, there is an active post-lockdown focus on cycling. “With concerns arising about shared mobility (app-based cabs) and the need to keep social distance, a cycle is the best way to have your own personal vehicle and keep a distance from others on the road. Besides, it also reduces carbon emission and does not increase pollution levels,” she adds. ‘Bicycle councillors have the task of making each ward cycle-friendly’To move towards a greater cycle usage, Mumbai will soon have ‘bicycle councillors’. “Each ward of MMR (Mumbai Metropolitan Region), which are 24 in number, will have a bicycle councillor. They’ll be designated with the task of making their ward cycle-friendly. We wanted to start the process on June 3 as it is celebrated as World Bicycle Day,” informs Firoza Suresh. For some, the cycle has been a boon during lockdown. Take Mumbai’s frontline healthcare workers. Says Dr Viswanathan Iyer, brain and spine surgeon, “I’ve always been a cyclist, but in lockdown it became a necessity as I had to visit different hospitals in Thane and Ghatkopar from Mulund. It's also a safe mode of transport. People should think of adapting to it and use it to travel up to 10kms, which is something anyone can do.” Salman Khan ko cycling pasand haiLockdown or no lockdown, Salman Khan just needs a reason to go pedalling on his cycle — be it to Mehboob Studio, the shooting set near his apartment, or to visit his starry neighbour, Shah Rukh Khan. In fact, the actor was spotted cycling around his Panvel farmhouse, where he’s been throughout the lockdown. His friends, including Jacqueline Fernandez, who are also at the farmhouse, were seen cycling with him. The cycling brigade in tinseltown also includes SRK, Sonakshi Sinha, Sidharth Malhotra and Kalki Koechlin among others. This will help curb pollution: Iqbal khan“I have two cars, but now, I use them mainly for long-distance travel. My sole purpose to buy a bicycle was to help curb pollution and traffic congestion. So, If I want to go to the gym or my local grocery shop or buy veggies, I use the bicycle. I used to love riding it before the lockdown. After things open up now, I will begin using it again for short distances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cycling-the-solution-to-commuting-fears-during-pandemic/articleshow/76164151.cms||Ismat Tahseen
June 3, 2020||India||India-China standoff: Lt Generals to talk in bid to break LAC deadlock||NEW DELHI: India and China will hold a top-level military meeting on June 6 in a bid to resolve the troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, while finally admitting that Chinese soldiers were present in “a sizeable number” in the high-altitude region. Defence sources said the June 6 meeting is set to be raised to the level of lieutenant generals from the two armies, in a clear indication that the several rounds of talks between rival colonels, brigadiers and major generals have failed to break the deadlock in the month-long military stalemate. Northern Army Command chief Lt Gen Y K Joshi visited Ladakh on Tuesday morning to review the operational situation with the Leh-based 14 Corps commander Lt-Gen Harinder Singh and other top officers. “Another meeting between major generals was held on Tuesday but it remained inconclusive. So, Lt Gen Singh is now likely to meet with his Chinese counterpart on June 6,” said a source. The defence minister had confirmed last week that People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers had “come a little further than they used to earlier” to make the “situation different” this time from earlier military face-offs. On Tuesday, in an interview to a television channel, Singh said the PLA soldiers were present in “achhi khasi sankhya” (sizeable number) but were being matched by Indian troops who had taken all necessary counter-measures. Without going into either the number of PLA troops involved or how deep their intrusions were across the LAC, he said military and diplomatic talks were underway to resolve the confrontation like the earlier ones, including the 73-day Dokalm face-off in June-August 2017. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaging in frequent scuffles and face-offs due to “differing perceptions” of the LAC and their respective “claim lines” for a long time. “I think China also needs to think about this very seriously so that we can fully resolve this dispute,” Singh said. As reported by TOI earlier, PLA troops intruded around 1-3 km into what India considers to be its territory in eastern Ladakh early last month. This was primarily to oppose India building feeder link roads and bridges in the “finger areas” (mountainous spurs) on the northern bank of Pangong Tso and near the Galwan river after completing the strategically crucial 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road, which provides access to the Depsang area and Galwan Valley while ending near the Karakoram Pass. Since then, the tense eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at the four-five locations in the Galwan Valley region (patrolling points 14-15 and Gogra post), Pangong Tso (Finger 4-5 area) and Demchok has continued, with both sides reinforcing their positions with additional troops and heavy weapons within their territories as a formidable show of strength. The PLA troops at the face-off sites, for instance, are backed by well over 5,000 soldiers as well as artillery guns and armoured vehicles amassed within Chinese territory across the LAC. India has more than matched the PLA build-up by moving forward troops of the Leh-based 3 Infantry Division (each division has 10,000-12,000 soldiers) into their ‘operational alert areas’, with several battalions (each has 800 soldiers) also being moved into Ladakh from other areas, as was first reported by TOI on May 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-standoff-lt-generals-to-talk-in-bid-to-break-lac-deadlock/articleshow/76165279.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 3, 2020||India||Landslides kill 21 in Assam’s Barak Valley||SILCHAR: At least 21 people were killed on Tuesday in a series of landslides triggered by incessant pre-monsoon rains across Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts in Assam’s Barak Valley. Of the total deaths, seven were reported in Lakhipur area of Cachar, eight in Hailakandi and six in Karimganj. Additional deputy commissioner-cum-CEO, DDMA-Hailakandi, RK Dam said, “Eight people, including two children, died when landslides triggered by heavy showers hit two areas under Hailakandi and Algapur revenue circles. Several others were injured. The bodies have been recovered and sent to the civil hospital for autopsy.” Upon receiving information, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and local police reached the spots at Mohonpur reserved area under Hailakandi and Bowarthal under Algapur revenue circles. Seven people, including one woman and three children of a family, were killed at Tolapur village in Lakhipur subdivision of Cachar district when debris from the nearby hills came down on their house. Police, SDRF and Assam Rifles personnel, along with locals, launched a rescue operation and retrieved the bodies of the seven deceased. DC (Cachar) Keerthi Jalli said an ex-gratia of Rs 28 lakh has been distributed among the family members of the deceased and those injured. In another incident, five persons, including one woman and three children, were killed at Karimpur village in Karimganj district when mud and slush from nearby hills fell on their house. Another person died in a neighbouring area when his house was washed away by a mudslide. Police have sent the bodies to Silchar Medical College and Hospital and other government hospitals for autopsy. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has expressed his “deep anguish” over the loss of lives due to the landslides. “I have directed Cachar, Hailakandi & Karimganj district administrations and the SDRF to step up rescue and relief operations and to also facilitate all possible help to those affected,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/landslides-kill-21-in-assams-barak-valley/articleshow/76165388.cms||B B Goswami
June 3, 2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga delays unlocking of Mumbai by 2 days||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: Rain accompanied by strong, gusty winds lashed parts of Mumbai on Tuesday as it braced for the impact of cyclonic storm Nisarga that is expected to make landfall south of it on Wednesday afternoon. With a red alert warning for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar issued by the India Meteorological Department for Wednesday, police put public places along the coast like beaches, promenades, parks out of bounds of people under Section 144 of CrPC for 24 hours from Wednesday, and authorities began evacuating hundreds of vulnerable dwellers near the sea in the city and thousands in coastal districts around it. In all, 65,000 people have been evacuated in five districts. CM Uddhav Thackeray postponed Mission Begin Again, the easing of the lockdown from June 3, by two days and asked citizens in the city and the coastal districts to stay indoors on Wednesday and Thursday. A Covid-19 field hospital at Bandra-Kurla Complex has been evacuated to ensure safety of the patients. PM Narendra Modi has assured the state government of help, he added. On Tuesday, the PM and the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) took stock of the preparations in both Maharashtra and Gujarat and assured all help to the coastal states in view of the IMD’s warning of extremely heavy rainfall, windspeeds of 100-110kmph and storm surges of about 1-2 meters above the astronomical tide. In Gujarat, the storm is likely to impact Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bhavnagar and Bharuch districts. The Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu are also in the eye of the cyclonic storm. An NDRF statement said that rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircraft of the Navy and air force have been put on standby. Ships of the Coast Guard are already engaged in rescuing fishermen at sea, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyclone-nisarga-delays-unlocking-of-mumbai-by-2-days/articleshow/76165405.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||Spike in MGNREGS numbers reveals impact of lockdown||NEW DELHI: As many as 90% of the total number of households who worked under MGNREGA in Chhattisgarh last year have participated in the job scheme in just around 40 days in 2020-21. The figure stands at a staggering 86% for Andhra Pradesh and 68% in Uttar Pradesh, indicating both the impact of the lockdown as also the lifeline it has been. The spike is likewise for major states across the country as it becomes clear that more and more families are seeking shelter under the flagship job scheme in the wake of destruction of employment owing to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. Madhya Pradesh has already covered 53% households who worked last year, Karnataka 46% of households and Gujarat 55% households. The rush towards the distress labour programme is staggered during an year and the annual tally of households or persons who work in MGNREGA stabilises during the course of months. For states to attract such high numbers of potential participants right at the start suggests an acute shortage of work as also high demand. “It shows desperation, that there is no other place to go for work and MGNREGA is the only option,” says Nikhil Dey, an expert on job scheme and activist with MKSS. But in sharp contrast to the number of families who are turning up for employment, the work generated is not keeping pace. In AP, the total persondays generated this year is only 34.3% of the total work done in 2019-20 though the number of households who have worked already is 86% of those who participated in MGNREGA during the entire last year. In Chhattisgarh, the persondays generated is just above 39% of last year. In UP, the persondays generated in 40-odd days is 20% of last year though 68% of last year’s households has already participated this year. The comparative figure for persondays is 19% in MP, 18% in Karnataka and 22% in Gujarat. Experts see a yawning gap between the number of persons or households working and the persondays generated. “Based on figures, my surmise is that not enough work is being generated and the administration is following a rotation policy – not everyone is working every day but people are being given work by turns. It is not demand-driven but work-driven,” an expert argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spike-in-mgnregs-numbers-reveals-impact-of-lockdown/articleshow/76165565.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 3, 2020||Business||Charter flights from abroad get government's nod||NEW DELHI: India is beginning to open up again for business for foreigners in a phased manner. The Union home ministry permitted on Monday certain other categories of foreign nationals to come to India, including foreign businessmen coming here on a business visa (other than the B-3 visa for sports), on non-schedule commercial chartered flights. A senior aviation official said non-schedule commercial charter flights from abroad have been allowed now after the MHA order. Schedule international passengers flights are suspended till the month-end. India had on March 11 suspended most existing visas issued to foreigners. The categories of foreigners permitted by the MHA to travel to India are: One, foreign businessmen coming to India on a business visa on non-scheduled chartered flights. Two, foreign healthcare professionals, health researchers, engineers and technicians for technical work at Indian health sector facilities, including laboratories and factories (with) letter of invitation from a recognised and registered healthcare facility, pharmaceutical company or a university in India. Three, foreign engineering, managerial, design or other specialists travelling to India on behalf of foreign business entities located in India. And four, foreign technical specialists and engineers travelling for installation and maintenance of foreign-origin machinery and equipment facilities in India, on the invitation of a registered Indian business entity. The foreigners allowed under these four categories “shall have to obtain a fresh business visa or employment visa, as applicable, from Indian missions abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/charter-flights-from-abroad-get-governments-nod/articleshow/76165632.cms||Saurabh Sinha
June 3, 2020||India||Covid-19: India sees 2 lakh cases, adds 1 lakh more in just a fortnight||NEW DELHI: A fortnight after crossing the 1-lakh mark, India on Tuesday became the world’s seventh country to register more than 2 lakh Covid-19 cases, with over 8,000 fresh infections and 219 deaths from the virus reported during the day. India’s count of cases stood at 2,00,745 late on Tuesday, as per data collated from state governments. Only the US, Brazil, Russia, Spain, the UK and Italy have recorded more cases. Tuesday’s case count was 8,128, the second-highest jump in cases in a single day so far after Sunday’s tally of 8,237. Likewise, the death toll the third-highest in a day, and the fifth straight day that the daily number of fatalities has been over 200. Although Maharashtra again reported the highest number of cases, the state’s count, at 2,287, had dropped for the third day in a row. So did the state’s share in the national count of fresh cases, which stood at 28% on Tuesday, the lowest since May 3. While Maharashtra’s cases were falling, Delhi (1,298 new cases), Bengal (396), Karnataka (388), Haryana (296), Odisha (141), Kerala (86), Tripura (130) and Mizoram (12) recorded their highest single-day rise in infections. Besides, the pandemic also continued to surge in Tamil Nadu (1,091 cases), Gujarat (415), Uttar Pradesh (369) and Rajasthan (273). Maharashtra recorded 103 fatalities, its second highest in a single day after May 29 (116), taking the cumulative toll to 2,465. Delhi, with 33 fatalities reported during the day, Gujarat (29), Tamil Nadu (13), Bengal (10) and Uttar Pradesh (7) were the other states with high death numbers. Mumbai on Tuesday saw a marginal dip with 1,117 positive cases, the lowest in the last six days. Haryana registered its sharpest rise in Covid-19 cases in a day as 296 people tested positive for the virus, taking the state’s tally to 2,652. The state’s worst-hit district, Gurgaon, got 160 new cases and its tally hit 1,063 — accounting for 40% of the cases in the state so far. While the state’s casualty count for coronavirus reached 23 with two more fatalities. Tamil Nadu’s public health authorities have begun to reach out to people with comorbidities as part of the fight against Covid as fresh cases touched 1,091 on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 24,586. The toll rose to 197 with 13 more deaths reported. Bengal registered the highest single-day spike in cases, with 396 people testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. Kerala too reported its highest single-day count of 86 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-sees-2-lakh-cases-adds-1-lakh-more-in-just-a-fortnight/articleshow/76165782.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||Finnish-Russian co develops system to check Covid spread at Indian industrial facilities||NEW DELHI: Zyfra, Finnish-Russian digital solutions provider for heavy industries announced on Tuesday that it will offer Indian companies a comprehensive product to significantly reduce the risk of spread of Covid-19 at industrial facilities. The system, based on artificial intelligence and computer vision, allows automatic mask monitoring with the help of video analytics, monitoring of the safe distance between employees and real-time reports about violations. Additional functions like measuring body temperature and alerting employees about violation of a safe distance are also available. “A lot of clients have become concerned about occupational safety. They have started paying attention to solutions that used to be second or even third priorities for digitalisation—those related to staff positioning and supervision over what the staff is doing at any specified moment,” said Liana Meliksetyan, chief operating officer at Zyfra. According to her, companies understand that to start working after the lockdown, it is necessary to ensure that people contact each other minimally to check the virus spread. India has become the key foreign market for Zyfra with over 500 computer numerical control (CNC) machines connected to its MDCplus real-time machine monitoring and manufacturing data collection system system in 2019. By 2021, the company is looking at more than 2,000 MDCplus installations in India. These Indian companies or organisations are Indian Railways, Godrej and Murugappa Group. “Various industrial safety solutions offered by Zyfra have already been installed in over 50 companies in Russia and abroad. Nowadays digital solutions allow supervising health status of workers and compliance with occupational safety rules, including those considering protective clothing and equipment. As a result, we can see that the number of industrial accidents has decreased significantly, so has the amount of repeated violations of work discipline. Staff positioning at a mining company allows prompt responding to incidents — in emergency, it can save human lives,” says Alexander Belugin, head of computer vision at Zyfra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/finnish-russian-co-develops-system-to-check-covid-spread-at-indian-industrial-facilities/articleshow/76165906.cms||Surendra Singh
June 3, 2020||India||Covid crisis forces at least 4 IITs to ditch final year exams||NEW DELHI: Four Indian Institutes of Technology located in Kanpur, Kharagpur, Mumbai and Roorkee have decided to not hold final-year exams for students in view of the rapid spike in coronavirus cases across the country. IIT-Madras, which has kept its option open till the governments allow the institutions to open, is evaluating the students hrough online mode or telephonic viva examination. Other institutes have offered candidates options like early graduation and flexible grading while some have devised new grading patterns or are exploring the open book exam option. IIT-Madras says that it has completed all its courses online and is prioritising the finalyear students as they have to graduate before the joining date of their jobs,has kept its option open till the governments allow the institutions to open. IIT-Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi, said, “The final year students have to graduate before the joining dates for their jobs. Hence, we are attending to them first. Since only some of them are registered for courses in the last semester, we are evaluating them individually through online/ telephonic viva examination. Most of the students have also completed their projects and submitted their reports from home. Their project presentations and viva examinations are also being conducted online. We expect to complete this process by the end of June, in time for the students to take up their jobs.” IIT-Delhi plans to offer two options to the class of 2020—early or regular graduation. Those opting for early graduation can choose between a ‘pass/fail’ option or a ‘credit’ option (which involves grading). For the regular ‘credit’ option, students will take online tests, home exams, assignments and viva tests on phone. IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said “All early graduation requirements will be through an online process. If a student cannot complete graduation requirements by Juneend with these options, they will have a fall-back option to graduate when the semester reconvenes.” As a one-time exception, all IIT- Kanpur students will get grades for courses based on mid semester exam/quizzes/assignments/projects. In the special grading scheme adopted for this extraordinary situation, only A, B, C and S grades will be awarded and no student will fail. Non-graduating students have the option to appear in a re-examination to improve grades. Students of IIT-Bombay will be graded based on the evaluation of mid-semester examination. Instructors can additionally evaluate candidates using a suitable online mode for maximum weightage of 20%, provided all registered students can avail it. The IIT-Kharagpur senate on May 27 decided to grade students on the basis of mid-semester exam, assignments, viva etc. A committee has been formed which will decide the grading scheme, supplementary examination. IIT-Roorkee will award letter grades with grade points for the Spring semester 2019-20. Students are offered a flexible option to convert the grade as final or re-appear in an exam later. As per the plan, a student who obtains a pass letter grade (D and above) in a course will have the option to get it converted into a satisfactory (S) grade with no grade point which will be treated as final or appear in a re-examination later. IIT-Guwahati has opted for open-book examination and may even allow students 24 hours for online submission in case of difficulties. The institute said it will give sufficient options to students for completion of online assessment and exams. Stating that it has completed all its courses online and is prioritising the final year students as they have to graduate before the joining date of their jobs, IITMadras has kept its option open till the governments allow the institutions to open. It is evaluating them through online mode or telephonic viva examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-crisis-forces-at-least-4-iits-to-ditch-final-year-exams/articleshow/76169254.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
June 3, 2020||India||Several strategic objectives at play in India-China border stand-off||NEW DELHI: There is a larger dynamic at work in the India-China confrontation in Ladakh, one where India faces a pushback for trying to use the communist giant’s new post-Covid vulnerabilities to reduce its ability to flex muscle on the regional and global stage. The Chinese intrusions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in east Ladakh reflect “salami tactics” it has used to expand territorial and strategic space, not the least looking to wear down an opponent psychologically. But it may also be a recognition that India is seeking to rework an equation that has allowed China to use the unsettled border and Pakistan to keep India off balance. Read AlsoIndia-China standoff: Lt Generals to talk in bid to break LAC deadlockIndia and China will hold a top-level military meeting on June 6 in a bid to resolve the troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, while finally admitting that Chinese soldiers were present in “a sizeable number” in the region. As per sources, the June 6The LAC face-off may be resolved yet as the Chinese side has toned down its rhetoric but a strategic tussle is on. The Modi government’s moves to scrutinise Chinese investments is effectively a means to curb it. Pitching India as a welcoming destination to investors looking to leave China and being a part of a global effort to seek an investigation into the origin of coronavirus are not casual moves. The strategic asymmetry is not going to change in a hurry even though China's image has taken a massive blow. The Chinese leadership is adept at managing internal challenges and using the country’s huge reserves to sustain the economy. Its lending programmes will continue to lure poor countries and short-sighted leaders and its expansion in the South China Sea may not be easy to roll back. Read AlsoChina building high-security compound at Gwadar to establish naval baseChina is secretly building a high-security compound near Gwadar Port in Pakistan's Balochistan province which it will probably use for naval base. "The base would strengthen China's foothold in the Indian Ocean. Recent satellite images appear to show that several new complexes have been built in theThe Indian resolve to stand its ground in east Ladakh clearly indicates that China will need to ultimately pull back. This may need some trade-offs, but India's position is clear enough — China can use the element of surprise to get into Indian territory, but there will be no give or acceptance of a unilateral reordering of the LAC. The Doklam experience has not been lost on China as India had moved into Bhutanese territory — disputed by Beijing — to stall a road being built by the PLA. The discussion on China’s reinforcements after the stand-off ended ignores that the area has been under its influence for long. What is significant is that a threat to India's north-east was foiled. The decision to nullify Article 370 was a bold move intended to end an ambiguity that has for decades given Pakistan and its mentor a handle to needle India. The chinks in the Chinese armour offer India a chance to further loosen the pincer grip, and China's blowback is only to be anticipated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/several-strategic-objectives-at-play-in-india-china-border-stand-off/articleshow/76165955.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM launches website to boost reverse migration||DEHRADUN: Days after the state government announced Chief Minister Swarozgar Yojna, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Tuesday, launched an official website (http://msy.uk.gov.in) for the scheme which aims to encourage locals – who have returned from other states during lockdown – to start their own work and boost reverse migration in the state. The state government expects a return of around 2 lakh stranded locals from other states. Out of which, over 1.5 lakh are estimated to be residents of hill districts – who had migrated in search of job opportunities – and are earning a marginal amount in other big cities of the country. An advance budget provision of Rs 15 crore has been made by the state for the project. The project has been divided into two sectors – construction and service. A subsidy ranging from 15% to 25% – in accordance with the project cost – would be given under the scheme. State’s urban development minister Madan Kaushik told TOI, “Any person, who has returned during the lockdown can register. Under the scheme, one can start a project of up to Rs 10 lakh in service sector and of up to Rs 25 lakh in the construction sector. For projects above Rs 25 lakh, the state government would provide relief through MSME policy.” He pointed out that interested people can get themselves registered through this website by mentioning details like name, address, educational qualification, and PAN number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-website-to-boost-reverse-migration/articleshow/76163202.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 3, 2020||Patna||Patna: Five more flights to resume operations today||PATNA: Five more domestic flights will resume operations from the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here from Wednesday. The Patna-Amritsar will remain suspended till June 10 due to technical reasons. The authorities at Patna airport released the revised provisional schedule for flight operations to remain effective till June end. According to airport director Bhupesh CH Negi, IndiGo will resume three flights for Kolkata, Bengaluru and Delhi while GoAir and SpiceJet will start one flight each between Patna and Delhi. Indigo’s flight (6E-6527/634) from Kolkata will land at 6.35am and take off from Patna airport at 7.10am. The Bengaluru-Patna (6E- 6838/6839) and Delhi-Patna flight (6E-6614/724) will land here at 10.15pm and fly back to their destinations at 11pm. The Bengaluru flight will operate only on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and the IndiGo flight from Delhi will operate only on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. The GoAir (G8-198/150) and SpiceJet (SG-883/884) flights from Delhi will land at 8.40am and 4.50pm respectively and fly back from Patna at 9.30am and 5.40pm, respectively. At present, the Patna airport is operating six flights of IndiGo, five of SpiceJet, three of GoAir and one each of Vistara and Air India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-more-flights-to-resume-operations-today/articleshow/76161815.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||Shah Rukh Khan pledges to take care of toddler who lost his mother during a train journey||PATNA: Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan has now come to the rescue of the 15-month-old toddler Rehmat, who lost his mother during a train journey from Ahmedabad to Katihar on May 25. The help came after a 14- second heart wrenching video grab of the toddler tugging at a piece of cloth covering his dead mother who was lying on a platform at Muzaffarpur railway station, went viral on May 27. Thank you all for getting us in touch with the little one. We all pray he finds strength to deal with the most unfo… https://t.co/CxrytG6uGh— Shah Rukh Khan (@iamsrk) 1591009748000SRK’s NGO—Meer Foundation— which came across the video, rushed to the child and his family members for help who were in distress. The NGO also informed that the child is now under the care of his grandparents in Katihar and is being supported by the Foundation also. The Foundation, on Twitter, thanked people for helping them reach the child, sharing a picture of him with his grandparents. “#We are thankful to all who helped us reach this child, whose heart wrenching video of trying to wake his mother disturbed all. We are now supporting him and he is under his grandparents care.” reads the tweet. The 54- year- old actor, who had also lost his parents at a tender age, wrote on his Twitter handle account, “We all pray, he finds strength to deal with the most unfortunate loss of a parent. I know how it feels...Our love and support is with you baby (sic).” Rehmat’s mother Arbina Khatoon (35), who was a divorcee, was travelling with her two kids from Ahmedabad to her home town in Katihar. According to Arbina’s parents Shairoon and Vok Mir, she died after she fell sick during the journey and her body was de-boarded at a platform in Muzaffarpur railway station. Meanwhile, Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj told this newspaper on Tuesday that the district administration is also providing all help to Arbina’s parents and her kids. “I visited her parent’s home and assured the family of all possible help in taking care of the children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/srk-pledges-to-take-care-of-toddler/articleshow/76161913.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||23k passengers reach state||PATNA: Nearly 23,000 migrant workers and other people, who were stranded in Goa and four other states amid the Covid-19 lockdown, returned to Bihar by 15 Shramik special trains on Tuesday. Altogether 1,512 trains have brought back 20 lakh people to different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) since May 2. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper that special trains from Tirur, Kanhangad, Calicut, Thrissur, Trivandrum and Alappuzha in Kerala reached Nawada, Katihar, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah and Barauni with 11,000 passengers on Tuesday. “Two trains from Tiruppur and one from Chennai in Tamil Nadu came back to Muzaffarpur, Hajipur and Madhubani. Similarly, 3,000 passengers reached Katihar and Darbhanga from Mumbai and Nashik in Maharashtra while 3,200 people returned to Araria and Banka from Madgaon in Goa. Another train from Kalka in Haryana reached Barauni,” the CPRO said. Average occupancy of trains high: ECR’s CPRO Rajesh Kumar has claimed that the average occupancy of the special trains, which began running on routes like Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Pune, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Ranchi from June 1, is almost 95%. According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, a special catering cell has been set up at the control room to keep tabs on the distribution of meals, snacks and water bottles among the passengers travelling by Shramik special trains. “Altogether 5.27 lakh food packets and 10 lakh water bottles have been distributed among the migrant workers either reaching or passing through the Danapur station during the last fortnight,” the DRM said and added that a hand wash-cum-sanitizer machine had been installed at the Patna Junction on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/23k-passengers-reach-state/articleshow/76161839.cms||Kumod Verma
June 3, 2020||Business||Tractor sales increase in May; farm sentiment up: Industry||Chennai: Call it pent up demand or very early signs of a revival. Tractors are ploughing a lone furrow in May, when the rest of the auto market saw sales decline. A bumper harvest, good procurement and pent up demand is driving the buzz in tractor sales.M&M has seen an increase in tractor sales YoY in May with wholesale numbers of 24,341 as against 24,017 units a year ago. Same is true for Sonalika which has reported nearly 19% increase in domestic and export sales with 9,177 units sold in May. Both TAFE and John Deere have seen increase and Escorts despatches in May were same as a year ago, staying flat at 6,450 units in May.“The Covid-19 impact has not been so severe in rural areas and both harvesting and procurement has been better than expected. We expect May-June 2020 overall sales to be better than 2019 by 5%. Post monsoon, the September-March season will see a 5%-10% uptick if monsoon stays on track,” said TR Kesavan, president, Tractor Manufacturers Association (TMA), the apex body for the industry. He is also the president of TAFE. Tractor marketers are of course jubilant about the recovery. “The Rabi harvest has been phenomenal, prices are up and reservoir levels are high — all these factors have helped,” said Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director (auto & farm sector) M&M. Also tractor companies had a head start in kicking off production. “We were better off because a MHA ( ministry of home affairs) notification exempted agri machinery from the lockdown from April 3 onwards so we had a production head start,” said Shenu Aggarwal, CEO-agri-machinery, Escorts.Interestingly, the uncertainty over migrant labour and whether they will return to work for the kharif season is also driving demand. “From a psychological point of view, people are starting to invest in farm machinery due to the uncertainty over agri labour,” said Aggarwal.Already tractor companies are gung ho about the rest of the year. “We expect overall Q1FY21 to surpass last year. We have seen 26% growth in tractor deliveries in May. With positive sentiment, industry deliveries should register 10% growth in June,” said Raman Mittal, executive director, Sonalika Group. With the pick up, marketers are also expecting a move up the tech ladder. “We are growing in double digits compared to last year. Demand for technologically advanced products is growing as farmers look at smarter solutions. The Rabi crop was beyond expectation and the farmers….and thus the opportunity in the rural economy will be an advantage,” said Shailendra Jagtap, MD & CEO, John Deere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tractor-sales-increase-in-may-farm-sentiment-up-industry/articleshow/76163898.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
June 3, 2020||Business||Jio-Facebook file for CCI approval||Bengaluru: RIL-owned Jio Platforms and social media giant Facebook have filed their application with competition watchdog CCI. Seeking approval, the application said that the $5.7-billion deal is “pro-competitive, benefits consumers, kirana stores and other small and micro local Indian businesses, and takes forward the vision of digital India”. The move comes after Facebook announced in April that it is picking up a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, which owns India’s largest telco, besides a slew of digital services. As part of the deal, Facebook-owned messaging application WhatsApp and RIL’s retail unit have also entered into an agreement for commerce services. While WhatsApp has over 400 million active users in India, Jio has 370 million telecom subscribers. The companies said in the filing that CCI “need not define any relevant markets in this case” and two markets under consideration are consumer communication applications and advertising services. “There is no significant horizontal overlap in either of these extremely dynamic segments, characterised by low-entry barriers, ease of entry and switching, and a large number of competitors,” according to the application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jio-facebook-file-for-cci-approval/articleshow/76163967.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Kin of mild Covid-19 patients to be administered hydroxychloroquine as precaution||HYDERABAD: Family members of mild and pre-symptomatic Covid-19 patients will be administered hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) dose as a precaution to test the risk of coronavirus spread. Till now, only healthcare, municipal and police personnel were being given HCQ tablets. The latest guideline circulated for treatment of mild and pre-symptomatic patients of Covid-19 who can be treated at home stipulates that HCQ will be administered to these category of patients as well. Based on the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the guidelines circulated to the medical health authorities say that family members can be given a homecare kit, including HCQ, and a list of do’s and don’ts. After the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued instructions to the states that mild patients can be treated at home, the health department said if members of a single family are infected they would be treated in their home. “If the patients do not have a separate room and bathroom for isolation in their homes, they can be shifted to a government quarantine centre or a hospital,” an official said. According to Dr Kiran Madala, head of the anaesthesia department, Nizamabad Government Medical College, details of HCQ use by countries are few and far between. Dr Kiran, who was involved with research studies conducted by the World Health Organisation, said more than 3,000 independent organisations are looking forward to WHO’s expertise on HCQ. He said studies had shown that 8% risk of Covid-19 patients had come down with HCQ dosage. “Oxford University in England has initiated a big research by conducting HCQ trials on one lakh people. The results are still awaited on its efficacy,” he said. When contacted, a health department official on condition of anonymity said that WHO-prescribed dosage was different from the dosage recommended by ICMR. “The medical staff who were given HCQ dosage did not complain of any side-effects. ICMR has given clear instructions to administer the dosage to only family members of mild patients of Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kin-of-mild-covid-19-patients-to-be-administered-hcq-as-precaution/articleshow/76164932.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||Turner’s to showcase talents in virtual event||Vadodara: A virtual talent show only for Turner’s syndrome warriors will be organised on June 21 . Turner’s syndrome is a rare female-only chromosomal disorder. City-based teacher, trainer and motivational speaker Pinky Bahroos who was one of the first to come out in open and share her life story with the world is organising ‘Butterflies got talent’ show. In this, those suffering from the syndrome will be able to showcase their talents – be it in form of drawing, sketching, storytelling or even rhyming songs. “The idea is not only to create awareness about Turner’s syndrome but also give wings to their hidden talents,” said Vadodara-born Pinky, 42, who was 14-year-old when a karyotype test determined that she was suffering from Turner’s syndrome. “This talent can be anything. Age is no bar,” said Pinky, who is being supported by a team for organising the show. Raised in Kolkata, Pinky herself had to face undesirable looks from people as she looks like a teenager. But she has left the negatives behind her. “Just one percent of babies with Turner’s syndrome, actually survive as most of them die pre-maturely before their birth. This makes me the lucky one, who got the opportunity, to see this beautiful world,” Pinky, two times TEDx speaker and author of the book ‘Finding the Chromosome X’, had told TOI. The autobiography that she has penned is a result of her efforts to get connected with others suffering from the same syndrome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/turners-to-showcase-talents-in-virtual-event/articleshow/76162122.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 3, 2020||Business||India Inc rejigs workplaces to shield staff, ensure continuity||Mumbai: Work, as we knew it, is no longer the same. A ‘new normal’ has descended with the Covid-19 pandemic, and organisations are redrawing strategies and redesigning workplaces to ensure employees are protected, while aiming at improving productivity levels. What’s enabling this transformation process is technology, which is helping teams to stay connected so that work can be executed seamlessly. Amway said it has taken active measures for work management and constant learning, while ensuring optimum engagement and flow of information. The direct marketing firm said, with its initiatives such as ‘work by design’ and virtual town halls, it continues to progress towards achieving remote-working readiness. Amway India CHRO Shantanu Das said, “At Amway, we continue to prioritise the safety of our employees, while ensuring business continuity to maintain operational readiness. In line with this, we had shared the ‘Normalcy Restoration Plan’ and the ‘New Normal’ for the workplace and extended work-from-home till July 31, for all Amway India employees. While predominant bias will be for staff to work remotely, employees will be allowed at the workplace only if work demands or there are genuine issues in working from home. This would be subject to prior approval of the head of department and the limit for such number of employees will not exceed 1/3rd, or as stated by the government guidelines.” Amway said ‘work-life balance’ continues to be a driver for the firm. Motilal Oswal Financial Services executive director and HR head Sudhir Dhar said the firm has started preparing its workplaces with basic norms and prevention measures so that employees can feel safe while attending office. Subhashini Sriram, global HR strategy and transformation, Unisys, said, “We all expect ‘work’ to be different in the post-lockdown world. In the new normal, every organisation will be forced to reimagine the way they connect with people within and outside the organisation. The post-Covid era has necessitated a reimagination of the entire life-cycle of an employee in an organisation, starting from on-boarding, driving employee engagement, effective communications, learning & development and performance evaluation, to name a few.” Sriram added, “People leaders also need to evolve to cope with the new normal — staying connected with their teams, keeping team members engaged and motivated, resolving conflicts in a virtual world, communicating effectively with team members, setting common norms and expectations around virtual working models and proactively addressing any mental or emotional stress that team members may be dealing with. Moreover, the employees will also need to adopt to the virtual style of working where a lot will change as compared to the physical world they have been used to till now.” With new relaxation guidelines being announced by the government of India, Amway said its warehouses, manufacturing plant and locational stores will be operational with all staff following mandatory hygiene guidelines within the office as well as pre- and post-work. Some of these guidelines include wearing of masks within office as well as throughout travel to and from work, no handshakes during meetings, washing of hands at regular intervals, avoiding touching doorknobs/items at home before sanitising self and avoiding participation in any group gatherings. “As we slowly approach returning to office in a phased manner for the rest of the employees, both team and individual needs and preferences will continue to remain priority for us. Navigating through the new normal, we have made significant changes across our offices, considering the safety and well-being of all our employees. Some of these include a sanitisation tunnel at the entry point, social-distancing markings, and contactless sanitisers,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-inc-rejigs-workplaces-to-shield-staff-ensure-continuity/articleshow/76163815.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||In half of state districts, more Covid patients in rural areas||Jaipur: In a reversal of trend, rural areas in Rajasthan now have more Covid-19 patients than urban in almost half of the state's districts. In some districts, more than 90% of the positive cases are in the rural areas. Jaipur district has recorded more than 100 positive cases from its rural parts. Out of 2,803 active cases in the state, 2,620 are migrants, health department figures show. As many as 11 lakh people have reached Rajasthan from Ahmedabad, Surat, Mumbai and many other Covid-19 hotspots. They have been quarantined at their homes and institutional facilities to contain spread of the virus in rural areas. With more persons getting tested for the virus daily, the percentage of Covid-19 patients in rural areas is constantly increasing as compared to that in urban parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-half-of-state-districts-more-covid-patients-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76164928.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Amid lockdown, SWR registers 5% more freight loading at MPT||Margao: Amidst the Covid-19 lockdown when the industry is witnessing a downturn, the South Western Railway (SWR), which was permitted to carry on freight operations, registered a 5% increase in freight loading at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) as compared to last year’s figures. The Hubballi Division of SWR altogether loaded 2.77 million tonnes (MT) of freight during May 2020. Data revealed by SWR said that the loading included 0.72 MT (178 rakes) of iron Ore, 0.986 MT (247 rakes) of coal, 0.066 MT (23 rakes) of fertilisers, 0.018 MT of sugar and 0.976 MT of other commodities including steel. As per the data revealed by SWR, 247 rakes of coal weighing nearly 1 million tonnes were loaded at the Mormugao port which is 5.1% higher than corresponding loading done during the same period last year. Loading from MPT of 247 rakes also makes the quantum higher than the previous highest loading of 243 rakes done in a month at the port during the year 2019-20. “Loading of 247 rakes from the port was achieved, ensuring the highest steel unloading at Mormugao port of 82 rakes,” a spokesperson of SWR said. “Loading of steel from JSW (Torangallu) to Mormugao Port is also at an all-time high of 90 rakes against the previous high of 68 rakes. Rail coefficient of steel dispatches from JSWT siding is 83% against an average rail coefficient of 63%-64% last year," SWR said in a press statement. “Railway officers and staff, despite restriction due to Covid-19, have taken all efforts to achieve loading by maintaining social distancing and precautions at loading and unloading points,” the spokesperson added. During the lockdown, SWR sources said, 410 rakes (16.4 lakh tonnes) of coal were moved for thermal power generation at NTPC, Kudgi plant, JSW steel plant, West Coast Paper Mills, Dandeli and BMM Power cum Steel Plant near Vyasa Colony. Besides, around 25 rakes of limestone, 3 rakes of Pig Iron, 1 rake of D Oil Cake, 1 rake of salt, 2 rakes of slag were also handled, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-lockdown-swr-registers-5-more-freight-loading-at-mpt/articleshow/76164943.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Business||Tatas, SIA pump Rs 500 crore into Vistara||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Full service carrier Vistara raised Rs 500 crore from promoters Tata Sons and Singapore Airlines (SIA) to help see it through Covid-19-induced business restrictions. The equity was raised on April 9, two weeks after India imposed Lockdown 1.0. While Tata Sons infused Rs 255 crore into Vistara, its partner SIA invested Rs 245 crore. The contributions helped the two partners to maintain their holding in the domestic carrier. Tata Sons owns 51% in Vistara and SIA holds the remainder 49%. SIA’s investment in Vistara came after it secured $13 billion from its shareholders, including majority investor Temasek Holdings, in March. Vistara has cut salaries of its high-earning employees, renegotiated vendor contracts, among other measures, to control costs in the last couple of months following the collapse in travel demand due to the lockdown. After the ease in flight movements from May 25, Vistara has been operating more flights. But most passengers have been those who were stranded in different parts of the country. The carrier had stated that it is unsure whether air travel demand will return to pre-pandemic levels quickly, as it is linked to public confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-sia-pump-rs-500cr-into-vistara/articleshow/76163927.cms||John Sarkar
June 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: This female barber is breaking stereotypes after hubby loses job||PATNA: After her husband was rendered jobless amid the Covid-19 lockdown, a woman from a sleepy hamlet in Sitamarhi district decided to take up the “unconventional” job of a barber to run a family of five. With a pair of scissors, a comb and a razor wrapped in a piece of cloth in one hand and a water container in another, 35-year-old Sukhchain Devi can be spotted moving in remote villages under Barri Phulwaria panchayat in search of customers. She originally hails from Basaul village under Bajpatti block of Sitamarhi district. “Initially, I was hesitant because giving a haircut or shaving someone’s beard is primarily done by the male members of a barber’s family. Even customers were not comfortable in the beginning, but later, they relented,” Sukhchain, the mother of two minor sons and a daughter, told this reporter over the phone on Tuesday. The tricenarian recalled that she took initial lessons from her father, a barber by profession, and wished to set up a beauty parlour. “If I manage to save some money, I will open a beauty parlour either in the local market or in the district headquarters town,” Sukhchain said. Narrating her family’s ordeal amid the prolonged lockdown, she said, “My husband Ramesh Thakur, an electrician, lost his job and is still stuck in Chandigarh. Since my family was pushed to the brink of starvation, I decided to take up the job of a barber and began earning almost Rs 200 daily.” Sukhchain asserted that she would continue working as “I want to provide the best education to my three children”. While her eldest son, Amresh, studies in Class VII, her daughter Ranjana is enrolled in Class VI. The youngest one, Deepnashu, is yet to join school. Appreciating the “bold” and “unconventional” job taken up by Sukhchain, the mukhiya of Barri Phulwaria panchayat, Kamal Ahmad alias Kallu, said, “I will fully cooperate with her family.” Bajpatti MLA Ranju Geeta also assured of all possible support to the female barber and her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/this-female-barber-is-breaking-stereotypes-after-hubby-loses-job/articleshow/76161896.cms||Ramashankar
June 3, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Social distancing norms being followed in offices’||PATNA: The government offices across the city have resumed normal working. Senior officials said all precautionary measures are being taken to curb the Covid-19 spread. Art, culture and youth affairs department principal secretary Ravi Parmar said sanitizers and masks have been made available at the office for all officials and employees. “We are strictly following social distancing norms. The number of people attending meetings has also been limited,” he said. Virtual modes of communication, like Zoom application for videoconferencing is being adopted, he added. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Tuesday that strict vigil was being maintained on the officials as well as the visitors. “The situation is very critical. Hence, nobody is allowed to enter the premises without mask. Besides, everybody has been asked to follow hygiene norms such as washing hands and using sanitizers,” he said. Thermal screening is also being done to check the temperature of staff and visitors. “Most people understand the requirement of taking precautionary measures. Hence, thermal screening facility has been provided at the entrance of several government buildings in the city,” Agarwal said. Officials of Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) also said thermal screening and face masks have been made mandatory. “All the officers and staff are following social distancing norms. Besides, we are washing hands after every two hours. Employees who show Covid-like symptoms have been advised to stay at home,” one official said. Private offices that started functioning with 100% staff are also ensuring frequent sanitization of the workplace and common points of human contact. Shashank Saurabh, human resource manager of an automobile servicing company, said hundreds of people visit the service centre daily. “We ensure that everybody, be it customer or employee, follow proper social distancing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/social-distancing-norms-being-followed-in-offices/articleshow/76161863.cms||Archi Rani
June 3, 2020||Patna||Distribute free masks among needy: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure free distribution of masks among the poor in urban areas. Speaking at a high-level review meeting here, the CM said, “Free distribution of soaps and masks is being done in rural areas by the government. This practice should continue in urban areas as well.” He further asked the chief secretary to increase the number of beds in isolation centres at different places in the wake of increasing number of suspected Covid-19 cases. “As per the protocols being followed while treating corona patients, other health facilities should also be provided at the isolation wards and dedicated hospitals,” he said. Nitish called upon the general public to inform the nearest hospital or primary health centre if they notice the slightest symptom of coronavirus in any person staying at quarantine centres across the state. Since majority of the migrant workers have returned home and some of them may not have an active account in any bank in Bihar, the CM asked the officials concerned to ensure that “accounts are opened in the name of the returnees and Rs 1,000 is transferred to them”. He also told them to facilitate issuance of Aadhaar cards to those who could not get themselves enrolled for the purpose in the past. The health officials were asked to pay special attention to the elderly, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years during the ongoing door-to-door screening for detection of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/distribute-free-masks-among-needy-nitish/articleshow/76162554.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav questions cops’ role in Gopalganj triple murder case||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday released a list of criminal cases against JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikote, Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, and expressed surprise over silence maintained by state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey in the triple murder case in which the ruling party legislator is an accused and absconding. The parents and brother of one J P Yadav, a local RJD leader, were killed while JP himself received gunshot injuries when assailants attacked their house at Rupanchak village under Hathua police station in Gopalganj district on May 24 night. “I also want to know from the state government as how long the SIT formed will take to find out the MLA’s role in the murder of three members of a family under Hathua police station area last month,” Tejashwi said. “DGP frequently visits the site of occurrences across the state. But in this case, he neither visited the spot nor released any official statement,” the leader of opposition in state legislative assembly sarcastically said. The MLA, on the other hand, released a video pleading his innocence in the triple murder case. “I am being implicated in the case for political reasons. There is nothing but a well-hatched conspiracy behind it to defame me,” he said in a video released on social media. When contacted, Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said, “The MLA’s brother Satish Pandey and his son Mukesh Pandey have already been arrested in the triple murder case. Raids are on to nab other accused, who have been absconding after the incident.” Tejashwi alleged that BJP worker Krishna Shahi was killed in Gopalganj at the behest of Pandey a few months ago, but police suppressed the fact for obvious reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-questions-cops-role-in-gopalganj-triple-murder-case/articleshow/76163114.cms||Ramashankar
June 3, 2020||Business||SBI gives 22,000 loans to small companies in 1 day||MUMBAI: SBI disbursed 22,000 loans amounting to over Rs 3,000 crore on Monday to small businesses under the government’s Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme. SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar, addressing CII’s annual session commemorating 125 years of the industry body, said the government guarantee on loans works out to a capital infusion of nearly Rs 30,000 crore into the banking system, as lenders will not have to set aside additional capital on these loans. The guaranteed emergency credit line is a part of the government package to revive the economy after the Covid-19 crisis. SBI has also set up a separate financial inclusion and micro-market vertical within the bank. About 8,000 branches in rural and semi-urban areas have been identified for providing specialised services to this segment, including micro-credit for small businesses and farmers. Kumar added that doom scenarios were overstated and he did not expect banks to see their bad loans surge, although everyone was in the dark and nothing could be forecast on what could happen over six months. Kumar was responding to a statement by Uday Kotak, MD and VC, Kotak Mahindra Bank, that lenders could see their NPAs rise by Rs 5 lakh crore and this would require Rs 3-4 lakh crore of capital, with the rest coming from bond profits. Kumar acknowledged that public sector banks would need capital, but he had not expected any announcement by the government as no assessment has been done yet on banks’ requirements for provisioning and growth needs. Responding to criticism that banks were not lending, the SBI chief said there was no correlation between lenders parking surplus funds with the RBI and risk aversion. “If our deposits go up by over Rs 2 lakh crore in two months, I cannot lend Rs 2 lakh crore even if I am super-efficient,” said Kumar. He added that risk aversion was not something that was only associated with lending. “Those who have the resources are not spending. When the government reduced corporate tax rates last year, there was no fresh investment,” he said. According to Kumar, for growth to revive, the share of manufacturing in the economy has to go up. He said that India has moved from agriculture to services with over 60% of the contribution to the economy coming from services. Responding to criticism that the government stimulus package was largely in the nature of loans, Kumar said that direct transfer would need to first go to those at the bottom of the pyramid and corporates would need to become Atma Nirbhar (self-reliant).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-gives-22k-loans-to-small-cos-in-1-day/articleshow/76163947.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||Leave cancellation garners mixed response from doctors||PATNA: The order of the state health department to cancel the leaves of government doctors, paramedics, laboratory technicians and other staff till June 30 has garnered mixed response. While some have opposed it, others have hailed the decision. Calling the order “unfair”, Indian Medical Association (IMA) members have decided to discuss the issue with health department officials. IMA (Bihar chapter) senior vice-president Ajay Kumar told this newspaper that government doctors had not taken any leave since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March. “Cancelling the leaves of health workers is highly inappropriate. Hence, we will discuss this matter with senior officials of the health department and find a solution soon,” Ajay said. Patna Medical College and Hospital’s microbiology department head Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh also claimed that doctors and other staff hardly took leaves. “No matter what festival or occasion it is, health workers always give their 100%. The Covid-19 crisis has been extremely difficult for us and cancelling our leaves at a time like this is disappointing,” he added. On the other hand, some from the medical fraternity have welcomed the health department’s order. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital epidemiologist Dr Mukul Kumar Singh pointed out that doctors played a key role during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The present situation is critical and people are dependent on doctors and paramedics. Since the number of corona-infected patients is rising, we should only focus on treating them and curbing the spread of the virus,” Mukul said. Senior doctor Vinay Kumar, who is also the president of Resident Doctors’ Association at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, said the medical fraternity could not fight shy of its responsibilities at a tough time like this. “The government should, however, understand that we also have families to look after and we need leaves too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/leave-cancellation-garners-mixed-response-from-doctors/articleshow/76162529.cms||Archi Rani
June 3, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna: New device to detect infecting agents||PATNA: A three-step walk, an innovative device, will now help in detecting infecting agents in the form of micro organisms like viruses and bacteria in patients visiting the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P). This new device will be installed at five entry points of the hospital from Thursday. Basically developed to ensure safety of the hospital campus against patients carrying Covid-19 virus through bare feet or even with footwear, the device named as CEST ( Covid-19 Era Santising Tray) will help to detect germs which cause various other diseases carried by patients, attendants and even other employees on their visit to the hospital. While masks, washing and disinfecting hands with sanitizer is now a common practice against corona, disinfecting soles and feet is a new approach. AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh said, “It is a pilot research work in which specially designed CEST with a chemical would be kept at five entry points. People reaching the hospital will be required to walk three steps in CEST for disinfecting their feet and footwear soles.” Head of the trauma and emergency department, Dr Anil Kumar said, “These trays will be placed near trauma department, indoor patients department, out patient department (OPD) and the administrative block. Made of aluminium and measuring 9 feet long, three feet wide these trays will be filled with water and sodium hypochlorite solution in 9:1 ratio upto 10 inches from the tray-base. Swabs with the help of a stick will be taken from the sole of foot wears before stepping in the tray. While the tray will help in disinfecting the foot, swab collected will help to find out after examination in microbiology department whether any infecting agent was present before entering the gates or not.” Two doctors of microbiology department—Binod Pati and Asim Sarfraj—are other members of the research team. Efforts are also on to improve this mode of sanitizing the footwears and sending it for patenting. “Apart from the clinical work, the research team will also do some data collection like the visitor’s profession, mode of travelling, distance covered and the disease for which he/she came to AIIMS-P for treatment,” Dr Anil said. Statistical analysis of the data thus generated would reveal the hygienic condition of our roads, the germs carried through the mode of travelling, both public and personal mode of transport and so on. It will also reveal whether dirt and dust carried through footwear or bare foot are sources of other diseases or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-device-to-detect-virus-in-patients/articleshow/76161876.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Business||D-St ignores rating action, sensex gains||Mumbai: Stock and bond markets on Tuesday ignored Moody’s ratings action on India, with traders saying a downgrade was expected, and so it was already priced in. On Tuesday, the sensex rose 522 points to regain the 33,800 level at 33,826 — a near two-and-half-month high. In the process, the index also extended its current run to over 3,200 points, or more than 10%, in five consecutive sessions. Market players said that the prospect of the economy opening up slowly and rural demand returning quickly on the back of a normal monsoon kept Dalal Street investors bullish, which took the leading indices higher. In the government bond market, the prices of 10-year g-secs rose with the yield softening 3 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 5.79%, RBI data showed. An SBI report pointed out that India was not alone in seeing a ratings downgrade, but was one among the 21 emerging and developing markets that faced either a ratings downgrade or a change in outlook by Moody’s since the Covid pandemic started. “This does not come as a total surprise as emerging markets are always more susceptible to rating downgrades compared to developed economies in times of stress, even if some of them have very low debt-to-GDP ratio, also clearly evident from history,” the SBI report pointed out. “The rating action is no reflection on the ability of the government to service its debt obligations. The sovereign external debt comprises around 20% of the total external debt. The current level of foreign exchange reserves (around $490 billion) is sufficient to meet any debt obligations.” Edelweiss, a homegrown financial services house, too echoed a similar tone. “Historically, across several countries, ratings actions have had muted impact on interest rates and currency beyond the immediate term. Even after Moody’s upgrade in 2017, bond yields (had) barely moved over the next few days. Perhaps, markets tend to adjust real-time to the evolving macroeconomic and debt dynamic,” a note by Edelweiss Research said. “In fact, more often than not, trends in growth, credit cycle, direction of monetary policy, Fed’s stance, etc are far bigger drivers of bond yields and exchange rate than a rating action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/d-st-ignores-rating-action-sensex-gains/articleshow/76163937.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Business||WFH model may let you log in from comfort of hometowns||By Chaitanya N SreenivasGoing back to work, for most people, is going to feel a lot different than when they had left. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected every workplace across the globe in one way or the other. While the worst will (hopefully) be over soon, some of the changes to the workplace could remain for good: Protecting ‘The core — employees’ Every organisation’s employees are its core asset and, with Covid-19, this asset has been put at risk — in terms of physical, emotional and financial health. Trying to help in one area, by encouraging remote work, for example, may exacerbate other issues, fuelling loneliness, isolation, fear. Most organisations have put in place the basic tools to support, safeguard, and communicate with their employees, which is of utmost importance. Organisations will have to keep, first, a cross-functional leadership team to assess and address the fluid impacts of the pandemic, ranging from workplace & work-from-afar adjustments to health care & financial questions. Second, a multi-channel communications platform will be needed to collaborate, including video, document sharing and instant messaging. Third, regular outreach, including business continuity, emails and websites (separate for employees & external stakeholders), new data & policy shifts, etc. And last, but not the least, a contingency system for emergency communications, from “blast texts” to phone chains along with a feedback system from employees, to evaluate the effectiveness of your business continuity, uncover missed areas, and improve future contingency planning. Workplace set for major overhaul In the long term, it seems inevitable that the move to remote work — a trend already in place before Covid-19 hit — will be accelerated by our current experiences. Once Covid-19 begins to ease, and organisations begin putting post-crisis plans in place, remote work will likely be a more common component across industries and around the globe. Integrating that enhanced capability will impact staffing, IT, real estate and other assumptions, as well as expectations of the workforce. Those companies that optimise for this new normal can enhance their competitive positioning, besides operational efficiency. Today’s crisis could be an opportunity for laggards to make up ground, or leaders to foresee ‘future workspaces’. Companies will have to ensure that their employees are trained and comfortable with using new collaborative tools. Some organisations may even choose to focus on this period as an overt training opportunity, in areas from data proficiency to business strategy. Tech to play key role in shift Enterprise IT is the mechanism that can keep business operational and effective even under the current extreme and unprecedented conditions — such as the ones we are all experiencing today. And now, more than ever, there are steps organisations need to take to strengthen systems and structures for the remote-working environment to boost resilience, stability and security. Define a strategy for remote working, clear guidance, rules, and policies. Organisations will have to train employees on remote etiquette — virtual meetings are different from in-person meetings. And how each company’s culture defines the way employees would work remotely. Provide tools that enable distributed teams to collaborate and contribute. Allow employee options for aspects of the work environment that are less critical, such as which specific devices or email clients they may use. But standardise mission-critical productivity platforms, like communications tools and virtual collaboration platforms. Cybersecurity training, specifically for remote work, becomes utmost important as well. The risks of working from home are different from those in workplaces. Organisations will have to update policies and train employees regularly to account for changes in technologies that will be enabled. Empower senior leaders to lead from anywhere. Some tools, such as web-enabled leadership teams or boards, can help. While senior leaders may rarely think of themselves as ‘work from home’ (WFH) employees, events such as the Covid-19 pandemic can suddenly transform everyone into a remote worker. Reverse migration to tier-2/3 cities While the IT sector has been granted permission to resume work at a diminished capacity, processes put in place during the lockdown will aid the sector and employees over the long term. Discussions have already started with the government on making this WFH model an acceptable one in the industry. Adoption of WFH in the long run can lead to inclusion of a huge untapped workforce across the country, including in tier-2/3 cities. This is also an opportunity to bring many deserving candidates back into the work force, who may be constrained by factors that keep them from stepping out from their hometowns for a job. This may also lead to an interesting trend of a reverse migration of employees, heading back to their hometowns, which could be the tier-2/3 cities. Metro cities have typically been the hub of tech employment so far and, in the past few years, scores of people have moved to these metros in search of better employment opportunities. However, now with WFH and remote working becoming the new normal, this could lead to employees choosing to work from the comforts of their hometowns, rather than make a move to these previously hailed tech hubs. An organisation’s workforce is its core asset, it’s the talent that differentiates companies from competitors, defines priorities, and delivers outcomes. Many workers, especially knowledge workers, should be able to work productively anywhere — the office, a client location, while travelling, and from home. Sudden disruption of work location should not disrupt work — as long as we have modernised our workplace and workforce-enablement practices. Companies will need to increasingly focus on building capabilities that will help the company emerge stronger, leaner and more resilient from this crisis. The goal is to prepare the organisation to leverage the opportunities that the post-Covid world will have to offer and to thrive in this new normal. (The writer is VP & HR head, IBM, India and South Asia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-model-may-let-you-log-in-from-comfort-of-hometowns/articleshow/76163744.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Business||VCs’ Flipkart exit faces tax hurdle||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: The landmark exit of venture capital (VC) investors from online retailer Flipkart through its sale to US retail giant Walmart for $16 billion may now be in the crosshairs of the income tax (I-T) department for tax avoidance. The Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has stated that the funds registered out of Mauritius — but with decision-making teams in the US — cannot avail of the benefits of the double taxation avoidance agreement (DTAA) between India and Mauritius. The ruling did not disclose the name of the investor, but said that “the funds of the applicants were ultimately controlled by Mr X (US-based director) and the applicants had only limited control over their fund”. This investor had sold shares worth Rs 14,500 crore through three entities. AAR concluded that “the head and brain of the companies and consequently their control and management was situated not in Mauritius but outside in the US”. AAR has also observed that the key decisions were taken by the non-resident director after reviewing the minutes of the board meeting. The Mauritius-based shareholders in Flipkart had applied for nil withholding tax, given the DTAA agreement, but this was rejected by the I-T department. The shareholders then took the appeal to AAR, which has now ruled in favour of the tax department.  The ruling further states that the shareholders had set up a “see-through entity” to avail the benefits of India-Mauritius DTAA. AAR has also denied grandfathering benefits for capital gains tax under amended India-Mauritius DTAA as Flipkart was registered in Singapore. “This is yet another instance of the AAR rejecting the application of the taxpayer by coming to the conclusion that the transaction was designed to avoid tax... It would be interesting to see the interplay of our domestic anti-avoidance legislation and the benefits under the treaty,” said Amit Maheshwari, partner and India tax leader at Ashok Maheshwary & Associates. While experts said that the next option for the fund will be a writ petition in the high court, the development could further deter investor sentiment for Indian startups, already reeling from a slowing economy due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The development comes two years after the Flipkart-Walmart deal, in which $14 billion out of the total $16 billion was used to cash-out existing investors in the company, which included Tiger Global Management, Accel, Naspers, and SoftBank Vision Fund.  Out of the largest shareholders, Tiger Global Management and Accel held a stake in Flipkart through Mauritius entities in Flipkart, according to the shareholding documents reviewed by TOI. SoftBank held a stake through a Jersey-domiciled entity, while Naspers held it from a Netherlands arm. Tiger Global, which was the biggest backer of Flipkart with over 22% stake at the time of the sale, held most of its shares in Flipkart through its Mauritius entities, while the remaining was held through Singapore-based entities. Tiger Global, whose former partner Lee Fixel played a pivotal role in the deal, had made $3.3 billion, or about Rs 22,000 crore from the sale. Accel, whose entire stake was through Mauritius entities, was Flipkart’s first investor and had made over $1 billion, or Rs 6,700 crore, through the sale, according to 2018 currency exchange rates. Emailed queries to Tiger Global and Accel did not elicit a response at the time of filing this article.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vcs-flipkart-exit-faces-tax-hurdle/articleshow/76163882.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 3, 2020||Business||Global majors mop up 2.8% in Kotak Bank||MUMBAI: A host of global and domestic financial services majors together picked up 5.6 crore shares that Uday Kotak sold in Kotak Mahindra Bank through block deals on Tuesday. The buyers included Fidelity, Oppenheimer, Goldman Sachs, T Rowe Price, JP Morgan, Norwegian Pension Fund and SBI Mutual Fund. The block representing about 2.83% of the private lender’s equity, was sold at Rs 1,240 per share, aggregating nearly Rs 7,000 crore, BSE data showed. The deal was part of the RBI’s directive to Kotak Bank’s promoter group to reduce its stake to 26% by August 17, 2020. The largest chunk, of nearly 55 lakh shares or about 10% of the deal size, was picked up by the board of University of California, that manages the educational institution’s retirement corpus, for Rs 664 crore. Global assets management major Oppenheimer picked up a little over 53 lakh shares for Rs 507 crore, while SBI MF bought nearly 33 lakh shares for Rs 408 crore. The block deal was managed by Kotak Securities, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/global-majors-mop-up-2-8-in-kotak-bank/articleshow/76163893.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Political parties expect fresh schedule for council election||PATNA: With the Election Commission (EC) announcing fresh schedule for the deferred Rajya Sabha polls in seven states on Monday, political parties and officials in Bihar expect the announcement of dates for the deferred biennial polls of Bihar legislative council within the next few days. “We hope the dates for the biennial elections to the state council will be announced in a day or two. The announcement of schedule for the deferred Rajya Sabha elections has made it clear that the EC has now begun the process to hold all deferred polls,” an assembly official familiar with the process of council polls told TOI. “We expect the EC will now pay attention to the Bihar legislative council’s biennial polls, which could not be held on time due to the nationwide lockdown,” JD(U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya said. Around three months ahead of the assembly election due in October-November, Bihar is all set to witness an electoral semi-final if the council elections are held in June-July. Altogether 29 seats in the 75-member legislative council are vacant. Of them, 12 will be filled up through nomination by the governor on the state government’s advice, while the rest 17 will be filled up through biennial elections from different constituencies, including four each from the graduates and teachers’ constituencies and the rest nine from the Vidhan Sabha constituency. The four graduates’ constituencies are Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi. These seats fell vacant after Neeraj Kumar (JD-U), Devesh Chandra Thakur (Independent), Dilip Kumar Choudhary (JD-U) and N K Yadav (BJP) completed their terms on May 6. Similarly, Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Saran teachers’ constituencies fell vacant after the retirement of Nawal Kishore Yadav (BJP), Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI), Madan Mohan Jha (Congress) and Kedar Nath Pandey (CPI), respectively, on May 6. Besides these, the nine seats of Vidhan Sabha constituency also fell vacant after the members completed their six years term on May 6. “Dulha (groom) is ready. Band party and baraat are also ready. Now, the EC has to announce a ‘shubh muhurat’ (auspicious dates) for the council polls,” said Dilip Kumar Choudhary, who completed his term as MLC from Darbhanga graduates’ constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/political-parties-expect-fresh-schedule-for-council-election/articleshow/76162432.cms||Madan Kumar
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra may use drones for spraying pesticide on locusts||NAGPUR: Maharashtra may soon deploy drones to spray pesticides on locust swarms. A decision will be taken after considering the risks involved of spreading the chemicals’ toxicity into a wider area in the environment, said the state’s agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse. Bhuse was in the city to attend a meeting to review the availability of seeds and fertilisers for the coming kharif sowing in Nagpur division. Asked whether locust attack can be covered under crop insurance policy, he said that has to be taken up by the Centre when fresh tenders are called. The phenomenon is new even for the government, he said. Bhuse said, “drones are expected to come in a day. The spraying needs to be done from a certain height for which a specific model of drones are needed. The state government will first examine the likely contamination of other areas by the chemical,” said Bhuse “It may not take time to spray pesticides from a drone but it should not lead to a fresh problem later,” he said. The agriculture department officials have been able to eliminate half of the locust that had entered Maharashtra by spraying pesticide chlorophyrifos. Yet, a couple of swarms are reported to remain. One was spotted in Saoner tehsil, he said. Bhuse said there was a disparity in the number of beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana and the actual amount sent to the state by the Centre. The scheme provides a Rs 6000 to farmers having less than two hectares land. “The issue was taken up with the union agriculture minister Narendrasingh Tomar and it appears a number of farmers in the state who should have been otherwise eligible for the scheme are not covered yet,” said Bhuse. Bhuse said this could be due to technical shortcomings in submitting their data. However, he added execution of the scheme has also slowed down from the Centre’s side. “It seems there is some bottleneck. Once the pandemic ends, the state government plans to conduct a drive and come up with a fresh list of eligible farmers and submit it to the centre,” he said. On the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule farm loan waiver scheme of MVA government, Bhuse said 30 lakh farmers have been found eligible. An amount Rs 12,000 crore has been credited into the loan accounts of 19 lakh farmers, he added. The process for the remaining 11 lakh has been held up due to the Covid impact on finances. However, state government has undertaken to pay up their entire liability on account of delay from state’s side once the situation normalizes. Talks are underway with RBI to enable such farmers to get fresh loans, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-may-use-drones-for-spraying-pesticide-on-locusts/articleshow/76164921.cms||Shishir Arya
June 3, 2020||Hubballi||Dimhans tops in testing for Covid-19 outside B’luru||Hubballi: The Covid 19 Lab set up at Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Dimhans) from April 21, has emerged as the 6th top lab in the state by testing 585 samples in the week that ended on June 1. The top five laboratories are in Bengaluru, and Dimhans is considered the top most in average testing of samples in the rest of Karnataka. The list was released by the state Covid -19 testing team on Monday. Dimhans has surpassed bigger labs of Mysore Medical College Mysuru (testing capacity of 350 samples per day), KIMS Hubballi (250), HIMS Hassan (250), National Center for Biological Sciences (250) and Wenlock VRDL Lab (240) though it has the capacity to test 100 samples per day. It has also done better than 20 private laboratories in the state. Speaking to TOI, Dimhans director Dr Mahesh Desai said, "We have 14 staff members including three microbiologists who work for one shift. However, our team is working two shifts i.e. 16 hours a day. With cases spiralling due to the return of migrants, the district administration told us to increase the testing capacity. Our team even sacrificed holidays and made good use of Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) and RNA Extractor." DC Deepa Cholan appreciated the efforts of Dimhans authorities and said she will depute the required staff from the health department soon. "It’s a pride for the district that our lab has emerged in the top 6 in the state," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dimhans-tops-in-testing-for-covid-19-outside-bluru/articleshow/76163204.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Status of Covid-19 beds and ventilators on fingertips, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: A new mobile phone app called “Delhi Corona” was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday to inform people about the availability of beds in various state-run and private hospitals in the capital. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the app would have the latest information on the number of vacant Covid-19 reserved beds, ICU beds and ventilators in each hospital. “Due to the information gap, people don’t know which hospital to approach to get a bed for a patient. To plug that gap, we have launched this mobile application that will provide information on which hospital, government or private, has how many vacant beds,” the CM said. Kejriwal said that despite a surge in novel coronavirus cases, there was no need to panic. He added that adequate arrangements of beds, oxygen, ventilators and other health facilities had been made in the city. The death rate in other countries was high because of lack of beds, ventilators, ICU and health infrastructure. If a hospital refuses to give admission despite having a vacant bed, the patient can call on 1031 for help. “A special secretary-level officer will talk to the hospital authorities and ensure that a bed is provided,” Kejriwal said. As of Tuesday, there were 6,731 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients in various government and private health facilities. Of these, 2,819 were occupied and 3,912 vacant. Similarly, of the 302 ventilators, 92 were occupied by Covid-19 positive patients and 210 were vacant. The CM said information could also be accessed on delhifightscorona.in/beds, WhatsApp number 8800007722 and the helpline 1031. “The information will be updated twice a day at 10am and 6pm,” he added. “However, if a doctor suggests that the patient doesn’t require hospitalisation and can be home isolated, the family shouldn’t insist on a bed. Of the 20,000 Covid-19 positive cases, only 2,800 required hospitalisation. About 7,000 are being treated at home,” Kejriwal said. Government teams talk to those isolated at home 2-3 times a day, the CM said, adding, “While you are under home isolation, please do not panic. A team will be in regular touch with you and your family. If your condition worsens, you will be immediately transferred to a hospital and a bed will be arranged for you.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/status-of-covid-beds-and-ventilators-on-fingertips/articleshow/76164918.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Key Jan Shatabdi Express connecting Garhwal with Kumaon resumes service after 73 days||DEHRADUN: The Naini-Doon Janshatabdi Express (12091/12092) resumed service after a gap of 73 days on Tuesday. The express train, which connects the Garhwal region with Kumaon, reached Dehradun from Kathgodam (Nainital) with 160 passengers on board on Tuesday. Later in the day, the train returned to Kathgodam with 370 passengers on board. Similarly, the Doon-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express also ran from Dehradun station with 435 passengers on board on the day. All railway staff members, RPF officials, and district officials along with medical staff at Dehradun Railway Station were actively scanning passengers going from (and coming to) Dehradun to prevent transmission of Covid-19. The passengers were made to stand in queues while maintaining social distancing before letting them board the train and their thermal scanning was conducted by a team of doctors. As the Naini-Doon Janshatabdi Express commences its journey from Nainital (a red zone district), a camp was also set up outside the Dehradun Railway Station where government officials were recording the exact destinations of the passengers so that it becomes easy for officials to track them and ensure that they are following self-quarantine norms. Dehradun Railway Station director Ganesh Chand Thakur told TOI, “According to railway guidelines, passengers have to reach the station 90 minutes in advance. And only the passengers with confirmed and RAC tickets would be allowed entry in station premises. The passengers with waiting tickets will not be allowed.” The official added, “We are spraying disinfectants in all train coaches before and after the journey. Every passenger is being compulsorily screened before being allowed entry to the station. Also, we are ensuring that social distancing is maintained at all times.” Meanwhile, New Delhi-Dehradun Jan Shatabdi Express (12055-56) arrived in Dehradun on Tuesday night with 380 passengers on board. Delhi has so far reported nearly 21,000 coronavirus positive cases and has about 144 contentment zones. In view of this, Dehradun DM Ashish Kumar Srivastava said, “Anyone coming from coronavirus-affected areas should register himself on Dehradun’s Smart City website. As for those travelling from areas in the red zone, there is a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine and 14-day home quarantine period. Besides, they will also have an option for paid quarantine.” Notably, Indian Railways started running 100 train services from Monday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/key-jan-shatabdi-express-connecting-garhwal-with-kumaon-resumes-service-after-73-days/articleshow/76163209.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Raj workers stuck in Saudi Arabia seek help to return||Jaipur: Nine workers from Rajasthan, who are stranded in Saudi Arabia since the outbreak of coronavirus, on Monday posted a video on social media about their plight and sought help from the Indian government to bring them back.Nine workers went to work in a company in Saudi Arabia four months ago where they were provided with food and lodging. After the outbreak of coronavirus, the company shut its services and asked the employees to leave the premises.Pawan Kumar Suthar, a worker from Churu, said that they were cheated by the agent who sent them to Saudi Arabia. “We were promised a different kind of job when we contacted the agent but after arriving here the work requirement was different. The company that hired us sent us to work for another company. After coronavirus, the company stopped functioning and sent us back to our original employer without giving us three months’ salary,” said Pawan.He said they were asked by the company who originally hired them to go and live in a camp nearby where arrangements have been made for them.“After four days, the camp owner also removed us stating that our owner had not paid for our rent. We were forced to sleep on the streets. There are nine people from Rajasthan and four from Uttar Pradesh. We somehow managed to have arranged a small room but do not have basic necessities. We want help from the government to bring us back home,” said Pawan.After the video went viral, efforts are being made by some social workers in India to speed up the process.District president of Prawasi Indian Legal Aid Cell, Amjad Tuglaq said that government must come forward to bring those people home.“Workers didn’t get their salary for three months. After the video went viral on social media, we are trying to get them food but they need their salaries as well. We are discussing the situation with the government, Indian embassy and hopefully some solution will be found,” said Amjad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-workers-stuck-in-saudi-arabia-seek-help-to-return/articleshow/76164922.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Death in Yavatmal, spike in Nagpur; Vidarbha cases at 1,871||NAGPUR: With the highest single day spike of 102 — after 103 on May 29 — Vidarbha’s Covid-19 positive cases reached 1,871 on Tuesday. A patient died in Yavatmal’s GMCH isolation ward within 24 hours of admission on Tuesday. This was the 3rd death in Yavatmal and 70th in Vidarbha. Nagpur (24), Akola (22), Amravati (19) — all red zoned districts — continued to report new cases. Yavatmal also recorded 18 new cases in a day, all from rural areas of the district. Buldhana reported 10 new cases, Bhandara 7 and Gondia 2. Chandrapur, Wardha, Washim and Gadchiroli recorded no new case on Tuesday. Seven patients recovered and discharged from Chandrapur and 2 each were discharged from Wardha and Gadchiroli. Road to recovery continued with highest 22 from Amravati followed by Akola (20), Buldhana (10) and Nagpur (8). With 1,262 out of 1871 patients discharged, recovery rate of Vidarbha was 67.45% on Tuesday against Maharashtra’s 48.28% and India’s 48.07%. The people of Yavatmal, particularly from the rural areas, are in panic as the deaths and positive cases are increasing on a daily basis in the district. On Tuesday, a jeweller from a remote village Mudhana in Mahagaon tehsil of Yavatmal died in Covid ward. He was brought to the GMCH on May 31 and tested positive on June 1. Now the district has 37 active positive patients in the isolation ward of GMC of whom 18 tested positive on Tuesday only. Out of the 18, 13 are from the family of a deceased woman from Nagpur. She, her husband and their son came to the village on May 19 from Jogeshwari (Mumbai) along with 27 others. Her husband also tested positive and is now in the isolation ward of GMC. Though they were kept in the institutional quarantine, the woman had moved out and reportedly attended a wedding ceremony in the village. The sources said that she had a high risk contact list of 45 others making a total of 72 people. All of them have now been kept in the institutional quarantine. In Amravati, a four-month-old baby girl and two boys aged 2 and 5 years are among the 19 who tested positive on Tuesday to take the district’s Covid count to 249. While the first 100 cases came in 43 days in Amravati, the next 149 in just 20 days. On Tuesday, 22 patients were discharged, taking the count of recovered patients to 146. Now, there are 88 active cases in Amravati. According to an official release, eight of the 18 cases today have come from Frezerpura, a new hotspot, while Ratanganj gave three. One each came from Masanganj, Ramnagar, Budhwara, Chhaya Nagar, Maloo Layout in Saturna, Jalaram Nagar, Yashodha Nagar and Nagrajbaba temple in Aurangpura, the last four being the new localities. Novel coronavirus entered four new areas in Amravati on Tuesday. A 30-year-old aunt of an Amba Gate positive youth tested positive. An AMC source said that this youth had stayed at her aunt’s in Maloo Layout in Saturna three days ago. Jalaram Nagar gave its first case when a 37-year-old accountant of a private company tested positive. The baby, youngest of the 249 cases in Amravati, came from Nagrajbaba temple premises in Aurangpura while Yashodha Nagar made its Covid debut with a 35-year-old woman contracting the virus. A 36-year-old man and his 10-year-old daughter from Frezerpura tested positive this morning. Seven of this family have already tested positive. Other Frezerpura patients include males aged 2, 5, 57, 45, 32 and a female aged 25. The three cases from Ratanganj include a 50-year-old female and two contacts of an already positive person — a female aged 72 and a male aged 50. The sole Masanganj case today, a 42-year-old man, is the fourth from his family to test positive. Budhwara’s seventh case is a 23-year-old youth while Chhaya Nagar’s and Ram Nagar’s second cases are women aged 50 and 37, respectively. No positive patient was detected in Chandrapur on Tuesday. In fact, the day saw recovery and discharge of seven more Covid-19 positive patient. The number of recovered patients in Chandrapur has now reached to 20, whereas only 3 active positive patients are left, claimed officials in health department. The 23 positive patients found in Chandrapur are basically those who have travelled from red zone cities. Out of remaining five one have no travel history, while others are contacts of positive patients. The date wise positive patient detection in district is May 2 — 1 patient, May 13 — 1 patient, May 20 — 10 patients, May 23 — 7 patients, May 24 — 2 patients, May 25 — 1 patient and May 31 — 1 patient. Out of total of 23 positive, 20 have recovered and been discharged from hospital. In Wardha, two more patients have been discharged after they own the battle against coronavirus on Tuesday. A young woman from Ashti and a man from Rohana village of Arvi Tehsil were discharged from AVBRH, Sawangi and Kasturba hospital, Sewagram. The young woman came from Mumbai to Ashti after government issued e-passes for her return. A man who also came from Mumbai to Rohana village tested positive. He was taking treatment at Kasturba hospital, Sewagram. After treatment, the test report of both after 14 days were negative. Both were applauded by the doctors and nurses of the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/death-in-ytl-spike-in-nagpur-vid-cases-at-1871/articleshow/76164934.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||HC notices to Centre, Maharashtra on amount utilization||NAGPUR: Refusing the government’s demand to dismiss a plea filed for utilization and public declaration of amount collected under ‘Prime Minister Cares Fund’, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday, directed the respondents, including Centre and state, to explain the petitioner’s contentions. While issuing notices to the Union ministries of defence home and finance, and other respondents, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor directed them to clarify why appointments/nominations on fund’s remaining three posts were not made till date. Divisional commissioners of Nagpur and Amravati along with city collector and municipal commissioner are other respondents in the case. Assistant solicitor general Anil Singh received notices for union ministries while Nivedita Mehta received it for state and Sudhir Puranik for the municipal commissioner. “We’ve heard this matter for some time, however, the reply of these three Union ministries appears to be necessary on issues raised in the petition. The remaining respondents are also at liberty to file replies,” the judges said. Before adjourning the hearing by three weeks, the HC allowed petitioner Arvind Waghmare to make amendments in the petition within a week and supply its copy to all respondents. On March 28, the Union cabinet established a public charitable trust ‘PM’s Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations’ having the PM as a chairperson and Union ministers of defence, home and finance as its ex-officio trustees. While creating the funds, certain guidelines with objectives were issued that specifically mentioned that apart from the ex-officio chairperson and ex-officio trustees, three more trustees will be appointed/nominated. Waghmare argued that till date these three trustees weren’t appointed despite clear guidelines, yet crores of rupees are being accepted. Being a donor to this fund himself, he insisted on appointment of other trustees for fortifying confidence of the general public. Praying for nominating at least two opposition members from the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to maintain transparency of the national fund, the lawyer claimed that respondents were yet to declare information on the amount collected under it and how it was being utilized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-notices-to-centre-state-on-amt-utilization/articleshow/76164923.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 3, 2020||Surat||Two groups clash over ‘love affair’ in Surat, 12 persons arrested||Surat: More than 30 people in two groups from the same community clashed in Akbar Saeed Tekra locality on Monday night, attacking one another with sword and sticks over a love affair. One group was unhappy about the friendship between a woman and a man from the opposite groups, sources in of Salabatpura police station informed. However, members of the warring groups later alleged that the clash was over moving a parked motorcycle. Around 15 persons suffered injuries and had to be taken to SMIMER hospital for treatment. Police registered two separate offences for rioting and attempt to murder charges against both the groups. In one complaint Juned Shaikh, 29, lodged a complaint against Sohil alias Agga and 11 other friends for alleged attempt to murder and rioting. Shaikh allegedly asked Sohil to remove his bike which was obstructing traffic flow on the road, which led to an altercation and later turned ugly. Later Sohil’s friends gathered at the spot with sword and sticks. Meanwhile, 10 associates of Shaikh also joined in the melee. Shaikh and his associates were booked by police in a complaint lodged by Rashid Saiyed. “We have arrested 12 persons from both the groups. Investigation is on to find other people involved ,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-groups-clash-over-love-affair-in-surat-12-persons-arrested/articleshow/76163220.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||On first day, app and hospitals at odds in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The corona app on the availability of beds can considerably ease the anxiety of people who test positive. A review on day one showed that Delhi government officials have their work cut out if this app has to serve its purpose. While the app shows availability of beds in most hospitals, when calls were made during the day to their centralised numbers by TOI – like any patient would do – at least 10 out of 25 hospitals claimed they had no beds available. In some cases, there was no response from the hospital’s emergency helpline or board number. “We are working to streamline the information and service,” said state health secretary Padmini Singla. “Action will be taken on any feedback received from any quarter to make the user experience better.” At present, the data on bed availability is filled by officials from the state health department. The government is planning to direct all hospitals to appoint their own nodal officers for this purpose to avoid confusion. The app is currently available only for android-based devices and those using iPhones cannot access it. “It will be available for iOS users in about a week. We are working on that,” assured Singla. The app showed 135 vacant beds at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Tuesday, but the Centre-run facility claimed it had none, a story repeated with many hospitals. The app showed Batra Hospital had a total of 74 beds and 60 were occupied till 10am, leaving five vacant. However, the official who took the call told TOI no beds had been available for a few days now and that they have been noting down names and numbers of people who wish to get admitted. “We do not admit everyone who comes here with a positive certificate. A doctor speaks to them about their symptoms, and only if the symptoms are severe is admission advised. If someone is asymptomatic or has minor symptoms, he is advised to go for home quarantine,” said the official. This criterion is being followed by almost all Covid-19 registered hospitals. It is in line with what chief minister Arvind Kejriwal suggested on Tuesday. Among the other hospitals whom TOI called and drew a blank on beds were Apollo, Holy Family, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Primus Super Speciality and Maharaja Agrasen. Mata Chanan Devi Hospital in Janakpuri said it will not be admitting patients for at least one more week since they are renovating an area specifically designated to cater to Covid-19 patients. They have 42 beds. MGS Hospital in Punjabi Bagh too said they weren’t admitting Covid-19 patients as yet though the app showed 28 beds were available there. Similarly, no patients were being admitted at Primus Super Speciality Hospital apparently because special wards are being constructed. They were shown to have 24 beds. There was no response from the listed phone numbers of many hospitals, including Lok Nayak, AIIMS and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality. Lady Hardinge Medical College, Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre and Park Hospital had beds available but not as many as mentioned on the app. Watch Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal launches app for Covid beds information||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-first-day-app-and-hospitals-at-odds/articleshow/76164938.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Highest 1-day spike in Haryana again||CHANDIGARH: Haryana registered its sharpest rise in Covid-19 cases in a day as 296 people tested positive for the virus, taking the state’s tally to 2,652. The state’s worst-hit district, Gurugram, got 160 new cases and its tally hit 1,063 — accounting for 40% of the cases in the state so far. While the state’s casualty count for coronvirus reached 23 with two more fatalities, Rohtak emerged as a new hotspot as it got 45 new cases — the district’s highest number of cases in a day. It was only on Monday that Haryana had recorded its highest number of cases in a day, 265. With cases continuing to rise sharply, Haryana’s doubling rate has now fallen to just six days. Its recovery rate is now just 40.13%. In Gurgaon, 775 cases are still active. In Rohtak, the cases doubled, as it had reported 45 cases till Monday and now the figure is 90. Faridabad too continued to be a hotbed for Covid-19. It goty 26 cases and hit 418 cases. Sonipat got 21 new cases and its total reached 148. Nine cases were reported in Palwal, seven in Ambala, six in Bhiwani, five in Fatehabad, four each in Sirsa and Karnal, three in Jind, two each in Jhajjar and Panipat, and one each in Kurukshetra and Narnaul. Health minister Anil Vij expressed concern over the rising of cases in the state, especially the spike in NCR districts. “Though it is a matter of concern, we have put sufficient measures in place. We are confident of improving our recovery rate. Lifting of restrictions is a matter of concern. But we are still better than the neighboring states,’’ said the health minister. Wthin a week, the doubling rate of Haryana has come down from 18 days to just six days. So far, 1,24,564 tests have been conducted in the state. Of them, 1,17,340 tested negative. (With inputs from Amit Kumar in Karnal and Jaskaran Singh in Ambala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/highest-1-day-spike-in-haryana-again/articleshow/76164941.cms||Manvir Saini
June 3, 2020||Agra||2 test positive after deaths in Meerut & Hathras||Meerut/Agra/Pilibhit: One death each due to Covid-19 was reported from Meerut and Hathras districts. The number of Covid-19 patients continued to shoot in Meerut with 14 more people testing positive on Tuesday. There are a total of 458 Covid-19 cases in Meerut, including one found in Kanpur. “A 42-year-old woman from Meerut’s Brahmpuri died at LLRM Medical College on Monday. She tested positive on Tuesday,” a health official said. She was the 28th victim of coronavirus in the district. Meanwhile, there was a chaos in the health department after it came to fore that three patients, who were admitted at LLRM Medical College and were tested positive, had come in contact with UP minister Suresh Khanna during his inspection here on Monday. Many others who came in contact of the said patients were BJP leaders Vineet Sharda and Sunil Bharala, along with media photographers. But, Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut’s chief medical officer, said, “At least 15 minutes of exposure is necessary for the infection to spread, which didn’t happen.” Nine persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Bijnor district taking tally to 114. Out of them, 50 are active cases. According to Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey, “Out of nine new patients, eight belong to the same family in Noorpur area. Apart from this, one is from Nahtaur area.” Seven coronavirus infected persons were found in Amroha district, taking tally to 67. Hathras district recorded its first coronavirus death after a 56-year-old jeweller died in district hospital on Monday. His Covid status was revealed on Tuesday. Meanwhile in Agra, at least nine new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced, taking the district tally to 916. The new cases include a 25 year old computer operator posted at Shahganj police station. He was on duty to distribute food to the poor families since the last two months. Seven more persons including six under-trials who recently got bail, tested positive for the disease in Aligarh. Health officials said that the patients’ family members, police personnel and those who came in contact with them at the time of granting bail, will be quarantined. In Mathura, six more persons including four migrant workers and two police personnel tested positive, taking the district’s tally of such cases to 83. While a 24 year-old-man who had come from New Delhi with his wife on May 29, was tested positive by Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Bareilly. The health officials received his report in late night hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-test-positive-after-deaths-in-meerut-hathras/articleshow/76163222.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Rape complaint filed against woman’s FB friend||HARIDWAR: A 28-year-old married woman has alleged that she was raped by her Facebook friend who had promised to marry her. The accused is a native of Uttar Pradesh. Reportedly, the alleged crime took place several months ago when the accused came to meet the victim in Haridwar where he raped her in a hotel room. The accused has been identified as Rajneesh, a resident of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh. SHO city police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI, “Victim woman belongs to Rishikesh and she first met with the accused (in person) in Haridwar where the accused booked a hotel room and raped her. A case has been registered under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and further probe is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rape-complaint-filed-against-womans-fb-friend/articleshow/76163214.cms||MS Nawaz
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Cop who tested +ve for virus had a free run for three days||Coimbatore: The public health department has traced around 150 primary contacts of the cop on probation who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening.While 50 people have already been tested, health officials are planning to screen another 50% of her contacts soon. The contacts have been asked to remain in quarantine for a week.The probation officer, who reached the city on Wednesday (May 27), joined the duty at the district collectorate on Thursday. She then moved freely around the district, visiting a public-sector bank at Saravanampatti and her probation office branch in Pollachi, for three days till Sunday.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “The cop, who is jovial and talkative, has mingled with around 40 people in the collectorate, including 25 people in the first floor where she worked and 15 people in the second floor. We have ordered to close all the offices in the first floor for disinfection.” However, when TOI visited the collectorate, there wasn’t any sign to indicate that the first floor was closed. The official said they were still testing a few people in the prisoners’ quarters, where the probation officer lives with her family. “There are 17 families. We have tested 50 people so far and asked others to volunteer for Covid-19 test,” the officer said.Another health officer said the cop had met five people in Pollachi and 14 others at the bank at Saravanampatti. “We have asked the bank manager and others to remain in quarantine for a week and not even interact with their family members. We may also test the manager and a few of others.”Meanwhile, the five New Delhi returnees, who tested positive for the virus, were found to be from Mangalpuri area. On Friday, three transgenders, also returnees from New Delhi, from the locality tested positive for the virus. The five-member family was part of a group of 18, who had driven down from New Delhi, for a marriage function. The groom was also part of the group and their plan was to return with the bride on Tuesday after the wedding on Sunday.As the groom also tested positive, the families have agreed to postpone the wedding. The groom has to be hospitalized for 10 days and quarantined for another 28 days.The deputy director of public health said, “Eight out of the 18 who entered the district borders had no interaction or contact with anyone in Pollachi. They were monitored all the way from Dindigul-Pollachi border.” Meanehile, a 62-year-old transgender and a 24-year-old man, who landed in the city on Monday from Bengaluru, tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-who-tested-ve-for-virus-had-a-free-run-for-three-days/articleshow/76164102.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Spit, tobacco, smoke to fetch fine and jail||NAGPUR: Spitting, smoking (including e-cigarettes) and chewing tobacco and related products in public places and on premises of private establishments will attract fine as well as imprisonment for both customers and sellers. Violators will also have to perform public service ranging between one and five days. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe issued a notification on Tuesday for implementation of state government’s new guidelines aimed at containing Covid-19 and control over tobacco habits. Mundhe told TOI, “People smoking or chewing tobacco or related products will be liable for action even at paan shops, tea stalls, restaurants etc. Sellers will also face action in case sachets or cigarette butts etc are seen nearby,” he said. Earlier, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was levying a fine of Rs200 on people for spitting in public places. The fine was increased to Rs1,000 after Covid-19 cases emerged in the city. The civic body has tightened the rules in a bid to curb spread of the virus. Now, violators will be liable for punishment in case of smoking, chewing kharra, tobacco and related products in public places irrespective of spitting or not. Overall, it means people can only purchase all these products from shops and consume in their private places only. Mundhe has authorized NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) and officials with rank of sanitation inspector and assistant commissioner and above to punish violators. Policemen from PSI and above rank can also take action under the new guidelines titled Prohibition of Smoking in Public Places and Rules for Tobacco Control Activities. Earlier, such action was taken by the NMC. Now, the government has amended Bombay Police Act, 1951, and made applicable sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 (COTPA). In a press release issued by the NMC, it is stated that the steps have been taken by the government after it was proved that Covid-19 can spread through spitting. “Also, other diseases like swine flu, tuberculosis, pneumonia etc can also spread through spitting. Smoking and consuming tobacco-related products can cause mouth, throat, stomach diseases. Public places also get defaced due to spitting. Therefore, state’s public health department has come up with such provisions in the larger interest of citizens,” the NMC said. In the guidelines, provisions have also been made for increased penalty and long-term imprisonment for repeat violations. NMC sources said the government has come up with the guidelines as public movement will start in all areas after reopening of market places. “It is necessary to maintain public hygiene and prevent spread of Covid-19. Situation will worsen if Covid-19 spread is not curbed before the monsoon starts and hence complete ban on spitting, smoking and chewing tobacco-related products is necessary,” said the sources. “The government has taken serious cognisance of tobacco-related products as they also cause lung diseases. People with lung ailments are considered high-risk persons for Covid-19,” sources added. Prohibitory areas: Roads, markets, gardens, playgrounds, govt/ semi-govt offices, educational institutions, industries, commercial, medical, residential places, railway and bus stations, religious places, tourist spots, malls, swimming pools, cinema halls, hotels etc Penal ActionConsumer: Rs1,000 fine and one-day public service for 1st offence. Rs3,000 fine and three-day public service for second offence and Rs5,000 fine and five days public service for third violation. Imprisonment from 6 months to 2 years. Sellers: Rs1,000 fine and one-year jail for first offence. Rs3,000 fine and two years jail for second offence Producers: Rs5,000 fine and two-year jail for first offence. Rs10,000 fine and 5 years jail for second offence Implementing authorities: NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS), officials with rank of sanitation inspectors, assistant commissioners and above. PSI and above rank officials||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spit-tobacco-smoke-to-fetch-fine-jail/articleshow/76164948.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan hikes liquor prices to fund corona fight||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government on Tuesday increased liquor prices by up to Rs 30 per bottle to fund the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and other natural and man-made calamities. Beer prices have been hiked by Rs 20, going up to Rs 160 per bottle. Government sources said the hike will bring an additional revenue of about Rs 800 crore to the state kitty. A finance department notification said that the surcharge will be applicable to all categories of liquor and the proceeds will be used to mitigate natural or man-made calamities like draught, flood, epidemic, public health exigencies, etc. While 180ml and 375ml Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles will attract Rs 5 as surcharge, 750ml bottles will be dearer by Rs 10. Imported brands, however, have seen maximum increase of Rs 30 per bottle. The surcharge for country liquor and Rajasthan Made Liquor has gone up by Rs 1.50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-hikes-liquor-prices-to-fund-corona-fight/articleshow/76164944.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 3, 2020||Rajkot||17-year-old boy arrested for raping minor girl near Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 17-year-old boy allegedly kidnapped an eight-year-old girl living in her neighbourhood on Rajkot's outskirts on Monday and sexually assaulted her. Kuvadva Road police detained the teen on Monday. The boy, who sells vegetables on a handcart, allegedly grabbed the girl who was playing outside her house and took her to a drain behind the locality. He then raped her after threatening to kill her younger brother if she cried for help. The girl reached home crying and told her elder sister about the crime. Her father, who works as a labourer, lodged a complaint with Kuvadva Road police station late in the night. The girl was admitted to the civil hospital. “The girl is the youngest of the three daughters of the labourer. She also has a younger brother. The children are, however, motherless as she died some years ago,” said MC Vala, police inspector, Kuvadva police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/17-year-old-boy-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl-near-rajkot/articleshow/76163241.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||6 foreign returnees, 4 prison inmates among 41 +ve in Punjab||Chandigarh/Patiala/Jalandhar/Amritsar: Punjab recorded 41 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths due to the virus on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally for infected people to 2,342 and the number of casualties to 46. Among new patients, six returned from abroad, four are jail inmayes, 15 are contacts of positive cases, and another 15 contracted the infection outside Punjab, according to the health department. Eleven of the new cases are from Jalandhar, eight from Pathankot, six from Sangrur, four from Ludhiana, two each from Amritsar, Moga, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur, and one each from Nawanshahr, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Faridkot. Of the 11 cases in Jalandhar, three returned from abroad and eight are contacts of positive case. One death each was reported in Ludhiana and Pathankot. With this, the number of deaths due to coronavirus reached nine in Ludhiana, which is the highest for a district in Punjab. The number of Covid-19 deaths in Pathankot is three. In all, 17 patients were discharged from hospitals. In Fatehgarh Sahib, a 44-year-old man fromAjnali village who returned from Delhi recently tested positive. In Patiala, the lone positive case was of an NRI who returned from Kuwait. Amritsar contiues to have reported the highest number of cases among districts in the state, 388. It is followed by 256 in Jalandhar, 200 in Ludhiana, 157 in Tarn Taran, 140 in Gurdaspur, 123 in Patiala, 130 in Hoshiarpur, 113 in Mohali, 104 in Nawanshahr, and 102 in Sangrur. Ten more cases were reported from Jalandhar. While these were confirmed by district authorities, these were yet to be added to the state bulletin on Covid-19. All 10 are contacts of a local businessman — seven of them being members of his family and three his employees. Pathankot deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the eight new cases in the district included four from interior areas of the district, one each from Shadipur and Meerpur Colony, one of a migrant worker and the eighth of a person who had arrived from abroad. At present, 24 Covid-19 patients are under treatment in Pathankot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-foreign-returnees-4-prison-inmates-among-41-ve-in-punjab/articleshow/76164946.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Pranav Pandya case: Court records complainant’s statement||HARIDWAR: The statement of the plaintiff, a Chhattisgarh native, in the rape case lodged against Gayatri Pariwar chief Pranav Pandya was recorded before the sessions court in Haridwar under section 164 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) on Tuesday. On the request of the survivor’s counsel, a video recording of the statement was also done by the court. In an application filed before the court, it has been alleged that the survivor was raped by Pandya on three different occasions in July 2010. At that time, the complainant woman (a minor then) used to work in the kitchen at Shanti Kunj. The survivor's counsel AP Singh alleged that the agencies investigating the rape case against Pandya are acting in connivance with him and are not doing their job responsibly. Meanwhile, police sources told TOI that Pandya was interrogated at Shanti Kunj on Sunday for about two hours by a team of Haridwar police team that is investigating the case. After the woman's statement, POCSO Act will be applied in the case. SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishnaraj S said that he will be able to comment on the case only after going through the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pranav-pandya-case-court-records-complainants-statement/articleshow/76163233.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
June 3, 2020||Surat||Diamond & jewellery suppliers want online sales tax abolished||Surat: The introduction of two per cent online sales tax will be a severe blow to the industry, alleged Surat Gems and Jewellery Association (SGJA) and the Surat Diamond Association (SDA). The two associations have also demand it to be abolished for overall benefit of the exporters. Industry sources claim the tax will cause immense damage to online trade of jewellery and diamonds especially now when travel and face-to-face transactions have become restricted owing to the global pandemic. The tax will be applied to all sales made by any foreign e-commerce operator — including suppliers of rough or polished diamonds — to any resident or business in India. Talking with TOI, Jayanti Savaliya, president of Surat Gems and Jewellery Association (SGJA) said that the two-month lockdown has already decimated the gems and jewellery industry. “During this trying times, the government has imposed online sales tax, which is going to hugely impact the diamond and jewellery manufacturers,” he said, adding that SGJA has written a letter to PM Narendra Modi seeking revocation of the decision and safeguarding the gems and jewellery sector.According to Savaliya, the diamond and jewellery manufacturers have been using e-commerce platform for selling diamonds and jewellery to the customers. However, the e-commerce operator will be responsible for making quarterly payments to India’s tax authorities after the introduction of online sale tax.Babu Kathiriya, president of SDA said that online tax system should be abolished in the larger interest of the diamond and jewellery sector. There are many diamond industries who are selling polished diamonds through e-commerce platforms, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-jewellery-suppliers-want-online-sales-tax-abolished/articleshow/76163198.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Teachers to upload RBSE exam marks||JAIPUR: Due to coronavirus pandemic, Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has allowed the teachers to directly upload marks of every student of Class X and XII on the website. A senior official of board said, “Till last year, teachers used to send scores of every student via speed post to the board office. Due to coronavirus, we have removed this clause to facilitate the teachers and they can put the marks directly online. A link of website will be given to them along with a secret code number. After putting the code number, teachers will get an OTP on mobiles and they would be able to upload the scores.” RBSE chairman D P Jaroli called a meeting with all district education officers on Tuesday to discuss about further planning to conduct Class X and XII examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-to-upload-rbse-exam-marks/articleshow/76164945.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Allow Kannadigas return from other states: DCC||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DCC) has demanded chief minister BS Yediyurappa and district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari to make all necessary arrangements for transportation of over 50,000 Kannadigas stranded in Maharashtra and other states. DCC president K Harish Kumar alleged the government has not extended any support to over 50,000 Kannadigas stranded in Maharashtra and other neighbouring states. “Kannadigas in other states are in distress due to negligence on part of the Karnataka government. Though the central government has cleared hurdles for inter-state travel, Kannadigas, especially those from coastal districts, are still stranded in various states due to the apathy of the respective district administrations here,” Kumar said. Alleging loopholes in institutional quarantine facilities in Dakshina Kannada district, Kumar said the government should take initiatives to provide better facilities at these centres. The government should arrange special flights to bring Kannadigas from foreign countries including the Gulf. Meanwhile, flights and train services should be resumed for the convenience of people working in remote places, he said. A delegation Congress leaders submitted a memorandum to the chief minister and district minister through the deputy commissioner on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/allow-kannadigas-return-from-other-states-dcc/articleshow/76163243.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||No Covid-19 screening at rly station||Coimbatore: Close to 960 train passengers, who got down at the city railway station on Monday night, were allowed to head to their destinations without subjecting them to Covid-19 test. While 666 of them were passengers of Mayiladuthurai-Coimbatore Jan Shatabdi, the remaining arrived in the city in Katpadi-Coimbatore train. The public health department, however, clarified that train passengers to the city would not be tested for the novel coronavirus. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “Like the system we put in place for international flyers to the city in March, we are asking all the rail passengers from other zones or districts beyond Salem and Namakkal to quarantine themselves for at least seven days. We have also asked the railway to immediately stop any symptomatic person from leaving the station premises and inform us.” A source with the city railway station, meanwhile, said all the passengers were being thermally screened for temperature before allowing them to head to their destinations. However, the question is whether the railway or health department can ensure that the passengers are following quarantine norms and staying indoors for seven days. “We have asked our staff to trace the passengers, especially those coming from districts close to Chennai, and stamp their hands and stick quarantine poster outside their houses. We have found this method effective in ensuring they stay indoors, because many of their neighbours would inform us if they flout norms,” the deputy director of public health said. He said all the passengers from other zones were also made to confirm their contact and address details. “While the railway will hand over the list of arrivals from other zones, we will stamp them and stick posters at their houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-covid-19-screening-at-rly-station/articleshow/76164139.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||HCQ: PGI finds clinical cure benefits, no viral load effect||CHANDIGARH: With a global debate raging on the safety and efficacy of anti-malaria drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for prevention and treatment of Covid-19, a team of doctors in Chandigarh’s PGIMER conducted a meta-analysis — combining data from multiple studies — and found that the drug lowers cough days and body temperature but has no proven effect on viral load or treatment of severe condition of the virus. The team’s analysis has extracted data from seven studies for a systematic study and from three studies for meta-analysis. All three meta-analysis studies are randomised clinical trials (RCTs), considered gold standard study design for any drug trial, in France and China hospital settings. The study, ‘Virological and Clinical Cure in Covid-19 Patients Treated with Hydroxychloroquine: A Systematic Review and Meta Analysis,’ has been published in peer-reviewed ‘Journal of Medical Virology.’ The PGI study inferred that with HCQ one can expect benefit in terms of time to body temperature normalisation and number of cough days. This is known as clinical cure. But, the analysis did not find any difference in terms of virological cure on Day 6-7 after initiation of therapy and death or worsening of disease. The sample size was of 1,358 patients for systematic review, which included case series, RCTs and observational studies. The study which has been peer reviewed for meta-analysis had limitations due to small sample size. “This analysis is based on a small set of studies. One of them is a preprint (not peer reviewed). I would want to look where the data comes from,” said Dr Anant Bhan, a researcher at Global Health, Bioethics, Health Policy, Pune. The meta-analysis researchers have admitted that although HCQ seems safe and effective, more data is required for a definitive conclusion. “HCQ seems to be promising in terms of few number of cases with radiological progression (no lung complication resulting in respiratory distress) with a comparable safety profile to control/conventional treatment,” according to the study. The meta-analysis also reviewed the benefit of HCQ in combination with an antibiotic, azithromycin. It was found that the benefits of the regime are uncertain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hcq-pgi-finds-clinical-cure-benefits-no-viral-load-effect/articleshow/76164949.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 3, 2020||Delhi||No cutting corners: Barbers open shop with new-age rules in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Despite the punishing heat on Tuesday afternoon, Nabin Chandra Sheel didn’t seem perturbed about wearing a raincoat to work, apart from the usual face mask, face shield and gloves. The hairstylist hadn’t believed luck on Monday when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal permitted barber shops and salons to open though spas will remain closed. Sheel had planned to buy Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) before resuming work but the announcement caught him off guard. Undeterred he took out his raincoat before reaching Saloon Deluxe, the setup his father has been running in south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park since 1994. “The last two months were extremely tough and we had to survive on our savings. The dip in customers had begun in February itself when people became wary of Covid-19,” the 28-year-old said. Sheel, who learnt basic hair cutting from his father and then did a diploma course in hair fundamentals, said, “I know it’s tough to cut hair wearing a PPE suit and a mask, but we are forced to adapt.” The salon has four chairs, but the staff will only work with two customers at a time. “This will mean 50% reduction in customers when overhead costs remain. There are additional expenses on sanitisation,” said Sheel explaining why he has hiked the haircutting charge from Rs 100 to Rs 150. The sharp rise, however, hasn’t kept people away from the salon. A few kilometres from Sheel’s humble outfit in CR Park, some of the plushest salons in south Delhi are located in Greater Kailash’s M Block market. “We will check the body temperatures of our hairstylists and make them wearing PPE kits. We will also limit the number of customers,” said the manager of a popular salon there. “However, we are still disinfecting the salon which has remained closed for a long time and also finalising the protocols to follow.” The outlet of Truefitt & Hill, the world’s oldest barbershop according to the Guinness Book of Records, was open on Tuesday and serving its patrons. It welcomed customers with a sanitiser while a chart on the door showed the body temperatures of the staff. Walk-in customers are not allowed, service is by prior appointment only. Angad Singh Pasricha, who is the franchisee of the outlet with his wife Neoma, said, “We want to provide excellent service without compromising on quality and high standards of hygiene. The safety of our staff and customers is a topmost priority. Staffer wear face shields, masks, aprons and gloves. Every barber and therapist sanitises the work station before and after a service.” Customers are provided with disposable aprons and the salon uses only single-use disposable towels. On the other side of the city in the east, Abdul Kadir Salmani, who has a barbershop in Shahdara, is also busy sanitising his outlet to welcome customers. “Both customers and barbers are afraid of getting infected and we procured PPE suits and take care to disinfect the working area,” said Salmani. “Also, no customer is now allowed to wait inside. We will see to only two customers instead of four at a time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-cutting-corners-barbers-open-shop-with-new-age-rules/articleshow/76164954.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid-19 outbreak forces GRP to seal barracks & lines in Charbagh||LUCKNOW: Nine days after the first personnel of Government Railway Police was diagnosed of Covid-19, district authorities finally acted on Tuesday and sealed the barracks and lines of the forces in Charbagh. The decision comes after TOI highlighted how slow response had led to the escalation of the outbreak, infecting as many as 26 jawans since May 24. These cops were deployed at Charbagh railway station to manage migrant workers coming via Shramik Special trains. Many migrants have been diagnosed with the contagious disease. Besides GRP cops, two Railway Protection Force constables deployed at Charbagh station and three of their family members have also been found to be infected with novel coronavirus. The tally of railway cops and their relatives testing positive is now 32—the third highest figure originating from a common place after Sadar and Kaiserbagh, which have so far have reported 115 and 95 cases, respectively. In all, 240 GRP jawans were posted at Charbagh railway station. While those found positive were admitted to hospital, about 60 were quarantined at two centres in Lucknow. An additional 50 who were staying in barracks were asked to vacate them for sanitization. Of these, 49 went home in different parts of the state on their own while one stayed back at GRP lines. Before leaving, 20 of them voluntarily got tested for Covid-19 on Friday. The reports released on Monday found nine positive. This created a flutter among authorities as this means the jawans travelled with infection, posing risk of passing it to others. Their co-travellers are being traced for testing. “Of the nine diagnosed, one was staying at GRP lines in Charbagh and was admitted to Lokbandhu hospital. We contacted CMOs of the districts to which the remaining eight belonged and got them admitted in hospitals,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. Though all nine are asymptomatic, their family members and contacts have been home quarantined and are being tested, he added. Dr Agarwal also said that the 30 others on leave will also be tested in their districts. “We are tracing people who might have come in contact with jawans while they were travelling,” he said. Additional district magistrate (east) KP Singh said that on the CMO’s recommendation, GRP barracks have been sealed along with a portion of GRP lines. “The administration will help people living in the areas in getting essential supplies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-outbreak-forces-grp-to-seal-barracks-lines-in-charbagh/articleshow/76164950.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
June 3, 2020||Rajkot||2,200 beer cans seized from goods train in Okha||Rajkot: A huge stock of beer reached Okha from Mumbai in a goods train on Tuesday. The police seized 2,200 cans in 48 parcels which were marked as containing medical equipment and medicine. According to police, the parcels were booked from Bandra railway station. A person from Porbandar had come in an SUV to collect the parcels. But when he was loading the parcels, the cops got suspicious and on checking found beer cans inside. The beer cans were booked by one Mohmod Asgar and the receiver’s name as per record was Bharat Patel, a resident of Keshod. The police is verifying details of sender and how the parcel got booked as medical equipment in the first place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2200-beer-cans-seized-from-goods-train-in-okha/articleshow/76163266.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||FIR over ‘sanitiser as disinfectant’ sale||Hisar: Hisar police have registered a case against the managing director and directors of a Mumbai-based company, a trader from Rohtak and a pharmacy owner from Hisar for selling hand sanitisers at more than double the fixed rate saying they are “hand disinfectants.” No arrests have been made so far but police are investigating the case. Hisar City police station registered a case on the complaint of district drug controller Suresh Chaudhary against the Mumbai-based company’s MD, Hiten Praveen Shah, director Bhowali Nihil Shah, other directors of the firm, Rohtak-based trader Bharat Bhushan Malhotra and Hisar-based pharmacy owner Manoj Kumar under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intent) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 7 and 51 of the Essential Commodities Act. The manufacturing unit of the company is in Daman. In his police complaint, drug controller Chaudhary said the department’s team went to the Hisar pharmacy on Sunday and found 10 bottles (500 ml each) of blue hand sanitisers made by the Mumbai company. Investigations revealed that on April 13, the pharmacy had purchased 900 bottles of the sanitiser from the Rohtak-based firm owned by Malhotra. The hand sanitiser had the marked price of Rs 630 while the Union government had fixed its maximum retail price (MRP) at Rs 250. When contacted, Haryana food and drug administration (FDA) commissioner Ashok Kumar Meena said the hand disinfectant was being sold in other states as well they would also be informed about the racket. “Apart from this, the government of Maharashtra will also be informed about it since the company making the sanitiser is based in Mumbai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fir-over-sanitiser-as-disinfectant-sale/articleshow/76164951.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||After killing lover, youth kills self in Gujarat||VADODARA: After brutally killing his former girlfriend on Monday, a youth in Chhota Udepur district’s Naswadi taluka ended his life on Tuesday. Rahul Bhil (24) was found hanging from a peepal tree on the outskirts of Naswadi town in the morning. Onlookers informed police, who were already looking for Bhil, a casual labourer, on charges of killing Rekha Tadvi (21). “The accused had killed the woman using a shovel and had fled towards the forest area according to eye-witnesses. We have sent his body for post-mortem and registered a case of accidental death,” said a police official. According to Tadvi’s father Shankar, Bhil was enraged after the former started looking for prospective alliances for his daughter. Bhil and Tadvi, who lived in the same neighbourhood, had eloped around a year ago. Later, they had returned to the same neighbourhood and were living together. Around four months ago duo developed differences and Tadvi returned home. When Bhil learnt about the search for groom, he started threatening Tadvi not to marry anyone else as he was still in love with her. On Monday morning, Bhil went to Tadvi’s house with a shovel. Sensing trouble, Tadvi ran to their neighbour’s house where Bhil followed. The neighbours told police that before they realised, Bhil repeatedly hit Tadvi on her throat and chin. When they intervened, Bhil fled from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-killing-lover-youth-kills-self/articleshow/76162132.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Edu officers issue ‘weird’ orders, minister intervenes||Jaipur: In the last one month, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra had to cancel at least seven orders by his district-level officers fielding teachers in combat operations of locust, entertaining persons in quarantine centres, census of animals and monitoring of MGNREGA work. These orders, which were passed by the district education officers (DEO), caused embarrassment for the department.On June 1, the education officers in Karauli directed teachers to entertain persons serving quarantine in government schools. The officials in Dungarpur issued orders directing teachers to remain prepared for salary cuts, even though no such order was issued by the state education department.The Karauli district education officer has directed the teachers to engage persons serving quarantine in yoga, entertain them, sing songs in the evening and keep them updated on Covid-19. The order came into the attention of the Dotasra who cancelled the order with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-officers-issue-weird-orders-minister-intervenes/articleshow/76164956.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Soon, Goa’s Catholics may have to book their spot to attend Mass||PANAJI: As the faithful and clergy wait for guidelines from the government and the Church authorities for reopening of the religious places of worship from June 8, some are already considering innovative ways to ensure social distancing doesn’t prevent them from welcoming all devotees. After having live streamed the Masses for past two months during the lockdown, the Carmelite Monastery in Margao is considering online registration for Masses to control the number of faithful that attend each service. “A team of volunteers could be kept at the Church entrance to check whether those wanting to attend Mass have received our message and will then be allowed in. It will be just like booking an appointment with a doctor,” superior at the monastery, Fr Archibald Gonsalves, said. He reckoned that there will have to be some relaxation in the obligatory Sunday Mass and the faithful could be given leeway to fulfil their obligation by attending a Mass during the week, instead of only Sunday. Besides these measures, the clergy is also gearing up to celebrate more Masses in each parish during the week and especially on Sundays. The parish priest of Holy Family Church in Porvorim, Fr Caetano Fernandes, said he is awaiting guidelines for the opening of churches. His parish alone has over 5,000 parishioners. “We will definitely have to celebrate more Masses in English and Konkani on Sundays and weekdays according to the parishioners’ needs. We have a good parish council and as soon as the guidelines are issued, I will put it before them and ask them to plan and coordinate,” he said, adding that senior citizens who are more vulnerable would be discouraged from attending. Daily Masses, too, could be celebrated with the Sunday liturgy, if the Church permits, to ensure that thousands don’t turn up on Sunday, he said. “We are just waiting for it with great joy and eagerness. Our pastoral ministry is to be in touch with the people. Things have been limited to live streaming. Our people have been ringing up and asking when our doors will open,” Gonsalves said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-churches-plan-to-reopen-faithful-may-have-to-book-a-seat-for-mass/articleshow/76164967.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 3, 2020||Mysuru||7-member committee inspects pharma firm in Nanjangud||Mysuru: A seven-member team inspected pharma firm Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud which came under focus after more than 70 employees tested positive for Covid-19, thrice last week to verify if the company is adhering to all guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before its reopening. The firm would be allowed to start functioning only after a final inspection followed by the deputy commissioner’s approval, said the officials. Sanitisation of the premises spanning over 50-acre was also taken up last week. Nanjangud tahsildar KM Mahesh Kumar told TOI that a seven-member team have been formed to ensure ICRM guidelines are adhered to before it starts operation. The team comprises officials from police, factories and industries departments, he said. Nanjangud no longer containment zone Meanwhile, Mysuru district administration on Tuesday declassified Nanjangud from the list of containment zones. Mysuru SP CB Ryshyanth said, “Although Nanjangud is not a containment zone now, vehicular restriction on national highway leading to Nanjangud from Mysuru will continue for some more time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/7-member-committee-inspects-pharma-firm-in-nanjangud/articleshow/76163283.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Guest coronavirus positive, Hisar hotel faces probe||HISAR: Hisar superintendent of police (SP) and deputy commissioner (DC) have marked separate probes after it emerged that a man who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 31 was staying in a hotel. The hotel is located near the SP’s residence, The health department later took the 46-year-old patient to the Covid hospital for treatment. After this, the health department took samples of four employees of the hotel and got the building vacated. Hisar in-charge for home quarantine Ramesh Poonia said he had informed the administration about the hotel where people were staying without permission and would also submit a complaint to the civil surgeon. Hisar SP Gangaram Poonia said an inquiry had been ordered to the police post in-charge and action would be taken as per rules. DC Priyanka Soni confirmed that a probe had been launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/guest-ve-hisar-hotel-faces-probe/articleshow/76164959.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man, sons thrashed over RMC contract to clear carcass||Rajkot: A 64-year-old man and his two sons were brutally beaten up by 11 persons of the same family over a dispute regarding Rajkot Municipal Corporation's (RMC) contract to clear dead animal carcass in the city.The victims Kala Sagathiya and his sons Ramesh and Shailesh suffered severe head injuries and are under treatment at Rajkot civil hospital.The incident occurred in Rohidaspara locality of the city. Police sources said that Ramesh had been given the sub-contract to clear carcass by the main contractor Valji Gohel. This had apparently irked the accused who were eyeing the contract.On Monday night, they went to the Sagathiya's house and started thrashing the trio with bats. Of the 11 accused, four are brothers and some are their sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-sons-thrashed-over-rmc-contract-to-clear-carcass/articleshow/76163287.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: KGMU’s blood bank has only a week’s stock left||LUCKNOW: The state blood bank in the department of transfusion medicine of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) is left with only a week’s stock as even after relaxations in the lockdown, voluntary blood donation has not increased. Only 200 units of blood were voluntarily donated in the last two months in comparison to about 1,000 units per month in the pre-lockdown period. The demand is about 250 units daily of which 190-200 units are given by replacement, while 50- 60 units are being given to patients of thalassemia, HIV, leukaemia and emergency without replacement. The bank is left with 500 units blood of all groups, which would last for eight-nine days. Only about 15 units of blood group AB, 40 units of A, 50 of group B, 60 units of O and about 250 units of negative groups were left in the stock. Further, only 30 plasma and 50 platelets units are left. Since the blood bank is among the most advanced in the state with the facility of nucleic acid testing that detects viruses like HIV and hepatitis B at an early stage, it is the most preferred destination for thalassemia, HIV and leukemia cases. Thalassemia patients need transfusion three times a month and about 100 patients are registered with KGMU. “To cope with the crisis, KGMU has started asking for replacement from patients of thalassemia, HIV and leukemia to whom blood was given without exchange earlier,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the transfusion medicine. "Despite making replacement mandatory for all patients. Nearly 20-25 leukaemia, two-three thalassemia and 18-20 emergency gynaecology are coming daily who don't have a donor. We provide them blood from our stock," she added. Before the lockdown, there used to be buffer stock of at least 1,500 units sufficient enough for a month because 400-500 units were donated every month by various organizations, she said. “The main reason for drop in the donation is that people are scared of visiting hospital due to Covid-19 outbreak. I want to assure people that we sanitize department twice and follow all safety protocols,” she said. Balraj Dhillon, who runs a voluntary organization with 1,200 members for blood donations, said, “Most of the volunteers are hesitating to donate due to pressure of family members. Although, we are convincing them that it is safe to donate blood in hospital only a few agree to do it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmus-blood-bank-has-only-a-weeks-stock-left/articleshow/76164963.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
June 3, 2020||Goa||Ban Chinese products in Goa: BJP state chief||PANAJI: Chinese products should be banned in Goa and in the country, BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade said. He said the party will urge all its ‘karyakartas’ to only use “swadeshi products” and urged people to use India-made products. “We should boycott Chinese goods,” Tanavade said. The BJP state president’s call for boycott of Chinese products comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked people to innovate and make products for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Tanavade said even the children of the country wanted a ban of Chinese products. “My son requested me not to buy Chinese products,” he said. Tanavade said the party would reach out to people through digital medium to inform them about the achievements of Modi 2.0 government and would hold virtual rallies in North and South Goa. “Right now, we cannot gather public in large scale and we have to celebrate this in different way. We have made three categories to reach out to public including individual contact campaign, digital outreach and virtual dialogue,” he said. Listing out the various achievements of the Modi government, he said: “We will use social media to upload all the video clips and information received from Centre about the Modi government to reach out to public.” He also said that in the virtual rallies, the party is expecting over 1,000 people to participate. “We will not bring people to any hall, but people will listen to central leaders sitting at home,” he said. Tanavade said BJP had plans to have video conferencing in 35 of the 40 constituencies. “Around 200 people will participate in video conferencing,” he said. Under individual campaign letter written by the Prime Minister and pamphlets about the Modi government achievements will be distributed to over 2 lakh households across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-chinese-products-in-goa-bjp-state-chief/articleshow/76164962.cms||Murari Shetye
June 3, 2020||Pune||PMC education department to collate no. of students who quit school||PUNE: The education department of the Pune Municipal Corporation has told teachers to collate information about students who have left for their home towns during the lockdown and may not return when schools reopen. Lakhs of migrants have gone back to their home states or to other districts within the state. The education authorities expect a large number of students to be missing from the schools. Education officer Minakshi Raut said the survey was decided at a meeting on Monday. “We will see how many students will return and how many will not be able to once the school reopens so that we can plan.” Teachers have been busy with Covid-19 duties till now which delayed the survey. “Some are busy even now. We have told them to finish the survey in the next eight days,” she added. Education commissioner Vishal Solanki had earlier said the drop-out rate in schools was a concern and the department will conduct a statewide survey. The teacher-volunteers or Balrakshaks will help get back students if they are in their home villages and parents do not enrol them in the nearby Zilla Parishad schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-edu-dept-to-ascertain-dropout-numbers/articleshow/76291974.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: In dense Mangor hill, contact tracing will be a challenge||PANAJI: Vasco’s Mangor Hill, which was on Monday declared a containment zone after two persons tested positive for Covid-19, is likely to present a tough challenge for the health department. After Monday’s cases, six more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tueday, making contract tracing in the densely-populated area an even more formidable task. The containment area is home to 2,000 people. “The area is so congested that contact tracing is simply not possible there,” said a Vasco resident well-versed with how Mangor Hill has changed over the past three decades. He said that while Vasco, being a port town, has always had a large number of migrants, the last few years have seen vote bank politics encourage encroachment on comunidate lands in various parts of the city. “Mangor Hill is one such area, where the lanes are narrow and you see families of five or more persons sharing a small room,” said a Vasco-based doctor. “I am worried because a large percentage of its population represent marginalised sections of society.” One of the state’s urban development schemes described this part of the port town as “slum-like”, thanks to its high density. Many women from the area work as maids in more affluent parts of the city, and have now been rendered jobless after Mangor Hill was declared a containment zone, with no movement permitted. While this it temporary, some of the women fear they’ll lose their jobs permanently after their employers called them and asked them not to come to work after the Covid outbreak. “I can’t go out since we are in a containment zone, but the people for whom I work have now told me not to come. I doubt they will take me back,” said Savita Kadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-dense-mangor-hill-contact-tracing-will-be-a-challenge/articleshow/76164973.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Pregnant, woman, GRP cop test Covid-19 positive||LUCKNOW: A 31-year-old Government Railway Police (GRP) constable and a 23-year-old nine-month pregnant woman from Baasmandi in Charbagh tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Tuesday. With this, the Covid count of the city went up to 402. So far, 26 GRP jawans deployed at Charbagh railway station have tested positive. The one found positive on Tuesday is a resident of Bangla Bazaar and was posted at GRP office at Charbagh. He used to dine with colleagues at GRP mess. He was admitted to KGMU on Sunday following complaints of sore throat. His family members have also been quarantined and are being tested, said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal The pregnant woman was admitted to Bal Mahila Chikitsalaya (BMC) on Jagat Narayan Road on Monday. "She was asymptomatic. Since she had a C section earlier and it was her second delivery, we admitted her in an isolation ward with no other patients,” said medical superintendent of BMC Dr Priyanka Yadav. After the woman's test report came positive, the hospital has been closed for 24 hours for sanitization. Around 14 staff members, including three doctors, have been quarantined. "Other patients have been discharged after their test reports came negative,” Dr Yadav said, Meanwhile, six patients were discharged from various hospitals in the city, taking the number of recoveries so far to 314.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pregnant-woman-grp-cop-test-ve/articleshow/76164980.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Accused test +ve, cops on quarantine||Udaipur: The entire staff of Kotwali police station in Chittorgarh was quarantined on Tuesday after two members of a motorcycle theft gang tested positive for Covid-19. The incident was a shocker for Chittorgarh police as cops were in contact with many people daily and anyone being infected would mean the risk of community spread. The Kotwali station and a special team had busted the gang on May 29 and arrested 2 men while a juvenile was detained. Before sending them to judicial custody, the court instructed police to conduct Covid-19 test which found them positive. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargav said all of them have been admitted to the district hospital. “Samples of all the cops who were involved in the case and came in contact with the gang during investigations have been collected and send for testing besides being quarantined. The special task force which helped in the investigation too has been called off from duty while a new team has been deployed at the police station. The police station has been sanitised,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accused-test-ve-cops-on-quarantine/articleshow/76164965.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: At Rs 83.25 crore, May GST collections remain subdued||PANAJI: The easing of the lockdown restrictions and resumption of economic activity provided some lift to Goa’s tax earnings, but provided little comfort for chief minister Pramod Sawant’s government, which faces a severe fund crunch. In May, Goa collected Rs 83.25 crore as GST against the Rs 32 crore earned in April. The tourism dependent state continues to face a revenue slump with commercial tax collections dropping by 53% and GST collections seeing a 55% drop year-on-year for May. The SGST collected amounted to Rs 52.64 crore while IGST was to the tune of Rs 30.6 crore, indicating a 77% deficit in GST collections for May in comparison to the VAT regime. “The revenue figures clearly show that a large chunk of the state’s income is dependent on tourists,” a government official said. “Even after raising VAT on petrol and diesel we should have received more than Rs 100 crore, but we got just Rs 48 crore as VAT,” a government official said. The official said that if the state had not increased VAT on fuel, the collections would be even lower. VAT, which is levied on fuel and sale of alcohol in restaurants and bars, amounted to Rs 48.98 crore in May, which is predominantly from sale of fuel, since restaurants and bars remain shut in the state. Total commercial tax earnings for May stand at Rs 130.23 crore, which is 53% lower than May 2019. There was a 90% drop in tax mop-up due to the lockdown in April forcing the state government to stagger payments, defer maintenance grants for aided schools and delay payments to contractors, temporary workers and other non-essential disbursements. For March, when the lockdown was imposed, GST collections witnessed a 19% drop at Rs 316 crore against Rs 389 crore compared a year ago. “The overall deficit for the year may remain around 50% as the situation will not return to normal till the end of this year,” a government officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-rs-83-25-cr-may-gst-collections-remain-subdued/articleshow/76165010.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jodhpur||Doda post worth Rs 12 lakh seized from truck in Barmer, one arrested||JAISALMER: The police seized 310 kilogram of doda post worth Rs 12 lakh from a truck during a routine check in Barmer on Monday. One person has been arrested in this regard. In another case, a countrymade pistol and four cartridges were recovered from a vehicle in Barmer and a person has been arrested. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said Dhorimanna SHO Harchandram and his team seized 310kg of doda post stuffed in 22 sacks from a Tata 407 truck. The driver has been arrested and case under Section 8/15 of NDPS Act has been lodged. In the inquiry driver told that consignment was to be handed over near Mangalwad Chowraha in Chittorgarh. The approximate cost of doda post is said to be Rs 12 lakh, he said. Sharma said that in another case, a team of Dhorimanna police a vehicle which had no registration number in Barmer. During search, a country-made pistol and four cartridges were found. The vehicle, weapons and driver Narpat were arrested. A case was lodged under Arms Act. He was also involved in smuggling of drugs and cases are against him at Dhorimanna, Sadar Barmer ND Bhim police stations, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/doda-post-worth-rs-12l-seized-from-truck-in-barmer-one-arrested/articleshow/76166832.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Doda post worth Rs 12 lakh seized from truck in Barmer, one arrested||JAISALMER: The police seized 310 kilogram of doda post worth Rs 12 lakh from a truck during a routine check in Barmer on Monday. One person has been arrested in this regard. In another case, a countrymade pistol and four cartridges were recovered from a vehicle in Barmer and a person has been arrested. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said Dhorimanna SHO Harchandram and his team seized 310kg of doda post stuffed in 22 sacks from a Tata 407 truck. The driver has been arrested and case under Section 8/15 of NDPS Act has been lodged. In the inquiry driver told that consignment was to be handed over near Mangalwad Chowraha in Chittorgarh. The approximate cost of doda post is said to be Rs 12 lakh, he said. Sharma said that in another case, a team of Dhorimanna police a vehicle which had no registration number in Barmer. During search, a country-made pistol and four cartridges were found. The vehicle, weapons and driver Narpat were arrested. A case was lodged under Arms Act. He was also involved in smuggling of drugs and cases are against him at Dhorimanna, Sadar Barmer ND Bhim police stations, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doda-post-worth-rs-12l-seized-from-truck-in-barmer-one-arrested/articleshow/76164974.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ajmer||‘Remove hurdles to revive Shakti Sagar Lake in Ajmer district’||AJMER: Principal secretary (Mines) Kunji Lal Meena inspected the Shakti Sagar Lake near Kharwa in the district on Tuesday and directed officials to remove all hurdles in the flow of natural water to revive the lake. Meena came to Ajmer after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the district administration to restore the lake so it can get filled during the monsoon. There are several lakes including Foisagar in the district that remain dry even during monsoon as water catchment regions are either blocked by anicuts or by mining activities. In rural regions, the seasonal lakes acted as a storehouse of water for the whole year for irrigation as well as for cattle. But following the construction of hundreds of anicuts under MGNERGA, natural flow of water to such lakes stopped. Even mining activities in the district blocked the flow of water to natural lakes. The condition of Foisagar that supplied water to Ajmer city in the past remained dry even after monsoon. Meena along with district collector inspected Shakti Sagar lake and its adjoining areas and directed officials to remove all anicuts that were constructed on the pathway. He also directed the mining department to fill all mining pits in the region so that water did not collect there and flow to the main lake is restored. Officials also directed to clear the catchment areas of Shakti Sagar and asked for beautification of the place. Officials were directed to prepare a project to clean and renovate nearby ponds and lakes that are linked with Shakti Sagar. Mining department informed the officials that they have started to fill the pits surrounding the lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/remove-hurdles-to-revive-shakti-sagar-lake-in-ajmer-dist/articleshow/76164969.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gated communities in no mood to open up||HYDERABAD: Authorities may have relaxed lockdown norms, but many gated communities are gearing up for a stricter enforcement of rules as they fear community transmission. The communities are wary of the increased number of coronavirus cases in GHMC limits. Association members of Whisper Valley (Film Nagar) have opted for a stricter lockdown and members of Jayabheri The Meadows (Gachibowli) and Jayabheri Orange (Nanakramguda) banned entry of delivery agents. Association members of Meenakshi Sky Lounge (Hitex Road) have distributed a self declaration form, which needs to be signed by the employer and domestic worker. All the association members emphasized that sanitisation is on their priority list. “We have asked people to get themselves checked immediately if their body is showing symptoms of Covid-19. Staffers have been asked to monitor people and inform association members in case they come across people with symptoms . Restrictions on public movement has been imposed, “ said Sunil Jain, general secretary of Whisper Valley. “We will allow domestic workers only from nearby locations and drivers can’t step inside the house. Entry of relatives and outsiders will also be restricted,” said P Shyam from Jayabheri The Meadows. Vivek Varma of Jayabheri Orange County said rules for residents are being revised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gated-communities-in-no-mood-to-open-up/articleshow/76165065.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 3, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Year on, cops solve case of headless, armless body||MEERUT: When UP police found 19-year-old Ekta Jaswal’s body in a field last June, the arms — one with a tattoo of her name and another with that of the man she loved — had been severed to conceal her identity. She had also been decapitated, her clothes removed, to leave no clues about the BCom graduate from Ludhiana. But after a year-long chase, an investigation that spanned various states and six arrests, police have cracked the murder mystery that shook two towns — one in Punjab, the other in UP. At the heart of it lay a tale of love and deception and the sinister rage of a man who first called himself Aman but turned out to be Saqib. On Tuesday, as Mohammad Saqib was being escorted to the lock-up by police after being arrested, the cold-blooded lover made a last-ditch attempt to flee but was shot in the leg and caught. “He had calculated every move, leaving no clues until we stumbled upon an interesting lead during our investigation,” said Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani. On June 13 last year, the girl’s dismembered body was dug up from a field near Lohia village in Daurala region after a farmer spotted a dog carrying something that resembled a human arm. “There was no way to identify the victim. So we decided to trace mobile numbers in the area that were functional to look for clues,” said the SSP. The cops found something odd — one of the cell numbers was registered in Ludhiana instead of UP. A team was sent to Ludhiana to go through the missing persons reports there. There was one that caught their eye — the daughter of a family that ran a thriving taxi business had disappeared in May, and family jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh had been stolen. Cops met the family which informed them that they suspected their daughter had eloped with her lover. But that she was still alive; she was constantly uploading her photos on social media. Except that it wasn't her. “Saqib was using her phone to do that,” said Sahani. The last photo he updated using Ekta’s account was just a week ago. It had been an unlikely match from the start — Ekta, a well-educated, independent woman who aspired to get a government job, and Saqib, a school dropout who worked as an assistant at a shop that sold talismans in Ludhiana. Ekta, then working as an event manager, met Saqib at the shop. He introduced himself as Aman. It was early 2019 and their love blossomed. “Saqib then took her to his home in Meerut where the girl realised for the first time that he belonged to a different faith. They had a fight following which Saqib spiked her drink and murdered her. Five of his kin, including his father, brother and sister-in-law, have also been arrested,” Sahani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/yr-after-ludhiana-girl-went-missing-arrest-of-lover-from-up-unravels-tale-of-deception-brutal-murder/articleshow/76164996.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 3, 2020||Meerut||Video of SHO abusing woman goes viral||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A video of Premveer Rana, SHO of Sadar Kotwali in Shamli district, hurling abuses at a woman has surfaced on social media. The woman can be heard "apologising" with folded hands in front of the SHO who was mediating a local dispute. Apart from this, another video in which a youth is being beaten up by a constable in front of the SHO at the police station also went viral. SP Shamli Vineet Jaiswal took cognizance of the video and has shunted SHO Rana to police lines. According to sources, both incidents happened in Sadar Kotwali days ago. The quality of the videos were not good, therefore, after receiving the clips, Jaiswal handed over the probe to Shamli’s deputy superintendent of police. On Sunday, SHO Rana was removed from Sadar Kotwali and was attached to the police lines. Sources said that a youth was allegedly found using another vehicle number plate on his bike, and was arrested and taken to the police station where he was beaten up with a lathi. The incident was captured on a mobile phone by someone and was later uploaded on the internet. In another incident, a woman who was also present in the police station was being pressurised and abused by the SHO to write down the real incident instead of the false complaint made earlier. The incident was also recorded and later went viral. Jaiswal said, "Someone sent me the videos and their quality was not good, therefore, I ordered a probe. Later, it was found that the youth who was booked was using a different number plate on his bike. Also, the woman had written a false application, but the police misbehaved with her, which is unacceptable. Therefore, the SHO was sent to the police lines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/video-of-sho-abusing-woman-goes-viral/articleshow/76165003.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy shops ignore lockdown norms post relaxations||Trichy: The precautionary measures pursued by the shops during the lockdown are getting diluted after the announcement of relaxations despite people in more numbers stepping out, say residents. A majority of the commercial establishments fail to provide hand sanitizers or hand wash facility for their customers. Social distancing that was ensured until a few weeks ago to prevent Covid-19 spread is completely ignored now.A month ago, commercial establishments that were permitted to do business in Trichy were cautious to restrict their customers. Markings were made to manage the crowd. As days progressed with relaxations, these measures went for a toss. Tea shops that were supposed to sell only parcels continue to allow customers to dine there, which had led to formation of active crowds near tea stalls. “Two weeks ago, shops had established ropes to restrict customers near the billing desk. Those arrangements are absent now, even customers were not given hand sanitizers,” T Senthilkumar, a resident of Palakkarai said. Only a section of medical shops, bakeries and outlets selling kids gears were spotted following the precautionary measures to ward off Covid-19.Hardware shops and automobile spare parts shops in various parts of the city were seen flouting social distancing among customers. People have started venturing out without facemasks and the number is increasing in commercial streets. Sanitizers are still missing at bank ATMs.“We will impose fines on shops that flout the safety norms. Recently, we penalised shops that were ignoring social distancing, and the enforcement will continue,” an official with Trichy Corporation said. With positive cases being reported in Trichy city for the past three days, the corporation received criticism from local people for being inactive against the lapses. Acknowledging this, a section of civic body employees joined a team comprising revenue, and police to raid shops for ensuring public hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-shops-ignore-lockdown-norms-post-relaxations/articleshow/76164978.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 3, 2020||Goa||Uttarakhand workers make distress calls to get off Shramik||PANAJI: When Jaspal Singh boarded the Shramik Special from Margao railway station to Uttarakhand, he believed the tough days for him and his family here would end with the journey. Within minutes, though, he realised this would be one hellish ride, in his words, “the worst train journey of my life.” Jaspal along with his wife and three children boarded the Shramik Special at 2am on Tuesday. There were other migrant workers from Goa and Kerala too, most of them headed to Uttarakhand and provided with chair seats. The journey to Uttarakhand would take four days, and there was no sleeper berths for any of them. For Jaspal, it was worse. All five members of his family are crammed on one seater berth meant for three persons. The workers said they were not provided sufficient food, prompting many of them to make distress calls to citizen volunteers who had helped them with provisions during the lockdown. “I was working for a hotel in Anjuna, but the owner stopped paying us since the hotel shut during the lockdown. It was getting difficult to pay the rent and to manage the other expenses. “The voluntary organisations provided us with essentials and helped us with the transportation to the railway station, so I thought why not return to my village. I have been in Goa for ten years, but this is the worst train journey of my life,” said Jaspal, who along with another fellow passenger sent voice messages to be rescued from the train within hours of boarding it. Jaspal said his family, including his seven-year-old and his brother’s three children below the age of five, have not been able to sleep for over 12 hours now. “The minute I got on the train, I realised that they want to put us in chair seats. I tried to get off, but the policeman said once you board, you are not allowed to get off the train. “We got afraid. Now our eyes are paining without sleep. I just want to somehow alight and return to Goa if possible. My children haven’t had a decent meal for more than 24 hours,” said Jaspal. Fellow passenger Dharmendar Singh said that a pack of biscuits, two bottles of water and two bananas were all they had been provided by the authorities before boarding the train. “How are we expected to survive on this for four days? We have been provided some pao (bread) and other dry food since. But there are infants with no milk or other provisions. The difficulties we faced back in Goa since the lockdown seem manageable now,” said Dharmendar. He said some were even left standing in the crowded train, which is scheduled to touch Haridwar only on June 4. “Most of us on the train are from Uttarakhand. The train goes only till Haridwar. From there, we have to make the trip home to our interior villages. For some of us, it is a journey of up to three hours by bus. “We then have to walk from the bus stop to the village. I do not know if we can go through this train journey and then survive that further trip home,” said Hoshiar Singh, who worked as a security guard in Goa. Hoshiar said all those taking the train were summoned by the authorities to the Navelim stadium as early as 5pm on Monday for the train that was to leave the station at 2am the next morning. “It was drizzling and we, even the children, were exposed to the showers at the stadium. At the Margao railway station it was another one kilometre walk from the bus. We had children, some infants with us, is this treatment acceptable,” said Hoshiar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uttarakhand-workers-make-distress-calls-to-get-off-shramik/articleshow/76164989.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 3, 2020||Chennai||‘Geared up to attract investors with land stock, single window clearance’||In an attempt to capitalise on business opportunities amid the Covid-19 situation, Tamil Nadu is gearing up for a race with other states in India, as well as countries like Vietnam, to attract global companies that are planning to realign their supply chain by setting up manufacturing facilities outside China. Ahead of the week-long series of investment pitches to investors that began on Tuesday, N Muruganandam, principal secretary, TN industries, in an interview tells TOI how the state is planning to use its geographical location and connectivity to draw industrial investments.Q: The impact of Covid is forcing global companies to realign their supply chain and look for manufacturing facilities away from China. How is TN ensuring that the state is on their radar?We are not only on our toes to receive every investor looking to invest here, but also reaching out to global companies and pitching in to attract future investment plans. From Tuesday, we are participating in a series of pitches through the Invest India forum as well as Indian missions abroad and also chambers of commerce of specific countries. We are not only reaching out to new and potential investors, but also talking to existing investors to address any concerns they might have. We feel the existing companies, who have invested here are likely to expand operations. On Tuesday, we reached out to global electronic majors and presented the opportunities for electronics manufacturing in Tamil Nadu. Several global investors from the sector, representatives of other states and the industries minister M C Sampath took part in the online meeting. On Wednesday, we will be making a pitch at ‘Investment Opportunities in South India’ being organised by the Indian embassy in Japan. This is for multiple sectors including electronics, automobiles, pharma and textiles. The discussion will shift to opportunities due to global business realignment, organised by the Indo-Japan Chamber of Commerce. In between, there is a session by Indo American Chamber (AmCham), involving American companies in India on resuming business after lockdown. The Indo-German Chamber of Commerce members and French companies in Tamil Nadu will have separate sessions. We will expand this exercise to companies from other countries also in the days to come.Q: What are the key features of your approach?To hard sell Tamil Nadu as an attractive investment destination – the facilities we are providing, the advantages the state has and experience-sharing from existing companies. Responses from companies who are in the state will be feedback for new investors from those countries. We will also inform investors about initiatives being taken to further simplify procedures to ensure ease of doing business, besides finding out the facilitations they need.Q: Which sectors is the state keen to focus to attract new investments?Electronics manufacturing, chemical and pharma, medical equipment, light engineering, automobile and textiles as well as food processing are the key sectors we are focusing on. The Centre recently announced establishing three mega textile parks in the country. We have identified land at Virudhunagar, Salem and Manallur and will be writing to the Centre to get one of the mega textile parks in the state. We are also drawing up plans to establish a mega textile park in TN, on the lines one gets to see in China.Q: How prepared is Tamil Nadu if these global companies decide to come?The industries department and Guidance are fully prepared to handle these investment calls and follow up. That is why we are making pitches on several fronts. Internally, we are geared up in terms of land stock and single window clearance.Q: What is the strategy behind the chief minister writing letters to CEOs of global companies in electronics manufacturing and aerospace?Some of these big companies have heavily invested in China. It is a direct approach by the CM to reach out to them, especially their CEOs and inviting them to look at Tamil Nadu for their future investments. This is basically an outreach by the state. In the days to come, he will be writing letters to global companies from other sectors too. Based on their response, we will follow up with each one of them.Q: How confident is Tamil Nadu in attracting these emerging investment opportunities?We are very confident and we feel that we can give very stiff competition to Vietnam and other countries like Thailand. We are better placed in terms of domestic market, connectivity and competitiveness. Our domestic market is much more attractive than Vietnam and other countries. In terms of connectivity to African countries and South East Asian countries and to cater to these markets, we are well placed with multiple seaports. The competitiveness is in terms of cost. For instance, electronics manufacturing in Sriperumbudur is 25% cost effective in terms of wages when compared to China.Q: What are the strong points of Tamil Nadu to woo overseas investors?Proactive governance and a proactive government that is easily accessible. Good law and order and well-connected geographical location works for TN. Our human resources and skilled manpower is a key strength. We have a diversified manufacturing base and a very strong MSME sector (15 lakh units). We are strong in textiles, electronics manufacturing, software, leather, automobiles, light engineering, pharma as well as chemicals. The diverse economic ecosystem makes Tamil Nadu a strong contender to attract investments globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/geared-up-to-attract-investors-with-land-stock-single-window-clearance/articleshow/76164171.cms||D Govardan
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Neighbours alert corpn about people from hotspots||Trichy: When people from Covid-19 hotspots such as Chennai started arriving at Trichy city recently, sanitary officials with the urban local body embarked on a drive to identify and home quarantine them. Interestingly, Trichy Corporation officials said that the neighbours of the Chennai returnees were among the first to alert them about the arrival of the people from hotspots to ensure their home quarantine. As many as 23 people returned to Trichy city from Chennai on June 1. Similarly, air travellers reaching Trichy international airport and people arriving from other states were also home quarantined and monitored by the civic body. The information on Chennai returnees were shared by the police personnel monitoring the check posts on the district borders. Even if the control room misses tracking the Chennai returnees, neighbours never failed to alert the officials concerned. “We have shared our contact numbers through WhatsApp and in person with the residents’ welfare associations. Daily, we get 2-3 calls from local people alerting the return of people from Chennai to Trichy city,” a sanitary official with Trichy Corporation said. The civic body, after identifying the houses of Chennai returnees, affixes a home quarantine sticker in their houses mentioning the 14-day isolation period. Corporation officials said that samples were collected from Chennai returnees and residents with inter-state travel history at their houses even if they were asymptomatic. “Fearing their own safety, neighbours are those who quickly alert us about the arrival of people from Chennai and other states,” another corporation official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/neighbours-alert-corpn-about-people-from-hotspots/articleshow/76164992.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 3, 2020||Trichy||100 locals replace guest workers in smart projects||Trichy: The city corporation has started identifying local workers to execute smart cities mission projects, as a replacement for guest workers, many of whom have left for their native states due to the lockdown. So far, around 100 locals have been employed in the ongoing mission projects. Sources hinted at an increase in numbers if more relaxations are announced for the construction sector. Of the 25 projects under smart cities mission in Trichy, two were completed while 15 are under progress and the remaining in various phases of development. Meanwhile, the lockdown impacted the projects since April. With guest workers from other states, who account for 50% of the entire workforce leaving, the construction work took a hit. To overcome the manpower shortage, corporation through the contractors identified local workforce from Trichy, Villupuram and Cuddalore districts. “Around 10 guest workers from Jharkhand left the Thillai Nagar shopping complex construction site last week. We replaced them with local masons from neighbouring towns. We are looking out for a few more replacements,” a corporation official said. Sixty guest workers who left Chathiram bus stand redevelopment project and 24 who left the Uyyakondan riverfront development project were replaced by local workforce. Contractors face a tough time in familiarising the standard operation procedure (SOP) and work routine to the locals. “Explaining to the local workforce about the need to wear safety gear is an uphill task. Despite such constraints, we ensure that construction work goes on,” a contractor told TOI. For now, only 50% of workers are permitted in construction sites. Once the numbers go up, the need for replacements will increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/100-locals-replace-guest-workers-in-smart-projects/articleshow/76165005.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||NGO distributes sanitary pads in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Considering the problems faced by women and girls in getting sanitary napkins during the lockdown, an NGO has taken initiative to distribute these in villages around Pokhran and Jaisalmer areas. So far, 500 pads have been distributed under the initiative. On Tuesday, sanitary napkins were distributed at Chacha village under Khetolai CHC. Due to the pandemic, the schools are closed since last two months and the pads could not be distributed. The project cluster coordinator Ganpatram Garg wrote a letter to Pokhran block CMHO Dr Laung Mohammad to distribute sanitary pads to girls through anganvadi kendra workers, sahayikas and ASHA sahayoginis. Garg said that a demand was raised by NGO Urmool Trust considering the problem of women during the lockdown, after which the state health department provided sanitary napkins at all centres. He said that pads were distributed in many villages like Khetolai, Kelwam Gomat and Ujla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngo-distributes-sanitary-pads-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/76165013.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Udaipur||Tension grips Udaipur hamlet over murder of tribal youth||UDAIPUR: Situation became tense in Nathara village of Sarada tehsil in the district on Tuesday, after the murder of a tribal youth following a scuffle late on Monday night. Although police have detained 11 persons in connection with the attack and murder, tension continued till late Tuesday night. Mukesh (25), son of Dhanna Meena, was stabbed to death, while another youth Raju Meena (23) was critically injured, when a group of men from another community attacked them following a dispute over fishing from Kejad pond outside the village. According to police, six youths from the tribal community had gone for fishing at Kejad pond around 9.30pm on Monday. They were allegedly stopped by a few men of a contractor who had the fishing contract for the pond. A verbal spat turned ugly as more men were called in by the contractor’s people, who allegedly thrashed the youths brutally, resulting in death of one of them. One of the youths also sustained grave injuries and is said to be critical in a Udaipur hospital, sources said. As the news spread on Monday night, the tribal community beat drums signalling residents to come out and by 6am on Tuesday, more than 700 villagers from 13 adjoining settlements gathered in the area, thus increasing the tension, said sources. Udaipur collector Anandhi and district SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi reached the village by Tuesday evening. The divisional commissioner ordered suspension of internet services in the area for 24 hours, in order to contain the tension. Forces comprising 250 personnel from 12 police stations were deployed in Sarada, Nathara and Chawand areas to prevent mass gatherings, specially amidst the lockdown. The authorities tried to hold peace talks with the tribal men who refused to retreat unless their demands, including immediate arrest of all accused and driving out their families from the locality, were agreed upon. The villagers demanded that the people from the community be shifted from Chawand, Mahuwada and Sarada to some other place outside their area. Protesting villagers sat on a dharna demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. They demanded an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh, government job for one of the family members of the deceased, death penalty for the murderers. Villagers refused to move the body for autopsy unless the accused were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/tension-grips-udaipur-hamlet-over-murder-of-tribal-youth/articleshow/76166808.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Tension grips Udaipur hamlet over murder of tribal youth||UDAIPUR: Situation became tense in Nathara village of Sarada tehsil in the district on Tuesday, after the murder of a tribal youth following a scuffle late on Monday night. Although police have detained 11 persons in connection with the attack and murder, tension continued till late Tuesday night. Mukesh (25), son of Dhanna Meena, was stabbed to death, while another youth Raju Meena (23) was critically injured, when a group of men from another community attacked them following a dispute over fishing from Kejad pond outside the village. According to police, six youths from the tribal community had gone for fishing at Kejad pond around 9.30pm on Monday. They were allegedly stopped by a few men of a contractor who had the fishing contract for the pond. A verbal spat turned ugly as more men were called in by the contractor’s people, who allegedly thrashed the youths brutally, resulting in death of one of them. One of the youths also sustained grave injuries and is said to be critical in a Udaipur hospital, sources said. As the news spread on Monday night, the tribal community beat drums signalling residents to come out and by 6am on Tuesday, more than 700 villagers from 13 adjoining settlements gathered in the area, thus increasing the tension, said sources. Udaipur collector Anandhi and district SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi reached the village by Tuesday evening. The divisional commissioner ordered suspension of internet services in the area for 24 hours, in order to contain the tension. Forces comprising 250 personnel from 12 police stations were deployed in Sarada, Nathara and Chawand areas to prevent mass gatherings, specially amidst the lockdown. The authorities tried to hold peace talks with the tribal men who refused to retreat unless their demands, including immediate arrest of all accused and driving out their families from the locality, were agreed upon. The villagers demanded that the people from the community be shifted from Chawand, Mahuwada and Sarada to some other place outside their area. Protesting villagers sat on a dharna demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. They demanded an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh, government job for one of the family members of the deceased, death penalty for the murderers. Villagers refused to move the body for autopsy unless the accused were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tension-grips-udaipur-hamlet-over-murder-of-tribal-youth/articleshow/76164993.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hubballi||Indonesian nationals produced before local court||Belagavi: About ten Indonesian nationals, who were booked for violating visa regulations, were produced before a local court on Tuesday. They had gained entry to India securing tourist visa, but took part in religious congregations in Delhi and Belagavi. Two other persons from Delhi who had arrived to Belagavi on March 11 were also taken to II JMFC court. All 12 are religious preachers attached to Tablighi theology. Upon arriving, they had visited mosques to conduct preaching from March 11 to March 16, said a police official. Mal Maruti police had booked the 10 under various provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946, the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1939. The two others were booked for abetting violation and illegally sheltering the Indonesians. All of them were tested for novel coronavirus and none turned positive. City police commissioner, BS Lokesh Kumar said the accused have been sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/indonesian-nationals-produced-before-local-court/articleshow/76163362.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Pregnant women endure ‘harrowing ordeal’ at airport||Panaji: At least a dozen pregnant women had a harrowing ordeal at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, and reached their hotels almost 12 hours of landing from Dubai on the Vande Bharat flight early on Tuesday morning. The airport witnessed heated arguments between them and authorities, who forced them to select quarantine centres at the airport itself before permitting their swab samples to be taken for testing. “We told them that pregnant women were exempted from the seven days paid facility quarantine according to the government of India’s guidelines, but we were told that the Goa government had different rules. Nobody would listen to us. We were tired and hungry,” one pregnant woman told TOI. She added that the police had to be called in, and the issue was only sorted out at around 4 am, when authorities told the women that they would have to pay for at least a day’s quarantine, and go to the centre until further information was received. TOI spoke to another pregnant woman, who said that there was chaos even at immigration counters, where officials asked passengers to keep their passports on a chair for stamping, and then proceeded to mix up the stamped and unstamped ones. “This was in contrast to the treatment we received in Dubai, although we were foreigners there,” she said. “It was humiliating to be treated like this in our own country. Everything could have been streamlined, but authorities hadn’t planned for it.” She added that they had to wait “endlessly” to be taken from the airport to their hotels. Many passengers, confused by the state government’s ever-changing SOPs, took the trouble of getting tested in Dubai and produced the Covid negative certificate at the airport — only to be told that it wouldn’t be accepted. “My legs were swollen,” said a woman entering her eighth month of pregnancy who was travelling with a child. “There were no trolleys when we arrived at the airport. The entire experience was a nightmare.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pregnant-women-endure-harrowing-ordeal-at-airport/articleshow/76165025.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Huts set up away from villages to quarantine migrant workers||JAISALMER: As many migrants are returning from Mumbai, Gujarat and south India to Jalore, Barmer and Jaisalmer districts, people in rural areas have started quarantining the migrants in huts located a few metres away from the villages. Many villagers have even put up blockades, which are illegal, to stop the entry of outsiders. Two brothers who came from Tamil Nadu to their village under Sheo police station area in Barmer district were quarantined by their family members in a hut built 300 metres away from their home. Similarly, in Nokh area of Jaisalmer, villagers have adopted the same method, while in a village in Jalore, villagers have blocked the entry of outsiders into their village. Since last week, there has been an increase in coronavirus cases in Jalore and Barmer and all positive cases have been the migrants who came from Maharashtra and Gujarat. Looking to this, villagers have started awareness campaigns and have been coming up with unique methods. Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta said that after April 27, more than 90,000 migrants have returned from different states and still many are in transit and the number will go above 1 lakh. The administration has directed the villagers to keep the people coming from other states in quarantine. He said that gram seva samitis have been formed in even small villages and gram panchayats have been directed to inform nearest district administration representative on seeing any outsider coming to the village, and if any person breaks the quarantine, then a case is to be lodged against that person and that person is to be kept in institutional isolation. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said 49000 migrants have come in the district. He added that 52 people have tested positive, of which maximum are migrants. District collector Namit Mehta said that they have made three different types of committees for monitoring home quarantine arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/huts-set-up-away-from-villages-to-quarantine-migrant-workers/articleshow/76165026.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Financial harassment leads man to kill self, four booked||VADODARA: Financial constraints caused by lockdown led a 38-year-old man at Dashrath village near the city to take his own life on Monday. Police identified the deceased as Kalpesh Solanki who worked at a car accessories’ shop at Ranoli GIDC. Cops booked four persons including Solanki’s employer for driving him to suicide. Police said that Solanki hanged himself from a ceiling fan on Monday afternoon, when his wife, Leela, had gone to her parents’ house in Tarsali, while his mother along with his 10-year-old daughter were on the ground floor. During investigation, cops found a two-page note which Solanki left behind wherein he has blamed his employer Dayal Shivnani and three moneylenders Rohan Joshi, Deepu Barot and Amit Jingar for his suicide, said a police official. The wife told police that Solanki’s monthly salary was Rs 15,000, but Devnani paid him just Rs 3,000 and the loan sharks started harassing him for repayment during lockdown. Solanki alleged in his letter that Barot and Joshi send his henchmen to their home asking for money and when they didn’t get any they took away his scooter. After the lockdown eased, Jingar started harassing him for repayment in his home and office. Solanki further alleged that tired of the harassment he had decided to end his life. Cops said that they have booked the four persons named by Solanki for abetment of suicide, criminal intimidation, extortion and under The Gujarat Money Lenders Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/financial-harassment-leads-man-to-kill-self-4-booked/articleshow/76162240.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Three killed as car plunges into deep gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi||MANALI: Three persons, including a couple, were killed as the car they were travelling in from Shimla fell into a 300mt deep gorge at Bhalingi near Tattapani in Mandi district of Himachal on Tuesday evening, police said. Sources said 29-year-old Kuldeep was returning home at Dharmour in Karsog tehsil after getting his wife, Deepika (23), treated in Shimla. The couple had hired a driver, Jai Dev (44) and were on their way to Mandi when the car (HP30-6898) met with an accident a few kilometres before their home at about 4pm. Mandi SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said all the three victims were found dead on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-killed-as-car-plunges-into-deep-gorge-in-himachals-mandi/articleshow/76165033.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Saathi’ cop for every woman complainant||LUCKNOW: In a first of its kind initiative, Lucknow police commissionerate will work out pending cases of crime against women and girls under its ‘Saathi’ project. The project has been started by crime against women and safety cell (CAWAS) of the Lucknow police commissionerate. As per the scheme, every complainant would be assigned a cop, ‘Saathi’ (companion), to help her and solve issues related to the case. The ‘Saathi’ can be any woman cop from the rank of constable to sub-inspector. Deputy commissioner of police, CAWAS, Charu Nigam said, “The ‘Saathi’ personnel will also make complainants aware of their rights, schemes in which financial assistance is provided by the government, and also get their counselling done.” Nigam said three officials of the rank of assistant commissioner of police had also been roped in to look into the problems and work done by ‘Saathi’ personnel after every 10 days. The DCP said it would be the duty of ‘Saathi’ personnel to inform senior officials about the difficulties or problems they face while dealing with complainants. “They will also have to maintain and collect compete record of cases starting from the FIR to medical report and charge sheet. All documents will have to be submitted at the database of women safety cell of the district,” Nigam added. “Disposal of cases of rape and those falling under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have been taken up first. There are 150 pending cases under both the categories at the commissionerate of which 45 were distributed among the personnel on Tuesday,” she said. Cases under other categories relating to women will also be taken up under the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saathi-cop-for-every-woman-complainant/articleshow/76165052.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Meerut||Missing sack of atta leads to murder, another 2 killed in group clash||MEERUT: Police in UP’s Baghpat district on Tuesday registered an FIR against 34 people hours after a mob killed two men for allegedly shooting dead a teenager at a flour mill on Sunday evening. Of those booked, nine are named while 25 unidentified.Over 20 men allegedly attacked and killed Shekhar Kashyap, 16, at his flour mill in Basauli village of Baghpat district on Monday evening. In retaliation, locals cornered two assailants, Rachit and Sachin, both between 18 and 20 years, and killed them as they were trying to escape. Bisauli village was turned into a virtual fortress as police and paramilitary forces were deployed to ensure the tension does not escalate. According to local police, Shekhar had a tiff with another youth, Nishant Tomar, after a sack of wheat flour got misplaced at the mill on Sunday night.The minor dispute took a bloody turn after Nishant, along with over two dozen men from neighbouring villages, attacked Shekhar and shot him dead on Monday morning. The flour mill is owned by Shekhar’s father. “On Monday, over 20 armed men stormed Bisauli village and started thrashing anyone who came in their way. Shekhar, who was returning from his friend’s home, was caught and shot at in the head,” said Bahgpat’s superintendent of police Pratap Gopendra. As the news spread, a large number of locals gathered. "Seeing them, the assailants started fleeing. But angry villagers caught two attackers and beat them to death,” the SP added. Meanwhile, the bodies were cremated amid tight security. “Based on the complaint of Shekhar’s father, an FIR has been registered at Ramala police station. All the three deceased were cremated amid tight security,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-sack-of-atta-leads-to-murder-another-2-killed-in-group-clash/articleshow/76165031.cms||Piyush Rai
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Young doctor reaches out to poor, aged at their homes||Thanjavur: A young doctor from Peravurani in Thanjavur district has been lending a helping hand to senior citizens and poor people by providing free medical aid during the Covid-19 induced lockdown period. 25-year-old Dr Ziavur Rahman has already given consultations to around 500 people in the last three months without charging a penny. Rahman completed MBBS in 2018 at a private medical college in Puducherry. He then joined as a junior medical practitioner at a private hospital in Thanjavur. Once the lockdown was announced, private hospitals including the one where he worked stopped rendering outpatient services. This is when Rahman decided to help people in his native Mallipattinam.  "There are three hospitals in Mallipattinam. However, as the lockdown set in the hospitals stopped rendering services temporarily. Poor people with minor ailments struggled to consult doctors. So, I decided to help them", he said.  Dr Rahman wanted to allot a small space at his house to provide consultation to the patients. His father, who is a senior faculty at a private college in Athirampattinam, readily gave Rahman his consent for the same, despite the potential risk of contracting Covid-19.  Even though a few people visited his house for consultation, many ailing senior citizens who were unable to move out of their houses could not consult him. So, Rahman decided to provide consultations at their houses. "As summer is at its peak, many people have been affected by heat stroke. I attend to several people, especially senior citizens who suffer from ailments at their homes,” he added. Even in the past Rahman has rendered his service during crisis periods, like the time when the Gaja cyclone struck. Rahman said he was fulfilling his late grandfather’s wish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/young-doctor-reaches-out-to-poor-aged-at-their-homes/articleshow/76165016.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 3, 2020||Gurgaon||‘14 Covid-19 cases, but no check in Sonipat’s Rai’||ROHTAK: Even after 14 cases of Covid-19 being detected in Sonipat’s industrial area, Rai village, the district administration is yet to demarcate a containment zone, seal the area or take any steps  to prevent the spread of virus, according to locals. Naresh Kaushik, a resident of Rai, told TOI that the village had a population of 15,000 migrants employed in factories. Kaushik said the first two cases were detected on May 29 and then 12 were detected on June 1.He said all positive cases were of migrant labourers who shared an accomodation with others in a cramped space where social distancing was impossible. Kaushik, who claims to be a soical activist, said lack of action by the district administration had left other residents of Rai vulnerable to contracting infection. Pankaj Sharma, a businessman from Rai, said the street from where the cases had been reported had turned into an attraction of sorts as others had been going to see it out of curiosity. He described the administration’s inaction as “beyond explanation”. He that one of the patients is a vegetable vendor who has over 200 customers, but health department is yet to start contact tracing and test suspected cases. Sonipat chief medical officer Dr B K Rajora said a team of the health department was shifting positive cases to the hospital for treatment and were also engaged in contact tracing as per protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/14-cases-but-no-check-in-sonipats-rai/articleshow/76165047.cms||Sat Singh
June 3, 2020||Meerut||Three leopard cubs rescued from Bijnor cane field||BIJNOR: Three leopard cubs, barely six-to-seven days old, were rescued from a cane field post-harvest at Salawa village in Dhampur forest range on Tuesday morning. It seems that the cubs, who are yet to open their eyes after birth, have been abandoned by their mother. The litter was taken to the Bijnor divisional forest office, where the cubs are being looked after by forest staff. Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, "We have rescued three leopard cubs. We will feed them milk and some other necessary supplements. Their medical treatment will also be carried out. Later, they will be sent to Etawah Lion Safari." Another leopard cub, a month-old, was rescued last week, and sent to Etawah Lion Safari on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-leopard-cubs-rescued-from-bijnor-cane-field/articleshow/76165043.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Virtual contact between estranged parents, kids during pandemic: HC||Jaipur: In a child custody case, Rajasthan High Court has directed that considering the pandemic, physical contact of estranged parents with the kid be substituted with ‘electronic contact’. The court said the medium of the ‘electronic contact’ will be mutually agreed upon by both parties. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma was hearing a petition by the mother, challenging the extension of time given to the husband’s family by the family court in Alwar. Shalini Sheoran, counsel for the petitioner said, Meena (name changed) and Manohar Singh (name changed ), both suffering from cerebral palsy, got married in 2009. It was an inter-caste marriage. But the marriage was short-lived as the woman was allegedly subjected to harassment by her husband’s family, leading to a police complaint. Meena returned to her family within a year while she was pregnant. She gave birth to a boy who is now nine years old. The woman filed for divorce which is still pending in the family court and the family court had ordered the custody of the child in favour of the mother. Then, a fight began over the father’s right to meet the child. The family court, in its order on June 14, 2018, enhanced the visiting time from half an hour on Sundays to three hours and allowed the husband’s family members also to meet the child. The court also directed for videography of the meeting and place of meeting at a public place with CCTV cameras. The mother was also made accountable for the behaviour of the child. Counsel said sometimes, the child got very irritated by the court-mandated meetings and this has been attributed to the mother. The mother challenged this in the court, challenging the family court direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virtual-contact-between-estranged-parents-kids-during-pandemic-hc/articleshow/76165054.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||CM announces Rs 2,500 crore financial support to 5 lakh people in Haryana||Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said efforts are being made to attract foreign investors in the state. During a video-conference meeting with media persons, Khattar said Haryana has made a few changes to land lease laws to create suitable conditions for investors. Besides, Khattar announced financial support of Rs 2,500 crore for 5 lakh persons, including roadside vendors as well as entrepreneurs. Khattar said the state government has spoken to financial institutions as well as banks for the implementation of this scheme in a phased manner. “Making land available was the main issue for foreign investors and we shall provide them with Panchayat land on lease basis. Besides, other measures like ease of doing business will be stepped up even as we are number two in the country,’’ said Khattar. Referring to financial support, Khattar said the announcement made by him will be in addition to the financial bailout package announced by the Centre. Commending the performance of the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Khattar said besides making the country self-reliant, Modi has also converted the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. He said at a time when the world is fighting this pandemic, a ₹20-trillion stimulus package was announced by the Prime Minister, which is a giant leap for the Indian economy. He said this is aimed at the welfare of the poor, farmers and labourers and further giving a boost to the industrial, education and health sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-announces-rs-2500-crore-financial-support-to-5-lakh-people-in-haryana/articleshow/76165041.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt offices in Haryana to have 75% or more staffers||Chandigarh: Government offices will have 100% attendance of Group A and B officers while it will be 75-100% for Group C and D staff, depending on the availability of space to completely observe social distancing norms, the Haryana government has said. An official said the decision has been taken in view of amended guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on May 30. He said the heads of departments, heads of offices and deputy commissioners may stagger office timings as per their assessment to ensure there is no rush in the offices. He said a weekly roaster of duty for Groups C and D for the headquarters and the field offices shall be prepared to ensure 75% attendance of Groups C and D officers. Also, the heads of departments, heads of offices and DCs shall ensure compliance of social distancing norms, hygiene practices among the employees and regular sanitisation of offices, files, office equipment, canteens and vehicles.The bar of 75% attendance in respect of Group C and D category shall not apply on essential category departments and their constituent units (municipal bodies, boards, corporations, missions, societies). These are revenue department, health, home, agriculture, public health, development and panchayats, power, irrigation, urban local bodies, medical education, information and technology, cooperation, finance, excise and taxation, information and public relations, HSVP and food and civil supplies departments. Public dealing restricted till June 15 The government has also clarified that the public dealing may be restricted till June 15. Also, the instructions issued by the PWD (B&R) in respect of use of air conditioners in office buildings shall be strictly followed. Regular health check-upsThe health department would conduct regular checks to assess the quality of implementation of Covid standard operating procedures (SOPs) at government offices and shall also conduct random sampling of the employees at head offices as well as field offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-offices-in-haryana-to-have-75-or-more-staffers/articleshow/76165044.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana issues SOPs for taxi, cabs||Chandigarh: Haryana government has issued guidelines regarding taxi, cab aggregators, maxi cab and auto-rickshaw drivers for convenience of public transport. The taxi and cab aggregators will be allowed to ply with a maximum of two passengers in addition to the driver. The maxi cabs can ply with a maximum of half of their seating capacity. Auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws are allowed to ply with two persons in addition to the driver. Likewise, the one pillion rider will be allowed on two-wheelers and it shall be mandatory for both the persons to wear helmets, masks and gloves. The manually driven rickshaws shall carry not more than two passengers. An official of the state government said only essential activities are allowed in the containment zones. Therefore, the movement within containment zone shall be strictly regulated and allowed only for emergency and essential goods or service vehicles. He said the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between 9 pm to 5 am except for essential activities. He said that persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and the children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for essential and health services. All drivers and passengers should cover their face with mask or cloth at all times. Motor vehicles should be regularly sanitized and the drivers and passengers should regularly use sanitizers. Social distancing shall be followed by all persons at all times. Provisions of hand wash and sanitizer will be made at all taxi or auto stands. Drivers at taxi or auto stands shall maintain safe social distancing from each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-issues-sops-for-taxi-cabs/articleshow/76165050.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Next CS could be a woman IAS officer||Jaipur: With chief secretary DB Gupta retiring in September, talks about his successor have already begun. Two women bureaucrats are said to be strong contenders for the top post. They are Usha Sharma, a 1985-batch officer who is currently on deputation at the Centre. She is now holds the post of secretary in the ministry of youth affairs and sports. The other is Venu Gupta, a 1987-batch officer presently holding the post of ACS PWD. Both of them have strong connections. Sharma is the sister-in-law of Assembly speaker CP Joshi while Gupta is wife of Gupta. Both have a tenure of around three years left as their retirement is due in 2023 while others senior to them have very little time left for retirement or out of favour of the present ruling dispensation. Sharma is two years senior to Gupta and her present posting in New Delhi is equivalent to the post of chief secretary. One factor that might go against her is that she has been away from the state for eight years now and there’s no word yet if she was interested in returning to the state. Gupta has been holding very important posts in both the BJP and Congress governments. She has been principal secretary (industry) under the BJP, ACS (medical and health) before being shifted to PWD under the present regime. If Gupta succeeds her husband, it will be the first such case in the state. Besides Gupta’s retirement is in December 2023 which also coincides the end of the term of the present government. Sharma is retiring in June 2023. If any of the two women IAS officers make it to the top slot, it will be the second instance in the state where a woman will hold the post. The first woman chief secretary was Kushal Singh who was appointed by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in 2009 during his second stint as chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/next-cs-could-be-a-woman-ias-officer/articleshow/76165069.cms||Joychen Joseph
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Power bill amendments go against federal spirit: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Expressing strong objection on the draft Electricity Amendment Bill-2020 proposed by the ministry of power, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the amendments to the Electricity Bill are against the federal spirt of the country. He said the proposed amendments were neither in the public interest nor in the interest of state power utilities and the state government. The chief minister said the proposed amendments would take away the rights and functions of the state government. KCR wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday raising objections on the new Electricity Bill and asked the Prime Minister to advise the energy ministry to withdraw the amendments in the public interest. In his two-page letter, KCR mentioned some of the key amendments which are detrimental to the interests of the state. The ministry of power proposed certain amendments to the Electricity Bill and sought views from the state governments last month. The Telangana CM expressed serious concern as it would have a direct negative bearing on the function of the power sector in the state. He said the proposed Bill seeks to take away the functions of the state government by constitution of the state electricity regulatory commission, which is against the spirit of federalism. It was also proposed to set up a parallel authority Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority at the central level to handle all contractual issues which leads to multiplicity of litigation as contracts are to be adjudicated by the civil courts, the CM said. “It is proposed that the commission will fix the tariff for all the consumers without any subsidy. Presently, tariff fixation by the commission includes cross-subsidy to be borne by a certain category of consumers. With the proposed amendment, bills are to be issued for actual cost to all the categories of consumers, including agriculture. We strongly oppose this,” the chief minister said. As there is a provision to appoint the State Electricity Regulatory Authority by a select committee constituted by the Centre and entrusting responsibilities, KCR said it is nothing but hitting the core of the federal policy. “The concurrent subject of the Constitution does not mean the Centre makes law as it wishes, which is highly objectionable.” On the other key amendment, it was proposed to incorporate direct benefit transfer of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to the agriculture and domestic sectors. This would go against the farmers and very poor domestic consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-bill-amendments-go-against-federal-spirit-cm/articleshow/76164281.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||In Ludhiana, Muslim couple hosts Hindu girl’s marriage||MACHHIWARA: Against the backdrop of Covid-19 triggered restrictions, a Muslim couple in Ludhiana made the wedding of a Hindu couple possible. The family from Bhatiyan in Ludhiana district stepped in to solemnise the marriage of 22-year-old Pooja with Sudesh Kumar from Sahnewal according to Hindu rituals and carried out her Kanyadaan (giving of a daughter's hand in marriage) on Tuesday as her parents couldn’t return from Uttar Pradesh due to the lockdown. Pooja’s marriage was fixed before the lockdown, but her farm worker father Varinder Kumar, mother, brother Agba and three sisters, who had gone to their native village in Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, got stuck there due to the Covid curbs. "When the family of the bridegroom asked us about the marriage, I called up Pooja’s parents and they told us that we could go ahead with the marriage. We did all preparations for the ceremony, called Pandit Ji from Machhiwara and got the “pheras” solemnized as per the Hindu rituals. I along with my wife Soni, performed Pooja’s Kanyadaan and cooked lunch for the bridegroom’s family. We also gifted her a double bed, almirahs and utensils," said Abdul Sajid, who works in a yarn mill and is originally from Katihar in Bihar. "She addresses me and my wife as mama (maternal uncle) and maami (maternal aunt) and we did whatever we could for her.” We have known her family for about five years. There are many examples in India where people of various religions and beliefs help each other." Sajid said her parents had sent some money for the marriage. Soni said they considered Pooja to be their daughter and felt good that they could get her marriage solemnized in the best possible manner. She added that though the marriage was simple, they tried to ensure that all the rituals associated with a traditional Hindu marriage were done. The marriage was a small, cosy affair. "There were only four other adults at the marriage, including two sisters of groom and their husbands and three children, so only seven persons had come for the marriage. The family of the groom had insisted that they didn’t want any sort of gift , but we thought that we must give her something when she leaves for her new home," said Sajid. The bridegroom was touched by the couple’s gesture. "I am marrying a Hindu girl and I am happy that our marriage is being solemnized by a Muslim family." The bride was highly appreciative of how her Muslim mama-maami made her wedding possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-ludhiana-muslim-couple-hosts-hindu-girls-marriage/articleshow/76165058.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court pulls up railways for reducing number of Shramik trains||HYDERABAD: Questioning the Indian Railways and its South Central Railway as to why they reduced the number of Shramik trains meant for safely shifting the stranded migrant workers to their native states free of cost, the Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the state government to talk to the railway authorities to ensure that there are more number of shramik trains and also to run the state owned RTC busses to safely shift the migrants of the neighbouring states. They are drained and penniless. You should not collect money from them, the bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said while hearing two PILs filed by S Jeevan Kumar of Human Rights Forum (HRF) and social activist Prof Rama S Melkote who brought to the notice of the court the plight of the stranded migrants and the poor Odisha labourers working with brick kilns in Telangana. Simplify the process for these illiterate workers to register their names for free train transport, the bench said. Vasudha Nagaraj, the counsel for the petitioners told the court that the railways has suddenly reduced the number of shramik trains and introduced special trains. While Shramik trains collect no charges, the special trains collect charges from the labourers. At least let the railways earmark three to four bogies in each special train for migrant workers and let there be no charges for this section, she suggested. The bench directed both the state and the railways to talk to each other and make arrangements to shift the migrants free of cost to their native places. Till then, it is the duty of the state to provide food, shelter and other amenities to the migrant workers, the bench said adding that the state is free to involve the neighboring states to receive their workers at their borders. Taking a serious view of the alleged inaction on the part of the labour department in protecting the interests of the 1.5 lakh poor and illiterate Odisha workers employed with nearly 1000 brick kilns all over Telangana, Justice Chauhan directed the deputy labour commissioners to study the conditions of the brick kiln workers duly recording their employment with the kilns. Vasudha complained that they are the least paid workers and were treated by the contractors and kilns asbonded labourers. The bench wanted the labour department to study their problems and report to the state labour department's principal secretary. The principal secretary should ensure that those workers willing to go to their native places are safely brought to Hyderabad and accommodated here till transport arrangements are made for them to go to their native places. Food, water, medicines etc should be supplied to them, the CJ said fuming at the contractors who allegedly dumped scores of such workers on the roads of Hyderabad and also at the insensitive attitude of the labour department which did not know about the plight of the Odisha workers till now. The state should take care of all such stranded workers at Kachiguda, Nampalli(Hyderabad) and Secunderabad railway stations. All your messages must reach them in a language that can be understood by them, the bench said. The bench also went through the report of the amicus curiea Kowturu Pawan Kumar who studied the situation of stranded migrant workers at Medchal highway and spoke to scores of workers and their families accommodated at the function halls near high way. Since there are pregnant and lactating women, children and old people, their needs like nutritious food, water, medicines and hygienic facilities must be provided to them, he said. Agreeing with the suggestion of the amicus, the bench directed to formulate a policy to deal with migrants. The bench directed Advocate General BS Prasad to furnish a report by June 8 and posted the case to June 9. Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan warned that what the railways were doing by denying free entry to migrants in its special trains is a contemptuous act because Supreme Court has directed all the authorities in the country to shift the migrants to their native states free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-pulls-up-rlys-for-reducing-number-of-shramik-trains/articleshow/76164272.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: IIT Kharagpur offers Boipara helping hand to beat cyclone blues||KOLKATA: A team of architects and civil engineers, faculty and students of IIT Kharagpur, had been working on a project to revive the College Street boipara (book hub). At that point of time, they had no idea that Amphan would lash the city and many of the makeshift stalls would fall like a pack of cards. Considering the relevance of the project after the cyclone, the IIT team has got in touch with the Presidency Alumni Association and the Publishers and Booksellers Guild, both of which are trying to collect funds to bring the book hub back to life. The project was executed by the IIT-Kgp team as part of a Sandhi project — the ministry of human resources development’s initiative to revive the city’s heritage. A Sandhi project is already on in the city as the IIT Kgp team has collaborated with the Kolkata Municipal Corporation to revive the Town Hall. The Boipara revival project is a creative economy experiment where the stalls will be recreated with cost effective building materials, keeping the storage needs of the books in mind. While themes and installations to highlight the 200- year-old history of the hub have been suggested in the sketches, care has been taken not to tamper with the original look of the place. The entire stretch on two sides of the Calcutta University, Presidency University, Bankim Chatterjee Street, College Row and Shyama Charan De Street have been considered for the layout that has been prepared. The pavements, on which the stalls stand, lanes that open up from these main roads and are also dotted with book shops, have also been included in the map of the project. “We have thought of several clusters in the plan that we have drawn up. While on the one hand, it will be a cleaner look that maintains social distance, on the other care will be taken not to tamper with the original look of boipara,” said Joy Sen, senior faculty and head of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-offers-boipara-helping-hand-to-beat-cyclone-blues/articleshow/76164241.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||IUCN clubs Indian lions with two African lion groups||Ahmedabad: The Asiatic lions of Gujarat may no longer be counted vastly different from their counterparts in central and west Africa. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has recently made changes in the binomial nomenclature, clubbing these groups due to genetic similarity.All the majestic cats found in these three regions are now identified as Panthera leo leo, according to a recent report by the Cats Specialist group, IUCN.This report has revised the taxonomy of the Felidae and classified the lions into two sub-species namely Panthera leo leo and Panthera leo melanochaita. Earlier, there were 11 sub-species, including Pathera leo persica, that was used to identify Asiatic lions.The report of the IUCN states that lions of central and west Africa and India; formerly found throughout North Africa, SE Europe, the middle-east, Arabian peninsula, south west Asia are now classified as Panthera leo leo, while Panthera leo melanochaita is for the lions found in southern and eastern Africa.The report further states that lions in Asia, which are often referred to as being distinct sub-species have only colonised south west Asia within the last 20,000 years. This is far earlier than suggestions that lions were introduced to India from East Africa from the 17th Century by the Mughals. A study analysed craniometric variation, although some populations were poorly represented, example West Africa, and found a broadly similar pattern of variation with the main differentiation in skull shape being between lions in southern and eastern Africa and those in the rest of the range including India. Studies in 2011 and 2016 have confirmed this basic pattern of differentiation into two subspecies based on genetic data; one from south and east Africa and another from the rest of the range.“In my recent research paper, I have suggested Panthera leo leo as the name for the Asiatic lions. The Cats Group had now classified Asiatic lion as Panthera leo leo which was earlier identified as Panthera leo persica. Their research (by Cats Group) which is based on genetic studies, shows that lions in Gujarat have more similarity with African lions which was the base for recent re-classification,” says Meena Venkataraman, a researcher on lion and scientist associated with Carnivore Conservation and Research, Mumbai.Y V Jhala, a lion expert and researcher at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), said, “There is a paper published by IUCN Cats specialist group. The group has revised the classification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iucn-clubs-indian-lions-with-two-african-lion-groups/articleshow/76144200.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||HC restrains RPSC from conducting interviews||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday restrained RPSC from conducting interviews for the posts development officers and assistant development officers in the fisheries department. The single bench of Justice SP Sharma issued the order on a petition by Kavindra and others prima facie found fault with the RPSC for calling some candidates for interview without disclosing cut-off marks. The court said there should be complete transparency in conducting exams. Suheela Kalvania, counsel for petitioner, said RPSC called some candidates for interview without declaring cut-off marks. It was argued RPSC did not provide information sought by petitioners under RTI for cut-off marks and of those selected for interviews. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-restrains-rpsc-from-conducting-interviews/articleshow/76165068.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Meerut||UP deputy CM seeks ‘forgiveness’ for problems non-Covid-19 patients faced in 2 months||MEERUT: Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Tuesday stopped short of apologizing for the problems which non-Covid-19 patients faced during the last two months, and said a plan of action is being readied to make sure that not only the government but private hospitals also admit patients with critical diseases. Scores of non-Covid-19 patients have died across the state during the lockdown allegedly after private hospitals denied them treatment. Most of the nursing homes asked for Covid-19 report and said they will only admit those who are negative. “I can feel the pain of the non-Covid-19 patients who have faced problems. And I seek forgiveness from them. Some steps were taken only to protect them because the majority of those who have died of Covid-19 had a history of other critical diseases,” said Maurya in a video press conference conducted for Meerut on the completion of one year of BJP government at the Centre. “A plan of action is being prepared and it will soon reach the districts in containment zones. The plan will ensure that not only government but private hospitals are able to cater to the patients with critical diseases,” the deputy CM said. Asked about a recent incident in Meerut’s LLRM Medical College where a monkey snatched blood samples of Covid-19 positive patients from a lab technician, Maurya said, “This was a rare case which nobody could have foreseen. However, the opposition tweeting against this matter only decreases the morale of the doctors, pathologists and nursing staff.” Asked about why sampling of not even 1% of the state’s population has been done, he said, “It is impossible to conduct sampling of everybody in the entire state and the number is low because we are focusing on symptomatic cases.” Maurya also said that efforts are being made to provide jobs to migrants in various sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-deputy-cm-seeks-forgiveness-for-problems-non-covid-19-patients-faced-in-2-months/articleshow/76165055.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Churches in DK, Udupi to open sans services||Mangaluru: Though unlock 1.0 from June 8 allows religious places to open, the diocese of Mangaluru and Udupi may open churches, but not hold prayer services in them. This is because the circular has restrictions on social gatherings, and church services are communitarian. Fr Vijay Victor Lobo, public relation officer of the diocese of Mangaluru, said that there is a restriction on social gatherings in the current guidelines, and it discourages holding prayer services. “Till fresh guidelines are not issued, the diocese of Mangaluru has decided to keep churches open, but not perform any religious services.” Churches in the coast stopped all religious services when the lockdown was clamped. Even Easter celebrations were held without any prayer services for the public, and it was restricted only to the priests. Funerals were conducted without funeral mass, and only the rites were held, during the lockdown period. Currently, Sunday mass is telecast on TV as well as online. Victor Lobo said that even if the government allows for social gatherings, churches will have to make several changes. “After the lockdown is lifted, mass and other religious services will not be the same as before. A committee has been formed under bishop Peter Paul Saldanha to formulate diocese level guidelines to be followed in every church, shrine and chapel under the diocese of Mangaluru.” Explaining some of the changes, he said that every church will have thermal screening of those attending, churches will be sanitised and social distancing will be followed strictly. “The services at Churches will be increased based on the population of each parish, as well as the size of the place, to maintain social distancing. There is also a necessity for volunteers at each parish to monitor the movement of devotees,” he said. Sources from the diocese of Udupi said that Gerald Isaac Lobo, bishop of Udupi, is awaiting guidelines from the government, before taking a decision. “Once new guidelines are out, we will decide to hold services or not,” sources added. Mother of Sorrows Church, Udupi, can usually accommodate 500-600 devotees at once. However, when social distancing comes into force, only a maximum 250 people can be seated in the church, says Rev Fr Velerian Mendonca, parish priest of the church. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said, “The government has permitted to open temples and religious places, but there is no detailed SOP out till date. It is likely to be announced before June 8, and will include SOPs for temples, mosques churches and other religious places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/churches-in-dk-udupi-to-open-sans-services/articleshow/76163431.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Task force rules out online assessment exams for higher edu||Jaipur: The task force for higher education has put an end to the possibility of holding an online assessment exam saying a minuscule number of students possess gadgets like laptops, tablets and smartphones, uninterrupted internet connection is rare in small towns and villages and it is expensive for low-income students. The task force was formed by governor Kalraj Mishra to come up with guidelines for higher education institutes in the state. The task force has 10 members including five VCs of state varsities and five member experts from different fields. “Under the given circumstances, the task force seriously pursued the premise of holding everything online — admission, classes and examinations but after the empirical study of the subject, we found it impossible to hold online exams while the former two seems achievable,” said a task force member. The member added that students with subjects, especially engineering having semester exams have to wait for their semester exams till the situation turns normal. Another member of the task force said it was astonishing for them to figure out a sizeable number of students especially in the rural and semi-rural don’t have laptops and smartphones and even if some have smartphones, the data plans are costly. “They do possess mobile phones which is not enough to attempt written exams. The state needs to come up with a mechanism that students can download the content for free from state webportals,” said the member. The methods for holding online exams are a bit expensive and require good skills. “Most of these methods are software-driven with issues related to privacy. We can only hope that situation will turn normal,” said a member. RTU session from July 2: Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) has announced to start its academic session from July 2. The session includes classes for engineering and management classes. The format of classes will be online and for classroom classes, a team of experts are considering several models.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/task-force-rules-out-online-assessment-exams-for-higher-edu/articleshow/76165076.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Nagai man helps treat Bangla boy’s heart ailment||Trichy: A nine-year-old boy from Bangladesh, son of a poor labourer, successfully underwent a heart surgery in a Coimbatore hospital thanks to the help rendered by a resident of Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district amid the Covid-19 lockdown. N Rajasekaran, 36, not only helped the boy’s family arrange funds but also gave them shelter and food for nearly three months. An engineering graduate, Rajasekaran has been working in a company in Oman where Abdul Rahim, a native of Chattogram in Bangladesh, works as a technician and is his friend. Abdul Rahim had told him about his sister’s son Mohammed Arif who was suffering from a congenital heart defect which required surgery. Since the boy’s father was a daily wager, Rajasekaran promised to help the boy get better treatment in Tamil Nadu. After arriving at his home town in the first week of March on holiday, he called Abdul Rahim and asked him to bring the boy to Vedaranyam. On returning to Chattogram, Rahim started for Vedaranyam along with the boy and his mother Mohsina Begum after arranging Rs 2 lakh by selling their cows. Rajasekaran took them to a hospital in Sembodai from where doctors referred him to KG Hospitals in Coimbatore. With the lockdown imposed, the family was forced to stay at Vedaranyam where Rajasekaran arranged shelter and food for them. When local police came to know that a family from Bangladesh was residing in Vedaranyam, deputy superintendent of police A Safiyullah made an inquiry with them. “I visited Rajasekaran’s house and inquired about the foreign family. After coming to know about the man’s noble deed, I decided to help them,” DSP Safiyulla told TOI. As Rahim had spent Rs 70,000 for flight ticket, doctor’s consultation and food, they had only Rs 1.30 lakh with them. “Then we approached an industrialist, Sultan ul Arif of Thopputhurai, who agreed to donate the money required for the boy’s surgery”, he added. With the help of the DSP, the family got travel pass to Coimbatore and the surgery was successfully performed on May 16. Apart from the boy’s family, several others have showered praise on Rajasekaran’s humanitarian gesture. The boy and his family would fly back to Bangaldesh once flights resume. Rajasekaran told TOI that he did not do anything beyond human considerations and that he prefers not to comment further on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nagai-man-helps-treat-bangla-boys-heart-ailment/articleshow/76165061.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Agencies at work to restore Kolkata’s green cover after storm||KOLKATA: The process of recreating the greenery in various pockets of Kolkata and Salt Lake, affected by Cyclone Amphan, has begun, thanks to the agencies like Eastern Railway (ER), Kolkata Police, West Bengal forest department and Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC). While ER has already restored nearly 80% trees that got partially uprooted and tilted precariously in the Gholsapur Colony of Behala, the city police’s Entally division kick-started the process of planting the saplings of at least 100 strong-rooted trees on Sunday. The forest department and BMC will not only replant the trees uprooted at Salt Lake’s Central Park and other areas but also plant thousands more. “We have started a ‘Save Fallen Trees’ campaign under the guidance of additional general manager S S Gehlot. At Gholsapur, medium-sized trees have been restored by trimming them to reduce their weights, creating more space for their roots, pulling them upright with ropes and then providing support. Larger trees will also be restored with the help of cranes and other equipment. The divisional railway manager, Sealdah and his team monitored the process. At the Garden Reach railway colony, 25 trees were saved. The drive will continue in all ER divisions,” said ER CPRO Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty. The Kolkata Police hopes to complete planting around 100 mahogany trees by a week. The soil has been provided by Metro Railway and tree guards will be put up by the police. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee said nearly 250-300 trees were uprooted in Salt Lake's Central Park. The count of fallen trees under the BMC jurisdiction is nearly 4,500, of which 2,500-3,000 are in Salt Lake and its adjacent areas. “We are planning to revamp Central Park. About 50-100 trees will be planted soon,” the minister added. BMC will restore about 1,000 trees uprooted across the township.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/agencies-at-work-to-restore-citys-green-cover-after-storm/articleshow/76164270.cms||Jayanta Gupta
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court asks FSSAI stand on carbide||HYDERABAD: Justice T Vinod Kumar of the Telangana high court on Tuesday sought to the stand of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on a petition that charged the police with creating obstacles in the sale of ethylene sachets for artificially ripening fruits like mangos. Following the furore over usage of calcium carbide for the purpose, the FSSAI had banned the use of carbide because it was proved to be harmful. In its place, it suggested the use of ethylene to ripen the fruits. Stating that though had obtained permission to sell ethylene sachets, police in Telangana are creating hurdles in its sale, SGS International firm approached the high court. We are selling FSSAI approved Ethylene ripening sachets in India for ripening mangos because it was approved by the FSSAI to ripen mango, banana and papaya fruits, the firm’s partner Rajesh Selarkar said in his plea. Though the police booked a case against us in 2018, later they closed it after they received a report from the forensic lab that our sachets are not harmful, he said. Now the Government of Telangana appears to be supporting a dealer who is selling a similar product with a brand name En-ripe, the petitioner said. In order to support and promote the En-ripe dealer, the Hyderabad Police are publishing banners to not to use the product of SGS International and to use only the product of En-ripe. Now they have again booked cases against the small mango traders, he said. As a similar plea by another firm too was pending with the court, the judge directed the registry to tag it along with the current plea and posted both of them to Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-asks-fssai-stand-on-carbide/articleshow/76164285.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman dies days after giving birth||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old housewife died in a Saifabad hospital on Tuesday, days after giving birth to a baby girl. The family alleged medical negligence. A case of suspicious death was registered. The deceased was identified as R Aarthi, a resident of Jiyaguda. On Monday, she complained of chest pain. “According to her husband, the hospital staff asked Aarthi to walk but did not give any medication for the pain,” Saifabad SI G Ravi said. In the early hours of Tuesday, a nurse went to check on her and found her unconscious. The duty doctors declared her dead. “The doctors said the death was due to post-pregnancy complications and pulmonary embolism,” the SI said. However, the husband said his wife was fine till 6.30 am. She was admitted in the hospital on May 27. She underwent a C-section and gave birth to the girl the next day. Meanwhile, police have launched an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-diesdays-after-giving-birth/articleshow/76164297.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chennai||In shadow of Covid, puppeteer narratesmessage of safety||Chennai: You may be familiar with the funny troubles of popular TV animation characters Motu and Patlu, but here’s a chance to see the duo play a serious role. Laxmana Rao, a fifth-generation puppeteer, introduces Motu and Patlu through his shadow puppets to create awareness about the safety measures that people must follow to check the spread of the Covid-19.Motu and Patlu are the main characters in the 10-minute play that Rao has directed. "I haven’t had any programme for the past three months due to the lockdown. But I want to use shadow puppetry to create awareness among people about the pandemic. A small gesture from my side to help people," said the Theni-based folk artist, who won the Kalaimamani award in 2019. Thol Pavai Koothu (leather puppet show) is an ancient form of theatre dating back to 1000AD once popular in the southern parts of India. The shadow images of handmade puppets are created on a screen. The person who moves the puppets mimics the dialogues followed by percussion instruments. Traditionally, storytelling in shadow puppetry involves mythological characters, but over the years contemporary issues have become part of its narrative. Rao, has earlier used the dying art form to create awareness about coastal conservation, vulture protection and other environmental issues. In Rao’s present creation, the story begins with Motu and Patlu being stopped by the police for not wearing protective masks and so are asked to surrender the bike. In the second scene, Yama (god of death) asks one of his attendants why the death rate on earth is high. Motu and Patlu land up before Yama, and Yama advises them to use a sanitizer and mask. "I am trying to provide a basic message to be followed to avoid the spread of Covid-19. I chose Motu and Patlu because they are popular among both children and adults," he said. Rao’s grandfathers once conducted shadow puppetry shows across Tamil Nadu but its popularity faded gradually after television and other modes of entertainment came in. "It’s difficult to survive as a puppeteer today. But I am confident that it still can interest people, that’s why I use this art form to convey messages that are relevant today," said Rao, who is facing financial difficulties as performances stopped due to the lockdown. "There are more than 20 members in my family. We are having a tough time because of the lockdown. We hope things will improve," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-shadow-of-covid-puppeteer-narratesmessage-of-safety/articleshow/76164280.cms||M T Saju
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||13 staff of SMS hosp test +ve, death toll breaches 200 mark||Jaipur: A day after the state government turned SMS Hospital into a non-Covid-19 institute and threw its gates open for general patients while ensuring safety and taking precautionary measures, 13 of its staff were found infected with the virus on Tuesday. Among those who tested positive are trolley men, ward boys, helpers at drug distribution counter, a sweeper and a liftman. Health department officials said five of the 13 hospital staff who tested positive are those deployed at drug distribution counters, which were providing drugs to patients on prescriptions of doctors. Also, two trolley men, who help elderly patients, have also been found infected. Four ward boys, a sweeper and a liftman have also been diagnosed with Covid-19. An SMS Hospital official said they had been isolated and necessary measures have been taken to contain the spread of the virus in the hospital. SMS Hospital is the biggest hospital in the state which has attended over 1,000 Covid-19 patients since March. From Monday, the hospital was declared as a non-Covid hospital as all infected patients were shifted to RUHS Hospital in Pratap Nagar, which is a new Covid-19 hospital. Meanwhile, the death toll due to the virus breached the 200-mark as four more persons died in the state on Tuesday taking toll to 203. Besides, 273 more persons were found infected from different parts of the state taking the tally to 9,373. One person died in Kota (17th death in the district), while another succumbed to the virus in Bharatpur (5th fatality). In Jaipur, two persons died taking city’s toll to 96.Districts which reported new cases are Bharatpur (70), Jodhpur (44), Jaipur (42), Jhalawar (23), Kota (13), Pali (13), Sirohi (12), Alwar (10), Bhilwara (8), Dausa (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Sikar (5), Uaipur (4), Chittorgarh (3), Barmer (3), Churu (2), Bikaner (2), Dholpur (2), Tonk (1), Ajmer (1), Sriganganagar (1) and one from other state. As many as 222 more persons have been cured taking tally of such persons to 6,435. Health minister Raghu Sharma said they had increased the capacity of Covid-19 testing in the state. “Now, we have the capacity of testing 18,250 samples daily. We are targeting to increase it to 25,000 per day,” said Sharma. He said in SMS Medical College, more than 1.1 lakh tests had been carried out. Doctor recruitmentRajasthan University of Health Sciences on Tuesday issued direct recruitment notification of 2,000 medical officers for government hospitals. Online application will be available from June 8 to June 30. Former health minister and BJP leader Kalicharan Saraf said the date of examination is July 12. The state government should immediately recruit doctors without wasting time they were needed to contain Covid-19 spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-staff-of-sms-hosp-test-ve-death-toll-breaches-200-mark/articleshow/76165074.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Mukundra Hills gets two tiger cubs||JAIPUR: The country’s third tiger reintroduction programme at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) has yielded results with tigress MT-2 giving birth to two cubs, the first such instance in the reserve. The forest department’s tiger conservation efforts bore fruit after two years when the two cubs were spotted with their mother on Monday evening. DFO T Mohan Raj, who was the first to spot the newborns told TOI, “During patrolling in Darrah range, we spotted the cubs with the tigress. These cubs are approximately two-and-a-half-months old and we are continuously monitoring them.” The tigress, which is nearly four-year-old, was relocated to the 82-sq-km enclosure at Darrah range in MHTR from Ranthambore National Park (RNP) in December 2018. Though MHTR is spread over 759.99 sq km covering four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar, only 200-sqkm in Jhalawar is dedicated to tigers. “The total tiger population in MHTR rose to 6 including the newborns. There were indications that tigress MT-4 and tiger MT-3, who are outside the enclosure mated, but so far it has not resulted in any cubs,” added a forest official. “It took nine months to shift the tigress MT-2 to MHTR as wildlife activists approached the Rajasthan High Court against the relocation, claiming it was carried out without the permission of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The relocation was done after court dismissed the petition”, an official said. The park that once upon a time served as the hunting ground for the nobles was notified in 2013. It became the third park in the country after Sariska in Rajasthan and Panna in Madhya Pradesh where tigers were reintroduced . “MHTR will follow the footsteps of Panna and Sariksa where there are over 50 and 20 tigers, respectively,” said an official. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot also took to social media and posted on Twitter, ‘Good news received again on June 2, 2020 about 2 tiger cubs of MT 2 tigress after 2 years of Tiger Reintroduction in Mukundara Tiger Reserve. Feel ecstatic about the new arrivals. Let us save wildlife and their habitat.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mukundra-hills-gets-two-tiger-cubs/articleshow/76165082.cms||Ajay Singh
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu man murders daughter on tantrik’s advice||TRICHY: The death of a 13-year-old girl in unexplained circumstances near a waterbody on May 19 in Pudukottai district has been unravelled. It now transpires that she was murdered by her 41-year-old father on the advice of a tantric woman who told him he would get rich if he got rid of her. The accused Paneerselvam had four children from his first wife Indira, 36, and two from his second wife Mookayi, 40. The victim, Vidya, was the youngest of his children from his first marriage. On May 19, Vidya didn’t return home after she went to fetch water from a nearby waterbody in the morning. Later, she was found lying in a critical condition near the house. She was rushed to Thanjavur medical college where she died the next day. Pudukkottai district superintendent of police P Ve Arun Sakthi Kumar said that Paneerselvam and Mookayi had difference over monetary issues. It was Mookayi who introduced her husband to S Vasanthi, a tantric, through her relative P Kumar to get rid of their financial issues. Vasanthi suggested Paneerselvam kill one of his daughters which, she claimed, would bring him good fortune. Believing her words, Paneerselvam strangulated his daughter Vidya with the help of Mookayi and Kumar. After strangulating Vidya, Paneerselvam removed her clothes to make it appear as a sexual assault attempt to misguide police. However, the girl’s body had no sign of such an assault according to the postmortem report, said the SP. Further inquiries with Paneerselvam showed him giving contradictory statements. He then confessed to have strangled his daughter to death believing the tantric’s words. Incidentally, Mookayi died of health issues on May 30. Police have arrested Kumar along with Panneerselvam and were on the lookout for the tantric and two others involved in the murder. A case has been booked under IPC section 147, 120(B) and 302 for murder apart from section 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-kills-daughter-on-tantrics-advice/articleshow/76165072.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||Four newborns die at Budaun CHC in a night, probe ordered||Bareilly: Budaun district administration on Tuesday ordered a magisterial probe after four newborns died under mysterious circumstances on Sunday night at a community health centre (CHC) in Islamnagar. District magistrate Kumar Prashant has asked chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Yashpal Singh and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) CP Saroj to probe the matter. The aggrieved family members had accused the CHC staff of laxity while providing treatment to the babies. Some of the relatives of the victims also alleged that they were denied treatment when they refused to pay money. “We are looking into all the allegations and a team of medical experts will provide their report within two days. As of now, I cannot comment upon the behaviour of any CHC staff, but strict action will be taken if anyone is found guilty,” the CMO told TOI. The first baby to die on Sunday night was born to Anita Devi and Prateek Pal, a labourer from Girdharpur village. Pal alleged that the staff denied treatment after he refused to pay them Rs 400. The second baby that died was delivered by one Sunita, wife of Jitendra, resident of Alinagar village. The staff at the CHC has claimed that Sunita was anaemic and delivered a stillborn. In the third case, the newborn of one Mala, wife of Pushpendra Kumar, died within a few minutes of the delivery while in the fourth incident, Umesh’s wife Kusum gave birth to a stillborn. Local sources claimed that all the deliveries were done by a nurse and there was no obstetrician present at the CHC. Responding to the claim, Dr Aman Siddhiqui, the superintendent of the CHC, said, “Our staff had not sought any money and the newborns may have died of other reasons.” He, however, did not respond to the allegations that no obstetrician was present at the CHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-newborns-die-at-budaun-chc-in-a-night-probe-ordered/articleshow/76162353.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Reading session tribute to Qadir Ali Baig on June 3||HYDERABAD: Every year Hyderabad’s theatre fraternity pays its tribute to playwright Qadir Ali Baig on his death anniversary on June 3 by staging a performance in the city. This year, however, given the Covid-19 crisis Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation is paying its tribute through an online reading session on June 3 at 7.30 pm. Theatre-revivalist Mohammad Ali Baig will be reading the story titled Alone, which revolves around a yesteryear actress and her life in self-isolation. “We thought it would be the right way to pay tribute to the doyen and mark the 15th anniversary of the foundation ,” Mohammad Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reading-session-tribute-to-qadir-ali-baig-today/articleshow/76164316.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Carcass of tiger cub fished out of canal||BAREILLY: Carcass of a tiger cub was fished out of an irrigation canal in Gola area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday morning. This area falls outside the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) forest area and is under the social forestry region. Sub divisional officer Ravi Shukla told TOI, “The cub seemed to be prematurely born and died possibly due to deformity. The carcass is about 3-4 days old and has started decomposing. We are following all the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines and have sent the carcass for an autopsy.” Forest department has alerted the Mailani and Kishanpur forest ranges about the tiger cub carcass. It is believed that the carcass came here floating in the canal water from the dense forest area of DTR where there is a rich population of tigers. The carcass was seen by a farmer of Bakhkhari village, adjacent to Gola range of forests. After being informed, range officer Banarasi Das rushed to the spot along with his team and took charge of the tiger cub carcass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/carcass-of-tiger-cubs-fished-out-of-canal-in-kheri/articleshow/76162327.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 3, 2020||Chennai||As toll coronavirus case count keep rising, Tamil Nadu targets high-risk population||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s public health authorities have begun to reach out to people with comorbidities as part of the fight against Covid-19 as fresh cases touched 1,091on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 24,586. The toll rose to 197 with 13 more deaths reported. The state planned to protect vulnerable sections of the population — people with diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and kidney ailments — by ensuring they kept their conditions under control. Medical records in private and government hospitals were being used to trace and monitor people at risk. The government had earlier announced it was planning a medical registry to keep track of vulnerable people. “We are planning massive public awareness campaigns on hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette, the importance of maintaining social distance and wearing a mask,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “We will also advise people with diabetes and hypertension to keep their diseases under control. Pharmacies attached to government hospitals are dispensing drugs for two months at one go instead of asking patients to make hospital visits once every 15 days.” CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, who briefed governor Banwarilal Purohit on the situation in the state, has again appealed to people to wear masks and follow social distancing. Chennai gets 809 new cases of Covid-19He said the number of cases in the state was high because TN was testing more people. . On Tuesday, the infection positivity rate – the number of cases tested positive over total number of people tested (10,558 ) that day-- crossed 10%. On Tuesday, Chennai had 809 new cases , a doubling rate a day less than TN’s two weeks, and a total tally of 16,585. “With its high viral load, it has dragged down districts such as Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. Most people from these areas, particularly the vulnerable and the critically ill, are treated in Chennai,” said the health secretary. “We are ensuring we keep critical care beds for these patients as well,” she said. Chengalpet, which logged 82 fresh cases on Tuesday, has a case tally of 1,308, next only to Chennai. In the north, Tiruvallur, which logged 43 fresh cases on Tuesday has 1,025. Kancheepuram, which had 15 new cases , has 433. Four of the 13 patients who died were in their 50s, one was 62 years old and eight others were in their 70s. A 78-year old man from Chengalpet died within 48 hours of admission due to multi-organ failure. Meanwhile, several patients will mild or no symptoms were shifted to covid care centres and peripheral hospitals. “Soon, triaging of patients will be done before the patient is moved into the hospital,” the health secretary said. As the number of cases in Chennai increased, officials strengthened containment measures, without compromising on basic necessities and economic activities. They distributed free masks, disinfectants and herbal drinks that boost immunity. The state also had a steady inflow of migrants testing positive. On Tuesday, two passengers who flew in from Delhi tested positive. In addition there were 40 passengers from Maharashtra, eight from Karnataka, three from AP and two from Kerala who tested positive after reaching Tamil Nadu by road and train. In tuticorin, 51 including 20 migrants tested positive and Tirunelveli had 11migrants and one person from within the district testing positive. TN death rate of 0.8% lowest: CMDenying the opposition’s charge on shortage of PCR test kits in the state, the CM asked people not to panic over the spread of the virus. “About 184 persons have died. Our death rate of just 0.8% is the lowest in the country; the treatment success rate is 56%,” the chief minister said indicating that the approach and treatment modalities adopted by the state government at its medical institutions was in the right direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-toll-case-count-keep-rising-tn-targets-high-risk-population/articleshow/76165087.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||One dies, four critical after entering peppermint tank||Bareilly: One died of asphyxiation while four are in critical conduction after they entered a tank at the peppermint distillery unit in Simbhal’s Kutumpur Satta village on Tuesday. According to police, the distillery owner, Vijay Saini, a resident of Asmauli area, had hired five labourers to clean the tank at the unit, which had gone defunct after the lockdown was imposed in March. When labourer Nain Singh (45) opened the cover of the tank and entered, he fell unconscious. Seeing that, four others standing there immediately entered the tank to rescue him, but they all fell unconsciousness due to the toxic gas. “Since the residue of raw peppermint was already there in the tank, which was not opened for several months as the unit was defunct, a toxic gas had developed there, reducing oxygen levels in the tank,” inspector RP Sharma said. Soon, the onlookers raised an alarm after seeing the five workers falling unconscious and rushed them to a community health centre. The doctors at the CHC then referred all the five to a higher facility in Moradabad seeing their condition critical. Upon reaching the hospital, the doctors declared Singh dead on arrival, the inspector said. The four others, meanwhile, are admitted at the ICU. Sharma said the body was sent for post-mortem examination. Singh is survived by his wife and three children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-dies-four-critical-after-entering-peppermint-tank/articleshow/76162368.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Panels in border districts to monitor locusts||Thanjavur: Tamil Nadu government has constituted committees headed by collectors in the districts which share borders with other states to monitor any influx of the locusts that have been wreaking havoc in some north Indian states, director of agriculture department V Dakshinamoorthy has said. Speaking after a consultation meeting with officials and farmers’ leaders on the preparatory works for kuruvai cultivation in the delta, he said there was no chance of the locusts crossing Western Ghats and Vindhya mountains to reach Tamil Nadu. “There are around 250 species of grasshoppers in Tamil Nadu. However, many of them are beneficial to farmers as they eat insects and pests. If farmers notice any different type of grasshopper, they can upload its photo on Uzhavan App and clear any apprehensions”, he told reporters in Thanjavur. He said the target for kuruvai crop is about 3.50 lakh acres in delta districts from which about 5 lakh metric tonne of foodgrain is expected. The area of cotton cultivation in delta districts has been increased and efforts are being made to get Cotton Corporation of India to help farmers secure Rs 54.55 per kg, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panels-in-border-districts-to-monitor-locusts/articleshow/76165080.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Partially burnt body found||Ludhiana: A partially burnt body was found at Raikot-Mullanpur road, near Nurpura village, on Tuesday evening.A passerby called up the police on spotting the body, which seemed to be of a man 30-year-old. DSP Sukhnaz Singh said, “The body bears no injuries. It has been shifted to civil hospital for post-mortem examination. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/partially-burnt-body-found/articleshow/76163466.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: On a trial basis, 11 Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms home quarantined||HYDERABAD: In its fight to provide more attention to coronavirus patients requiring round-the-clock attention and also creating more bed space, authorities in Telangana have home quarantined 11 Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms in Malakpet on an experimental basis. Over the next 48 hours, health officials say many others will be discharged and kept in home quarantine. The first to begin discharges will be the state-run Gandhi Hospital, which has already stopped taking in asymptomatic patients. The surge in Covid-19 positive cases has resulted in the designated hospitals nearing their full capacity, while a further surge in numbers is expected by health authorities. This has prompted authorities to decide on the option of home quarantine for certain patients in future. “Although we have not exhausted the capacity in the Covid-19 designated hospitals at present, we have already taken a decision for asymptomatic patients and patients with mild symptoms to be home quarantined,” said a senior official from the state health department. “We are trying to get patients below 50 years of age in home quarantine as the numbers are expected to increase exponentially in the near future since there is substantial relaxation in norms. This has happened in other countries too and is expected here too that the curve might see a sharp rise again,” added the official. Meanwhile, the situation at the state run Gandhi hospital, which is the only exclusive Covid-19 hospital in the state and the nodal centre for treating Covid-19 patients, is such that the entire ICU capacity of 150 beds is full while there are 729 patients in the hospital as on Tuesday. While the current capacity of 1,000 beds (including ICU beds) can be scaled upto 1,500 beds at any time, the authorities are hoping to free up space anticipating more number of moderate to serious cases. “We are drawing up a list of patients with mild symptoms (below 50 years of age) so that we can start discharging them in a day or two. The lists will be forwarded to the respective District Medical Health Officers (DMHO) before discharging the patients, so that they can follow up the patients at home. We are asking only symptomatic patients be sent to us,” said Dr Narasimha Rao Netha, deputy superintendent, Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-a-trial-basis-11-covid-patients-with-mild-symptoms-home-quarantined/articleshow/76165124.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||High viral load: Only a few spread the most Covid-19 infections, reveals Ahmedabad's NIOH study||AHMEDABAD: An important revelation has been made on the Covid-19 viral transmission, just as the lockdown eases and migrants head to their home towns. The findings were released by the Ahmedabad-based ICMR-National Institute of Occupational Health (NIOH). The institute studied samples from about 2,000 individuals of whom 140 were Covid-19 positive. It concluded that all Covid-19 infected patients do not transmit the virus to others uniformly. “It was observed that infected cases bearing a high viral load spread the infection at a rate almost eight times higher than cases with a low viral load,” says ICMR-NIOH director, Dr Kamalesh Sarkar. The study says that finding individuals with high viral and moderate viral loads and isolating and treating them can bring down the overall infection rate. The study was conducted between April and May. This is the first such study in the country. Sarkar says that his team found that among 140 Covid-19 positive cases, those with a high viral load were limited to only 7% of the infected population. Moreover, 9% had a moderate viral load, whereas 84% of them had a low viral load. The ICMR-NIOH Ahmedabad team has suggested that Covid-19 patients with high and moderate viral loads should be isolated and hospitalized on priority. Those with a low viral load should be told to take all precautions, including social distancing. But how do you recognize Covid-19 cases with a high viral load? This, the NIOH team suggests, can be easily done if labs begin to officially record and report cycle threshold (Ct) values to authorities. This value is generated while doing reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests to confirm Covid-19 cases. “The Ct value is inversely proportional to the viral load of patients,” Sarkar says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-viral-load-only-a-few-spread-the-most-infections/articleshow/76164332.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||3 more dead in Vadodara, 32 fresh Covid-19 cases reported||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Tuesday declared three more persons dead. But much like details of positive cases, the details of the deceased have also been withheld by the civic body in its medical bulletin. With the deaths of three more being confirmed by the VMC, the death toll in the city went up to 45. Sources, however, said that the actual death toll is much higher. VMC has been delaying confirmation of deaths on grounds that it is yet to receive death audit reports in several cases. While the death toll of persons who tested positive for Covid-19 may stand at 45, Covid-19 is believed to be the primary cause of death only in seven cases. Thirty-seven are said to have succumbed due to co-morbidities and one person is believed to have died as he was suffering from dengue too. Since Monday evening 32 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported. With these, the total number of positive cases in city and district went up to 1,118. The fresh cases include one from Khatamba village the district and one person from Surat. The east zone of the city saw the highest number of fresh cases as 16 tested positive from this part of the VMC’s jurisdiction. Eight tested positive from the south zone and six from the north even as no cases were reported in the west zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3-more-dead-in-vadodara-32-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported/articleshow/76162307.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Final yr exam of degree, tech colleges in July: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said final year exams of all degree, engineering and polytechnic colleges would be held in July. These exams were postponed due to Covid. Higher and technical education department officials have been directed to ensure that all health protocols are followed during the exams. Gehlot also informed that students in the first and second year or below final year level should be promoted to the next level on provisional basis. “Once the situation returns to normal, exams should be conducted,” an official statement said. Mask and sanitiser is compulsory for both students and examiners during the exams. Also, social distancing has to be followed during the entire process of exams. State technical education minister Subhash Garg informed that number of examination centres could be increased to ensure that social distancing format is followed. The state has enrollment of 4.29 lakh students in higher education institutions in 2020-21. The official statement doesn’t say anything about the admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/final-yr-exam-of-degree-tech-colleges-in-july-cm/articleshow/76165089.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Police look into role of mafia||Jaipur: Dausa police investigating the suicide of a head constable are looking at the possible involvement of the local mining mafia in the crime. The head constable committed suicide in the family quarters at the Sainthal police station and left behind no suicide note. The deceased head constable was identified as 43-year-old Giriraj Bairwa whose body was found around 8pm on Friday. According to the initial investigation, cops found no reason for the suicide and sources claimed that it was due to physical harassment by the mining mafia though cops have not found any evidence of the same. Anil Chauhan, additional SP, Dausa told TOI, “We are still trying to find the cause of suicide but till now no reason has come to light. There was no evidence to suggest that he had any personal or professional issues because of which he could have taken his own life.” The officials however conceded that they are looking at the mining mafia’s involvement and Chauhan added, “We found that few days before his death, the police personnel had been involved in an altercation with alleged mining mafia persons and they had even lodged a complaint against him though he did not mention anything to his seniors. We are looking into this aspect as well.” According to sources, the alleged mining mafia had apparently thrashed Bairwa due to which he felt humiliated and took his own life though cops have not found any proof of the incident. “If he had been assaulted then Bairwa would have been the one to file a complaint and not the other way round though we cannot completely ignore this fact. We are conducting the investigation keeping every angle in consideration,” said the official. Cops found no suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-look-into-role-of-mafia/articleshow/76165093.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chennai||14 IAS officers take back nod for Rs 2,000 crore Tamil Nadu optical fibre project||CHENNAI: Five months after at least 14 top IAS officers, including chief secretary and finance secretary, gave approval for Rs 2,000-crore optical fibre Bharatnet tender, the approval has been withdrawn by the signatories saying it was not required in the first place. Of the 16 executive committee members of the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), 14 had approved the project in December 2019. The board headed by chief secretary has secretaries from the departments of finance, public works, industries, rural development, revenue, environment and law as members. The development comes as tender bids for the project are scheduled to be opened on June 5. Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO involved in fighting corruption, had red-flagged changes made to the original tender by way of a corrigendum alleging that it was done to favour two companies. The Union government’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), which is probing the allegation, had asked the state government not to finalize the tender until the grievance is disposed of. In keeping with the legal requirement that any TN infrastructure project worth more than Rs 500 crore must be approved by the TNIDB, the state government took the approval of the board before floating the Rs 2,000-crore tender in December 2019. However, in April 2020, TANFINET, the state government body executing the project, added a corrigendum to the tender document increasing the financial eligibility for bidding companies by 300%. Explaining this, a senior IAS official told TOI that Section 1(3) of the TNID Act states that the board’s approval was not needed for projects undertaken by the Union government or a central public sector undertaking or its joint venture with a state government. “The state government realised that this project is completely owned by Bharat Broadband and Network (a telecom infrastructure provider coming under the department of telecommunications). Hence it doesn’t need the TNIDB’s approval. This new information came to light only now,” the official said. Sources said a Chinese company is also in the fray. Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan told TOI that this was a clear indication of a cover-up after they had raised issues of corruption. “Originally they said TNIDB’s approval is needed and now they are saying it is not needed. This proves their malafide intention,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/14-ias-officers-take-back-nod-for-rs-2000cr-tn-optical-fibre-project/articleshow/76165096.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
June 3, 2020||Amritsar||21% more wheat straw burning cases in Punjab||BATHINDA: The state this year witnessed 21% more wheat straw burning cases than the previous year, despite scores of restrictions in place due to lockdown. The state recorded 14,150 straw burning incidents this season, compared to 11,701 cases recorded in 2019. The figure for 2020 is just 286 cases less than the highest of past five years recorded at 14,436 in 2017. The seven districts in the state recorded more than 1,000 burning cases each, with Moga district topping the chart with 1,237 incidents, followed by 1,201 in Amritsar, 1,160 in Ludhiana, 1,076 in Ferozepur, 1,067 in Bathinda, 1,050 in Muktsar, and 1,046 in Gurdaspur. On the lower side, only two districts recorded less than 100 instances each, with SAS Nagar (Mohali) at only 41, followed by Ropar at 76. The post wheat harvesting straw burning season lasted a little over a month as first case was reported on April 29, and the last on May 31. Only five burning cases were recorded Sunday. No case was recorded on Monday as paddy sowing through direct seeded rice (DSR) was started. Paddy transplantation is to start from June 10. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and a number of farm organisations had this year called upon farmers not to burn straw in view of ongoing Covid-19 crisis. However, Punjab farmers did not pay any heed to such calls. On the other hand, Haryana reported a 41% drop in such cases over the previous season. Farmers’ insistence Year—— Burning cases 2016——10,732 2017—— 14,436 2018—— 10,907 2019——11,701 2020—— 14,150 Worst districts in 2020 District | Straw burning cases Moga | 1,237 Amritsar | 1,201 Ludhiana | 1,160 Ferozepur | 1,076 Bathinda | 1,067 Muktsar | 1,050 Gurdaspur | 1,046 Best districts in 2020 Mohali | 41 Ropar | 76||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/21-more-wheat-straw-burning-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/76165085.cms||Neel Kamal
June 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy reports first Covid-19 death; 85 test +ve in South TN||Madurai/Trichy: Trichy recorded its first Covid-19 casualty as a 74-year-old woman died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on Tuesday. The central region of the state recorded 17 new positive cases pushing the total positive cases to 923. Meanwhile, 85 Covid-19 cases were reported in south Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, of which 51 cases were in Tuticorin district. The total cases in the ten southern districts have climbed to 1,586. The woman, a resident of Alwar Thoppu in Trichy city corporation area, passed away at the intensive medical care unit (IMCU) in the isolation ward at MGMGH around 10 am. Hospital sources said that the woman had comorbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension. She was admitted to the hospital with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) on May 27. The woman tested positive to Covid-19 on May 28, following which she was shifted to the IMCU. The source of her infection could not be ascertained so far. In the south, for the first time in two months, at least one Covid-19 case was reported in each of the 10 districts in a single day. Tuticorin saw the most number of patients on Tuesday with 31 local cases and 20 imported cases. As many as 33 cases in the southern districts were imported cases from other states. The total cases in Tirunelveli went up to 366 after 12 more cases were recorded on Tuesday. Theni district reported five local cases, while Kanyakumari reported six local cases and one imported case. Dindigul reported two local cases whereas Virudhunagar reported three. Tenkasi, Madurai and Ramanathapuram all reported one local case each. In addition, Tenkasi district recorded an imported case as well. Meanwhile, Trichy district reported seven more new cases taking the total count to 95. MGMGH discharged two more patients of Trichy on Tuesday. The hospital has a total of 28 active cases from Trichy, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Chennai, airport quarantine and railway quarantine. A 35-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 in Perambalur district. The patient was employed in a weighing bridge at Alathur. Health workers have collected samples from 16 people who were his primary and secondary contacts. Close to 70 trucks have used the weighing bridge where the patient worked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-reports-first-covid-19-death-85-test-ve-in-south-tn/articleshow/76165083.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||86-yr-old ex-Armyman loses life to Covid-19||Ludhiana: An 86-year-old former subedar died of Covid-19 here on Tuesday, taking the death tally of the district to 15, including six from outside. Dr Navneet Chaudhary, director of Mohandai Oswal Hospital, said, “The patient, a resident of Fauji Mohalla, near bus stand, Miller Ganj, had come on May 28 evening with complaints of breathlessness. He later tested positive for novel coronavirus. He was in a critical state and immediately put on ventilator support. He had coronary artery disease, post-coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) and his kidney and liver had failed, besides he developed pneumonia. On Tuesday morning, his condition deteriorated and he had cardio-respiratory arrest. Despite our efforts, he could not be revived and died around 11.15am.”A few days ago, the elderly man had visited Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The man has died due to Covid-19 as his heart was not functioning properly. His son, daughter-in-law and their two sons have been quarantined.”The casualtiesMarch 30: A 42-year-old woman from Amarpura Mohalla was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on March 29. The Covid-19 patient could not be saved a day later and her body was sent to LudhianaApril 5: A 69-year-old woman from Shimlapuri, with no contact history with a Covid-19 patient, was the second casualty. She was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, on March 31 and breathed her last in its isolation ward on April 5. She had tested positive on April 2. She had stayed with her niece in Mohali from March 17 to March 31 and had commuted there by a busApril 17: A 58-year-old man from Payal, who worked as a kanungo in the revenue department, had tested positive on April 16 and died the next dayApril 18: A 52-year-old Ludhiana police ACP tested positive on April 13 and succumbed on April 18 at Satguru Partap Singh HospitalMay 3: A 62-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on May 3 and died the same dayMay 9: A 59-year-old man from Manuke village had returned to the city on April 30 from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, and was sent directly to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. He was the first casualty among Nanded returnees in the stateMay 17: A six-year-old boy from Badi Haibowal succumbed at PGIMay 30: A 53-year-old corona positive man from Chowni Mohalla, passed away at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/86-yr-old-ex-armyman-loses-life-to-covid-19/articleshow/76163483.cms||Mehak Jain
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 392cr approved for rural water schemes||Jaipur: Administrative and financial approval of Rs 392 crore have been issued by the department of water supply under 169 rural water distribution schemes under the Jal Jeevan Mission in the state. PHED minister B D Kalla said that 1, 22, 913 connections will be issued for tap water supply in 193 villages and habitations under 47 assembly constituencies spread over in 19 districts of the state on the basis of 50-50% share of the central and state government. Kalla informed that 150 single villages and 19 multi village schemes have been approved under this scheme. In addition to 150 villages and populations of single village schemes, 43 villages and populations have been included in the multi village schemes. Her said additional chief engineers of all the concerned areas have been instructed to expedite technical sanction, tender and work order so that tap water could be delivered to every household. He demanded to restore the 90% grant for drinking water projects under Jal Jeevan mission to meet the objective of piped water to all household by 2024. He informed that at present 90% amount is being given by the Government of India in drinking water projects for Union Territories and hilly areas. “There is a lot of distance between the villages in the desert areas of the state, the amount of surface water here is only one percent of the entire country, in such a way, the Centre should take decision on restoring 90% grant for water projects in Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-392cr-approved-for-rural-water-schemes/articleshow/76165095.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||‘Panchayat election rivalry’: One shot dead, 2 injured in UP's Sambhal||BAREILLY: One person was killed while two, including a woman, sustained bullet injuries after five armed persons in Bhikampur Jaini village under Rajpura police station area in Sambhal district allegedly attacked a family owing to panchayat election rivalry. The police said that all three were referred to a higher facility in Moradabad after providing them first aid where one injured person succumbed to bullet injuries. Five accused have been booked and police are conducting raids to nab them. On May 19, a man and his son were killed ia a broad daylight allegedly over election rivalry in Shamshoi village in the district. After getting information, additional superintendent of police, Alok Jaiswal, rushed to the village with police force. ASP said that one Dharampal (25) was killed on the spot during firing, while his cousin Yadram and aunt Munish sustained bullet injuries, and are out of danger. The police officer said that an FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act has been lodged against the five accused, including Daya Shankar, his son Ved Vasu and their three aides Deepanshu, Narendra and Kunwarpal. He said that three teams have been constituted to nab the accused. “We are investigating the matter and our teams are conducting raids to nab the accused. All accused will be in the custody of police very soon,” the ASP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/panchayat-election-rivalry-one-shot-dead-2-injured-in-sambhal/articleshow/76162392.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Turmeric, neem effective against coronavirus, says KGMU study||LUCKNOW: If you are someone who regularly consumes turmeric, neem and tulsi in their diet, then you are not just building your immunity against diseases, but may also, to an extent, be blocking novel coronavirus from affecting your body. The findings are from original research conducted on natural herbal products from Ayurveda undertaken by a team of scientists led by Prof Shailendra Saxena, head of the Centre for Advanced Research (CFAR) at KGMU. The vice-chancellor of KGMU Prof MLB Bhatt was also part of the team. The study, which has been peer reviewed and published in Springer Nature journal of viral diseases, was conducted by 3D structure-based drug designing. “Covid-19 is caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus. In our research, we studied direct interaction between herbal products and the virus, using viral or host protein to drug. The results proved that some of these known immunity boosting products from Ayurveda, especially curcumin (haldi), nimbin (neem), ashwagandha and black pepper can restrict the virus’ attachment to the host cell receptor ACE2. This they do by inhibition of spike glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2 or its cellular receptor, thus blocking entry of the virus in our body,” said lead researcher Prof Saxena. “It is suggested that these natural products/drugs from Ayurveda may be useful as therapeutic agents during Covid-19. They can be used as integrative medicine to work with allopathic medicines patients are being put on. Healthcare workers can be given special doses of these to protect them effectively from falling prey to the virus,” he added. The study claims to be the first of its kind to prove with data that home remedies can be effective against coronavirus to a large extent. “We know the protein structures of these herbal products and the same is known of the virus too. For the study, we interacted a library of herbal products but found that haldi and neem were blocking the virus to the protein ACE2 receptor much more effectively than hydroxychloroquine,” he said. Prof Saxena also said that this study has been sent to World Health Organization by Springer Nature, due to its relevance to the outbreak. Watch Ayurvedic medicines effective against coronavirus, finds study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/turmeric-neem-effective-against-coronavirus-says-kgmu-study/articleshow/76165100.cms||Yusra Husain
June 3, 2020||Goa||Goa University choir goes international to help WHO Covid fund||PANAJI: The Goa University (GU) choir was recently invited to represent the Asian segment to be a part of a virtual rendition of Amazing Grace with legendary American singer-songwriter Judy Collins. The soulful version was released on May 29 on various e-music platforms. This collaboration has put GU on the global map in terms of music. “The song has been released worldwide by Warner Music. In this production, we are collaborating with some of the best foreign choirs, which gives us a global exposure that will definitely help us in the future in terms of sharing our music with the world. Also, famous international artists, such as Ringo Starr of The Beatles, are involved in supporting this initiative,” chair professor for Western music at GU, Santiago Lusardi Girelli said. Launched by Collins toraise money with a charity single in aid of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) solidarity response fund, the global virtual choir is a collaboration by hundreds of professional and amateur singers performing in their living rooms all over the world. “This initiative, started by Warner Music, which is one of the biggest record labels in the world, is for a vital cause — supporting all those who are suffering this pandemic crisis. All proceeds raised from this single will be going to the fund https://covid19responsefund.org/,” Girelli said. Judy Collins’ iconic rendition of Amazing Grace was released on Whales and Nightingales, an album that turns 50 in August this year. A few weeks ago, the GU choir received an invitation from Collins to join her project and sing together with a few other choirs from the around world, which include The Sixteen from the UK, Soweto Gospel Choir from South Africa, and the New York Choral Society from the USA. For this project they learnt a choral version in different voices to support Judy’s voice harmonically and melodically. Each of the 35 GU choir singers recorded their own voices and videos online at their homes following which the rendition was prepared. “Singing from home on a virtual choir is a new experience for all of us. It gives us the rare opportunity to connect with singers and musicians from all around the world. In this project, our choir is the only Indian choir to be chosen, and one of the two coming from Asia,” Girelli said. The video and the recording are available on iTunes, Amazon and all the online streaming platforms such as Spotify, Google Music, etc, as well as the social media platforms, Facebook and Instagram. The GU choir is now preparing three more virtual choirs in collaboration with different artists from India and Europe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-choir-goes-international-to-help-who-covid-fund/articleshow/76164374.cms||Nida Sayed
June 3, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Still touch and go: 12% of cases in Kerala through contact||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported its highest single-day count of 86 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday while one more person — a 77-year-old vicar in Thiruvananthapuram — succumbed to the infection. The number of Covid deaths in the state rose to 12 as 774 of the total 1,412 cases reported in the state are under treatment. Among the new cases, 12 persons — including a health worker in Palakkad — were infected by contact. Currently, 12 % of those tested Covid positive in the state are contacts. Of 913 persons tested positive since May 4, when Phase III of the infection started in Kerala with the arrival of Malayalis from other states, 112 are contacts. In the last 10 days from May 24, though the number of cases were consistently rising, the number of contacts infected was lower — on most days less than 5 contacts were infected, except on May 26 when it was 7 and on Tuesday when its rose to 12. The other cases who tested positive on Tuesday include 46 who came from abroad and 26 from other states. While those with travel history was 334 among 499 cases reported in the state till May 3, it is 813 among 913 cases reported after that. The vicar, K G Varghese of Nalanchira, was admitted to Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital after he met with a road accident. His swab was taken on Monday and he was tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. He died on Tuesday morning while his source of infection has not been traced yet. Among the new cases, 12 persons – including a health worker in Palakkad -- were infected by contact. The other cases include 46 people who came from abroad and 26 from other states. While those with travel history was 334 among 499 cases reported in the state till May 3, it is 813 among 913 cases reported after that. Malappuram (15) had the maximum cases reported on Tuesday, followed by Alappuzha (10), Kasaragod (9), Kollam (8), Thiruvananthapuram (7), Kottayam, Thrissur and Wayanad (6 each), Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur (5 each), Ernakulam (3) and Pathanamthitta (1). As many as 1,47,010 people are under surveillance in the state, of whom 1,45,670 are under home/institutional quarantine and 1,340 admitted to designated isolation facilities. 71,068 samples sent for testsTill date, 71,068 samples (including augmented ones) have been sent for tests, of which 67,249 came negative. Besides, 13,908 of the 15,101 samples taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure, workers etc. as part of sentinel surveillance also tested negative. At present, Palakkad has 143 active cases, followed by Kannur (115 cases), Kasaragod (89), Malappuram (79), Thrissur (55), Thiruvananthapuram (54), Kozhikode (48), Alappuzha (48) and Kollam (41). Meanwhile, the test results of 19 patients under treatment came negative on Tuesday. Of these, seven persons each are in Kottayam and Kasaragod, two in Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kannur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/still-touch-go-12-of-cases-in-kerala-through-contact/articleshow/76163501.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||MC seeks FIR against 2 builders||ILLEGAL COLONYTnnLudhiana: The municipal corporation officials have recommended an FIR against two builders for constructing an illegal colony in Model Town Extension.The officials said they had tried to stop construction work in the colony several times, but to no avail.“MC building branch in Zone D has recommended action against Surjit Singh and Jagtar Singh. Once an FIR is registered against the duo, no property will be registered in the colony and the construction work will stop,” said an MC official. The civic body had sought action against them earlier too. “But as nothing was done, we have written a letter to the police commissioner and the deputy commissioner again for registering a case against the builders,” the official added.The officials have also asked the deputy commissioner’s office not to allow property registration there.The issue of the illegal colony had come to the fore after Congress councillor Parvinder Lapran complained against it. At that time, officials had razed parts of the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-seeks-fir-against-2-builders/articleshow/76163504.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kozhikode||14-year-old Dalit girl ends life in Kerala over missing online classes||KOZHIKODE: In an incident that exposed the digital divide plaguing the new online education initiatives in the state, a 14-year-old class IX student of a school in Valanchery, Malappuram ended her life as she could not attend the online classes being conducted by the education department. Devika, hailing from a poor Dalit family, ended her life on Monday evening. Her charred body was found in a vacant plot around 200 metres from her house. Two bottles of kerosene were found nearby. The government had decided to begin classes online as schools were closed due to lockdown announced to curb the spread of Covid-19. The classes, which began on the government-owned Victers TV channel on Monday, are available online too. Devika's parents told reporters that the girl was upset that she could not attend the online classes as the television set in her house was not working. The family doesn't have a smartphone either. Her father Balakrishnan, a daily wage worker, told reporters that the girl was worried that missing the online classes could upset her education. "The TV set in our house is under repair and we only have an ordinary mobile phone. Devika was worried since the classes began in the morning. I had promised her to get the television set repaired soon," he said. A suicide note, which just said “I am going”, was recovered from the house. Neighbours and teachers said Devika was a smart student. The local body in the area was scheduled to meet on June 3 to discuss ways to arrange classes for students with no access to the online classes. MLA blames state govtIUML MLA Abid Hussain Thangal, who represents the area, alleged that the tragedy happened because the government did not undertake the necessary preparations before beginning the online classes. Deputy director of education K Kusumam, however, said the department had prepared a list of houses that lacked facilities to access the online classes and efforts were on to bring them too under the purview of the classes. Education minister C Raveendranath has sought a detailed report on the incident from the deputy director of education. He assured that the online classes would be made accessible to all students in the state soon. Shafi Parambil, MLA, announced that the Youth Congress will bear the expenses of the education of Devika's brother and sister. Meanwhile, many organisations took out marches in protest against the incident. The girl’s body was buried on the premises of her house after post-mortem examination at Manjeri medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/14-yr-old-dalit-girl-ends-life-over-missing-online-classes/articleshow/76163517.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Stranded Kashmiri traders leave shawl industry draped in losses||Ludhiana: The noted shawl industry of Ludhiana, which accounts for highest production and sale of shawls in India, has been hit hard by the inability of Kashmiri traders to visit Punjab for business. Since factories remained closed for over 50 days, no samples and finished goods could be produced. Moreover, Kashmiri shawl traders, who are the backbone of the business, could not visit Ludhiana and Amritsar for orders due to travel restrictions. The Kashmiri businessmen not only sell shawls in their home state but across India, including places as far as West Bengal and Assam. A number of Kashmiri shawl traders have left their stock, cash and belongings in states they were stranded in before they came back to Jammu and Kashmir. Businessmen in Ludhiana and Amritsar feel the situation is reminiscent of the time when article 370 was scrapped from Jammu and Kashmir and Kashmiri traders remained incommunicado for more than 70 days, causing huge loss to the Punjab shawl industry.Ashutosh Handa, a wholesale shawl trader from Mochpura said, “By this time of the year, Kashmiri traders procure a huge quantity of shawls for sale in J&K, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal. They temporarily shift from their home towns to other states to sell shawls, generating business for us. For 50 days, not a single shawl was produced by any factory in Ludhiana. Now that production has started, we don’t have any buyers.”Ghulam Rasool, a shawl trader from Kupwara, said, “We are facing huge problems due to the Covid-19 lockdown. I was in Punjab when the lockdown started. I came back home, leaving money and stock of shawls at my rented accommodation. Now, I am getting calls from shawl sellers to either make payment for the old stock or return it but I cannot do anything. There are hundreds like me who sell shawls from street to street or have set up shops. This is the first time we are facing such a complex situation.”The alliance between city businessmen and Kashmiri traders is a very old one. Satpal Vig, a shawl trader from Mochpura, the biggest shawl market in the North, said, “Our shawl industry is largely dependent on Kashmiri traders who buy shawls and sell them in other cities and states. As we know them quite well, we also offer them credit. Due to the lockdown, they could not sell much of the stock and our payments are stuck.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stranded-kashmiri-traders-leave-shawl-industry-draped-in-losses/articleshow/76163518.cms||Mohit Behl
June 3, 2020||Mysuru||RTE admissions: Uncertainty leaves parents fretting||Mysuru: It has become difficult for poor parents to seek seats for their children in private institutes under RTE quota as the government is yet to start the admission process. In the meanwhile, private schools have already commenced the admission process. In the previous academic year (2019-20), 17,784 RTE seats were available at schools across the state. As per the original notification, the department of public instruction (DPI) was supposed to start receiving the online application for RTE seats from March 26. But the same was postponed for an indefinite period due to lockdown. According to the sources in the department, the government may resume the process after Lockdown 4.0 ends. “The draft list of schools having RTE seats is yet to be finalised. We can get a clear picture about the revised calendar of events of RTE admission only after the lockdown ends,” an officer from the department said, adding: “Brainstorming sessions on restarting the new academic year are on. Now, all eyes are on Lockdown 5.0 rules and the recommendation of the state health department.” S R Umashankar, principal secretary to government (primary and secondary education), said a final decision on all kinds of admissions, including for RTE seats, will be taken only after the government grants permission. Nagasimha G Rao, convener of RTE task force, said they are flooded with enquiries on the RTE admission process this year. “Many parents want to know when the RTE admission will start. The concern of parents is that due to the delay, their children may not get seat under RTE quota ...The DPI must clear the air,” he said. D Shashikumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS), said the department is yet to reimburse last year’s RTE fee of students. “They are sitting on a huge amount. This delay is causing a lot of financial problems. I hope the government comes out with a concrete and reliable RTE time schedule, including reimbursement,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rte-admissions-uncertainty-leaves-parents-fretting/articleshow/76161475.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Star hotels offer housekeeping, laundry services to stay afloat||CHENNAI: With business and tourism run aground by the coronavirus pandemic, several star hotels in Chennai have started monetizing their expertise in housekeeping, disinfection and sanitisation, gourmet cuisines and laundry service by offering them to companies and residents. Hotel Green Park, a five-star facility in Vadapalani, is offering housekeeping service for the past one month. Sudip Sengupta, vice president-operations of the hotel, said companies and several corporate head offices in Chennai have started seeking their service for cleaning their premises. “This is the new business vertical we had launched along with tie-up with apartment complexes for offering food deliveries during the lockdown. Since several offices reopening after 50 days with minimal staff do not have the expertise, we offer our service in disinfection and sanitation,” he told TOI. Rates are fixed on per-square-ft basis for housekeeping and sanitation services after inspecting the site, he said. Chennai and its suburbs have about 200 star-category hotels of which 150 come under three-star category and rest four and five-star facilities. None of these hotels are currently active, expect offering rooms to quarantine people entering the city by trains on a fixed daily-rent basis. Curtains are also down on banquet halls used for conferences, corporate events, birthday and wedding parties. However, these hotels have a professional workforce to manage catering, housekeeping and finance. Now, the industry is capitalizing on this workforce to explore new service verticals. Krishnakumar Menon, general manager, Aloft Chennai, on OMR-IT Expressway said Covid-19 has changed the business dynamics of the hospitality sector. “Now we deliver food to work stations. We are also under discussion to launch ‘Food on Wheels’ on international standards in the city,” he said. Several hotels are exploring the possibility of utilizing their in-house laundry service in arrangement with Residents Welfare Associations of residential complexes,” he added. Restaurants that account for 10 to 15% of the total income for star hotels have become the significant revenue churners with kitchens being used to prepare takeaways. Venkat Reddy, general manager, Ambassador Pallava, Egmore, said their hotel is offering takeaways to customers who use to frequent their restaurants before the lockdown. “We also home-deliver food within a limited distance depending on the value of the order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/star-hotels-offer-housekeeping-laundry-services-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/76165103.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||How many returnees tested Covid-19 positive after landing: Bombay HC to Centre||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday asked the Central government how many passengers who returned on the Vande Bharat Mission tested positive for Covid19 after landing, but had not been infected when they boarded the special flight.The HC sought a data of such passengers by Wednesday evening. Air India pilot, Deven Kanani had petitioned the HC to ensure vacant middle seats. His counsel Abhilash Panickar argued AI had violated social distancing norms while evacuating Indians. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre and AI assured compliance of safety norms. He said the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on May 31, already directed airlines to keep the middle seat vacant or give additional protective gear to such occupant. The DGCA said, it was “wrong to say that these flights are bringing infected persons in contact with healthy individuals.'’ It said the March 23 circular was not meant for non-scheduled operations of “evacuation flights operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission,’’ for which separate SOPs were issued home and civil aviation ministries. “Physical distancing onboard aircraft by keeping empty seat between two passengers may not prevent the spread of virus,’’ said the DGCA. Air India, in its affidavit denied any death of cabin crew, but said only one ‘casual employee’ in Mumbai, not in contact with passengers had died in hospital on May 18. The AI said 21 cabin crew tested positive out of 5000 tested, by May 29. It added that 70,000 Indians are to be brough back by June 16 and another 85,000 in the third phase. Over 6.5 lakh Indians stranded abroad in over 120 countries have reached out to be rescued it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/how-many-returnees-tested-ve-after-landing-bombay-hc-to-centre/articleshow/76165106.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Social distancing absent in Kolkata wholesale hub||KOLKATA: The wholesale hub of Burrabazar — which attracted stricter lockdown measures only a few days ago after multiple Covid-19 cases, including deaths — was embroiled in controversy for flouting social distancing norms as the restrictions on businesses eased on Monday. Pictures of people without masks thronging Canning Street, hawkers encroaching MG Road pavements and snarls on Brabourne Road went viral within hours of reopening the market on Monday. Netizens reacted with anger, dismay and fear to the pictures and questioned the efficacy of a 10-week long lockdown. Big markets like Bagri, Mehta Building, Bharati, Devi Prasad, Sadasukh Katra, Raja Katra and City Centre opened up, leading to heightened business activities from the very first hour. Buyers from across the city thronged these markets to purchase goods. “Everything is an essential commodity after 10 weeks of complete lockdown. People want to get on with their lives and start recovering from their losses after such a long period of lull. It is not possible to stop people from coming to the markets. But yes, we are requesting everybody to wear masks,” said a cosmetics wholesaler from Bagri Market. Last week the state government relaxed several restrictions allowing businesses to gradually open up, but by following all social distancing norms and making wearing of masks mandatory. But TOI hardly found anyone wearing masks on Monday and Tuesday while social distancing was nowhere to be seen. From shoppers and rickshawpullers to shopkeepers — very few displayed the alacrity to follow social distancing guidelines. One of the worst-impacted pocket was the Canning Street-Brabourne Road-Ezra Street-Synagogue Street-Jamunalal Bajaj Street-Posta belt, which is considered a wholesale hub. Small vehicles blocked the lanes and bylanes to offload goods while some traders ferried merchandise on bikes or rickshaws. “There are over 2,200 markets in this zone, more than half of which have reopened. While some traders are replenishing their stocks, others have already started selling, causing traffic snarls and congestion,” said Santosh Parekh, a shopowner in Mehta Building. On Tuesday, cops tried to regulate movement of people and vehicles. But by afternoon, the usual scenes of congestion and flouting social distancing norms were back. “There is a tsunami of people in this zone. It is impossible to stop everyone for masks and regulate the entry of people. We have anyway set up barricades to stop big vehicles from entering,” said an officer from Burrabazar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/social-distancing-absent-in-city-wholesale-hub/articleshow/76164397.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 3, 2020||Goa||‘Act against unruly visitors’||Valpoi: The Valpoi block of Congress on Monday submitted a memorandum to Sattari deputy collector Mangaldas Gaonkar and Valpoi police inspector Shivram Vaingankar stating that picknickers who visit Sattari taluka on weekends venture into the river and behave in an unruly manner after allegedly consuming alcohol and drugs. The memorandum also pointed out to the recent deaths of some picknickers. President of Valpoi Block Congress Committee Dasharath Mandrekar said most of tourists visiting the taluka get drunk and create a nuisance near the rivers and waterfalls. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-unruly-visitors/articleshow/76164396.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Open storm drains in Mapusa pose risk||Saligao: Several gutters in Mapusa town are yet to be covered, and with heavy pre-monsoon showers lashing the state, residents fear that this could pose a risk to their health. The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) had taken up cleaning of gutters and storm water drains as part of the pre-monsoon works, but several gutters were yet to be covered with concrete slabs. A resident Shekhar Naik said, “The uncovered gutters could pose a serious health hazard during the monsoon as it could give rise to a number of vector borne diseases, such as malaria and dengue.” MC chairperson Ryan Braganza said that he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/open-storm-drains-in-mapusa-pose-risk/articleshow/76164416.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Doctor's apology on Tablighi remarks: ‘A mom says ‘go to hell’ to kids, then hugs them’||KANPUR: Two days after a video of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College principal Dr Arti Lalchandani went viral in which she allegedly made objectionable comments on Tablighi Jamaat members, she issued an open apology on Tuesday. Seen sitting with Kanpur's Shaher Qazi, Maulana Alam Raza Noor, in the video, Dr Lalchandani said, “I apologise if I hurt sentiments of anyone, particularly Muslim community.” Alleging that the video had been made with the ulterior motive of blackmail and extortion, she said, “I have always served all humans alike. This video is old and released now by some adversaries for ulterior motives.” “I have many Muslim brothers, sisters whom I have loved and served like my own. We treated the Tablighi patients who initially attacked our workers and later developed good relations with them. They (Tablighi Jamaat patients) later even apologized after few days and thanked us for taking every possible care. Muslim leaders helped us to pacify and convinced them that we were working for their welfare,” she said. “I am especially considerate towards Muslim patients and students and ensure they don’t face any discrimination. I offer free services to Muslims anywhere, anytime. My mobile number has been distributed freely in Muslim population and I have been providing free treatment to all Muslims for rheumatic heart disease for which I have devised a non-injection treatment,” she said. “Even a mother in anger says go to hell to her children and then hugs them the next moment,” she said. “My actions have always spoken louder than words and will continue to do so. I shall continue serving you all and you can always send to me anyone in need. I work 24 hours for you. There is only love and compassion in my heart for all,” she said. On Sunday, Dr Lalchandani had landed in a controversy as a video in which she is heard making controversial remarks against the Tablighi Jamaat patients went viral. She was heard making objectionable remarks against Jamaati patients and calling them terrorists and saying they should be dumped in jail and thrashed with batons. Watch Kanpur doctor issues apology after controversial comments on Muslims||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-mom-says-go-to-hell-to-kids-then-hugs-them/articleshow/76165112.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Frame policy to benefit farmers: Min urges Centre||Jaipur: Cooperative minister Udailal Anjana demanded that the Centre should formulate a policy under which a certain quantity of agricultural produce should be procured from farmers at Minimum Support Price (MSP). In a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Anjana urged that all the farmers should get the benefit of the purchase of the produce at MSP. He said that the increase in support price of Kharif crops by the Centre is a welcome step and farmers will benefit from it. “The central government wants to double the income of the farmers by 2022, while on the other hand, a large section of the farmers is deprived of the government’s plan. In this way, all farmers should be benefited by making a uniform policy.” Anjana pointed out that only 25% of the produce of a state is purchased in support price system. “Under this rule, only 10-20% of farmers were able to sell their produce on MSP. In such a situation, large section of the farmers, were forced to sell the crop at the market price and their income is not increased. In view of the Covid, the benefit of MSP should be given to all farmers, for this, the Centre should take remedial action.” The Centre had recently announced enhancement in the procurement of agriculture commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/frame-policy-to-benefit-farmers-min-urges-centre/articleshow/76165107.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Four deaths, rising cases bring spotlight on Yavatmal administration||YAVATMAL: The increasing number of Covid cases, death of four corona-positive patients, and one suicide by a youth in quarantine have caused concern among citizens, particularly in rural Yavatmal. Questions have also been raised about the management of quarantine centres. A woman and a youth died on May 30. The woman hailed from Nagapur of Umarkhed and the youth from village Aarambhi of Digras. The youth breathed his last on his way back from Ghatkopar (Mumbai) to his native village. Both funerals were performed at Yavatmal. The third death was of a truck driver from Wadala Road of Nashik, who was found dead in his truck at Ner on June 1. The fourth death was reported on Tuesday from Sadhu Nagar of Mudhana in Mahagaon tehsil of Yavatmal. The deceased was a jeweller, who died within 24 hours of his admission in the isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal. The fifth victim was a youth who returned from Pune and was housed in institutional quarantine at a primary school in his village Gonduburada, under Maregaon police station. The youth left the centre without anyone noticing it, and hanged himself from a tree. Nobody even cared to take his swab and get a test report, so his Covid status is not known. Also, the district has 38 active positive patients in the isolation ward of GMC, of whom 18 tested positive on Tuesday only. Thirteen of them are from the family of the deceased woman from Nagapur. The woman, her husband and their son came to the village on May 19 from Jogeshwari (Mumbai) along with 27 others. Her husband also tested positive and is now in the isolation ward of GMC. Though they were kept in institutional quarantine, the woman freely moved out and reportedly attended a wedding ceremony in the village. After she tested positive, authorities made a high risk contact list of 45 others, making for a total of 72 people who were in contact with her (27 in Mumbai and 45 from her village). All of them are now in institutional quarantine. There have been allegations of neglect by the administration in most cases. The truck driver should not have been allowed to drive from Nashik to Ner. A Covid-19 positive patient was allowed to travel over 900km to Yavatmal, and died on the way. The woman from Nagapur and the jeweller of Mudhana in Mahagaon died within 24 hours of admission in the isolation ward of GMC. In Nagapur woman’s case, the former sarpanch and other seniors in the village had even lodged a complaint with SDO Umarkhed. They had brought it to his notice that there was no supervision or vigil over the people in institutional quarantine, but things did not improve. Of the 18 positive cases on Tuesday, 17 are from Umarkhed and one from Ner tehsil. Of 85 swab samples sent to the lab, 84 were received, of whom 18 are positive, 57 are negative and 9 were inconclusive and referred again for second opinion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-deaths-rising-cases-bring-spotlight-on-yavatmal-administration/articleshow/76165108.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam develops Covid-19 predictive dashboard||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam, has launched ‘Covid-19 Tracker’, an interactive predictive dashboard to track and predict the spread of Covid-19 in India. It is the second predictive dashboard launched in India after one by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. The dashboard projects spread of Covid-19 at the state level and will go down to district-level which will be of use for district administrations. For example, when it comes to Visakhapatnam district, the dashboard predicts that cases may reach their peak between May 28 and August 29 with 95% certainty. As far as Andhra Pradesh is concerned, infections may peak between May 27 and August 23. Anirban Ghatak, lead researcher and a faculty of decision sciences at IIM-V, said, “The dashboard (www.iimv.ac.in/covidtracker) would even predict the district-level disease incidence. This is the only dashboard in India that does not only predict the peak infection, but also warns against a second wave of infection in case certain Covid-related restrictions are not maintained. The data predictions will also come in handy for the authorities to make informed decisions to contain the spread,” said Ghatak. Prof Shivshanker Singh Patel, another lead researcher and a faculty of decision sciences, said the dashboard is self-explanatory on navigation and managerial fronts. “It even helps any non-technical person to understand many other nuances of the predictive model when he/she navigates through the dashboard. The primary source of data are covid19india.org and their Github repository. The data and predictions in ‘Covid- 19 Tracker’ are updated on a daily basis,” said Prof Patel. The tracker primarily helps predict the spread of the pandemic based on a modified extended susceptible-infected-removed (eSIR) model. It analyses district and state-level caseloads and represents a prediction of Covid-19 spread for various scenarios with different possible dates of lockdown relaxation, followed by varying degrees of social distancing guidelines that may be adopted post-lockdown. It also proposes possible strategies to contain the Covid-19 spread in each district depending on the fraction of the population that may be infected at the peak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-develops-covid-19-predictive-dashboard/articleshow/76163537.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 3, 2020||Kanpur||Doctor's apology on Tablighi remarks: ‘A mom says ‘go to hell’ to kids, then hugs them’||KANPUR: Two days after a video of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College principal Dr Arti Lalchandani went viral in which she allegedly made objectionable comments on Tablighi Jamaat members, she issued an open apology on Tuesday. Seen sitting with Kanpur's Shaher Qazi, Maulana Alam Raza Noor, in the video, Dr Lalchandani said, “I apologise if I hurt sentiments of anyone, particularly Muslim community.” Alleging that the video had been made with the ulterior motive of blackmail and extortion, she said, “I have always served all humans alike. This video is old and released now by some adversaries for ulterior motives.” “I have many Muslim brothers, sisters whom I have loved and served like my own. We treated the Tablighi patients who initially attacked our workers and later developed good relations with them. They (Tablighi Jamaat patients) later even apologized after few days and thanked us for taking every possible care. Muslim leaders helped us to pacify and convinced them that we were working for their welfare,” she said. “I am especially considerate towards Muslim patients and students and ensure they don’t face any discrimination. I offer free services to Muslims anywhere, anytime. My mobile number has been distributed freely in Muslim population and I have been providing free treatment to all Muslims for rheumatic heart disease for which I have devised a non-injection treatment,” she said. “Even a mother in anger says go to hell to her children and then hugs them the next moment,” she said. “My actions have always spoken louder than words and will continue to do so. I shall continue serving you all and you can always send to me anyone in need. I work 24 hours for you. There is only love and compassion in my heart for all,” she said. On Sunday, Dr Lalchandani had landed in a controversy as a video in which she is heard making controversial remarks against the Tablighi Jamaat patients went viral. She was heard making objectionable remarks against Jamaati patients and calling them terrorists and saying they should be dumped in jail and thrashed with batons. Watch Kanpur doctor issues apology after controversial comments on Muslims||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/a-mom-says-go-to-hell-to-kids-then-hugs-them/articleshow/76171174.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Walking, my best bet to stick to pandemic protocol||I have always been a fitness enthusiast and prefer to keep myself engaged in some form of exercise. But as my workplace reopened this week, I devised the best form of exercise that can keep me in shape and help me avoid contracting the disease — I started walking to office.During the entire lockdown, I had been extremely careful to follow all safety guidelines — from washing hands, to using masks and remaining indoors as much as possible.At a time, when the infection is at its peak, I didn’t want to ruin the months of effort I had put in to stick to the protocols. But at the same time, I didn’t want to miss office as it opened after a gap of over two months. Hence, I have been walking 10km from my Garia home to my office at Gariahat. It’s stressful, but it’s my best bet, considering that I am 56 and the fact that I have a teenaged son at home.Prior to the lockdown, I would either take a bus or change multiple autos to return home. But with the rush of passengers — most of them throwing social distancing protocols to the wind — I decided to not to take a chance on Monday. The distance, which would earlier take me 30 minutes, now takes more than two hours to reach. But I will continue walking to office until more transport options are available and the crowd eases.Initially, I thought travelling by autos, but the long queues discouraged me. On Tuesday, I started early from home and left office a bit early as well. In the early morning and evening, the walk doesn’t hurt. The heat can be a bit taxing though and I try to avoid the same.(Chakraborty, a photographer and photo/video editor, spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/walking-my-best-bet-to-stick-to-pandemic-protocol/articleshow/76164418.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||Former councillor succumbs to Covid||Vadodara: Politicians in the city are amongst the latest set of persons who have tested positive for Covid-19. These include a former Congress councillor who died, a sitting as well as a former councillor from the ruling BJP. Manzurkhan Pathan, who had tested positive recently, was kept at the SSG Hospital initially and then rushed to the Parul Sevashram Hospital for further treatment. He died on Monday. Congress spokespersons said that Pathan had other ailments as well, but was doing well till recently. After he got infected, his condition started deteriorating rapidly and he eventually succumbed. The BJP councillor, who tested positive, is a woman from the ward 14. Other BJP members who were in close contact with her were either asked to go in home quarantine or Covid-19 tests were conducted on them. Sources said that no other person in her contact had tested positive so far. A former BJP councillor from the Walled City area also tested positive. His samples were sent to a private laboratory after he was rushed to a private hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-councillor-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76162365.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC driver causes security scare at Gun Park||Hyderabad: A contract driver of GHMC’s Disaster Response Force (DRF) caused a security scare by intercepting chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s convoy at Gun Park on Tuesday morning. The youngster, who wanted to request the CM for a government job and 2BHK house, was whisked away by the security personnel and a case was registered against him. The incident happened when KCR went to pay tributes at Martyrs’ Memorial at Gun Park on the occasion of the Telangana Formation Day. The CM’s convoy arrived at Gun Park at around 8.38 am and, after paying tributes to the martyrs, KCR got into the vehicle to leave the place around 8.45am. As the convoy was leaving , J Hanumanthu, a contract driver of GHMC’s DRF, suddenly came in front of the CM’s vehicle from the Assembly side. “Hanumanthu said he saw the news of CM stopping his convoy at Tolichowki and sanctioning a double bedroom house and disabled pension to a man holding a placard on the road. Hanumanthu wanted to try the same method,” said a Saifabad police official. However, when he saw KCR getting into the vehicle, he darted across and sat in front of it. “Raising Jai Telangana slogans, Hanumanthu appealed to the CM to help him before he was whisked away by Task Force personnel,” a police officer said. The driver of the CM’s vehicle slammed the brakes and police took Hanumanthu to Saifabad police station. Till last reports came in, he was still at the police station. “A case was registered against Hanumanthu,” Central Zone DCP P Vishwa Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-driver-causes-security-scare-at-gun-park/articleshow/76164456.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Commuters jostle in long auto queues||Kolkata: Office-goers have been having a harrowing time returning home when auto is the only option. Most commuters said they had been spending over half an hour waiting at auto stands in areas like Clive Row, Brabourne Road, New CIT Road, MG Road, Girish Park and Lalbazar. In the evening, government buses, which are filled to capacity at the depots do not stop to take passengers.Drivers and commuters said that the demand far outstripped the supply. In the absence of a definite fare structure, passengers said they were willing to pay high fares.“We have close to 750 autos on this route but only 300 are plying because they are driven by the owners. The owners who depend on drivers are not operating as they feel it’s unviable,” said Deepak Shaw, an auto union leader on the Ahiritola-Ultadanga route. According to government guidelines, autos can ferry two passengers at a time. To make up for the losses, the drivers are charging up to three times the fare. “Earlier the autos would ferry even five people during peak hours. But the cap of two passengers now is resulting in long queues,” said Rajatabha Roy, travelling to Ultadanga from Sovabazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/commuters-jostle-in-long-auto-queues/articleshow/76164433.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 3, 2020||Goa||Concern over sand erosion at Vagator, Anjuna||Saligao: Locals have expressed concern over the massive sand erosion at Anjuna and Vagator beach stretches. Villagers have urged authorities to take immediate preventive measures to ensure that no damage is caused to the beaches. According to locals, sand erosion is a regular phenomenon. However, this year the impact was comparatively more, with submerged rocksin the sand now visible. Sridhar Goletkar, a villager, said that this is for first time that they have witnessed sand erosion at Vagator beach, and added that the stretch towards Ozran needs to be protected. “The government should take corrective measures so that erosion is controlled,” he said. Sarpanch of Anjuna-Caisua panchayat, Savio Almedia, told TOI that they will conduct an inspection of the beaches to gauge the extent of sand erosion and accordingly will take it up with the department concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/concern-over-sand-erosion-at-vagator-anjuna/articleshow/76164448.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Subdued celebrations mark Telangana formation day||HYDERABAD: For the first time in the past six years, Telangana celebrated its formation day without much fanfare on Tuesday. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government kept the formation day celebrations a low-key affair across the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao hoisted the national flag at Pragati Bhavan, the chief minister’s camp office, on Tuesday in the presence of a few officials and leaders. Speculations were rife that KCR would be announcing a few important decisions taken by the government regarding farmers and enhancement of retirement age of government employees, however, no such announcement was made. Before hoisting the flag, the chief minister paid tributes to Telangana martyrs at Martyrs Memorial at Gun Park. Declaring that the government would rededicate itself for the all-round development and welfare of the people, he said that the issues, which were thought will end with the formation of the state, have truly been resolved. Telangana legislative council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy and assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy unfurled the national flag at the council and assembly. Several ministers hoisted the national flag at the district headquarters and at home in some districts. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar unfurled the flag at the Secretariat at BRKR Bhavan. The CM also conveyed birthday wishes to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/subdued-celebrations-mark-telangana-formation-day/articleshow/76164443.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Step up efforts to provide better power supply: JERC||Panaji: The statutory body responsible for regulating the state’s power sector has directed the Goa electricity department to increase efforts towards augmenting and maintaining infrastructure so that consumers don’t suffer. The move comes following Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) finding that the department has not been making enough efforts to supply reliable power to consumers over the past few years. In its latest tariff order for the state of Goa, JERC stated that the electricity department, during the past few years, has been undertaking “lower capitalisation and R&M expenses than approved by the commission, which clearly implies that enough efforts are not being made to supply quality/reliable power to the consumers”. The commission directed the department to increase efforts “towards augmenting and maintaining the requisite infrastructure to meet the growing demand and avoid any kind of supply constraints to the consumers”. It also directed the electricity department to upload area-wise interruption details on its website. The directions were made after the commission received several complaints against the department over the poor power supply. In its defence, the electricity department said that it has planned several schemes and capital expenditure to “reduce the number of interruptions and improve the reliability of the system”. In its last order too, JERC directed the department to increase efforts of augmenting infrastructure to meet growing demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/step-up-efforts-to-provide-better-power-supply-jerc/articleshow/76164468.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 3, 2020||Madurai||Plea against fee at Kaliyakkavilai mkt||Madurai: A petition filed before the Madras high court has sought a direction to prevent collection of entry charges for vehicles at the temporary market, set up inside Kaliyakkavilai bus stand in Kanyakumari district. S Sunil, secretary of the Kaliyakkavilai Thinasai Sandhai Vyabarigal Nala Sangam, stated that the Kaliyakkavilai town panchayat had conducted an tender/auction to collect entry charges for vehicles inside the market during March. Though a tender was given to the highest bidder, no formal contract was entered between the authorities and the person to collect entry charges. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the regular market was closed from March 23 and in order to cater the needs of the public, the panchayat officials had permitted traders to set up shops at the temporary market inside the Kaliyakkavilai bus stand. Only 80 shops were permitted to be set up in order to maintain social distancing. Sunil said the person, who was the successful bidder started to collect charges from the traders, farmers and public from April 1. Though the person had entered an agreement with the town panchayat to collect charges only at the regular market, he is illegally collecting charges from vehicles coming to the temporary market. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-fee-at-kaliyakkavilai-mkt/articleshow/76165556.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Beawar-Gomti NH-8 to be made 4-lane||Jaipur: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot informed that Beawar-Gomti National Highway No-8 will be developed from double-lane to four-lane highway. The Standing Finance Committee of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has approved the project. Pilot said that the Beawar-Gomti National Highway will be developed from double-lane to four-lane with paved holders, at a total cost of Rs 721.62 crore. This entire project of about 100 km length will be completed in two packages. In the first package, about 50 km length of this national highway will be developed by spending Rs 380.29 crore and in the second package the remaining 50 km length will be Rs 341.33 crore. Under this project, 40 small bridges including 6 flyovers will also be constructed. He said that once the Beawar-Gomti National Highway is developed in the four-lanes, the chances of road accidents on this route will be greatly reduced.There were many black spots on this route where accidents were caused due to wrong over taking of vehicles. Presently this road is six-lane from Jaipur to Beawar and four-lane from Gomti to Udaipur. After the four-lane road from Beawar to Gomti, traffic from Delhi to Jaipur, Ajmer, Beawar, Udaipur and Ahmedabad will become smooth. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/beawar-gomti-nh-8-to-be-made-4-lane/articleshow/76165114.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mysuru||Woman robbed of her gold chain||Mysuru: Two bike-borne youths robbed a woman of her gold chain after stopping her two-wheeler near the railway quarters in Vijayanagar police limits on Sunday afternoon. Though some passersby in reached the spot when the chain snatching took place, they remained mute spectators. The victim later approached cops and filed a complaint. DCP AN Prakash Gowda said investigation has been launched to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-robbed-of-her-gold-chain/articleshow/76161496.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Nardeco gets builders’ requisition, to hire 1 lakh migrants this month||LUCKNOW: By the middle of June, the state’s real estate sector is likely to be in a position to offer about 1 lakh jobs to migrant workers who have returned to UP during the lockdown. On its way to meet the conditions of an MoU it signed with UP Government on May 29 to provide jobs for 2.5 lakh people in a year, the National Real Estate Development Council (Nardeco) has said that its member builders have already submitted a demand for about 1 lakh workers, both skilled and unskilled. These include Supertech, Ajnara, Panchsheel, Migsun, Antriksh, Earthcon, ACE, Purvanchal, Logix, Sunshine, Indusvalley for their projects in NCR, Meerut, Moradabad and Lucknow among others. R K Arora, president NAREDCO and chairperson Supertech Group, said that the government had provided it with a list of 2.84 lakh people, some unskilled and others skilled as per requirement of the real estate sector. “We are now comparing the list sent by our members with the names provided by the government to see which worker can be adjusted where. There is an immediate demand for about a lakh people as the workers in these projects have retuned tor their states,” Arora said. A 10-member committee has been constituted by NAREDCO to individually contact the people in the government list and to coordinate with different local real estate projects for their placement after they are medically certified to be free from disease. “All the displaced workmen are being contacted by telephone, by messages and by issuing advertisements. We are also ready to provide skill development to those who need it. NAREDCO is in contact with respective district magistrate offices and district labour offices for further action,” Arora said. NAREDCO has also said that its members are willing to bring labour to the work site from within a 100 km radius around the site. All workers will be given accommodation on site. At present, most projects are working with 30-50% workforce as regular labour has returned to their villages. Arora said that a majority of the people working on construction sites were from states like Bihar and West Bengal and barely 30% were from UP. During the lockdown, workers from other states returned home, leaving very little labour available to carry out work. Now, among those who have returned, are people who have experience of construction work in cities like Mumbai and therefore, said NAREDCO, will be huge asset to the sector. The state government has signed MoUs with four organisations, including NAREDCO, FICCI, Laghu Udyog Bharti and Indian Industries Association, for 11 lakh jobs in about a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nardeco-gets-builders-requisition-to-hire-1-lakh-migrants-this-month/articleshow/76165122.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Man electrocuted, kin to get ex gratia||Hyderabad: A 42-year-old man, Ashok Vihari, was electrocuted while making arrangements for the Telangana Formation Day celebrations at an anganwadi centre in Dommata village of Doultabad mandal of Siddipet district on Tuesday. Another woman, an anganwadi helper, sustained injuries and was shifted to a hospital. Meanwhile, finance minister T Harish Rao promised an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the family of Vihari. In another incident on Tuesday, a 15-year-old girl, Soora Pushpalatha, drowned while washing clothes along with three other girls at a lake in Guggilla village of Bejjanki mandal of Siddipet. All four girls had slipped and fell into the lake. They were helped by a shepherd Jetti Komaraiah and a few locals, however, Pushpalatha was found dead. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-electrocuted-kin-to-get-ex-gratia/articleshow/76164464.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||Woman commits suicide after fight with husband in Bagru||JAIPUR: After a quarrel with her husband, a woman committed suicide in Bagru police station area on Tuesday morning. Police have found no evidence so far to indicate dowry death. Police claimed that the woman, who got married three years ago, was in depression and took her own life. The deceased was identified as 22-year-old Madhuri Jangid who was at her parents’ house at the time of her death. “The victim had been staying at her parents’ house for last 15 days and apparently had a quarrel with her husband. Several times she had complained of harassment by her in-laws,” said an official of Bagru police station. Jangid also left behind a suicide note in which she has named her husband and in-laws for harassing her though cops stated that there was no mention of dowry in the letter. The official further stated, “As of now, we cannot call it a dowry death as the victim did not mention it in her note but only wrote about the harassment. We are yet to find the details about the relationship between her and the in-laws to ascertain the details.” Her body was handed over to the family after autopsy and cops have launched an investigation. They will question the family and the in-laws soon. “In case it is established the woman was put under pressure for dowry, then we will register a case accordingly against her husband and his parents though these details will be clear once we have questioned them,” said the cop. Police will also check the call details of the suicide victim to find the last person that she spoke to before her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-commits-suicide-after-fight-with-husband-in-bagru/articleshow/76165117.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Business||‘Moody’s action may raise cost of PFC, REC loans’||NEW DELHI: Moody's downgrade of India ratings may marginally raise the cost of borrowings needed for the government's Rs 90,000-crore bailout package for discoms but there will be no dearth of funds, power minister R K Singh told TOI on Tuesday. “We are raising funds successfully. We are getting funds. Perhaps the rates may change a little (after the downgrade) because there is so much demand,” Singh said in reply to a query about the Moody’s impact on borrowings by state-run power sector lenders PFC and its subsidiary REC. Executives working with the lenders said PFC has been raising 10-year funds at roughly 7.79%. This is expected to rise to about 8%. This may squeeze their margin as they will have to lend to discoms at a concessional rate with a two-year moratorium. The real problem, however, is that PFC and REC may have to raise Rs 35,000 crore additional funds to pay back lenders as repayments from their borrowers stopped due to the EMI moratorium announced by the government. PFC and REC will also need to raise funds for their usual operational requirement and a Rs 3.5 lakh crore scheme the power ministry is drawing up for improving power infrastructure in states. In addition, the government will also be in the market for raising an additional Rs 4.2 lakh crore during the fiscal. Initially the gross borrowing target had been set at Rs 7.8 lakh crore. With the additional borrowings, the total would be Rs 12 lakh crore. The cost of borrowings may also increase for PFC and REC because the exposure limit of their lenders will halve for both as a combined group entity. Lenders enjoyed an exposure limit of 21-25% in PFC and REC as separate entities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/marginal-rise-in-cost-of-pfc-rec-borrowings-on-moodys-but-no-dearth-of-funds-r-k-singh/articleshow/76166051.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Odd-even goes, but markets deserted||NEW DELHI: With the government lifting the odd-even restrictions, almost all shops in markets across the city opened their shutters on Tuesday. However, there was a mixed response by customers. While there was some semblance of normalcy in South Extension and Lajpat Nagar, Chandni Chowk and Sarojini Nagar remained deserted. Traders said lifting of the curbs was a move in the right direction and with more steps, like improvement in public transport, economic activity could be revived. Barring a few exceptions, traders, customers and workers everywhere were seen wearing masks. Vijay Arora from the traders’ welfare association of South Extension-II market said only 5-10% of the usual footfall was seen during odd-even days. “Around 20% of the pre-lockdown customers visited the market on Tuesday. Earlier, at least 50 customers visited each shop daily,” he added. The upscale market is known for garments, shoes, jewellery and sari shops. “The government needs to look into improving mobility so that staff can come to the outlets easily. Also, the workers have been leaving early because of the curfew timings,” Arora said. In the Walled City’s Chandni Chowk, shops opened after a gap of more than two and a half months as traders had decided to keep the market closed during lockdown 4.0 citing that social distancing was not practically possible there. However, there were hardly any customers on Tuesday. Sanjay Bhargav from Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal said, “The footfall here is almost zero. Staggered timings will have to be enforced for social distancing.” Traders said opening of the metro station would remain critical in reviving the market. When the metro station was built, the footfall in the market increased by 60%. A member of Ajmal Khan Road Market Association in Karol Bagh, Murli Mani, said all 300 shops of the pedestrianised market opened on Tuesday. “Customer response will become clear in the next few days as trading usually takes place in the evening,” he added. The association has demanded relaxation in the no-vehicle policy for improving trade. In Lajpat Nagar market, the association was worried about violation of social distancing norms. Yoginder Dawar, the market president, said, “All shops have opened and all the vendors are back. It is impossible to move while maintaining a distance of six feet. The odd-even system should be continued in congested markets.” In south Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar market, a popular destination for street shopping, the response from customers was feeble. “Around 400 of the 600 shops were open, but no customers arrived. Because of this, many shut their shops much before the curfew timings,” said Ashok Randhawa, a traders’ welfare association member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/odd-even-goes-but-markets-deserted/articleshow/76164476.cms||Paras Singh
June 3, 2020||Jaipur||RTI appeal filed on WhatsApp, redressed in a day||Jaipur: Rajasthan State Information Commissioner (RSIC) has registered an appeal through WhatsApp and disposed of the matter within a day. The applicant, Bhagwan Singh, registered an appeal to the RSIC via WhatsApp on June 1, regarding a complaint against him in Ramsar police station in Barmer, after it was denied to him. The RSIC has claimed that it is the fastest disposal of any appeal related to Right to Information Act. The appeal has to be filed through a registered courier service — private and postal. Since the lockdown is in place, all postal services are either partially functional or non-functional. The provision over WhatsApp is aimed at providing immediate relief to the applicant. Singh, in his appeal, stated that he had filed an RTI application with the Barmer police, seeking details of a complaint filed against him and Daily Dairy Report on May 15. The information was sought in 48 hours as it possibly could lead to his arrest. However, the information was denied to him on May 21 in response to his RTI application by the police. He filed a first appeal with the Barmer police, which didn’t see any response till May 30. Thereafter, on June 1, he registered a second appeal through WhatsApp, which was accepted by the Information Commissioner Ashutosh Sharma, considering the matter was related to an individual’s liberty and freedom. The same day, notice was issued to the SP and additional SP office of Barmer to file their reply on June 2. “The SP office provided all information to the applicant on June 1 and submitted a disposal report in the hearing held on Tuesday,” reads the official communication from the RSIC. IC Sharma while disposing of the matter on Tuesday, reminded the police that the RTI information dealing with a person’s freedom should be provided within 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rti-appeal-filed-on-whatsapp-redressed-in-a-day/articleshow/76165119.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Cos supply test kits post ICMR ‘advice’ to states||MUMBAI: Antibody tests, which measure the exposure of coronavirus in varied populations, will soon be rolled out in the country. Following the “advice’’ by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start antibody testing in states, companies including Roche Diagnostics are making test kits available across NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing & Calibration Laboratories) and ICMR-approved laboratories. Recently, in the first batch, Zydus Cadila supplied 30,000 kits to ICMR. As against the real-time (RT-PCR) test — considered the gold standard frontline test for clinical diagnosis of Covid — antibody or serological testing confirms if someone has been previously infected with the virus. Sero surveys help in understanding the proportion of population exposed to Covid infection, including asymptomatic individuals, and are helpful to plan the country’s pandemic management efforts. Sero surveys in states are planned to be conducted using the Elisa (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) technology, for which ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune has developed an indigenous immunoglobulin (IgG) Elisa test for antibody detection. To fast track production and increase availability of these kits, ICMR has transferred technology to companies including Zydus Cadila, Trivitron Healthcare, J Mitra & Company, Meril Diagnostics, Voxtur Bio, Karwah Enterprises, Avecon Healthcare. It is understood the government is looking to procure a lakh antibody test kits per week initially, from each company. Later, capacity of the vendors will be ramped up to meet demand, as possibly millions of tests will need to be conducted across states. One of the companies which has signed an agreement with NIV, Trivitron Healthcare, will supply kits within two to three weeks. “The test with a high sensitivity and specificity, developed and validated by NIV will be able to conduct large-scale antibody testing in a cost effective manner. Many states like Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, UP, Telangana are in talks to start these tests’’, the company’s CMD, GSK Velu told TOI. The survey of high risk or vulnerable populations (health care workers, immune-compromised patients, individuals in containment zones) will be particularly relevant for states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi reporting high levels of infections. These would help in planning and implementing public health interventions for prevention and control of the disease, experts say. Though ICMR’s communication mentions only Elisa platform for testing, companies like Roche and Abbott have regulatory approvals for tests which run on the newer CLIA (chemi-luminescence immuno assay) technology. Elisa-run tests could be cheaper than the CLIA platform, an industry expert said. Roche’s lab-based antibody test that runs on fully-automated CLIA analysers with estimated peak testing capacity of half a million tests a day, is being made available across NABL-approved and government labs. Shravan Subramanyam, managing director, Roche Diagnostics India said: “The company has around 10,000 CLIA analysers in over 500 cities across India ready to be deployed. We are working with state governments for state-wise tests access. Meanwhile, there are numerous corporate organisations reaching out to us to include our antibody testing for their employees”. Major sites that house the Roche analysers on which the antibody test runs include Delhi (AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Harding, GB Punt, Maulana Azad), Mumbai (SRL, Suburban Diagnostics, Metropolis), and CMC Vellore. Almost all district hospitals and large government hospitals have Elisa machines, which are used for HIV and pregnancy tests, while big private labs have deployed CLIA testing platform. Robust antibody tests are critical for surveillance and understanding the proportion of population exposed to coronavirus, and are being conducted in UK, Singapore, Japan and US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cos-supply-test-kits-post-icmr-advice-to-states/articleshow/76165132.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress leaders taken into custody||HYDERABAD: Scores of Congress leaders were either taken into police custody or placed under arrest at various places in the state on Tuesday thereby preventing them from travelling to the sites of pending irrigation projects on River Krishna. The Congress said the TRS government has turned the auspicious state formation day into a “black day” by its dictatorial attitude. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and veteran Congress leader K Jana Reddy sought an explanation from the police for arresting party leaders on the pretext of checking spread of Covid-19 prevention. “The police had allowed thousands of TRS leaders in violation of physical distance rule for inauguration of Kondapochamma Sagar project recently,” Uttam said and added that DGP Mahender Reddy was not even responding to his phone calls. “We celebrated 5th anniversary of Telangana State formation but were illegally detained by the police on the orders of CM KCR, when we set out to see pending irrigation projects on Krishna river. Why is KCR completing huge capital incentive lift irrigation projects and neglecting projects with gravity flow. If three sitting MPs, a former home minister can be illegally detained on KCR's orders, what is the hope for the common citizen. This is murder of democracy and all known norms,” Uttam said. However, several Congress leaders were able to doge the police and reach sites of pending irrigation projects, where they squatted and raised slogans against TRS government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-leaders-taken-into-custody/articleshow/76164472.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||New safe drive to save lives in coronavirus season||KOLKATA: From prosecution to Gandhigiri, cops tried out everything to raise awareness about social distancing to stop the spread of virus. While 111 people were booked for not wearing masks during the first half of the day, cops from all nine divisions and 25 traffic guards distributed around 25,000 masks among commuters without them as the day progressed. In the night, special drives were undertaken from 9pm. Those travelling after that period were issued notices and asked to explain the reason for being on the road. On Tuesday morning, Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma sent a text message to officers in charge of all police stations and traffic guards in the city to continue with the awareness drive and distribute masks to people. “Police personnel on duty should request people not covering their faces to do so. If we constantly keep on pointing out this to the public, slowly awareness will rise which will be beneficial for all of us. If you have disposable masks to spare, please distribute some to people as a goodwill gesture. Regular miking for covering of faces and social distancing needs to be done,” the message read. Following the commissioner’s plea, cops set out on Tuesday and stopped buses, offloaded all travelling without masks and requested to them to abide by Covid rules. “For the time being, we have provided masks to such passengers. This will continue from Wednesday. We have challaned 111 people for not wearing masks even when they were carrying them,” said an officer from Lalbazar. Each traffic guard distributed close to 800-1,000 masks each. Cops refrained from booking a large number of offenders as people kept on complaining about the immense heat and non-availability of transport, which forced them to wait in the sun for long. “We continued to persuade them to wear masks and adjust moving around with it all the time,” said a traffic sergeant at Burrabazar. At the Jorabagan and Howrah Bridge traffic guards, cops faced a hard time trying to move the crowd from the gates of buses. “Several buses and minibuses have begun operations on Tuesday. But the fact that several travelled without masks and crowded the doors kept us worried. We have also found that the manner in which people were getting on and off buses was violating social distancing norms. Hence, we have instructed the drivers to halt at major stoppages for longer durations so that people can at least get off maintaining social norms. For those boarding the buses, we are mulling deploying a constable at bus stands,” said an officer. At Ruby Crossing and near the Durgapur Bridge-Tollygunge Circular Road crossing, two buses on routes C-24 and S-22 were stopped and passengers offloaded. “We got some people to board private buses which remained less crowded. We did hear conductors say that despite their requests, people continued boarding the bus. We told the passengers that though they were travelling for work, there were certain issues that cannot be compromised,” said an officer from New Alipore police. Police sources said that they have also decided to deploy their men at all termini during peak hours. “They will ensure that a few seats are empty when the bus starts the journey. Otherwise, those in the waiting for a bus will be left in the lurch,” said an officer from Jadavpur traffic guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-safe-drive-to-save-lives-in-corona-season/articleshow/76164470.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC puts odd-even implementation onus on traders||Nagpur: A day after Nagpur Municipal Corporation announced reopening of shops on odd-even basis, thousands of traders from across the city opened their shutters to clean and disinfect the premises before resuming business from June 5. NMC tasked assistant municipal commissioners of all 10 zones to monitor implementation of ‘odd and even day’ opening of shops under Mission Begin Again to ease restrictions in a phased manner. Deputy municipal commissioner (market and estate departments) Mahesh Moroney said shops in all market areas except malls and market complexes are now allowed to function. Shops facing north to east and south to east will remain open on odd dates, while shops facing north to west and south to west will open on even dates, he said. Moroney said if there was any confusion among shopkeepers, they can get it clarified by visiting their respective NMC zonal office. “The onus to follow the guidelines issued through Unlocking 1.0 lies with the citizens and traders. They should come forward to help NMC contain the spread of coronavirus,” he said. TOI spoke to senior officials from NMC’s Dharampeth and Gandhibagh zones — having city’s biggest commercial areas. Officers admitted that they had not made any effort to spread awareness about the odd-even formula among shopkeepers. According to Dharampeth zone’s assistant municipal commissioner Prakash Warade, NMC has uploaded the unlocking order on its website and it was accessible to all. “If any shopkeeper has any doubt about the order, they can approach the zone office during its working hours,” said Warade. About gardens and parks, Moroney said NMC had already deputed security guards who will ensure strict adherence to the rules. NMC has also communicated the new order to the Nagpur city police. The police will take care of proper implementation, said Moroney. “Shopkeepers who violate the order may face a minimum three-month jail under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” he said. Hawkers remain a challenge Though NMC has prepared a detailed plan, it will be a challenge for the civic body to ensure Covid distancing and other precautionary norms, especially by hawkers from nine commercial stretches like Sitabuldi main road, Itwari, Kelibagh road, Gandhibagh, Kamal Chowk to Indora Chowk road etc. There are around 60,000 hawkers in the city and maintaining Covid distancing at their shops will be a Herculean task, admitted additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi. “A delegation of Sitabuldi shopkeepers too met me and raised the issue of hawkers,” said Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-puts-odd-even-implementation-onus-on-traders/articleshow/76164467.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Now, order sand through your village secretariat||VIJAYAWADA: The state government’s initiative allowing people to place orders for sand through village secretariats has been receiving a positive response. The government which had introduced online sand bookings has now allowed people to book sand at the village level. The government had introduced online booking facility and door delivery of sand to control the black market in supply of sand. The mining department had made GPS mandatory for sand trucks and fixed charges for transportation. The Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) is handling online sand sales to ensure transparency. The stock status at various stockyards are made available online every day and the Aadhaar- based consumer registration is helping the government to track sand purchases. Meanwhile, many villagers were finding it difficult to place orders for sand through the online web portal. The mining department had proposed to start sand booking through village secretariats considering the demand at the village-level. “Our government is focusing on fair and transparent sand supply. We have received a positive response for our sand policy and are heading to make it simple for the public. One can book sand from the nearest village secretariat. We will soon introduce it with the approval of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy,” said P Ramachandra Reddy, minister for mining affairs. The state government’s decision has been welcomed by builders in rural areas. “We thank the government for addressing the situation in rural areas. We are unable to book sand from the nearby sand stockyard through an online system. Sand booking through village secretariats will help common man and the elderly,” said J Nagabushanam, a resident of Bapulapadu of Krishna district. Meanwhile, the state government is eyeing to store 20 lakh metric tonnes of sand at stockyards to overcome sand shortage issues in the monsoon season, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-order-sand-through-your-village-secretariat/articleshow/76163584.cms||Venu Lanka
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: With 12 cases, Hyderabad's Osmania Medical College cuts OPD time to 2 hours||HYDERABAD: After five more resident doctors at Osmania Medical College tested positive on Tuesday, taking the total number of residents now affected with the Covid-19 virus to 12, authorities have decided to reduce the OP registration time to two hours and test all pre-operative patients. Of the five doctors who were confirmed positive on Tuesday, four are deputed at Modern Government Maternity Hospital at Petlaburj and one a house surgeon at Osmania General Hospital. Reports of two more PG doctors and one professor from the Petlaburj hospital, apart from reports of four PG doctors from the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), is awaited. Health authorities, meanwhile, decided that personal protection equipment (PPEs) will be provided to the entire hospital staff and all exposed PG doctors be given the option of opting for Covid-19 test. “Measures include strengthening security near OPD and exposed staff to be put in quarantine. It is now a threat that the hospital might turn into a Covid-19 hotspot and hence the measures,” said a health official. Telangana Junior Doctors Association shot off a letter to Telangana DME, Dr Ramesh Reddy seeking regular screening of all health workers, good quality PPE kits and N95 masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-12-cases-omc-cuts-opd-time-to-2-hrs/articleshow/76165128.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mandals have 2-lane roads to district headquarters||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has developed 5,453 km of roads in the last six years by spending Rs 7,463 crore. Officials of the roads and buildings department, on the occasion of the state formation day on Tuesday, said one of the main targets set by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was to improve road connectivity from Hyderabad to district headquarters and from district headquarters to mandal headquarters and from mandal headquarters to every village. “As on date, there are double-lane roads from all the mandals to their respective district headquarters,” a senior R&B official said. When Telangana was formed on June 2 six years ago, there were no bitumen blacktop double-lane roads from 143 mandals to their respective district headquarters. “The government had released Rs 2,518 crore and 1,875 km of single-lane roads had been converted into double-lane roads,” he said. Even the panchayat raj department has improved the road connectivity from mandal headquarters to every village. “A large number of roads were either not there or not repaired for years. About 10,000 km of muddy roads have been transformed into BT roads spending Rs 9,000 crore, making them motorable. The objective is to ensure that RTC buses and other modes of transportation are able to operate in the villages,” said an official. Sources said of the 7,554 km of state roads (total cost Rs 11,257 crore), work on the remaining 2,101 km is being taken up. The R&B department was able to convince the Centre and get 3,150 km of new national highways sanctioned in Telangana in the last six years. Several two-lane roads had been developed into four-lane roads from district headquarters to Greater Hyderabad. Of the total 26 major bridges, including those planned on Manjira, Godavari, Maneru, Pranahitha, Munneru, Musi, Tungabhadra, among other rivers, the government has been able to complete 17 bridges, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mandals-have-2-lane-roads-to-district-hq/articleshow/76164474.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||West registers 31.5% of new cases||Ahmedabad: The western part of Ahmedabad has reported 31.5% of the 292 fresh cases recorded in the city on Monday evening. Of the 292 cases, 92 were from the western part of the city; 46 patients are below 30. Other patients include a 1-year-old boy, an 8-year-old boy, and a 7-year-old girl.Of the 92 cases reported from the western part, 11 were recorded from the south west zone — Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej, and Maktampua wards. Another 11 cases were recorded from north west zone areas, including Thaltej, Bodakdev, Gota, and Ghatlodia. The remaining 70 cases were from the west zone including Naranpura, Nava Vadaj, Navrangpura, Paldi, Vasna, and Sardar Patel Stadium.In north west and south west zones, one case each were reported from Alay apartments and Parth Indraprashath apartments in Vastrapur, Surel apartments in Bodakdev, Ashok Vatika in Ambli, Vraj Vihar-3 near Prernathirth Derasar, Parshwa Tower near Shyamal Crossroads and Parul flats in Jodhpur. Two cases were reported from Galaxy apartments off SG road.Officials said that of the 70 cases in the west zone, 17 were from Nava Vadaj and 11 from Paldi. Another five cases were from Naranpura and six cases from Chandkheda.The western part of the city now has 955 active cases with 545 cases in Stadium, Naranpura, Naranpura, Paldi, and Vasna. And 134 and 276 cases each have been reported in north and south west zones in areas such as Bodakdev, Satellite, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-registers-31-5-of-new-cases/articleshow/76164480.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||‘Opening shops good but odd-even, east-west might confuse’||Nagpur: It’s been a long wait to see markets opening up in the city. The new guidelines by Nagpur Municipal Corporation will allow shops excluding those in malls and shopping complexes, to open from June 5 with east-west/odd-even rule being applied. It drew a variety of reactions from consumers. Rajesh Tiwari, a social worker, felt considering the present circumtances in India, the odd-even guidelines of Kejriwal government in Delhi was a good idea for Nagpur too. “People are in need of basic necessities, but opening completely may hamper the existing control upon Covid-19. Therefore, odd-even should definitely be given preference at least for a few more months,” he said. Some said the east-west rule might create confusion among buyers, until they get use to it. “This is good decision. Perhaps it can create chaos among consumers due to lack of information regarding what shops are going to open on what day and what area to go in,” said Aditya Sawarkar. "It will be challenging for both consumers and retailers and also local authorities. If implemented wisely, it can be very useful but if not, it can be a major reason for community spread of Covid-19," added Sawarkar. CA Sandeep Agrawal also called it a correct decision to curb crowds and traffic jams on roads. "People who want to procure essential items will naturally look for other places where the product is available on other days. This would help create a shift in buying pattern and a more optimal distribution of traffic as also diverting business to smaller and comparatively less-known areas in the long run," he said. Malvika Fulwwani, a dietician, stated that having a left and right rule would have been easier. Explaining, she said, "Left side shops to be open on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and right side on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.” CA Jayakrishnan P stated when the government had already allowed flights and interstate travel, restricting shops opening did not make sense. "It will create confusion and force people to go out more often. When there is no restriction on movement of people, shops should also be opened with standard protocols of social distancing," he said. Roshan Khatri, a private sector employee, stated regulating government offices and shops like this was appreciable. "We wanted all shops to open so we can purchase what is needed. It is great that offices too would commence working. I believe Nagpur has shown great recovery rate, and opening establishments is a relief," he said. Vimla Banubakode, a housewife, said, "I am glad that salons and parlours are kept shut and 9am-5pm rule is applied. Opening shops on odd even basis is also a bad idea. It might increase the risk of customers gathering and violation of Covid distancing," she said. Inderjeet Singh Baweja, a city businessman, said, "Some steps have to be taken to restart and revive the economy. This seems a step in the right direction to take things forward. Let's hope this kickstarts the revival of businesses in the city."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/opening-shops-good-but-odd-even-east-west-might-confuse/articleshow/76164475.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors seek Tocilizumab from govt||Ahmedabad: Tocilizumab, an injection that is used as immuno-suppressive in conditions such as arthritis, is being used widely by the medical practitioners treating critical Covid-19 patients. One of the clinical trials is also underway at Civil Hospital in the city. Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Tuesday has written a letter to Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), to make the drug available for the private hospitals to treat patients that turn critical – primarily with a phenomenon identified as cytokine storm where immune system of the body flares up against Covid-19 attack and adversely affects the patient’s health. ‘For last few days, these injections are not available anywhere in Ahmedabad and this has led to a major challenge in the treatment of such patients. The quantity required may not be big in each of these hospitals,’ mentioned the letter. ‘However, since it is a medicine which has been proven useful, if it is available at that moment in the hospitals, it can prove to be life-saving.’ The doctors added that the state government has procured the injections in a large quantity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-seek-tocilizumab-from-govt/articleshow/76164478.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 80-day wait ends, outdoor arenas to open from Thursday||NAGPUR: With the state government allowing outdoor activities, the 80-day wait of fitness enthusiasts will be over on Wednesday. The department heads of various city sports complexes will, however, open their arenas only from Thursday. Nagpur University (NU) sports department director Sharad Suryawanshi said the complex will be open for individual workouts and training from Thursday morning. Avinash Pund, the newly-appointed deputy director of state sports department, Nagpur division, said they will take “necessary precautions as per guidelines” before allowing outdoor activities at the Mankapur complex on Thursday. Gates of all the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) gardens that fall outside containment zones will be open for morning walkers from Wednesday morning itself. Since March 15, all centres for fitness enthusiasts in the city, including the Nagpur University athletics track, Divisional Sports Complex in Mankapur, Reshimbagh ground and Ishwar Deshmukh College ground have worn a deserted look. The sudden shutdown compelled morning walkers, amateur and professional sportspersons to start working out from the confines of their homes. With outdoor activities allowed on Word Bicycle Day, city cyclists are elated. Deepanti Pal, the ‘bicycle mayor’ of Nagpur said, “The long wait will finally be over tomorrow morning. Cycling will be a way of life in the new normal post the Covid-induced lockdown. I have been riding my cycle to buy essential services throughout the lockdown. Tomorrow morning, I will be one among many other cyclists to start fitness activities. As a precaution, I will ride solo and plan to travel 15-20 kilometres on my first day.” 70-year-old Sushila Parihar, a morning and evening walker, is relieved with the relaxation. “The doctor has advised me to go for morning walks regularly. Due to the lockdown, I used to walk on my terrace on the fourth floor, but nothing matches walking in gardens in the morning. I will, of course, take all the necessary precautions while going for walks,” said Sushila, a resident of Corporation Colony. As a precaution, only 50 people will be allowed at a time inside the NU sports complex. “We had a meeting with the coaches who will be utilizing our arena; strict instructions have been given to them. At a time, only 40 athletes will be allowed for individual training on the track, and they should workout in alternate lanes,” Suryawanshi said. “Only card holders will be permitted inside the arena, and not more than 50 persons will be given entry. Spectators and group activities will not be allowed. Athletes have been told to bring their own sanitizers, water bottles and spare polythenes in a kit bag to keep used clothes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/80-day-wait-ends-outdoor-arenas-to-open-from-thursday/articleshow/76164489.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Number of Malegaon containment zones to be reduced||NASHIK: The district administration is planning to further reduce the number of containment zones in Malegaon, where the Covid-19 situation is improving. Government officials in the textile town told TOI that as a part of the unlocking process, the existing 45 containment zones would be reduced by at least 10 within the next few days. “We are also exploring the possibilities of shrinking the size of some of the containment zones,” they said. Malegaon has been one of the serious Covid-19 hotspots in Maharashtra. So far, there have been over 780 positive cases and 58 patients here have succumbed to the infection. However, 616 people have also recovered from the illness. “Things are fast improving in Malegaon as far as Covid-19 is concerned. Although fresh cases are still being reported, the numbers have come down. Moreover, the new Covid-19 patients are not critical as the infection is detected early and they are all recovering,” added the officials. The number of containment zones in Malegaon had gone up to 119 after the first five cases were detected here on April 8. But the administration reduced the number of containment zones to 45 in the last week of May as it wanted the powerloom units, that had been shut since the lockdown started, to resume operations. Many of the powerloom units have started working from June 1, although they are facing problems including the availability of yarn and market for their products as well as cash crunch. The powerloom sector is the mainstay of the local economy of Malegaon providing employment to over 2.5 lakh locals. “Apart from making the powerlooms operational, the administration has given a nod to banks and petrol pumps to ensure full-fledged services since Monday,” added officials. All petrol pumps in Malegaon were shut since the lockdown stated to prevent movement of people within the town. Only four of them were providing fuel to emergency service vehicles. Similarly, banks were providing limited services during the lockdown. “We will continue to focus on zeroing in on suspected cases in time and getting them tested so that their treatment could begin early. People are now coming forward to get tested themselves now. Their awareness level has increased,” added the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/number-of-malegaon-containment-zones-to-be-reduced/articleshow/76162599.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus deaths: Delhi HC to monitor government plan to dispose of bodies||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday indicated it would monitor implementation of the AAP government’s new norms devised for faster disposal of bodies of those who died of Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said it wanted to see how the May 30 direction of the health department was implemented and asked Delhi government to file an updated status report two days before the next hearing on June 15. The court was hearing a public interest litigation initiated suo motu after coming across news reports on lack of cremation facilities and piling up of bodies in mortuaries. The department’s order has fixed the responsibility for timely disposal of the Covid-19-positive/suspect bodies on the medical director/director of the hospital where a patient dies or is brought dead. “Respective municipal corporations shall make all arrangements to cremate/bury such bodies,” the order stated. Such a body will be sent to a mortuary within two hours of death in a hospital or being brought dead there, and if the family or relatives of the deceased contact the mortuary within 12 hours, the hospital will schedule the cremation/burial within next 24 hours, the order specified. If no family member or relative gets in touch in 12 hours, an intimation will be sent to them through the area SHO regarding the date, time and place of cremation/burial. On Monday, Delhi government filed an affidavit stating that it had stopped testing the dead for Covid-19 and due to this the relatives were not claiming the bodies, leading to the delays. Another reason cited was social stigma attached to the disease and the fear of quarantine. Often relatives are also misinformed that the hospital will dispose of the body while it is only a facilitator and the kin of a deceased will have to claim the body, the affidavit added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-deaths-hc-to-monitor-govt-plan-to-dispose-of-bodies/articleshow/76164494.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Kurnool sees 17 farmer suicides in lockdown||HYDERABAD: At least 17 farmers, especially tomato and onion growers, have ended their lives in AP’s Kurnool district in the last two months since the lockdown was announced in March, Rythu Swarajya Vedika (RSV), an umbrella association of farmers’ groups and NGOs, said after conducting a field survey. Kurnool district police confirmed to TOI independently that FIRs have been registered in all 17 deaths under section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The FIRs cited “unbearable agricultural debts, loss of crops, failed borewells and pressure of repayment of debts” as prime reasons for the farmers resorting to suicides. Police records also confirm that except four, all other deaths were reported in May alone. When contacted, district superintendent of police K Pakirappa told TOI that “FIRs have been registered in all the cases of farmer suicides. The reasons cited are crop failure and debts.” However, disputing the figures, district agriculture department joint director P Wilson said there could be five to six farmer suicides in the district during the lockdown period as per the department’s records. “Farmers were paid Rs 7,500 each by May 15. Seed has been supplied to them on time and various facilities have also been extended,” he told TOI. He said the government is taking the necessary steps to rescue farmers. “Today, farmers are happy with the initiatives we have taken.” Onion and tomato farmers come under the purview of the horticulture department. While districts like Kadapa saw two or three suicides by farmers during the lockdown period from March 24 till now, Kurnool recorded the highest number of farmer suicides during the lockdown in comparison to any other district in AP and Telangana, pointed out B Kondal Reddy, RSV secretary. “Suicides by farmers have been significantly high in Kurnool,” Kondal told TOI. RSV also cited mounting debts, dysfunctional borewells and lack of market price for the agriculture produce as reasons for the farmers to take the extreme step. Kondal said among those who committed suicide were 15 tenant farmers — many of whom were tomato and onion cultivators. “Apart from rising debts and defunct borewells, the farmers were pressurised by moneylenders to clear the loans which led them to suicide,” he said. Denying this, Pakirappa said there was no issue of moneylenders pressuring farmers in Kurnool. A young onion farmer, Kuruva Venkateswarlu (25) hanged himself in his Chandoli village home in Pattikonda mandal. That was on May 5. Wife K Sumalatha said they incurred Rs 5 lakh debts. An FIR (crime number 148/2020) was filed in Pattikonda police station. “This rabi season, we cultivated onion. Due to the lockdown, prices came down drastically and we ended up in severe losses,” Sumalatha said. Distraught over mounting debts and lenders’ pressure, Eedur Basha, a farmer from Ramallakota in Veldurthy mandal, took a similar step on May 2. Basha’s wife Shamshad Bi, in her testimony to the RSV survey, said they own a small one-and-a-half acres of farmland. “We have been cultivating chilli and cotton for the last three years. My husband dug around 11 borewells, which dried up later. We incurred Rs 8 lakh debts. Basha was pestered by the moneylenders to clear the outstanding loans. He could not take it any more and ended his life,” she said. A tomato farmer, K Venkatesh (55) took his life recently as his crop did not yield him the returns. Wife Venkata Laxmamma said her husband committed suicide owing to pressure from lenders to clear Rs 5 lakh loan he had undertaken some time ago. The survey said most of the suicides had been reported from Banganapalle, Pattikonda, Guduru and Peapully mandals. Meanwhile, RSV has demanded that the government pay at least Rs 7 lakh compensation to each family as per a GO issued after YS Jaganmohan Reddy came to power in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kurnool-sees-17-farmer-suicides-in-lockdown/articleshow/76164487.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 3, 2020||Goa||Maharashtra braces for cyclone, Goa gets heavy showers||PANAJI: The deep depression over the Arabian Sea intensified into a cyclone on Tuesday and a severe cyclonic storm in the early hours of Wednesday. The India meteorological department (IMD) has therefore issued a cyclone alert for North Maharashtra and South Gujarat coasts. Goa so far has escaped the devastation of this weather phenomenon, but will continue to experience heavy rainfall and strong winds till June 3. “After the deep depression intensified into a cyclone, it has been named Nisarga,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. The various rain gauge stations across the state had been recording the rainfall that the state received since June 1. The highest rainfall for that day was recorded at the Sakhali station with 50mm of rain. On June 2, the rain activity was much higher than the previous day, IMD said. “Panaji experienced 40.7mm rainfall, while Mapusa recorded 30mm, Pernem recorded 30mm and Mormugao recorded 55mm on June 2,” IMD said. The cyclone is going to move northwards and will have a curvature to the Northeast of the Arabian Sea. It will reach the Maharashtra coast, near Alibaug, Raigad. The system slowly started moving away from Goa by late evening on June 2 while simultaneously intensifying. Goa will therefore experience strong winds up to 50 kmph on June 3, IMD said. “The wind conditions will start drastically reducing after the system moves away from Goa,” Rahul said. The orange alert issued for Goa will continue till June 3 and the state will experience heavy rainfall till Wednesday, IMD said. Though Panaji did not face any major inundation due to the heavy rain on Tuesday, city mayor Uday Madkaikar said that he has given instructions to GSIDC and smart city officials to clear out the drains near the Miramar circle after the area near Bal Bhavan flooded on Monday. The gusty winds, however, led to tree falls across the state. The department of fire services received a total of 39 calls from all over the state on Tuesday from 7am to 9pm. There were no instances of major damages, waterlogging or flooding situation reported, officials from the control room said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/maha-braces-for-cyclone-goa-gets-heavy-showers/articleshow/76164499.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hotels to open from June 8, new tourism policy in pipeline: Andhra Pradesh minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: All hotels in the state will be allowed to reopen from June 8, said state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday. He said that the decision to reopen hotels is in line with the Centre’s guidelines. The minister further discussed the way forward for the tourism sector of the state and the elaborated on what the state government is doing to attract tourists. The tourism minister said that the government is working on a new tourism policy, participating in travel marts and tourism fairs in a bid to attract more tourists to the state. He further said that the government has decided to hold discussions with the public as well as private businesses on ways to develop the state’ tourism sector. Discussing the manner in which the tourism potential of the state will be unlocked, Srinivasa Rao said that the tourist footfall in AP went up from 195 million in 2018 to 236 million in 2019, an increase of nearly 21%. “Tourism festivals will be conducted in all districts on a monthly basis,” he said. The minister further said that the promotion of Andhra Pradesh as a tourism destination is taking place in other states too. “We are participating in travel marts and tourism fairs to attract tourists to the state,” said the minister. He further said that an adventure sports academy has been set up at Gandikota. Around 136 rooms at various resorts run by the tourist department have been renovated. The minister further said that the construction of drive-in restaurants has also begun in Araku and Erramatti Dibbalu. The government has set up nine control rooms to avoid boat mishaps, the minister said while adding that tehsildar, police and the department of water resources will have to jointly give permission for boating. He further said that Rs5 crore is being spent to construct cottages while Rs7.32 crore is being expended to obtain blue-flag certifications. Funds have been sanctioned for works on a museum dedicated to revolutionary Alluri Seetaramaraju at his birthplace in Padangi, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hotels-to-open-from-june-8-new-tourism-policy-in-pipeline-min/articleshow/76163605.cms||Siva G
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi municipal corporations hunt for new sites for cremation||NEW DELHI: With the novel coronavirus cases on the rise, the municipal corporations of Delhi have started shortlisting additional sites for cremations and burials. Senior civic officials confirmed this. As per separate reports released by the civic bodies on Tuesday, the number of funerals conducted under the Covid protocol has crossed the 1,100 mark in the capital with East Delhi Municipal Corporation conducting 31, South Delhi Municipal Corporation 684 and North Delhi Municipal Corporation conducting 476 such funerals. Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had recently asked the authorities concerned to submit present locations of cremation/burial grounds as well as identify new locations away from residential areas in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in Delhi. The three municipal corporations are currently running 10 Covid-designated funeral sites with cremation facilities at Nigambodh Ghat, Punjabi Bagh, the Lodhi electric crematorium, Karkardooma and Panchkuian Road. Burial grounds are there in Mangolpuri, Mulla Colony and Shastri Park, ITO and Madanpur Khadar. Mangolpuri site has two sections reserved for Christians and Muslims. But these are not enough. Facing increased load, last week, the corporations had decided to allow open wood pyre-based Covid-19 funerals besides using the closed CNG furnaces in Nigambodh and Punjabi Bagh facilities. Covid funerals are carried out for both confirmed as well as suspected cases. EDMC standing committee chairperson Sandeep Kapoor said that the two burial grounds in east Delhi have so far processed 31 bodies with Covid protocol. Jaiprakash, the north DMC standing committee chairperson, said that as many as 476 corona funerals had been carried out in the three north corporation facilities till 29 May. SDMC standing committee chairman Bhupender Gupta said that till June 1, the Punjabi Bagh facility alone had received 544 bodies for cremations under Covid-19 protocol. “More than 680 such bodies have been processed in the three SDMC facilities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-hunt-for-new-sites-for-cremation/articleshow/76164523.cms||Paras Singh
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Lakhpati beggar shocks NGO volunteers||HYDERABAD: In a bizarre discovery, a beggar while being shifted to a shelter home was found with Rs 2 lakh cash in AP’s Kurnool district. Chinna Narasimhulu, who hails from Mahbubnagar in Telangana, gave a rude shock to volunteers of an NGO when they found him in Dhone town on Monday with a bagful of money. Narasimhulu (58), who gave his name as Sreenu, was noticed by Dronachalam Seva Samithi near a hostel in Kondapeta area. When the samithi members approached him to provide food and clothing and also give him a wash, Sreenu relented. They found 14 shirts with Sreenu. When they searched shirt pockets, currency notes and coins tumbled out. The money was found neatly packed in plastic covers. It totalled Rs 2,04,459, including Rs 77,000 demonetised currency. Sreenu kept the currency that he got through begging in his shirts. He has been begging in Dhone for the last three years. When questioned by the volunteers, he said he had been separated from his family in Mahbubnagar several years ago. He also told them that he had not been in touch with them but was hoping to meet them one day. Dhone police are now trying to take the help of Mahbubnagar cops in locating his family after he told them that he hails from Muneppagutta Colony in Mahbubnagar. The volunteers shifted him to a shelter home in Kadapa. After police locate his family or relatives in Mahbubnagar, they intend to send him back home. Sreenu has told them that he has a wife and a daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lakhpati-beggar-shocks-ngo-volunteers/articleshow/76164497.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Rural police on alert following cyclone warning||Nashik: Nashik rural police has alerted all the divers and boatmen under its jurisdiction to be prepared for rescue operations in the backdrop of heavy rainfall alert issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in North Maharashtra. Arti Singh, superintendent of police (Nashik rural), said police officials have informed that divers and boatmen in their respective jurisdictions should remain alert in the event of any untoward incident due to heavy rains. “All police patils and sarpanchs have been informed to contact the police immediately in case of any untoward incident in their respective villages. The outreach of police is vast; hence, we would come to know about any untoward incident first so that the district administration can be alerted for rescue measures. Nonetheless, the divers and boatmen have been contacted by the police stations concerned for being prepared to handle any natural calamity,” she said. “Life jackets, boats, ropes, among other things have also been sought from the district administration for the purpose of rescue,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-police-on-alert-following-cyclone-warning/articleshow/76162618.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||Gale uproots trees, lightning kills one||Vadodara: As Nisarga cyclone is likely to hit parts of south Gujarat, its effects were felt in central Gujarat districts as well. Vadodara city witnessed winds at a speed of 46 kilometres per hour on Tuesday afternoon. Seven trees were uprooted due to high winds in areas such as Ellora Park, Old Chhani road, Gorwa, Karelibaug, Manjalpur and New Sama road. Many hoardings also collapsed in different areas. Citizens also got some relief from the heat as the maximum temperature dropped to 37.7 degrees from 40 degrees which was recorded on Sunday. The city, however, remained dry even as the clouds hovered over. In Vadodara district only Savli taluka received 1 mm of rainfall, but due to lightening one person identified as Andaarsinh Parmar died another man Kirit Parmar was injured. The district collector Shalini Agrawal too held a meeting with senior officials of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indian Army to cope with upcoming monsoon in the middle of Covid-19 pandemic. Officials deliberated over forming of groups of personnel for rescue of people and patients kept at isolation centres and quarantine centres. Other districts in central Gujarat too remained dry. But as parts of neighbouring Madhya Pradesh received some rainfall, rivers in Chhota Udepur and Dahod received fresh waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gale-uproots-trees-lightning-kills-one/articleshow/76162414.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Booked for complaint against IPS officer: Activist||HYDERABAD: Though a case was booked against a 25-year-old civil rights activist for a post on the Million March (related to anti-CAA protest), police have issued a notice directing him to appear the investigation office now. The activist, Syed Abdahu Kashaf, however, claims he was booked for complaining against a senior IPS officer for assaulting people in January. A sub-inspector of cyber crime lodged a complaint in January based on his video posted on Twitter: “#BreakingNews The #MillionMarchProtest is not cancelled please don’t believe in rumours. Get united, don’t fall up in the traps. 2:00 pm at Dharna Chowk, Indira Park, Hyderabad. Please share as much as possible- Syed Abdahu Kashaf.” “This video is likely to escalate communal tension among different communities which may cause a breach to public tranquillity,” the SI stated in his complaint. “The content of the video did not target any specific community or religion. Police have booked a case under promoting enmity between different groups and criminal conspiracy on what basis,” Kashaf, who earlier worked for a political party, questioned. “On January 10, I approached the Banjara hills police to lodge a complaint against Avinash Mohanty, DCP (CCS) after a video of the officer beating a few persons with a lathi at Puranapul went viral. The next day, after the intervention of CP Hyderabad, the cops took the petition and gave an acknowledgement. The same day, the case was registered against me by a cyber crime SI under the detective department,” Kashaf said. However, Kashaf found out that he was booked only on Friday. “I am not aware of this particular case. While the notice will be served when the investigating officer starts the investigation. For the past three months of lockdown, cops have been busy with other duties,” Avinash Mohanty, who is now Joint CP, CCS, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/booked-for-plaint-against-ips-officer-activist/articleshow/76165163.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 3, 2020||Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir govt evacuates 1,06,102 stranded residents till date||JAMMU: The UT administration has till date evacuated as many as 1,06,102 J&K residents, stranded in various arts of the country, via Lakhanpur and by special trains and buses. As per the official data, 40 special trains arrived at Jammu and Udhampur railway station. As many as 74,316 returnees have been evacuated through Lakhanpur till June 1 from others states and UTs, including three from Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/jk-govt-evacuates-106102-stranded-residents-till-date/articleshow/76163632.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||200 vendors resume operations inside Panaji market complex||PANAJI: It was 70 days ago that Shekhar Pujari had last sold some coconuts from inside the Panaji market complex. When the building’s gates were sealed due to the lockdown, the sexagenarian has had no access to his goods. It wasn’t until Tuesday that lockdown relaxations allowed him and 200 other vendors to resume business. “The coconuts are no longer fresh and have dried up. I have no choice but to wait until the monsoon ends and then dry the kernel to extract oil,” he said. Over the past few weeks, vendors had been accommodated outside the complex’s building by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) in a bid to maintain social distancing. Now inside, they are under strict watch by CCP inspectors to ensure there are no instances of crowding. Vendors, however, spent most of the day cleaning their stations, changing tube lights and setting up their goods. “My CCTV cameras faced a glitch after problems in wiring surfaced,” an onion seller said. “Most buyers are still unaware that we have shifted indoors. Besides, due to the heavy rain, most buyers have opted not to come to the market. It’s not an active day of sale for us,” another vendor said. Relieved with the vegetables and fruits being sold inside, Porvorim-based housewife Geeta Mahale said she was glad that things were starting to normalise but warned that people must tread with caution. “Everyone must take care of themselves. Social distancing is a must and people must be alert about their surroundings. Only then can vendors and shoppers responsibly carry out their activities,” she said. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said the new municipal market complex will be monitored by the police as well, to ensure that people wear masks, follow social distancing and avoid spitting or chewing tobacco. “Those who are found spitting, selling tobacco items or chewing tobacco inside the complex will be fined,” he said. Last month, the CCP had temporarily suspended operations of nearly 50 businessmen after paan stains were found on the freshly sanitised market building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/200-vendors-resume-ops-inside-panaji-mkt-complex/articleshow/76164516.cms||Nida Sayed
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP government forwards Rs 20,000 crore to cane growers’ accounts||LUCKNOW: Underlining its pro-farmer stance, UP government has ensured payment of Rs 20,000 crore directly into the accounts of sugarcane growers. The payment was done during the crushing period between October and May, which also included two months of the lockdown. Overall, the Yogi government has paid Rs 99,000 crore to the cane growers since 2017, when it came to power. According to a state government spokesperson, around 35,000-40,000 farmers were directly linked to the sugar mills operations. A total of 10 lakh workers were engaged on a daily basis for sugarcane peeling. Like previous year, UP again ranked first in sugar production — around 1,250 lakh quintal of sugar was produced in the current crushing season — pipping Maharashtra which is also known for high cane production. This was beside the transfer of Rs 2,000 twice in the accounts of over 2 crore farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. The spokesperson said the state government also allowed agricultural equipment to reach the fields for crop harvesting during the lockdown. “Permission was also granted to open fertilizer and seed shops,” the spokesperson said. The government also bought 3.5 lakh quintals of wheat under minimum support price (MSP) and Rs 3,890 crore were paid for it. The government also reached out to the farmers through farmers producer companies (FPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-forwards-rs-20000cr-to-cane-growers-accounts/articleshow/76165130.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Green nod for Sammakka Sagar||Hyderabad: Works are expected to speed up soon on Sammakka Sagar, the barrage proposed to utilize River Godavari water completely, as the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) on Tuesday issued orders transferring about 69 acres of forest land to the state government for construction of the barrage as part of Devadula project along with environmental clearance. The Devadula lift irrigation project was taken up by the previous Congress government on River Godavari and a barrage at Tupakulagudem was proposed at a cost of Rs 2,121 crore to utilize Devedula project water fully. The state government had renamed Tupakulagudem as Sammakka barrage in 2017 and decided to complete the unfinished project. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-nod-for-sammakka-sagar/articleshow/76164510.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 3, 2020||Salem||BJP leaders pay tributes to Lakshmanan||Salem: BJP leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, C P Radhakrishnan and E La Ganesan paid their tributes on Tuesday to K N Lakshmanan, 90, who died of age-related ailments at his residence in Salem on Monday night. The mortal remains of Lakshmanan was cremated at Kakkayan burial ground at 4pm. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his grief through twitter. “He was at the forefront of serving the people of Tamil Nadu and expanding the BJP organisation there,” Modi said. Similarly, BJP national president J P Nadda in his message said he was deeply saddened by the demise of senior leader and former president of Tamil Nadu BJP. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said KNL’s death will be a great loss to the state. “He served twice as BJP president and as an MLA,” he said. DMK chief M K Stalin in his message said though KNL was in the opposition party, he had a strong love and affection for Kalaignar M Karunanidhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/bjp-leaders-pay-tributes-to-lakshmanan/articleshow/76164515.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Juice vendor tests positive||Vijayawada: Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials are restricting crowds at wholesale markets in One Town after a fruit juice vendor at Kandulavari Street tested positive for the Covid-19 on Tuesday. VMC authorities disinfected the street and declared the area a containment zone. “The majority of the shops were not following social distancing. It is of no use to impose a containment zone after cases are registered in a particular area. Police should take stringent action on shops that are not following the norms,” said K Narayana, a resident of Kandulavari Street. After Tuesday’s incident, however, most stall owners were seen following social distancing norms. Special VMC teams and police warned vendors against ignoring guidelines on social distancing. Crowds at city markets had increased after the government relaxed guidelines on the lockdown and shops reopened. —Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/juice-vendor-tests-positive/articleshow/76163648.cms||Venu Lanka
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Cops to help streamline opening of shops||Nagpur: City police top brass, following a brainstorming session on Monday, decided to now hold a tripartite meeting involving the senior inspectors, NMC’s nodal officers or assistant municipal commissioners in every zone and local merchants’ associations for implementing model of alternate day opening for non-essential shops from June 5. NMC’s order of allowing non-essential shops to open on alternate days on the basis of their facing direction seemed to have created speculation among the traders and citizens about how it will be implemented. The order is part of the state’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ kick-starting the Unlock 1.0 from later this week. City police chief BK Upadhyay, who did not want to comment on the merit of the alternate-day order, said the implementation would be done only after meeting the local traders’ association. The modalities would be devised by the special branch DCP Shweta Khedkar, also the nodal officer for the city police’s corona control room, in coming days. In the past, NMC and police department had difference of approach in the lockdown implementations leading to some controversies. Police were blamed for being lackadaisical. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had to intervene to convince the agencies to work with more coordination and cohesively. Khedkar said she would soon issue orders for respective police stations to summon a meeting of the local traders and NMC officials. “Police department would seek advice of the traders, their representative bodies and NMC officials to decide which shops would remain open on what dates,” she said. Khedkar said no confusion would be allowed in the process and hence traders are being engaged too. “Police and NMC would jointly explain the arrangement of opening on alternate days to them. Their issues too would be heard and decided on amicably,” she said. Khedkar also warned of action in case any trader flouted the norms even after these discussions. “We would try to go as meticulously as possible so there are no issues but there would be action if someone is found violating order after that,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-help-streamline-opening-of-shops/articleshow/76164521.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Warangal tops in property tax collection||WARANGAL: Warangal contributed Rs 24.06 crore revenue from property tax to the state this financial year, which has been registered as the highest property tax collection in the state. Speaking to mediapersons at the state formation day celebrations held here on Tuesday, chief whip Dasyam Vinaya Bhaskar said that during the lockdown, the government distributed rice and groceries to nearly 13,571 migrant labourers stranded in Warangal district. The chief whip announced that a mass sanitation drive would be conducted from the coming Sunday in the district and appealed to the public to participate in the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-tops-in-property-tax-collection/articleshow/76164518.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers’ assns petition collector||Coimbatore: Eight farmers’ associations on Tuesday petitioned collector K Rajamani seeking to continue free power supply for farmers and clear backlog of applications for the same. In the petition, the associations said the Centre’s move to metre power and subsidize through cash transfers should be stopped. Power supply for farmers should remain free and unmetered, the petition said. A large backlog of applications for free power connections for many years should be cleared, it added. Tatkal charges for free power connections which now stands at Rs 20,000 should be cancelled, it said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-assns-petition-collector/articleshow/76164529.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Cops detain six Bangladeshnationals||Panaji: Continuing their drive against foreigners staying illegally, Goa police on Tuesday detained six Bangladeshis from Ponda. They were involved in a scrap business and were staying without any valid documents. Of the six, one woman was staying in Marcel. Goa police PRO and SP (ANC) Shobhit Saksena said the Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office (FRRO) had received information that a few people, suspected to be Bangladesh nationals, were staying illegally in Ponda and working as scrap dealers. “Ponda PI verified the information and found it to be true. The six persons were then detained for not having travel documents,” he sai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-detain-six-bangladeshnationals/articleshow/76164532.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Around 1,000 Goan seafarers expected to land this week||PANAJI: More than 1,000 Goan seafarers are expected to arrive in Goa between June 5 and June 11, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. He added that the flights carrying 1,136 Goans will arrive from UK. A flight chartered by Princess Cruises arrived at Goa airport on Tuesday evening with 153 seafarers. This is the fifth repatriation flight carrying seafarers directly to Goa. MSC Cruises has received the go ahead from the Indian and Goa government to send around 1,600 Indian seafarers back home of which around 600 are Goan. The company was given the green signal by the Goa government to send six flights, however, the Indian government requested three of the six flights chartered by the cruise company to be sent to other airports in India. “Three flights are expected to land in Goa, two in Mumbai and one in Delhi,” an official said. The first of these flights from Italy is expected to land at Dabolim on Thursday with around 200 Goans from two- vessels MSC Divina and MSC Fantasia. The cruise vessel MSC Fantasia sailed from the US to Italy on Monday and the Goan crew from both the vessels will be brought to Goa. The next flight from Brazil is expected to arrive on Saturday via Doha where it will refuel. The first set of 278 seafarers from MSC Cruises arrived in Goa last week and are undergoing institutional quarantine at a hotel in Patto. They will complete seven days and be sent on home quarantine on Friday. More than 700 seafarers have arrived directly at Goa airport on five flights from Italy and Sri Lanka, while another 270 were brought to Goa by road last month from Mumbai port and airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/around-1000-seafarers-expected-to-land-this-week/articleshow/76164546.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Nirbhaya teams got 26 distress calls during lockdown||Nashik: The Nirbhaya squad of the city police commissionerate attended 26 distress calls from women, mainly regarding domestic violence, during the lockdown period, senior officers said. Around two months ago, commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil had uploaded a video on social media warning Nashik residents of strict action if they were found indulging in domestic violence. The CP had brought to the notice of the people at large that the lockdown was increasing frustration among people at the domestic level while women and children were finding themselves at the receiving end. PSI Neha Suryawanshi said that they received several calls regarding harassment. Either the victims themselves made the calls or people in their vicinity contacted the Nirbhaya squad and informed them about the harassment. Acting on the tip-offs or distress calls, the Nirbhaya teams immediately took action and warned the concerned people. Moreover, they also intimated the concerned police stations about the calls they had received from women in their respective areas. Suryawanshi said that they also booked a large number of people who were found violating the lockdown norms by moving around in the city without wearing face masks. More than 700 people were booked by the Nirbhaya squads during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nirbhaya-teams-got-26-distress-calls-during-lockdown/articleshow/76162679.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Girl defeats Covid, dies of meningitis in Wardha||Wardha: A 21-year-old girl who overcame coronavirus infection died of meningitis. The girl breathed her last at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital (AVBRH), Sawangi, at 4.30am on Tuesday. The girl, a resident of Dhamangaon (Railway) of Amravati district, was admitted to AVBRH on May 8 for treatment of meningitis. She was also tested for Covid-19 and the result came positive on May 10. The girl was discharged four days ago after she tested negative for Covid-19 infection, but was admitted the same day for meningitis. She was tested for Covid-19 again and report came negative on Monday. She breathed her last while undergoing treatment for meningitis. “The girl defeated the coronavirus, but died due to meningitis,” said Dr Ajay Dawale, district health officer. Her mother and two sisters who came in contact with the girl had tested Covid positive. Her mother and a sister were discharged from the hospital on May 29, while another sister was discharged on Monday. Till date, a total of 20 coronavirus patients were detected in the district. Three of them have died and seven have defeated the coronavirus. Ten patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/girl-defeats-covid-dies-of-meningitis-in-wardha/articleshow/76164541.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Smriti Irani to help Amethi man bring his son’s body from Tanzania||LUCKNOW: Union minister Smriti Irani has written to the ministry of external affairs, seeking help for an Amethi resident whose 38-year-old son Abhayraj Singh, a physical education teacher, died of malaria in Tanzania on May 31. Ramesh Chandra Singh, a native of Korari village in Amethi, has been running from pillar to post to get back the body of his son, but in vain. Smriti Irani, sitting MP from Amethi, has assured all possible help to Ramesh. She has written to MEA to help the man bring back his son’s body. Smriti has also assured all help for the safe return of Abhayraj’s wife Ruchi Singh (36) and son Aditya (9). Thomas K.Joseph, principal of the Indian school in Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, told TOI that the process to send Abhayraj’s body back to India has been initiated with the high commission’s help. “Abhayraj was head of the physical education department, while his wife Ruchi teaches Hindi in primary classes in our school,” he said. Talking to TOI, Ramesh, who retired from Indian Navy, said, “We spoke to him on Friday and he sounded perfect. Abhayraj had told us that he would be discharged from hospital in Tanzania soon. But then we don’t know what happened.” Ramesh said Abhayraj had got the job in Tanzanian school in 2014 and had last visited them in April 2019. “He was expected to visit us again on April 6, but the lockdown dashed all hopes of his return,” he said, and added that Abhayraj's mother Pushpa Singh still thinks that her son is alive. Villagers at Karori have high hopes from Smriti Irani. Raju Singh, a neighbour of Ramesh, said, “Many Brahmins of our village are performing 'puja' for the safe return of Abhay’s wife and son.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/irani-to-help-amethi-man-bring-his-sons-body-from-tanzania/articleshow/76165136.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Property dealer plots ‘suicide’ to dodge Rs 2-crore debt||NEW DELHI: Reeling under a debt of Rs 2 crore, a 43-year-old man planned to commit suicide last month by setting his car ablaze in outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala. Deepak Dabas, a weightlifter-turned-property dealer who also runs a gymnasium, however, claims now that he got scared and left for Haridwar on foot. On May 15, police were informed about a burning car on Bawana-Kanjhawala Road. On reaching the spot, they found that the charred Duster car belonged to Dabas alias Vikky. His family members said he was missing. A kidnapping case was registered following his father’s statement, said P K Mishra, Rohini DCP. Preliminary investigations revealed Dabas had borrowed money from several people, including relatives. But the balance was low in most of his accounts. As police tried to track him, it was found that a transaction of Rs 2,500 was made from an ATM in UP’s Muzaffarnagar four days later using a card belonging to his wife. A police team not only went to Muzaffarnagar but also to Dehradun and Mussoorie, and got to know on June 1 that Dabas had boarded a train for Delhi. Another team intercepted the train at Meerut and caught him. Dabas won a gold medal in the World Powerlifting Championships in Delhi in 2017, police said. His wife, a weightlifter, also won a gold medal in the same tournament. Dabas allegedly used to borrow heavily and lend that money on high interest. Dabas claimed he sprayed diesel on his car but felt suffocated as soon as he set it on fire and moved out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/property-dealer-plots-suicide-to-dodge-rs-2-crore-debt/articleshow/76164550.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Megalithic rock structure found in Tirupur village||COIMBATORE: Archaeology researchers and enthusiasts have discovered a megalithic structure, which they say could be around 3,000 years old, at Mangarasa Valayapalayam village near Avinashi in Tirupur district. The structure, whose plinth is a collection of rocks on which a huge boulder was placed, could have been a precursor for later stone structures such as stone circles and menhirs, said researchers. Menhirs, stone circles, and slab cists were some of the megalithic structures found in the Kongu region, said archaeological researcher Stephen Mudiarasu. “Structures such as slab cists have a regular shape that were cut by people and point to the usage of iron implements. So we place irregular structures at an earlier period when there were no iron tools. What we have found is one such structure. After consulting senior experts, we safely aged it around 3,000 years,” he said. The boulder which is on the top would weigh around two tonnes, said Mudiarasu. “The base is made of three smaller rocks placed near each other. The top boulder measures 11ft wide on the upper side and 5.5ft wide at the base. The whole structure is on a hillock. Locals call it ‘Thookki Vechaan Paarai’,” he said. Such irregular structures were so far found only in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, he said. The structure was first spotted by Vadivelu, a school teacher in the region. But he could not take a picture of it. Later a cop, Velliangiri, brought a picture of it to the researchers. “We then saw that it was not a natural formation and went to the spot, measured it, marked its precise location and sent it to senior archaeological experts such as R Poonkundran and T Subramanian,” he said. When contacted, former assistant director of state archaeology department R Poonkundran said the age of the structure would be within 3,000 years, somewhere around 2,600 years. “It is a man-made stone cist,” he said. But as it was situated on a hillock, its purpose was not clear, he added. The researchers have informed district archaeological officials about the findings. Parts of Mangarasa Valayapalayam fall in Erode district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/megalithic-rock-structure-found-in-tirupur-village/articleshow/76164535.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 100 cops return to duty after defeating Covid-19||KOLKATA: As many as 100 police personnel, out of the 174 cops contracting the novel coronavirus in Bengal, have been cured. Among those who tested positive, 106 personnel are from Kolkata Police, of whom 35 are already back at work. The rest are set to resume duty soon. So far, 56 KP personnel have been discharged from hospitals, 16 of them over the past two days. All these personnel had contracted the virus while being out on roads, enforcing the rules of lockdown. Most of them belonged to police stations, such as Jorabagan, Jorasanko, Bowbazar, Pragati Maidan and Anandapur and traffic guards like South and Jorabagan that have multiple containment zones within their jurisdictions. The combat force was on duty at important government buildings and the Disaster Management Group worked round-the-clock to bring help the city back on its feet after being ravaged by Amphan. On being released from hospital after around two weeks, the cops were asked to undergo two weeks of home quarantine and some extra rest, if possible. But yet when Cyclone Amphan struck, most of them not only returned to duty but some also led the rebuilding process in their areas. Bowbazar OC Siddhartha Chakraborty was diagnosed with Covid-19 in the beginning of May. He pent 12 days in a hospital off EM Bypass and when he was fianlly discharged amid collective relief, even chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted about his recovery. But given the scale of destruction left behind by Cyclone Amphan, Chatterjee could apparently not stay away from the call of duty. “When we were out on roads enforcing the lockdown, we were the first using face shields and PPEs, except health workers. We followed social distancing. Yet, I was diagnosed with Covid. I decided to treat it like any other disease. Every senior supported me and I was never left alone. Even commissioner sir (Anuj Sharma) asked after me. When I was released, I got a rousing welcome, showing everyone was ready to see me back at work. When Amphan struck, I knew I had to do whatever little I could in return for the faith they had in me,” he told TOI. Chakraborty is following the standard measures: wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and disinfecting police stations multiple times. Sergeant Wasim Nair from Jorabagan traffic guard said he joined work the day Amphan hit. The traffic guard was still in a containment zone when he rejoined. His seniors had initially offered him a “safer” duty but he refused. “I am thankful to my superior officers who stood by me , especially my OC who ensured everything was fine at my home when I was in hospital. My family, who supported me, suggested I be back in duty,” Nair told TOI. “ I have a message for my colleagues: I was on duty when I contracted the virus, but it should be seen as a challenge and not a scare.” Several others—sub-inspector Rajkumar Das of Jorasanko police, police driver Bilas Chandra Dutta of Hare Street PS and Iqlab Ahmed, sergeant at Bowbazar PS—have also reported back to work. They had either been assigned duty or kept on extra quarantine, ready to be assigned duty, said senior IPS officers. “We have recorded no death so far. Our recovery rate has been impressive. We have tried to stay in contact with everyone infected and help the families. We have taken all steps to restrict the spread of the virus,” said JCP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha. Senior officers have announced a slew of measures to tackle rising cases. “We have contained the sudden surge at Police Training School by taking certain steps, including use of hydroxychloroquine and homoeopathy medicines. It’s not about a few protests but how we redress the grievances. We are one big family and half the battle is won when we are not scared,” said an additional CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-cops-return-to-duty-after-defeating-covid/articleshow/76164553.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC administrator’s order baffles traffic cops||Aurangabad: The civic body administrator’s 18-page order on the plying of cabs and autorickshaws on city streets left the traffic police personnel confused on Tuesday. The traffic cops said the order was contradictory as it allowed the movement of autorickshaws and cabs on one page, but banned the movement of these vehicles on another. Civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, however, ruled out any contradiction saying the application of common sense would have helped understand the order. The confusion was being discussed in person as well as on a WhatsApp group, and officers were drawing different conclusions. “On one page, the order states that cabs, autorickshaws, busses, shopping malls, beauty parlours, spas and gyms would remain closed. On another, cabs, autorickshaws and private busses were allowed to ply,” said an officer of the traffic branch. When contacted, Pandey clarified that the ban is up to June 4, while the relaxation order is applicable from June 5 onwards. In accordance with the MHA guidelines, the civic body administrator too issued a self-explanatory 18-page order titled ‘Mission Begin Again’ specifying the things allowed as well as those banned during the month-long lockdown 5.0 that began on June 1. As a part of the phase-wise relaxation, citizens are now allowed to step out for physical exercise, cycling and morning walks in open spaces with lower footfall while following social distancing norms as well as using face masks. Shops have been allowed to operate on alternate days. Citizens have been advised to visit the nearest stores and shops for purchases. In this phase, autorickshaws, cabs, buses and vehicles have been allowed to ply. Starting June 8, restrictions on plying of autorickshaws and cabs would be limited only in containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-administrators-order-baffles-traffic-cops/articleshow/76163683.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 3, 2020||India||No mandatory quarantine for Bihar migrants||PATNA: Migrant workers returning to Bihar will not have to undergo the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine any more, as the movement of people has opened across the country, a state government official said on Tuesday, a move that can lead to further spurt in Covid-19 cases. The registration of migrants for the purpose of quarantine closed on Monday, the official of the Disaster Management department said. More than 8.77 lakh people have been discharged from quarantine centres after completing the 14-day quarantine period. Besides, 5.30 lakh migrants are still lodged in block and district level quarantine centres in Bihar. “We have stopped the registration of migrants from Monday for putting them in 14-day institutional quarantine... Why will anyone (migrant) be registered and for what when restrictions on the movement of people have been lifted in the country.” He, however, asserted that door-to-door health monitoring will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-mandatory-quarantine-for-bihar-migrants/articleshow/76166066.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Tirumala temple to reopen on ‘trial basis’||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, following the government’s consent to revive pilgrim worship at the Lord Venkateswara temple, has decided to conduct a trial run with TTD employees and Tirumala locals on June 8. TTD executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal had written to the government on May 12, seeking permission to open the temple to devotees on a trial basis after lockdown norms were eased. After the Centre gave its nod to open places of worship across the country from June 8, the state government too granted permission to TTD to resume its operations, but asked them to first conduct a trial run with TTD employees and local public while ensuring social distancing at all points. TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy said as part of the trial run, TTD employees and their family members besides Tirumala locals would be allowed to enter the temple for darshan for three days from June 8. “After three days, we will review the situation and decide on allowing devotees from other places for darshan. Devotees have to make their darshan tickets booking online and must stick to strict guidelines of self-hygiene and social distancing norms during their pilgrimage. Bathing at Srivari Pushkarini temple tank will remain suspended,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirumala-temple-to-reopen-on-trial-basis/articleshow/76163715.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Citizens, NGOs not helping admin fight Covid: HC||Nagpur: Expressing concern over citizens not coming to help the government in containing Covid-19 pandemic, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court orally observed the authorities were doing a commendable job and they should be encouraged. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor on Tuesday also directed the respondents, including Amravati administration, to explain the reasons behind not collecting swab samples of dead patients. “Even the reputed NGOs are not volunteering or sending their doctors to help the administration. How many of us have gone to the streets and distributed food packets? It is very easy to file cases in HC. We must help the authorities and collectively fight the battle against deadly virus. HC is there only if Centre and states aren’t responding or providing funds,” the judges said. While hearing a petition by petitioner Shivaray Kulkarni through counsel Pankaj Navlani pressing for stringent measures to control the growth of coronavirus in Amravati, the judges noted that HC had passed orders on March 23 to release funds in initial days. “Now, the purpose of petition is served and therefore, we want to dispose of it. We find that petitioner’s prayers are by and large worked out,” the judges stated. Earlier, Navlani contended the Amravati collector had made a statement in a press conference on April 28 that oral and nasal swab samples of the dead patients wouldn’t be collected. He pointed out no deaths were reported due to Covid-19 virus in the district since then. He also submitted media reports on collector’s announcement. “These facts are relevant and respondents should explain on it within a week,” the judges said before adjourning the hearing. Jemini Kasat held brief for Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC) while assistant solicitor general of India Ulhas Aurangabadkar pleaded for the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-ngos-not-helping-admin-fight-covid-hc/articleshow/76164554.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Centre gives nod for medical college on forest land in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change gave clearance to construct the proposed medical college on 25 acres of forest land at Indu Nagar in the town last week. With this, the next step for the medical college to come up is foundation laying ceremony for which a date has been awaited from the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. “Tender has also been floated for the construction of the medical college.” collector J Innocent Divya said.She said, “We are waiting for a date from the chief minister for the inaugural ceremony of laying foundation.”Besides the 25 acres at Indu Nagar, another 15 acres of land is required for the construction of the college as more than one storey (ground+one) cannot be constructed in the Nilgiris as per the guidelines of Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA).A piece of land extending to 15 acres, falling under the animal husbandry department and located adjacent to the existing 25 acres of forest land, has been identified for the purpose. A GO has already been issued to transfer the land from the animal husbandry department to the health department for the college.“We are in the process of identifying a land of the same area as compensation to animal husbandry department,” Divya said.To compensate for the diversion of the 25 acres of forest land, double the amount of land, say 50 acres, identified in Salem will be handed over to the forest department soon.With a proposed budget of Rs 325 crore, the central government-sponsored scheme works with a ratio of 60:40; while the central government bears 60% of the total cost, the rest will be borne by the state government. It is proposed to have 150 seats in the upcoming Ooty medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/centre-gives-nod-for-medical-college-on-forest-land-in-ooty/articleshow/76164548.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Man booked for wife’s murder||Aurangabad: Khultabad police have registered a case against a 30-year-old man for allegedly murdering his wife in the presence of their two children, including their eight-year-old son. Police said that the incident took place at the PWD quarters situated at Mhainsmal, the famous hills known for attracting a large number of tourists. The deceased has been identified as Maya Salve (26). Police said that the suspect fled in the jungle down the hill after killing his wife. A manhunt has been launched to nab the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-booked-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/76163718.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court tells AMC to compensate refugees||AHMEDABAD: A city civil court has ordered the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to compensate 61 Pakistani refugees whose rented roadside shops were demolished and they were evicted from their workplace in Amdupura three decades ago, or it could provide them an alternative place of business. The compensation order has been passed with a strong rebuke to the civic body and its officials. The civil body was dubbed Rip Van Vinkle for its forgetfulness and the court likened the officials with the last French queen Marie Antoinette, infamous for her profligate lifestyle and callous attitude towards the poor. The court even quoted a poem by German playwright Bertotlt Brecht saying justice is as important to a poor man as bread. The refugees, who were barbers, tailors, cloth vendors, shoe vendors, bag vendors and alternative medicine practitioners, were working in cabins on an AMC plot granted to them in 1952. In 1991, they were evicted and their cabins were pulled down. The refugees were fighting a legal battle since then. Some of them even passed away while their civil suit for compensation was pending. The court ordered the AMC either to provide alternative workplace to the migrants or to calculate compensation on basis of the valuation norms prevailing when the cabins were demolished. AMC has been ordered to provide details of the compensation on its website. When the AMC put forward its defence that not all of them were the original allottees, the court pulled up the civic body for its approach towards the tenants, who were paying rent till 1991. “Did AMC follow Rip Van Winkle attitude? This court holds acquiescence by AMC when AMC kept accepting licence fees from the plaintiffs while having specific knowledge that plaintiffs were not the original allottees,” the court said. The court came down heavily for the eviction without paying any compensation and for invoking its eminent domain power. The court said that AMC “is turning itself into a police state”. It said, “The very purpose of liberty and independence of India was to place all possible safeguards against creation of a police state. Independence will turn illusory if the poor get trampled under the banner of beautification of the city and widening road, making way for bigger cars while pushing away the marginal without compensation. Such must not be the purpose of any nation that calls itself a ‘Republic’.” Court likens AMC officials to Marie AntoinetteJudge S D Dave likened the civil body officials with the French queen Marie Antoinette and cited her infamous quote. It lambasted the officers for being oblivious to the pain of the refugees who had been rendered without livelihood. “All this is difficult to understand, unless a man can empathize. Those having good jobs have security. Every month their salary gets deposited in their bank account. Life is cosy. Happiness however has one difficulty in that it has a property of anesthesia unless such effect is effaced consciously and deliberately. A very happy man may not be able to feel trouble of other persons and therefore may say “If you don’t have bread – eat cake”. The court further said, “Many of these officers may have trudged their ways of difficulties. They should remember those days of difficulties and be kind to the hapless and helpless people around them. That is what local governance is all about... Today those who occupy public offices will not occupy them in all eternity. But they have a choice to make – either create an environment that will help next generations thrive in a land of social justice or leave a situation for the coming generations to struggle against tyranny. The choice is theirs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-tells-amc-to-compensate-refugees/articleshow/76164611.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Resident doctor at GMCH tests positive||Auranagabad: A woman resident doctor serving in the gynaecology department of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, has tested positive for Covid-19, making her the second doctor from the hospital to fall prey to the contagion. As a precautionary measure, 10 resident doctors, who were working closely with the resident doctor, have been quarantined, leading to additional burden on the existing resident doctors. A couple of days ago, the woman resident doctor started getting mild symptoms, including fever, following which she immediately alerted her seniors. “Not taking any chances, she was referred for testing and was found to be positive for Covid-19. A resident doctor with gynecology department testing positive is a cause of concern and in consultation with the dean, we are scaling up preventive measures,” a senior doctor from the department said. Resident doctors at the gynaecology department said that as of now, only pregnant women with coronavirus symptoms are made to undergo swab tests. “We have a strong opinion that all pregnant women should undergo swab tests before any treatment. By not making asymptomatic pregnant women to undergo swab tests, we are taking a risk,” a senior resident doctor said. In addition to this, the GMCH administration and civic body’s task force have started working on a war-footing to trace all the people, including patients, who might have come in contact with the resident doctor in the past fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/resident-doctor-at-gmch-tests-positive/articleshow/76163710.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 103 deaths in Maharashtra, but doubling rate of Mumbai’s cases slows to 19 days||MUMBAI: The state on Tuesday recorded 103 fatalities, its second highest after May 29 (116), taking the toll to 2,465. Maharashtra added 2,287 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 72,300. Mumbai saw a marginal dip with 1,117 cases, the lowest in six days. The city’s tally stood at 42,216, accounting for 58% of the state’s cases. Deaths, however, continued to be a reason for concern as Tuesday saw 49 fatalities, the third highest rise. The highest number of deaths Mumbai has added on a single day is 54. The city’s toll has reached 1,368 now. In a meeting chaired by CM Uddhav Thackeray, civic chief I S Chahal informed ministers that the doubling rate of cases in Mumbai has reached 19 days. Till last week, it was around 11-12 days. Chahal further said that every patient in Mumbai will be given a unique identity number, and it will be mandatory for all laboratories to give a test report within 24 hours. Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the state health department, claimed that the mortality rate in the state has reduced to 3.37% from 7.5% seen in April. Currently, the mortality rate is less than that in a few other states such as Gujarat (6.18%), West Bengal (5.6%) and Madhya Pradesh (4.32%), Vyas said. He added that the ratio of positive patients has also come down to 15.5% from the 18% of the total tested. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said data from various hospitals suggest that out of total patients, as many as 75-80% are asymptomatic or mild cases, while 15-18% are moderate. It is only 5-7% patients who have serious illness, particularly those with co-morbid conditions. “Our experience shows that while most patients with mild and moderate disease recover, even serious patients have gone home after beating the illness,” he said. Civic authorities, in a statement, cited the examples of three hypertensive male patients aged 72 ,70 and 76 years, who were all admitted in ICU with acute respiratory distress. “All three patients were given oxygen support along with antibiotics, steroid and other standard treatments. All of them fully recovered after (a) few days of hospitalisation,” the statement said. A senior health care provider, who was admitted with breathlessness, low oxygen levels and uncontrolled diabetes and even required ventilation, has recovered, the civic official said. The doctor was given the injection Tocilizumab in addition to standard medication. He recovered in eight days and was discharged. Around 120 patients have been given the expensive drug in municipal hospitals, of which 108 have recovered. Meanwhile, the death of a 38-year-old social worker and RTI activist, Amar Agrawal, has led to shock and grief among Navi Mumbai activists, who have demanded an inquiry into lapses during his admission to the Covid-19 hospital in Vashi. They alleged he was being turned away from hospitals and even had to be driven around in an ambulance for two hours in search of a bed. Out of the 103 deaths reported on Tuesday, 49 were from Mumbai. The state claimed that of the total, 38 deaths occurred in the last two days, May 31 and June 1, while the rest are from May 1 to 30. Dharavi on Tuesday reported 25 new cases, taking the total number of patients from the locality to 1,830. The other localities of G North ward like Dadar on Tuesday reported 11 new cases and Mahim 25 cases. The total number of positives reported so far from G North ward has been 2,716, the highest in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/103-deaths-in-state-but-doubling-rate-of-citys-cases-slows-to-19-days/articleshow/76165140.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bar council has to act against trouble-making lawyers: Chief justice||BENGALURU: The chief justice on Tuesday said the Karnataka State Bar Council needs to take action against advocates creating trouble despite a clear standard operating procedure in place to conduct court proceedings and file petitions. This was after a group of advocates created a ruckus at the high court’s gate no. 5 on Tuesday. “Many districts have no problem; a majority of advocates are well-mannered and cooperating in partially keeping the courts open as per SOP. The main problem is in the capital. When the high court has issued a clear SOP, they should follow it. I don’t understand what they want to do by entering the high court premises at 9.30am,” chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed during the hearing of a PIL related to conduct of court proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bar-council-has-to-act-against-trouble-making-lawyers-cj/articleshow/76164389.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt seeks to get pvt hospitals Covid-19 ready, discusses cost||BENGALURU: Anticipating a huge spike in Covid-19 cases in the near future, the Karnataka health and family welfare department is discussing with private hospitals the possibility of treating the infected in their set-ups. Close to 400 private hospitals empanelled with Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust were consulted a week ago on including Covid-19 under the government’s co-branded Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) scheme. A meeting held in the last week of May in Bengaluru also discussed the price matrix for Covid-19 treatment in private empanelled hospitals under AB-ArK scheme. The government and private hospitals are yet to come to an agreement on the price matrix. “It differs based on whether a patient is symptomatic or asymptomatic, treatment requirement, ICU charges, ventilators and such other factors. The cost will be different for Below Poverty Line (priority households) and Above Poverty Line patients. It’s being discussed,” said sources in the know about the development. Thirty-five private hospitals in Bengaluru have already been identified as first-responder hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. However, government hospitals are currently taking the lead in treating the infected. At least 25 patients in Benglauru have opted to get treated in private hospitals. Confirming the consultations, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner of Karnataka, said private participation in treating Covid-19 cases has to be encouraged in the long run. “We want the participation of private hospitals in the days to come. A meeting was held to discuss the treatment. The number of cases will increase. Unless a magic vaccine comes, there seems to be no chance of a decline in Covid-19 cases for now,” he said. On April 1, Karnataka had 110 Covid-19 positive cases and the number swelled to 589 on May 1. A month later, the state reported 3,408 cases, close to five times the number a month earlier. The state currently has 28,686 beds in government hospitals, of which, as on June 1, only 2,026 beds were occupied or just 7 % utilised. Have to be future-ready “At Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru we have 550 beds ready for Covid-19 patients. But close to 400 beds are vacant. Even in the districts, very few Covid-19-designated hospitals are seeing full occupancy. One instance being Yadgir. But those who have insurance and are from high-income groups might prefer to get treated in private hospitals. All corporate and private hospitals have to be ready with isolation wards in future,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid-19 taskorce of Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-seeks-to-get-pvt-hospitals-covid-19-ready-discusses-cost/articleshow/76164288.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Two NMC staffers, nurse of pvt hosp among 24 +ves||Nagpur: Two employees of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and one nurse of a private hospital were among 24 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 585. In a relief, 37 doctors and staff of the civic body tested negative. A 48-year-old Class-III employee working with Rapid Response Team (RRT) in NMC Satranjipura zone appears to have contracted the disease while working in containing spread of Covid-19. He is a resident of Lalganj, which is a non-containment zone, and had not registered any case so far. NMC had appointed RRT for all 38 wards since city started registering Covid-19 cases in March. RRT was engaged in multipurpose works like monitoring home quarantined persons, ensuring Covid distancing among people in markets and shops. RRT from this zone was also working in Satranjipura containment zone, where 130 cases were detected, and Naik Talao-Bangladesh area, which witnessed 42 cases. The worker gave swab samples at NMC Mahdibagh Dispensary, where 37 employees of Satranjipura zone went for testing after a 21-year-old worker tested positive on Monday. The other NMC employee is a 40-year-old woman and attendant at NMC Mahdibagh Dispensary. She also gave swab samples at the special camp. She and a male attendant were working in the dispensary. The male attendant is the father-in-law of first positive person from Bangladesh. He was asked to remain in home quarantine after his son-in-law tested positive. The male attendant is also said to be ill now, and will be tested on Wednesday. NMC is trying to identify whether the female attendant contracted the virus from male attendant or from dispensary itself. She is a resident of Binaki, which too is a non-containment zone. The nurse who tested positive was among the few who were quarantined and tested after a 73-year-old man patient from the private hospital at Dhantoli tested positive on May 29 and died at GMCH Covid-19 Isolation ward on May 30. In a major relief for the NMC’s Covid-19 work, 37 doctors and staff from Satranjipura zone tested negative. They were engaged in Satranjipura and other containment zones since April 6. Many from Mominpura containment zone and adjoining areas heaved a sigh of relief as 25 customers of a barber also tested negative on Tuesday. NMC zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “The barber was quarantined and tested after his neighbour came positive in Hansapuri a few days ago. Our investigation revealed the barber used to run a saloon at Jalalpura and kept it closed since lockdown but was giving home services for all these days. As the barber was not ready to reveal the names of customers, we identified 25 persons, quarantined and tested all of them. The barber’s wife, cousin and 25 customers all tested negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-nmc-staffers-nurse-of-pvt-hosp-among-24-ves/articleshow/76164561.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||40 yrs on, royals to get rare yellow clay idol||Vadodara: A gold-coloured clay that had been used to make the royal idol, since 1927, will be put to use once again after around forty long years for this Ganesha festival. The practice to use yellow clay was discontinued in the royal Gaekwad family’s Ganesha idol some 35-40 years ago, and the trend shifted to black clay. However, thanks to the lockdown devotees will this year get an opportunity to get darshan of Lord Ganesha made by the Chavan family using the rare yellow clay. The family has been the royal idol makers since 1927. “We have been using clay from Bhavnagar to make Lord Ganesha’s idols for almost nine decades now. We start making the idols about four months ahead of the festival as the royal Gaekwad family’s Ganesh idol has to be made to perfection,” said Mangesh Chavan, member of the family. “However, due to the lockdown, we couldn’t bring the black clay from Bhavnagar which we have been using for four decades now. We first thought of waiting for some more time, but amid the uncertainty, we decided to go ahead and start making the idol during the lockdown itself,” Chavan told TOI. “Fortunately, we had a stock of the yellow clay that we had stored some 35 years ago as souvenir — which is now being utilized to make the royal idol. This will be a rare idol made of yellow clay as it is no longer available anywhere,” Chavan added. The makers claimed that yellow clay is better as it binds better, making it a perfect material for making idols. While making the Ganesha idol from the yellow clay for the first time, I was reliving the moments when my forefathers used it to make Ganesh idols for the royal family,” 42-year-old Chavan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/40-yrs-on-royals-to-get-rare-yellow-clay-idol/articleshow/76162275.cms||Tushar Tere
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 99 new cases as coronavirus claims four||HYDERABAD: Health authorities urged locals to take all possible precautions while going to markets and shops after 99 new coronavirus cases were recorded on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 2,891 cases. The virus claimed another four lives as the death toll rose to 92. With 70 of the new cases reported from Greater Hyderabad limits, health department officials said that wearing masks but not maintaining social distance defeated the purpose of prevention. “A good number of people who had visited shops and markets are among those testing positive. The virus is spreading faster since majority of the patients are asymptomatic and continuing with their routine without taking much precautions,” said a senior state health department official. “This is apart from the people who had traveled back from other parts of the country,” he added. With Hyderabad city remaining an area of concern for health authorities, stringent measures will be taken at shops and market places on social distancing. At the beginning of May, the GHMC area was seeing only five to ten cases on a daily basis but this has jumped several folds in just a month. “It has jumped more so during the last fortnight since the movement of migrant workers and passengers arriving by special flights, trains and buses began. The highest number of cases within GHMC limits was detected three days back,” informed a senior health official. Among the patients who succumbed to the virus on Tuesday were a 40-year-old man who had a cardiac ailment, a 41-year-old man with thyroid issues, a 70-year old woman and another 60-year-old woman with hypertension. Among the new cases were 12 migrant workers from Hyderabad and one each from Rangareddy, Mahabubnagar, Medchal, Jagtial, Nalgonda, Mancheriyal, Sangareddy and Siddipet districts. As many as 1,526 patients in the state have recovered so far while 1,273 active cases are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-99-new-cases-as-virus-claims-four/articleshow/76164045.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor B S Koshyari overrules CM Uddhav Thackeray, says he’ll take call on final year exams||MUMBAI: The tug of war between the state government and governor B S Koshyari over the issue of final year university exams snowballed on Tuesday with the governor seeking to assert his right as chancellor of universities in the state. Koshyari said the chancellor had the final say and that the decision to hold exams for final year students “shall be taken in consonance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act”. Describing the CM’s announcement to cancel examinations as “unprecedented” and made “without any profound thinking on the legal repercussions”, the governor said the decision, if implemented, would jeopardize the future of students. In a letter to the chief minister on Tuesday, the governor said he was “surprised” to learn through media reports about the former’s announcement that exams would not be conducted this year, while he was still awaiting a response to his earlier letter reinstating the need to hold exams. The letter further said that in a video conference with vice-chancellors all of them had communicated their preparedness to conduct exams. The governor was miffed that though the committee of vice-chancellors constituted by the minister for higher and technical education had analysed the situation and had sent a report on various options to conduct examinations to the secretary, higher and technical education department, on May 6, the same had not been presented to him till date. Koshyari stated it was the chancellor’s prerogative to give further directions after accepting the recommendations of the committee partially or fully once the report was received. “The arbitrary decision has violated the basic principle that to obtain an identical degree there cannot be two sets of criteria, one who has given examination and for the other who has obtained marks on average. The examinations cannot be made optional,” the letter stated. Pointing out that students of medicine, architecture, law etc had to register themselves with their professional bodies/councils to get a licence to practise, the governor stated these bodies may not be able to register the students in the absence of evaluation on established parameters. The governor noted that the ministry of home affairs had given approval and issued guidelines to conduct examinations to state boards and that CBSE and ICSE were also in the process of conducting exams despite the Covid situation. He contended that if exams could be conducted for younger children, then universities could do the same. In his letter, the governor has said the UGC (University Grants Commission) and other Central authorities are of the view that final year exams should not be dispensed with, hence, the state government should abide by UGC guidelines along with provisions of the Maharashtra Universities Act, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/guv-overrules-cm-says-hell-take-call-on-final-yr-exams/articleshow/76165160.cms||Hemali Chhapia
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 65,000 from 5 districts shifted, Palghar villagers resist move||MUMBAI: As many as 65,000 people from five districts were shifted to safer places and shelter homes on Tuesday. Cidco managing director Lokesh Chandra, who holds additional charge as Konkan divisional commissioner, said while 35,000 persons are from Raigad, 21,000 are from Palghar and the rest from Thane, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts.  Chandra further said adequate care is being taken in view of coronavirus. “We have made arrangements for providing uninterrupted power supply in Covid-19 hospitals in the region. We have sufficient NDRF and SDRF teams at our disposal,” Chandra told TOI. Meanwhile, in Palghar district, 22 coastal villages likely to be hit by the cyclone have been identified, even as the fishing community is resisting evacuation.  The process of evacuating around 21,080 people from these villages is underway. Locals, though, are refusing to move out of their homes saying they can tackle the cyclone’s fury and would rather stay back and save their homes and property.  As the NDRF team went out surveying the villages and asking occupants of thatched homes to proceed to relief camps, many refused to leave. Villagers gathered in large numbers and insisted on staying back.  In Satpati, the biggest fishing village of Maharashtra, locals refused evacuation. District collector Dr Kailash Shinde and superintendent of police Dattatrey Shinde met villagers, and thereafter 50 families from Toofanpada in Satpati were evacuated. Talks are on to move other villagers. Himanshu Akre from Mangalwada village in Dahanu said, “ We face rough conditions in the high sea, so we can brace the cyclone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/65000-from-5-districts-shifted-palghar-villagers-resist-move/articleshow/76163740.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 3, 2020||Business||QuaQua raises $1m from Anthill Ventures||Hyderabad: City-based travel tech startup QuaQua on Tuesday said it has closed its first round of institutional investment by raising $1 million from Anthill Ventures and other existing investors. The startup said it will utilise the funds to enhance its user experience and build an end-to-end AI and content-driven travel platform covering a customer’s journey from travel inspiration to planning, bookings, travel support and sharing of travel memories. The immersive travel startup, was set up in 2016 by Purav Shah and Sandesh Reddy, will also use the funds to expand its booking features right from flights, hotels, transfers, boutique experiences, staycations to personalised packages, and create content for 125 additional tourist destinations within India. Sandesh Reddy, co-founder and head of finance strategy, QuaQua, said, “The current investment by Anthill Ventures and other existing partners will help us enhance the platform, launch offline travel experiences, create engaging content, including blogs, itineraries and virtual tours, as well as build an AI-driven travel community.” QuaQua, which claims it currently has over 2.5 million users from over 100 countries, said that post Covid-19 it is seeing increased audience traction and it has drawn up strategic growth plans to meet the needs of travellers through its virtual travel products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/quaqua-raises-1m-from-anthill-ventures/articleshow/76163752.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Allow 10% of seating capacity: CNI to CM||Kolkata: Church of North India (CNI) has written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee asking her to allow the entry of devotees who will occupy 10% of the total seating capacity of its churches, most of which are large in size. The letter, signed by Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of Kolkata Diocese of the CNI, was sent on Tuesday after a meeting at Bishop House with senior Diocese office bearers. Since Monday, the state has allowed all religious institutions to reopen with just 10 people on the premises. While most bigger mosques and temples in the city have remained shut, churches have opened their doors, allowing only 10 worshippers at a time. CNI has some huge churches, such as St Paul’s Cathedral, St John’s Church, St James’ Church, Church of Epiphany in Thakurpukur and St Peter’s in Behala that have a large sitting capacity. St Paul’s can seat more than a 1,000 people and St John’s 650. “We called a Diocese meeting and decided to ask the CM to re-consider our case and allow entry of at least 10% people, so that we can start corporate worship or mass and reach out to people,” Bishop Canning said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/allow-10-of-seating-capacity-cni-to-cm/articleshow/76164566.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||55 more test +ve in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: A total of 55 people tested postive for Covid-19 in Aurangabad district on Tuesday, besides 18 a day before, taking the total count of patients to 1,642 while 1,049 patients have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery. The district has reported as many as 81 casualties so far with 514 active patients, authorities informed on Tuesday morning. The areas where new cases were detected on Tuesday include one each from Shah Bazar, Kat Kat Gate, Naralibaug, Ganesh Colony, Hamalwadi, Jyoti Nagar, Fazalpura, Mill Corner, Cidco N-3, MGM Hospital premises, Roshan Gate, Vishal Nagar, Garkheda, Ahinsa Nagar, Mukundwadi, Vidya Niketan Colony, Nyay Nagar Yashwant Nagar, Paithan, Nehru Nagar, Old Mondha, Cidco Waluj, Takshil Nagar, Rahemaniya Colony, Raja Bazar, Kotwalpura and Bhagya Nagar, two each from Kiradpura, Champa Chowk, Bhim Nagar, Nath Nagar, Shivshankar Colony, Baijipura and Vijay Nagar, three from Jawahar Nagar, four from Sanjay Nagar, six from Samata Nagar and seven from Cidco N-6 Sambhaji Colony. The authorities said that three patients were detected from other areas of the district. A 69-year-old man, a resident of Gautam Nagar on Pisadevi Road, died while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at 4 am on Tuesday. Arvind Gaikwad, GMCH media co-ordinator, said. “The Gautam Nagar resident had co-morbid condtions like septic shock, uraemic encephalopathy with acute kidney injury on chronic kidney disease with left lung pneumonia, diabetes and hypertension,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/55-more-test-ve-in-aurangabad/articleshow/76163735.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records second highest coronavirus spike in 3 days||LUCKNOW: The Covid tally for Uttar Pradesh recorded the second highest spike with 369 fresh cases on Tuesday. On May 31 the state had recorded 378 cases. The new cases took the state’s total to 8,790. Of them nearly 38% or 3,324 are active. With 42 fresh cases, Gautam Buddh Nagar accounts for the maximum number of cases. Amethi followed with 23 fresh cases, while Basti stood at the third place with 18 cases. The recent surge has made the three districts the biggest contributor to active infections as well. The state also recorded seven deaths – four in Agra, two in Kanpur Nagar and one in Ghaziabad – taking the total Covid casualties to 229. The Covid fatality rate of UP as on Tuesday was 2.6%. As per data, Agra accounts for the maximum burden of 45 deaths followed by Meerut and Aligarh from where 29 and 16 deaths have been reported. Besides, 146 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,176. The list also included cases of 2,404 Covid positive migrants. Health officials stated that, so far, 11.68 lakh migrant workers have been screened by Asha workers on the basis of flu like symptoms. Of them 74,237 were tested and 2,404 have tested positive. Health officials shared that 3.07 lakh swab samples have been tested in the state so far. On May 5, UP’s total Covid tests had crossed one-lakh mark and on May 21, it crossed the two-lakh mark. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that a good number of these tests were done through pool testing methodology. “The landmark was achieved as state labs were able to conduct an average of 10,000 tests a day. But the CM has fixed the target of 20,000 tests a day now and we strive to achieve it soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-records-second-highest-coronavirus-spike-in-3-days/articleshow/76165151.cms||Shailvee Sharda
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Remaining board exams to be held in own schools||NEW DELHI: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)’s rescheduled examinations for classes X and XII will be held at the school of the candidates and not at the earlier allotted examination centre. From Wednesday, students who wish to change their examination centre, can make a request for it. The rescheduled board examination will be held between July 1 and July 15. Class X examination will be held only for students in northeast Delhi. Issuing a notification on Tuesday, the Board said: “Because of the prevailing conditions in the country, special efforts are required in conducting the examination in a safe manner. As a number of students have shifted from the district of their school to other places, CBSE has decided that examination would now be conducted in respective schools of the candidates instead of the centre already allotted.” Regular students who were residing in hostels, students sponsored by state governments and those who have shifted from the district of their school to some other cities within the country, will be eligible for the change. The change has to be made to the respective schools and not to CBSE by June 9. Between June 16 and June 18, students would be informed about their changed examination centre. Students would have to carry the permission letter along with their old admit card and school identity card while appearing for the exams. However, as Delhi is being considered as one district, the board would not allow a change of centre here. No examination centre will be allowed in containment zones as well. “In case a child with special needs, availing the facility of a scribe, does not wish to appear for the forthcoming examination, their results would be declared as per the assessment scheme decided by the Board,” a circular issued by CBSE stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/remaining-board-exams-to-be-held-in-own-schools/articleshow/76164592.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM defers reopening by 2 days, Section 144 imposed in Mumbai as storm surge forecast||MUMBAI: Rain accompanied by strong, gusty winds lashed parts of the city on Tuesday as it braced for the impact of cyclonic storm Nisarga that is expected to make landfall south of it on Wednesday afternoon. With a red alert warning for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Wednesday, the city police put public places along the coast like beaches, promenades, parks out of bounds of people under Section 144 of CrPC for 24 hours from Wednesday, and authorities began evacuating hundreds of vulnerable dwellers near the sea in the city and thousands in coastal districts around it. In all, 65,000 people have been evacuated in five districts. Weather monitors warned of a storm surge of up to 2m above the astronomical tide, and of winds gusting at up to 120kmph as Cyclone Nisarga races up the west coast and is expected to make landfall between Harihareshwar, 200km south of Mumbai in Raigad district, and Daman, almost 200km north of Mumbai. However, IMD believes the landfall is likely near Alibaug in Raigad district. On Tuesday, CM Uddhav Thackeray postponed Mission Begin Again, the easing of the lockdown from June 3, by two days and asked citizens in the city and the coastal districts to stay indoors on Wednesday and Thursday. He advised them not to take shelter in temporary structures and dilapidated buildings, store drinking water and switch off power, especially in rural areas. A Covid-19 field hospital at BKC has been evacuated to ensure safety of the patients. PM Narendra Modi has assured the state government of help, he added. As a precaution, Mumbai airport will operate only 12 arrival flights on Wednesday as against the 25 it has been handling on an average daily for the past week. City collector Rajiv Nivatkar said long-distance trains will be allowed to ply depending on the weather situation. Officials at the state disaster management control room said 15 teams of NDRF and five SDRF have been deployed across districts and an additional five NDRF teams are being airlifted from Vishakhapatnam. Four of them have been sent to Raigad, where the landfall will occur. At 9.50pm on Tuesday, Cyclone Nisarga was located 310km southwest of Mumbai, said IMD, and is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours.Cyclones hitting Maharashtra is not common, as most that develop in the Arabian Sea either veer northwest to the Arabian peninsula or travel further up till Gujarat. On November 11, 2009, however, Cyclone Phyan had smashed into the Maharashtra coast, causing extensive damage to property. “For now, it shows that Mumbai is falling on the existing track of the storm (Nisarga) and, therefore, evacuation may be required in some areas. This is also considering that the radial distance between Alibaug and Mumbai is not much. The city is expected to witness a rainy day all throughout Wednesday and the remnants may even be witnessed on Thursday,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. It was only in Tuesday’s national bulletin that IMD officially named the storm ‘Nisarga’. The civic administration on Tuesday asked for equipment at construction sites to be secured to prevent accident and the police to remove temporary sheds erected on roads for nakabandis as the metal barriers could fly off due to the strong winds. In a marathon meeting, municipal commissioner I S Chahal asked ward officers to shift Covid patients put up in temporary structures. Civic officials warned slum dwellers near Banganga tank at Walkeshwar and near Mahalaxmi temple to shift to a BMC school for a day on Wednesday morning. At Bandra Bandstand, 150 slum dwellers were shifted to a nearby school. At Gorai village, civic officials requested locals to shift to a nearby school and a church premises. Western and Central Railways have asked their teams to be on high alert. RPF too has been deployed at many places to help people in case of emergency. Two NDRF teams were sent to Raigad to help tackle the impact of the cyclone. However, after a demand was made by the Raigad district collector, two additional NDRF teams were sanctioned for the Alibaug coast. Accordingly, three NDRF teams, with 22 personnel in each team, will be deployed in Alibaug taluka, said Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari. “Three are 62 villages with a population of 1.7 lakh along the coastal belt in Raigad district. We have evacuated around 5,000 people in Alibaug, Uran, Murud and Shrivardhan talukas as they were residing in ‘kutcha’ houses,” she said. Off the coast, big cargo vessels, offshore supply vessels of ONGC and other ships have been moved out as the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) and JNPT issued cyclone alerts once the IMD flagged signal number 5, which meant the port will experience severe weather. MbPT chairman Sanjay Bhatia said: “I have already passed the order not to allow berthing and evacuate the port. There could have been some 20 ships at the outer and inner anchorage.” Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist who is a PhD student at the Department of Meteorology, University of Reading, in UK, felt the storm is weakening. It is likely to look like a “vigorous monsoon day for Mumbai” and maybe a concern especially for those who live along the coast line in ‘kaccha structures’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-defers-reopening-by-2-days-sec-144-imposed-in-city-as-storm-surge-forecast/articleshow/76165159.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||MUHS may grant mercy attempt to 136 students||Nashik: Dileep Mhaisekar, vice-chancellor of the Nashik-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), will consider granting mercy attempts to 136 medical students to clear their first-year examination. These students had appealed to the VC, seeking permission to appear for the forthcoming examination. These 136 students are pursuing medical courses in Ayurveda and Unani streams and could not clear their first-year examination in four previous attempts. Ajit Pathak, the varsity’s controller of examination, has written to all the Ayurveda and Unani colleges in the state on the issue. University officials said that usually, such unsuccessful students are disallowed from continuing with their studies. “But the VC is empowered to provide an additional attempt to such students to clear the examination if the reasons for their failure are serious personal illnesses or other unavoidable circumstances,” added the varsity officials. In his letter to the college principals/deans, the varsity’s controller of examination said they should start processing the applications if such students want to avail of another opportunity to appear for the exam. “The colleges have to endorse the special recommendations of the students regarding their serious illnesses or unavoidable personal reasons,” the officials added. In his letter, Pathak said that unless the endorsements come from the colleges, the applications cannot be placed before the VC for the grant of a mercy attempt. “Moreover, such students must remember that this mercy attempt opportunity will be given only once during the entire BAMS and BUMS course tenure,” said Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-may-grant-mercy-attempt-to-136-students/articleshow/76162721.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Travellers’ tally: More cases, but more recoveries too||Nagpur: When migrant labourers, students, and residents coming back from Mumbai, Pune and other Covid-19 hotspots began testing positive in the second week of May, many districts in Vidarbha reported a spike in cases. Now, as these persons are getting discharged, the benefits of early detection and quarantine are becoming apparent. As most of the returnees were natives of remote villages in Vidarbha, and tested positive in rural areas, a possibility of rural and community spread was high. On the other hand, most returnees were young and of working age. So, even if they tested positive, their chances of getting cured were higher. The second possibility is proving true at least for Vidarbha. In last three days, 104 out of 195 travellers in six districts of Vidarbha have recovered and been discharged. On May 19, TOI had reported the brighter side of the surge in Covid-19 cases, where experts had stated that these young students or labourers testing positive at early stage with lower viral load can get over the virus very effectively. On June 2, an analysis of the figures of these six districts shows only travellers have tested Covid-19 positive here. For example, Gondia was free of Covid-19 for 38 days till May 18, when two Mumbai returnees tested positive here. In next 10 days, Gondia’s cases surpassed half-a-century. Now, there are 69 confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 in Gondia. Almost all active patients are returnees. But, by June 2, total 48 out of these 67 have recovered and been discharged. “Patients in Gondia were either asymptomatic or having very mild symptoms. As they came from Mumbai, we kept them in institutional quarantine and tested for Covid-19. Those testing positive were kept in isolation ward,” said District Health Officer Dr Shyam Nimgade. Gondia released first two patients from the returnees on May 28, followed by 25 (May 29), four (May 30), six (May 31 and June 1), and four (June 2). Out of 21 active patients, 19 are on the way to recovery in next three days. Similar is the picture in Bhandara, Wardha, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Washim districts. Together, these six districts have recorded 195 cases of Covid-19 since May 17, and 104 of them have recovered so far. Interestingly, patients who recovered said they received better medical facilities in their native districts. “Hospitals in Mumbai and Pune are full. Even serious patients are hardly getting beds there. In Buldhana, I received very good treatment at a Covid hospital. Quality, space, attentive doctors – everything we cannot even imagine in cities,” said a girl who was discharged from Buldhana some days ago. However, the major responsibility of limiting the rural spread is on the returnees. Washim collector Hrushikesh Modak, on Tuesday, issued an appeal to all returnees to get themselves tested. “They should get checked, observe 14-day home quarantine, and should visit government hospitals in case they develop any symptoms. They should avoid meeting people, entertaining visitors, and strictly keep themselves away from elderly people,” he said. “It has been observed that travellers who test positive have good chances of recovery, so instead of shying away from tests, I would appeal to them to be responsible citizens and get tested if they have any symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/travellers-tally-more-cases-but-more-recoveries-too/articleshow/76164587.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad Municipal Corporation teachers go without salary for two months||AURANGABAD: Around 450 teachers working in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) schools have not been paid their salary for the last two months. Subsequently, the local Congress unit has written to the state government, asking them to settle their dues at the earliest. According to Mohsin Ahmed, working president of Aurangabad City District Congress, the AMC has engaged its teachers in the door-to-door screening of patients in Covid-19 containment zones. “The teachers have been working tirelessly for the last two months to support the civic body in containment of the pandemic. These teachers are responsibility of the AMC. However, even during such tough times these teachers are devoid of salaries,” he said. The state government and the local body share 50% of the salary expenses. Earlier, the AMC used to issue its cheque without waiting for the state government’s contribution. But for the last 8 months, the AMC has decided to wait for the state government’s contribution before issuing the cheque to the school staff. This has resulted in constant delay in payment of salaries. On behalf of Congress unit, Ahmed has also about this administrative apathy to district guardian minister Subhash Desai and other ministers after getting no response from municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey. When asked, AMC education officer Shrikant Kulkarni told TOI that due to the poor tax recovery amid lockdown, the civic body had to wait for state government’s contribution. “The delay in salary payment has happened for the first time in three years. The cheque from the deputy director of education has been received and now the payment of two months will be made in two to three days,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-teachers-go-without-salary-for-2-months/articleshow/76163754.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Healthcare, jobs top new PO’s priorities||Visakhapatnam: Dr Venkateswar Salijamala, the new project officer (PO) of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu said on Tuesday that prevention of malaria and generating employment under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) will be the priorities of the tribal development agency. Dr Salijamala assumed charge as the ITDA PO a week ago. Speaking to TOI, Salijamala said that provision of basic healthcare, employment and infrastructure will help strengthen the 11 tribal mandals in Visakhapatnam Agency. He said the ITDA will try to work on these through flagship schemes. Recalling his experience as the sub-collector of Paderu, Salijimala said that the ITDA will worked towards improving the lives of nearly 6.5 lakh people living under ITDA Paderu limits. Meanwhile, cases of malaria have already begun surfacing in the Agency even before the onset of monsoon. Officials of the district malaria department said 620 malaria and six dengue cases have been reported in the Agency in 2020. “We have been taking measures to contain seasonal diseases such as malaria in tribal areas. We have identified some high-risk villages where indoor residual spraying (IRS) has been carried out to eliminate malaria-causing mosquitoes. A total of 1.4lakh mosquito nets were distributed among tribal families through ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists),” Salijamala said. He further said medical teams in tribal areas are creating awareness on the importance of keeping surroundings clean and are organising medical camps. The teams will collect blood samples from people in high-risk villages, will conduct rapid fever survey to identify malaria patients and provide them with medicines. The newly-appointed PO said that the agency will create more employment for tribal people under the NREGS in the coming days. The ITDA’s priorities are health, employment and the long-term development of tribal people, Salijamala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/healthcare-jobs-top-new-pos-priorities/articleshow/76163748.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Man loses Rs 8.42L to phone scam||Nashik: A 42-year-old resident of the Aandwan Colony was cheated of Rs 8.42 lakh by an unidentified conman, who took the bank and phone details of the victim on the pretext of converting his phone SIM card into a 4G card. Following a complaint from the victim, the cybercrime police are investigating the case. The police said as per the complaint registered with them, the victim received a call on his cellphone on Monday afternoon from an unidentified caller, who assured him that his (victim’s) SIM card can be converted into a 4G card. He got all the complainant’s details and his phone number. Subsequently, the conman got access to the victim’s bank account and swindled the money. The conman also got an online loan approved in the name of the victim and swindled that amount too. Overall, the complainant lost Rs 8.42 lakh. Senior inspector of the cybercrime police station said that they are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-loses-rs-8-42l-to-phone-scam/articleshow/76162737.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Man posts obscene pictures of wife on FB, arrested||LUCKNOW: A 30 year-old man was arrested for posting objectionable pictures of his wife on social media in Azamgarh district. The man, identified as Punit Kumar, had also revealed his wife’s phone number while mentioning that she was available for massage services round the clock. Superintendent of police, Azamgarh, Triveni Singh said that a complaint was received at Kotwali police station of the city by a woman last week. “The woman complained that men were calling her at odd hours and sending vulgar videos on her phone while demanding massage services,” the officer said. However, “I noticed that the woman herself had come to lodge a complaint and her husband, when contacted by the police, said that he was busy,” Singh said. “We traced the woman’s call details and zeroed in on two numbers of men who had called her twice. When police contacted the two callers, they said that the woman’s number was available on her Facebook profile,” the SP said. Further, the woman’s account was checked and it was found that her Facebook profile was created using Punit’s number, the police said. Punit later confessed that for the last six months he was pressuring his wife’s family for dowry, but they had not met his demands. Hence, he had thought of a plan to tarnish her image and get divorced so that he could remarry. Police said thsat Punit was arrested on charges of defamation, subjecting a woman to cruelty and other relevant sections of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-posts-obscene-pictures-of-wife-on-fb-arrested/articleshow/76165165.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||India far away from Covid-19 peak: ICMR||NEW DELHI: With timely and effective interventions, India has managed to keep the number of coronavirus cases and fatalities low and is far away from the peak of Covid-19 spread, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said, underlining that the country had positioned itself better than other nations. “India has been very good at reducing mortality. You will get to see the data in a week,” ICMR scientist Nivedita Gupta said. Asked if India has entered the community transmission phase, Gupta said, “Instead of using the word community transmission, it is important to understand the extent of spread of the disease and where we stand in comparison with other countries.” She said ICMR is conducting a sero-survey of almost 34,000 people to assess the extent of spread of Covid-19. The results will be out by the end of this week or early next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-far-away-from-covid-19-peak-icmr/articleshow/76166080.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University: Going to college a ‘distant’ dream||NEW DELHI: To maintain social distancing, Delhi University is planning a set-up where students will complete their entire admission process online and they will not be required to visit the college campus even for document verification. DU college principals say that the “ambitious idea” can be implemented this year in the wake of the novel coronavirus crisis. “We want to make sure that minimum students travel and reach colleges. We have thus suggested a plan where applicants will have to upload the soft copy of all the mandatory documents online, select colleges, get online verification of their documents done and get provisional admission,” said a member of the DU’s admission department. According to Vibha Singh Chauhan, principal of Kirorimal College, “the systems have to be readied before going ahead with the plan, but the process is possible.” “While most certificates are verified online, there are only a few certificates original documents of which are required for forensic checking. That can be done after the session starts. The certificates can even be verified online by asking the students for proof. In case of doubt, a few students may be called to the college,” said the principal. “OBE experience will help us in online admissions,” she added. Bijay Laxmi Nanda, acting principal of Miranda House College, however, said that the colleges were still waiting for a policy from DU in this regard. “But we are in a situation where we will have to do it for the greater good.” She added that DU would come out with plans to provide more accessibility for students, especially those not with internet accessibility. DU has also suggested a plan to set up a team in each college for counselling through e-modes, such as Zoom. However, many have raised doubts over this. Former academic council member, Pankaj Garg, stated that “no amount of online counselling can be a substitute for face-to-face interaction between students and teachers before admissions.” Former deputy dean of the students’ welfare department, Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, who has conducted several counselling drives and open days in DU, said that “e-modes were always in use where we used telephonic conversations and interactions on e-mail to dispel doubts and give suggestions to students, but it is always better when students and teachers meet each other.” Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava said that “while face-to-face interaction is better, we are in a situation which demands that we avoid that and look at ways to reach out to students.” So far, DU’s admission process has been mostly online with students only coming to colleges to get their documents verified and to get admission approval after meeting the cutoff. College campuses then witness a huge crowd with the students coming from across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/going-to-college-a-distant-dream/articleshow/76164606.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Admins sound alert for people living in coastal regions ahead of cylcone||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration has warned those living in the tehsils along Western Ghat not to venture out between Wednesday afternoon and Thursday afternoon as Cyclone Nisarga is going to hit the coastal areas in the northern and southern districts. An advisory has been sent to the local authorities to ensure that those living in kaccha houses are shifted to nearby schools and buildings. Gusty winds with a speed of more than 40kmph, accompanied by heavy rain and thunderstorm, are likely to lash the coastal regions. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, has issued a ‘yellow alert’ for Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts with more than 75% chances of heavy rain and thunderstorm. Prasad Sankpal, officer at the Kolhapur district disaster management, said, “Residents living in tehsils like Shahuwadi, Bhudargad, Chandgad and Ajara, which adjoin the coastal districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, are being evacuated. Gusty winds in the ghat section is likely as the cyclone over Arabian Sea advances.” “People have been advised not to move out or travel to the coastal districts. In the mainland, we have advised people to alert us about any dilapidated structure or trees in a precarious position. We have asked the local disaster teams to be ready in the face of any emergency that may arise in the next two days,” said Sankpal. Similar warnings have been issued by the Satara and Sangli district administrations for the areas close to the coastal regions. Meanwhile, after two days of heavy pre-monsoon showers, the catchment areas of the dams in the region received intermittent rainfall. The catchment areas in Kolhapur district have received 37mm rain so far. While 5,000 cusec of water was discharged from five dams on Monday, around 800 cusec from Radhanagari dam and 1,570 cusec from Warna dam was released on Tuesday. Around 2,100 cusec was released from from Koyna dam in Satara district on Tuesday morning after the water level notched to 535m. The Satara administration has alerted the downstream villages along Krishna river to keep an eye on the increase in water level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admins-sound-alert-for-people-living-in-coastal-regions-ahead-of-cylcone/articleshow/76163761.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||RCGC tees off as restrictions are eased out||Kolkata: Royal Calcutta Golf Club, the oldest golf club outside the British Isles, threw open its portals to its members on Tuesday as the Covid-19-induced restrictions were eased. This is the second golf club in the city to have reopened ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24, the first being Ecopark Golf Arena on Saturday. As the Royal opened the gates, golfers were seen carrying their golf bags or pulling their trolleys to the sprawling 18-hole course as no cart and no caddy was allowed. Right from 7.30 in the morning, members started tricking in, who had to undergo thermal scanning and clean their hands with contact-less sensor sanitizers at the entrance. On the first day, around 50 members turned up, who were spilt into four groups that took turns to tee off till 1.30am. A buffer period of 15 minutes was set between one batch leaving the course and another one coming in to avoid crowding. RCGC captain Asish Doshi told TOI, “Everyone looked happy to be back. They sincerely followed the safety guidelines. We have asked members to wear masks all the time and to maintain a 2m distance from each other.” Rohan Ghosh, golf convenor, who literally grew up on the greens of RCGC, could be seen perfecting his swing: “The club will be open every day, except on Mondays. This week will see some trials and errors before we swing into our original routine.” Doshi echoed: “Next week onwards, we might even allow the caddies to join as the government is opening everything and there’s clear message of a phased unlocking.” As the caddies have been out of work during the lockdown, the members have “adopted” the 300-odd attendants—they are not permanent employees—paying for their upkeep. “We paid Rs 7,000, collected from the members, to each of the caddies. Some contributed much more than we asked for,” Doshi said. RCGC CEO Shivaji Samaddar said, “We are happy the golf course could be maintained well despite the manpower shortage during the lockdown and Cyclone Amphan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rcgc-tees-off-as-restrictions-are-eased-out/articleshow/76164601.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Rain lashes parts of Marathwada||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city and outskirts as well as parts of Marathwada, including Nanded, reported light to medium showers on Tuesday afternoon. Earlier, Latur, Osmanabad and a few other areas from the region received rainfall for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. As per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, many parts of Marathwada are likely to witness more rain or thundershowers over the next couple of days. The rainfall activity is attributed to the weather systems associated with the cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’ developing over the Arabian Sea near coastal areas of Maharashtra. Meteorologist Kirankumar Johare said that the farmers should wait for at least 65 mm to 85 mm showers for undertaking the sowing of crops for Kharif season. MSEDCL appeals for caution during monsoonThe Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has advised consumers to check for water seepage on electricity boards or switches among other precautions to be taken during the rainy season to avoid mishaps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rain-lashes-parts-of-marathwada/articleshow/76163757.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four private hospitals get notices for not allocating beds||MUMBAI: In a first, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday served showcause notices to four premier private hospitals—Jaslok, Hinduja, Bombay and Lilavati—for failing to allocate adequate beds for Covid and non-Covid patients and allegedly refusing beds. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, who went on a surprise visit, found that hospitals were working at 50% of their strength and most hadn’t displayed their bed strength, occupancy or the chart showing capped treatment charges. On May 21, the state took over 80% of available beds in private hospitals by issuing a notification and also capped the treatment charges for these beds. However, despite the notification, complaints about unavailability of beds continued to pour in. The state found out that more than 53 hospitals have collectively offered only 2,400 beds, including 421 ICU beds, for the city’s Covid-19 pool and around 3,000 for non-Covid, when the expectation was of 12,000 beds. Tope, accompanied by Dr Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of the state health assurance society, paid surprise visits to these four hospitals late on Monday evening, which went on till 2am on Tuesday. The hospitals were primarily pulled up for working at less than 50% of their capacity. “No signboards had been displayed declaring availability of beds, no charts were displayed about treatment charges fixed by the government. Patients had to wait for long hours for admissions when not even 50% beds were occupied,” Tope said. Later in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked private hospitals to strictly adhere to the arrangement and make 80% beds available for patients. Thackeray also instructed the appointment of a BMC nodal officer in every private hospital to monitor bed allocation in these hospitals. The team had found out that the 300-bed Hinduja Hospital had allocated only 40-odd beds for Covid-19, while for non-Covid patients the bed occupancy was not even 10%. Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital, which too has over 300 beds, had set aside only 90 beds for Covid, which were all occupied, a state official said. Jaslok Hospital at Peddar Road, which is also a 300-bed hospital, had only 183 operational, of which merely 30 were for Covid patients. Similarly, Bombay Hospital, originally a 500 bed-hospital, had kept only 90 beds for Covid-19, including 42 ICU beds. Dr Shinde said that the idea was to seek the help of private hospitals in these difficult times. Hospitals, however, told TOI that most are running at half their original capacity due to unavailability of doctors, nurses and staffers due to transport bottlenecks or infections among them. Dr Gautam Bhansali, who led the discussions between government and private hospitals, said that at least 100 beds in Bombay Hospital are occupied by staffers who are living in the campus. “Till local trains start or there is a better mode of transport, it is challenging to get staffers to work,” he said, adding that over the next few days, more than 60 Covid ICU beds will be added in private hospitals. Jaslok Hospital authorities said staff shortage, maintenance and creation of negative pressure rooms have been some of the hurdles in making all beds operational. Hinduja Hospital said they have built suitable facilities for Covid treatment, which are continuously being enhanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-pvt-hosps-get-notices-for-not-allocating-beds/articleshow/76165170.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad order to vacate hostels gives students the jitters, say can’t go home||HYDERABAD: Despite being stuck on the University of Hyderabad (UoH) campus with bare minimum facilities since March 24, Mohammed Aarish Malik, a postgraduate student, is in no hurry to return to his hometown Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand. Malik said that he has no means to reach his hometown and added that he feels much safer on the campus right now. He said that vacating the hostel would only mean that he would be homeless and without food. Even if he reaches Delhi, Malik said that going to Uttarakhand will be a herculean task as Delhi has shut its borders. “If I leave now, I might get stuck in Delhi,” said Malik. He said that even after the borders are opened, it is quite unlikely that he will be allowed to enter his village without being quarantined. “I will have to stay in the forest, which is right outside my village, for 14 days. I will be forced to stay in an open area and also have to make food arrangements. Instead of finding food, I might become prey to wild animals,” said Malik, a student from the School of Chemistry, at the university. Malik is not alone. Around 300 students of UoH, who hail from various states and are currently living on the campus, have no option except to stay put in the university. While the sealing of borders is an issue for some, for others, it is the lack of home quarantine facilities or financial constraints that have rendered them helpless. “In the current scenario, the worst thing one could do is travel by train. The chances of getting infected with coronavirus while travelling is way higher than staying back on campus. Further, I would be putting lives of my parents—who fall into the high-risk category, in danger as we stay in a 1-BHK accommodation in Rohini, Delhi where there is no facility to self-quarantine,” said Mrityunjaya Pandey, research scholar, PhD, Economics, adding that he is not in a position to opt for institutional quarantine. Students said that they have already signed an undertaking saying that the varsity is not responsible if they get infected with the coronavirus. They said that they will continue to stay on the campus by using minimum resources and by following all guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-order-to-vacate-hostels-gives-students-the-jitters-say-cant-go-home/articleshow/76164617.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||Yogi Adityanath govt framed UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu to hide its failure in addressing migrants’ problems: Jitin Prasada||BAREILLY: Former Union minister and Congress leader Jitin Prasada said the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh had failed to help migrant workers heading home after they had lost their livelihoods due to the unplanned and abrupt lockdown. He also demanded that UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu be released from jail immediately and all the charges against him be withdrawn. Addressing a press conference at his residence in Shahjahanpur on Tuesday, Prasada said, “Congress had offered buses to ferry poor migrant workers stranded at UP border, but BJP played politics and framed UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu in a false case and sent him to jail. They did this to hide their incompetence in addressing the migrants’ issues.” Prasada said the lockdown was imposed suddenly without thinking about poor migrant workers. “The lockdown is the biggest blunder made by the BJP government at the Centre as it was imposed without giving any time to the people to brace for it. This is the reason why the lockdown failed as people started migrating. The migrant workers didn’t have any other option other than returning home to their native states on foot. No arrangements for transport were made for them,” he said. “It was the largest migration in Indian history since Independence. The government did not have any plan for it. When we offered a helping hand to the migrants by offering to ferry them home in buses and by setting up food camps, the BJP government got nervous and started weaving a conspiracy against our party leaders and workers. There is no documentary evidence against our state president Ajay Kumar Lallu, and he should be released from jail immediately.” Ajay Kumar Lallu was arrested on May 20 on the allegations that he provided fake documents regarding buses for ferrying migrant workers back to Uttar Pradesh from Rajasthan during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/yogi-govt-framed-cong-up-chief-lallu-to-hide-its-failure-in-addressing-migrants-problems-prasada/articleshow/76162751.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC model feeds 45k per day sans load on the state govt||Nagpur: Tirelessly serving the needy for the last two months, the city’s now popular ‘Covid Warriors (CWs)’ comprising NGOs, individuals and institutions may not be aware of the difference they made — not just in the lives of fellow citizens but also in the state exchequer.Working as an aggregator and moderator, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) developed the 'Nagpur Model of Food Security' to connect beneficiaries and service providers. The model has helped Nagpur become self-reliant with the haves supporting the have-nots.Data recorded under this model show CWs fed 45,000 migrants, beggars, homeless and other stranded people per day since March 26, when the first lockdown started. Another 21,000 food packets were distributed in Shramik Special trains and to migrants passing through Panjra Toll Plaza on the city’s outskirts.An estimated Rs4.25 crore pooled by the CWs was spent on foodgrains, groceries and other essential items for these people till May 31. Care was taken to also feed well-to-do senior citizens dependent on house helps, pregnant women and persons with disabilities.Under the model, the NMC — led by civic chief Tukaram Mundhe and other top officials — had formed a CW WhatsApp group having around 65 NGOs, members of civil society and philanthropists who sponsored food grains, groceries, and community kitchens.The seamless transaction between NGOs and NMC was possible because of the joint efforts of the revenue department and an IIM graduate, who helped the civic body keep track and micro-manage the initiative.Deputy municipal commissioner (revenue) Milind Meshram, who is nodal officer for the initiative, said maintaining the data helped in increasing efficiency of the food distribution as well as keeping it a transparent affair. “We have recorded how each penny has been spent, even though the NMC was only coordinating with NGOs and sponsors. Government funds are already strained in containing the pandemic, hence we developed this unique model to conserve them,” Meshram said“Fortunately, the public-private-people partnership (PPPP) model clicked, unlike in other social initiatives like river cleaning or tree plantation,” he added.Meshram attributed the overwhelming response from citizens to municipal commissioner Mundhe’s public image. “People repose faith in him (Mundhe),” he said.Soon after receiving the government resolution (GR) for providing food to all, Mundhe, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and Meshram had roped in Shobhit Chandak, an IIM Shillong alumnus, as project manager.Meshram said Chandak closely monitored the requirements of different areas and sets of people living in shelter homes. Rarely were there any complains about food, he added.Chandak said he had developed the model based on Rajasthan’s Bhilwara model, where the administration strictly implemented lockdown and kept people well-fed.Nagpur contributes for NagpurWheat 74 Rice 58 Pulses 16 Groceries 3 (Figures in metric tonnes)Oil tins: 2,500Soaps: 50,000Food pack average cost: Rs20 Food packs distributed: 21.16 lakh Money spent: Rs4.23 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-model-feeds-45k-per-day-sans-load-on-the-state-govt/articleshow/76164595.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Two youths booked for bid to outrage modesty of minor girl||PILIBHIT: Two youths were booked on Monday night for allegedly attempting to outrage the modesty of a 16-year-old in a village under Barkhera police station on May 29. According to girl’s father, his daughter had gone to the filed when the duo attempted to outrage her modesty, but as she raised an alarm, the accused fled the spot threatening her with her life if she disclosed the matter. Barkhera SHO Umesh Kumar Solanki said the accused were booked under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354 C (watching or capturing the image of a woman engaging in a private act) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), while relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act would be added to the FIR after the medical examination report verified the girl’s age. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-youths-booked-for-bid-to-outrage-modesty-of-minor-girl/articleshow/76162756.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Maintenance staff fled from plant after leak: NGT report||VISAKHAPATNAM: The staff who were on duty at LG Polymers on the intervening night of May 7 fled the plant after noticing the vapour leak, as per the report submitted by the National Green Tribunal’s joint monitoring committee. Two employees told the NGT committee that they ran out of the plant the moment they saw the styrene vapour leak. They also admitted that they did not see anyone making any effort to subside the intensity of the styrene vapours. The report said had any workman been present near the affected tank, he should have been among the first to be hospitalised, but there have been no reports of any employee of the plant inhaling the poisonous vapour or getting hospitalised due to the same, which resulted in the death of 12 people officially and hospitalisation of hundreds of others. The NGT committee, in its findings, further mentions that the plant’s production manager had claimed that he, along with the workmen present there, made efforts to add ‘para tertiary butylcatechol’ (PTBC) to reduce the intensity of the situation after the vapour leak. He had even produced the inhibitor stock statement to substantiate his claim. But the committee members did not see any substance in his statement after the two employees confessed to what happened in the aftermath of the vapour leak. “As per our observations, the management did not take proper care of the affected storage tank and it resulted in auto-polymerisation of styrene releasing excess heat, which escaped from the goose-neck and dip of hatch in the form of the vapour,” the report states. Meanwhile, CPM’s Vizag city unit secretary B Ganga Rao has demanded that the government should also give Rs 1 crore ex gratia to two more vapour leak victims after they were discharged from the hospital. While a 45-year-old man from the styrene-affected area died on Monday (June 1), a 73-year-old woman from the same area died about a week ago, though there is no official confirmation yet on whether their deaths happened due to inhalation of styrene. Meanwhile, the report submitted by CSIR-NEERI, Hyderabad Zonal Centre on the prevailing air and water environment around the LG Polymers plant after the vapour leak, mentioned that the results of the water samples from Meghadrigedda reservoir indicate that the water in it cannot be used directly for domestic and drinking water purposes due to moderate to high organic content. The CSIR-NEERI team visited the plant, affected villages and other neighbouring places from May 12 to 16. They collected samples to analyse styrene concentration in the air, groundwater and surface water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maintenance-staff-fled-from-plant-after-leak-ngt-report/articleshow/76162759.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapattnam: Apple orchards bear fruit in Agency, ITDA keen to expand cultivation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Apple cultivation will be expanded in the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu after experiments to grow two varieties of the fruit in apple orchards along the Eastern Ghats in Vizag Agency have borne fruit. Apple cultivation in the region which was earlier limited to 60 acres will now be extended over another 200 acres in Chintapalli, GK Veedhi, Paderu and Araku mandals in the Agency. Apple trees in Madem village in GK Veedhi mandal have yielded between 30 to 34 fruits per tree. Speaking to TOI, G Prabhakar Rao, horticulture office, ITDA-Paderu, said that between 2016 and 2017, close to 90 farmers in some mandals in the Agency planted low-chill apple varieties—Anna and Dorsett Golden—with the support of the ITDA. This year, there has been a good crop, with each fruit weighing between 300 to 400 gm. Farmers are likely to harvest the fruit in the next couple of weeks, Prabhakar Rao said. The fruit, which requires a cold climate for cultivation, is normally grown in the Himalayan belt. Low temperatures in Chintapalle, GK Veedhi, Paderu and Araku mandals have encouraged the growth of low-chill apple varieties here. ITDA project officer Dr Venkateswar S said the fruit cultivated here is juicy and slightly sour. “We have decided to cultivate apples in Vizag Agency and are hoping more tribal farmers will take up cultivation of the fruit soon,” he said. Prabhakar Rao said, “We have decided to increase the area under apple cultivation in Vizag Agency by 2020 at a cost of around Rs 3 crore. So far around 90 to 100 farmers are involved. We wish to include another cluster with over 400 more farmers in apple cultivation. We will procure the Anna and Dorsett Golden varieties of apple saplings from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand and distribute them to selected farmers.” Soil testing has been carried out in a few villages marked for apple cultivation in the region and training camps for farmers are being held, Prabhakar Rao said. The Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), in association with the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), has planted apple saplings of three varieties—Anna, Michael and Selection— from Himachal Pradesh at Chintapalle to study the feasibility of growing other varieties in Visakhapatnam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apple-orchards-bear-fruit-in-agency-itda-keen-to-expand-cultivation/articleshow/76163765.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||HC acquits UP man on death sentence||LUCKNOW: The high court on Tuesday acquitted an appellant sentenced to death for the murder of his mother, wife and four-year-old son in Tanda, Ambedkar Nagar in 2013. A division bench of Justice RR Awasthi and Justice VK Srivastav held that the prosecution had failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and hence, conviction and sentence did not sustain in the eyes of law. Appellant Ram Kumar Saini had challenged the verdict of an additional sessions judge in Ambedkar Nagar passed on February 15, 2017. Holding him guilty of the triple murder and awarding him death penalty, the court had said that Saini committed the crime to continue having an illicit affair with another woman. Arguing for the appellant, senior lawyer Nagendra Mohan pleaded that the case was based on circumstantial evidence and there was no direct evidence against Saini. He argued that the informant was Saini’s father-in-law and he lodged the case because Saini had eloped with his daughter. “Other witnesses included the informant’s wife, son and daughter whose testimony cannot be relied on for want of corroborative evidence,” added the appellant’s counsel. Besides, the FIR was filed 17 days after the incident, whereas he was present at the time of inquest. Opposing the appeal, the government advocate pleaded that it was the appellant’s burden to explain the death of three members of his family who died of poison in the same house. However, considering arguments of both sides, the bench concluded that the prosecution’s story was not reliable and the trial court had erred in convicting and sentencing the appellant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-acquits-up-man-on-death-sentence/articleshow/76165175.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 3, 2020||Kolhapur||18 cases in Kolhapur takes Covid tally to 630||Kolhapur: As many as 18 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolhapur district on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 630. Currently, there are 399 active cases in the district. A health official said that the new Covid-19 cases that were coming to the fore were of people coming from red zones. “Besides transmission among immediate contacts, like family members with whom the positive patient may have travelled, there is no community transmission. Most of the people who have come from other districts have been tested for Covid-19. The Covid-19 curve will start flattening in a few days,” said the official. So far, six people have died of Covid-19 in the district but most of them had comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, a woman, whose son returned returned from Mumbai on May 22, tested positive for Covid-19 in Tasgaon tehsil of Sangli district on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 122. The condition of four patients is said to be serious. Keeping in line with the state government’s order to reserve 80% of the beds in private hospitals to treat Covid and non-Covid patients, collector Milind Shambharkar issued an order for the requisition of 9,490 beds in 820 private hospitals in the district While 4,932 beds will be reserved in 332 hospitals in Solapur city, a requisition for 2,000 beds in 143 hospitals in other areas of the district has been placed. Solapur zilla parishad has already issued an order for requisition of 2,558 beds in 345 private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/18-cases-in-kolhapur-takes-covid-tally-to-630/articleshow/76163772.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB booked 538 liquor smugglers in just 2 weeks||Vijayawada: Since its inception on May 15 the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has registered 307 cases against 538 persons for smuggling in liquor. Addressing a press conference at One-Town police station, additional SP and SEB’s city head A Satti Babu explained that residents living in the villages bordering Telangana — across three mandals of Jaggaiahpet, Tiruvuru and Mylavaram — have seen several vehicles illegally transporting liquor into the state. He said since the cost of liquor is lower in Telangana compared to Andhra, miscreants are trying to take advantage of the demand in the state. “SEB teams are working around the clock to control the flow of smuggled liquor and illegal sand mining activities within the Vijayawada commissionerate limits,” Satti Babu. So far, SEB sleuths have seized 44 cars, 229 motorcycles, five autorickshaws, which were used for smuggling liquor. All the registered cases were recorded under relevant sections of AP Excise Act. Cops also seized 12,259 liquor bottles of various kinds which would be handed over to the government. In terms of illegal sand mining, cops said they have seized 200 tonnes of sand and filed nine cases against the accused involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-booked-538-liquor-smugglers-in-just-2-weeks/articleshow/76162781.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Bihar labourers on way home find helping hands in city||Nagpur: A group of 11 workers from Madhubani in Bihar, who walked to Nagpur from a highway construction site near Kinwat in Nanded district, are held up here as they are not getting reservations for their further journey by train.The workers did not even know where the highway they were building led to. All they knew was that it was a two-lane road, and they were somewhere near Kinwat.They began the walk three days ago, hoping to catch a train to Bihar from Nagpur. They could not board the Shramik Special trains for workers as there is a separate registration process for it. The new rules post Covid-19 bar even those with wait-listed tickets from boarding a regular train, so there is huge rush for trains to Bihar. Even as the workers were ready to buy the tickets, they could not get a berth.Former state minster and Congress leader Anees Ahmed extended a helping hand after the group spent two days on the street opposite the platform.On Monday night, Ahmed drove down to the railway station and took them in cars and made arrangements for their stay at his nursing college at Lonara, which was earlier used as a quarantine facility also.Food was arranged for them by the Radha Soami Satsang in the night. On Tuesday, Ahmed took the workers to the NMC shelter home at Ravi Nagar. He was also helped by additional commissioner of police Nilesh Bharne. They were shifted so that arrangements could be made for their further travel to Bihar along with other stranded workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bihar-labourers-on-way-home-find-helping-hands-in-city/articleshow/76164615.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 3, 2020||Pune||Panel postpones road width call||Pune: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday postponed a call on the proposal to increase width of small roads by up to 9 metres. Over 103km-long roads in 300 location would benefit from this move. The civic body had decided to increase road width and this decision was expected to promote constructions alongside these roads. Most buildings located adjacent to the roads were old and facing redevelopment problems. The increase of width utilisation of transfer of development rights (TDR) and floor space index (FSI) would be possible on these locations. A proposal with reference to increasing the road width was tabled before the standing committee and suggestions and objections invited from people on the move. "We have to go through the proposal. So, more time has been sought. A call will be taken after we have studied the proposal," said a member of the standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation. The PMC has increased road width from 6 metres to 9 metres in a couple of locations in Kothrud. This move had led to the demand for implementing the policy across the civic areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panel-postpones-road-width-call/articleshow/76164613.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shankersinh Vaghela removed, Jayant Patel back as Gujarat NCP chief||GANDHINAGAR: Former state chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela has been removed as the Gujarat president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) by party supremo Sharad Pawar. According to political sources, the reason for Vaghela being removed as state NCP chief is pressure from the BJP on Sharad Pawar. Vaghela’s aides said he will not quit the NCP and will continue as national general secretary of the party. Jayant Patel (Bosky) will replace Vaghela as state NCP chief.Vaghela’s aide Partesh Patel said there are no differences between Shankersinh Vaghela and the party leadership. “Bapu was holding both posts of state NCP president as well as national general secretary of the party. The party has relieved Bapu of the post of state president and appointed Jayant Patel as state NCP chief. Bapu will address a media conference on Thursday regarding the change. He will continue to work for the party,” Patel said. A source privy to the developments claimed, “Sharad Pawar was upset with Vaghela’s inactive working style and lack of the party’s growth under his leadership ahead of the coming local body elections in the state. The party is keen on performing well in the municipal corporations, municipalities and district and taluka panchayat elections.” Vaghela’s aides however, claim he was asked to resign because he had been relentlessly raising the issue of the BJP government’s alleged mismanagement of efforts to check spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in Gujarat.Vaghela began his political career with the BJP, but effected a rebellion in it in 1995 when the party appointed Keshubhai Patel chief minister. With his MLA supporters, Vaghela toppled the BJP government of Suresh Mehta and became CM with outside support of the Congress. Later, he joined the Congress and apart from being state Congress president, he was also Union textiles minister in 2004. Just prior to the 2017 assembly elections, he quit the Congress and joined the NCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bapu-removed-bosky-back-as-gujarat-ncp-chief/articleshow/76164626.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara registers 2 Covid-19 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district registered two Covid-29 deaths on Tuesday after an 85-year-old woman from Ranjli village in Jawli tehsil and a 43-year-old man from Andhori village died after testing positive for the contagion. The woman had a travel history to Mumbai, district administration officials confirmed, adding that the district has not reported any new coronavirus case on Tuesday. At present, Satara district has 310 active Covid-19 patients. Earlier on Sunday, a police officer posted at Shirval and 13 health workers, who were posted on the frontline duty, tested positive for Covid-19. Authorities said that a few health workers were already put in quarantine facilities as a precautionary measure. The district administration has deputed heavy security near Shirval in view of the large exodus coming from Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. All the vehicles, including e-passes and other documents, are thoroughly checked at Shirval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-2-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/76163784.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||NCRA scientists discover tiny explosions on Sun||Pune: A group of scientists working at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), Pune, has recently discovered tiny flashes of radio light from all over the Sun. The scientists said the discovery was an answer to long-pending explanation to why the Sun’s corona heats up during a total solar eclipse. The scientists discovered that “tiny explosions take place all over the Sun all the time but collectively they have sufficient energy to heat the entire corona”. The breakthrough was possible due to availability of data from a new technology instrument, the Murchison Widefield Array (MWA), Australia, and the work these scientists have been doing for the past few years at NCRA. Their research appeared in the June issue of the Astrophysical Journal Letters of the American Astronomical Society. The research work was led by Surajit Mondal, a PhD student working under the supervision of professor Divya Oberoi, a faculty member at NCRA, along with Dr Atul Mohan, his former student at NCRA and now at the Rosseland Centre for Solar Physics, Norway. “Scientists were looking for these bursts and it was a puzzle till now. Many attempts have been made to look for X-rays and ultraviolet light emitted by these explosions. But none has been successful. Our discovery is the promising fist step towards solving the corona heating riddle,” Oberoi told TOI on Tuesday. Mohan said, “Our preliminary estimates suggest that these tiny magnetic explosions should collectively have enough energy to heat the corona, which is exactly needed for solving the coronal heating problem.” The NCRA scientists said in their research, Sun was the brightest object in the sky and has been studied for hundreds of years. But it continued to hide some secrets that scientists from across the world are working hard to unlock. It is well known that the Sun is extremely hot, at a temperature of about 5,500 degrees Celsius. On top of this sits a layer of gas, which is at a temperature of almost 2 million degrees Celsius, over 300 times hotter than the surface of the Sun. Mondal, the lead author of the work, said, “What makes this really exciting is that these flashes are always present everywhere on the Sun, including in the regions of weak magnetic fields — the so called ‘quiet Sun’s region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncra-scientists-discover-tiny-explosions-on-sun/articleshow/76164608.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Hand sanitizer, masks mandatory at exam halls||Vijayawada: Minister for education Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday said the government would make all arrangements to follow Covid-19 guidelines while conducting Class 10 examinations. In a review meeting with school education department officials held at Sarvasiksha Abhiyan office here, the minister said that seating arrangements at examination halls will following physical distancing and only 10 to 12 students will be seated in a hall. The total number of examination centers have been increased from 2,882 to 4,154, he said. “Hand sanitizer is mandatory at all exam centers and 8 lakh masks will be available at exam centers for the students. Every examination center will have a thermal scanner,” he said. Suresh said that the government would make arrangements to change examination centers in containment zones so that students will not face problem in transportation. “We are implementing similar guidelines for conducting AP open schools examinations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hand-sanitizer-masks-mandatory-at-exam-halls/articleshow/76163783.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi jolt as Karnataka logs 388 Covid cases in 24 hours||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A total 150 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Udupi on Tuesday, while none tested positive for the disease in Dakshina Kannada. The 150 positive cases that Udupi reported is the single largest spike in the disease for any district in the state since the pandemic broke out, taking its total active cases to 345, and overall positive cases recorded, as on Tuesday, to 410.  Dakshina Kannada has 61 active Covid-19 cases, against 137 positive cases reported in the district thus far. A total 148 of those who tested positive were returnees from Maharashtra, while one each who tested positive returned from Goa and Andhra Pradesh. Incidentally, Udupi is still awaiting reports of 5,846 swab samples that health authorities collected from people who entered the district – predominantly by road and air—following the relaxation in norms that the state government allowed for those wanting to come back to their hometowns. The district administration has decided to treat only the most critical of cases at the designated Covid-19 hospital for Udupi – the TMA Pai Hospital—and the rest at the taluk Covid care centres. G Jagadeesha, Udupi deputy commissioner, attributed the spurt to increased testing. “We tested 2,000 samples in the last 2 days, leading to 150 positive cases, against an average of 200-300 samples, that saw positive cases range daily from 10 to 20.” Asserting that there is no cause for concern, Jagadeesha said the district presently has 800 more beds available to treat Covid-19 patients, out of 1,120 set up for the purpose. If people are found asymptomatic after 7 days, they will be discharged if they test negative, he said. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, district urban development cell and in-charge of the Dakshina Kannada district bulletin, said all 113 reports that the district health authorities received tested negative for Covid-19. She said this was possible due to strict monitoring of institutional quarantine facilities as well as those in home quarantine. She said that 13 patients were discharged in the district as per the new discharge protocol that the department of health and family welfare has formulated, to ensure optimal utilisation of resources. The heartening development of the day, the official said, was the discharge of a patient designated P-1434, who is a 40-year-old woman, who presented a major medical challenge. She was suffering from urinary tract infection and diabetes, and her condition was critical when she was brought to Wenlock Hospital. She was treated in the ICU and discharged on Tuesday, after her swab sample reports tested negative on Monday, the official said. Private docs appointed to Covid hospitals in UdupiWith Udupi district receiving a large number of positive cases in the last two days, the district administration has decided to set up 400-bed Covid hospitals in Kundapur and Byndoor and appointed three doctors from private hospitals to these two hospitals. Udupi District Commissioner G Jagadeesha said: “COVID- 19 cases are increasing drastically in the district and we are ready to face the challenge. For this purpose, we have appointed three expert doctors from private hospitals and if we need more experts, we will be appoint more”. The DC said as Kundapura and Byndoor reported more COVID cases, hence the entire Kundapur government hospital would be converted into a full-fledged COVID hospital. ``Patients here will be shifted to Kota and Brahmavara Community Hospital. We earlier set up 120 beds here, now the old building with 80 beds will also be earmarked for COVID treatment. Apart from that 65 bed Adarsh hospital will be made COVID hospital. Similarly, there are many cases in Byndoor taluk so ‘Lalitambika Guest house’ will be converted into a 200-bed COVID Hospital,’’ he added. Most of the positive cases reported here are asymptomatic. Those who are admitted with symptoms, critical cases and pregnant women will be sent to Covid Hospital, Udupi, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-jolt-as-karnataka-logs-388-covid-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/76162769.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Deep sea fishing resumes, boats out again||VISAKHAPATNAM: Deep sea fishing along the Visakhapatnam coast resumed on Tuesday. Fishing operations were put on hold since March 23 and the ban on fishing ended on May 31. Even though the ban ended a few days ago, fishermen resumed fishing only on June 2, said Arjili Dasu, executive director of Visakhapatnam Fishermen Youth Welfare Association. The delay in resumption of fishing activities is being attributed to the lack of adequate people to take up fishing due to the lockdown. Before venturing out into the sea, the fishermen offered prayers to Goddess Gangamma. Around 750 mechanised boats and 5,000 motorised boats are deployed for deep see fishing in Visakhapatnam. “Of these, 300 mechanised boats and 80 per cent of the motorised boats went on short trips (lasting two to three days) on Tuesday. If catch is abundant they may carry on fishing for a week,” Arjili Dasu told TOI. Dr K Phani Prakash, joint director, fisheries said that the state government has already credited the ban incentive of Rs10,000 per head to all 20,273 fishermen in the first phase. In the second phase, 1,016 fishermen will receive Rs10,000 each, he said. “We have sent the second phase list to the commissioner and will distribute the amount when we receive orders,” Prakash said while adding that the government has given orders for oil subsidy and other welfare mechanisms such as distribution of rice along with the ban incentive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/deep-sea-fishing-resumes-boats-out-again/articleshow/76162797.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Constable becomes first victim of Covid-19 in city police force||Nashik: A 39-year-old constable attached to the Bhadrakali police station has tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the first police personnel in Nashik city to fall victim to the contagion. The constable, a resident of Ashoka Marg area, had been to Sangamner on May 24. Soon after returning to the city on May 28, he told the officer in charge of the police station that he suspected of being suffering from Covid-19. Inspector Sajan Sonawane of the Bhadrakali police station said the constable went to the Nashik civil hospital to get tested and his report arrived late on Sunday night. Sonawane said that since the constable did not come in contact with anyone after returning from Sangamner, no police personnel has been quarantined. For the past two months, not a single personnel in the Nashik city police force of 3,000 caught the infection. Police said there were close to 170 personnel on duty in Malegaon, who had tested positive for Covid. Police have been continuously awareness drives among the personnel on preventive measures. Those aged above 50 years have been given side duties within their departments or police stations so that their contact with the public is restricted. Recently, through sponsorship, the city police personnel have been given health strap bands, through which their body temperature, blood pressure, etc. is being monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/constable-becomes-first-victim-of-covid-19-in-city-police-force/articleshow/76162786.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Centre’s stimulus an eyewash’||Aurangabad: Former state chief minister and senior Congress functionary Prithviraj Chavan has dubbed the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package declared by the Centre as an eyewash. “Of the total stimulus, around Rs 2 lakh crore will be directly transferred to the beneficiaries. There is confusion over whether the rest of the money will be given as a debt or in some other form,” said Chavan adding that both the Centre and the state should present a mini-budget to effectively address the socio-economic crisis arising due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Some of the leading nations across the globe have started direct distribution of money in the bank accounts of different target groups to help them tide over the crisis. It will increase the purchasing power of citizens and in turn set the stagnant economy in motion. We have to effectively plan a slew of measures to help different sections of the society. Mini-budgets can prove crucial to this effect,” said the minister adding that the Centre should extend a helping hand to different states in addressing financial issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centres-stimulus-an-eyewash/articleshow/76163789.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rs 130 crore fund for families in distress||LUCKNOW: Days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced financial assistance for destitute families in the state, the panchayati raj department issued an order under which a rural family with no access to food can be given Rs 1,000 as a one time payment, Rs 2,000 for urgent medical aid and in case of death, Rs 5,000 for a funeral. The government has also increased the budget for gram panchayats under the state finance commission to fund this project. Against Rs 2,800 crore issued in 2019-20, this year they will be given Rs 4,340 crore of which 3% or Rs 130.20 crore has been set aside for this scheme. In the order issued by the panchayati raj department, the gram panchayat has been authorised to pay Rs 1,000 to a family which has no access to food and has suddenly found itself in dire circumstances. While financial assistance will be given to tide over the immediate crisis, efforts will also be made to secure a ration card for the family. Similarly, if a family is not registered either with Ayushman Bharat or the CM Jan Arogya Yojna and finds itself in urgent need of medical aid, Rs 2,000 can be provided to it. Simultaneously, the family will also be linked to at least one of the two schemes. If there is a death in a destitute family which has no means to conduct a funeral, the gram panchayat can provide Rs 5,000. The order says that such families, which need help, should be identified by the gram panchayat on the basis of their financial condition and current situation. The gram pradhan and panchayat secretary will regularly collect information on such persons and identify families for financial assistance under the three categories. The payment will be made to accounts of beneficiaries. Provision has also been made in case a gram panchayat exhausts its quota of funds. In such a case, the name and details of families, needing assistance, will be provided to the district magistrate through the district panchayat officer who will then release necessary funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-130cr-fund-for-families-in-distress/articleshow/76165185.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Will it turn into second severe June cyclone in two years?||PUNE: This year is setting a different record after 2019 recorded eight cyclones and severe cyclones in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. The IMD has forecast that Wednesday’s Cyclone Nisarga will turn into a severe cyclone. It will be the first time since 1908 for two severe cyclones to affect the Arabian Sea region consecutively in two years in June. Cyclone Vayu, graded very severe, had formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep and east-central Arabian Sea on June 9, last year. Two consecutive severe cyclones in June 1902 and 1903 had affected the Arabian Sea. Two severe cyclones occurred in June 1907. Thereafter, there have not been any consecutive years when severe cyclones have formed over the Arabian Sea till Vayu and now Nisarga. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of meteorology, IMD, told TOI that cyclones crossing the Maharashtra coast are a rare phenomenon. Since 1891, only three severe cyclones as per the records have crossed Maharashtra coast around Mumbai. “Climatologically, five cyclones develop over the North Indian Ocean annually, including the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea in a year. The normal is four over Bay of Bengal and one over Arabian Sea. Cyclones over the Arabian Sea are rare. The one cyclone that normally forms over Arabian Sea normally moves either towards Gujarat or Oman,” Mohapatra said. Studies show that intense cyclones have been increasing over the Arabian Sea since the 1990s, he added. “People have been trying to find out whether the increase in such cyclones over the Arabian Sea has been a result of climate change but there is low confidence to attribute it to the phenomenon. More studies would be needed to find out specific reasons for the increase,” Mohapatra said. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI that in the last 11 years, only two very severe cyclones, Phet and Vayu, have affected the Arabian Sea in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-it-turn-into-2nd-severe-june-cyclone-in-two-years/articleshow/76165180.cms||Neha Madaan
June 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: 15 held, six detained for killing criminal||PUNE: The Yerawada police arrested 15 men and detained six minor boys for hacking a criminal to death over old enmity, a few hours after he was released on interim bail from the Yerawada Central Jail on May 27. Nitin Kasbe (24) was released on bail around 9pm for 45 days because of the Covid-19 spread. He was heading to Banjara Chowk when a criminal on police records, Akash Kanchile, and the others assaulted him to death with sharp weapons. Kasbe’s friend Nagesh Kamble (25) registered an FIR naming Kanchile and 15 others. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from the Yerawada police said, “We have arrested 15 men, including Kanchile. The suspects revealed the names of the minor boys involved in the murder, during questioning. The CCTV cameras installed at the spot confirmed the involvement of the minors, following which we detained them.” Two held for killing businessman The Kondhwa police on Tuesday arrested two of the four men for brutally attacking businessman Bablu Sayyed (45) to death at Meethanagar over a previous dispute on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-held-6-detained-for-killing-criminal/articleshow/76164629.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 3, 2020||Pune||No new projects in PCB’s Rs 250cr proposed budget||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board has decided to not announce any new projects in the current fiscal in the Rs250 crore budget proposed by its finance committee on Monday. In the last fiscal, the board had proposed a budget of Rs167 crore. It had received only Rs12 crore from the Director General Defence Estates. The four-member panel headed by the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) chief executive officer, Amit Kumar, proposed the budget, which would be tabled in the general body meeting for discussion in the coming days. Kumar said no new project had been proposed in view of the precarious financial condition. “We have made budgetary provision only for ongoing projects such as multistorey parking facilities, repair and maintenance of a sewage treatment plant (STP). We have sought funds from different ministries that are examining our proposals. If we get funds, only then will we be able to initiate new work in the PCB-limits,” he said. The board implemented the 7th pay commission from January. “Our total salary and pension expenditure has increased by Rs40 crore annually. We had to make provision for this in our budget. Besides, we have made special budgetary provision of Rs2.25 crore for Covid-19 expenditure,” he said. For road, drainage and public toilet repairs, the board has kept the financial provision for over Rs25 crore. “As per the procedure, the budget will be approved unanimously in the board meeting. It will then be sent to the offices of the Principal Directorate Defence Estates, Southern Command and Southern Army Commander for the final approval,” Kumar said. A senior DGDE official said, “As cantonment boards are facing financial issues for the last two years, the DGDE is finding it difficult to fulfil demands of cash-strapped cantonments. The ministry of defence has not increased budgetary allocation for the DGDE in the current fiscal. As a result, the financially weak boards won’t get help from the DGDE this year too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-new-projects-in-pcbs-rs-250cr-proposed-budget/articleshow/76164620.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad says students can stay for now||HYDERABAD: Stung by the protests by the student union of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) against ‘forced eviction’ from hostels, the varsity administration has decided to revoke its circular which directed pupils to vacate the campus by June 9. Speaking to TOI, UoH spokesperson Vinod Pavarala confirmed that the varsity would be reconsidering its order. “The varsity has decided to let students stay on the campus until June end. A review meeting will be conducted to assess the situation again and, based on the outcome, a decision will be taken whether or not to allow students to stay on the campus after June.” Student union representatives met the administration with a single-point demand to revoke the “inhumane” circular forcing students to vacate the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varsity-says-students-can-stay-for-now/articleshow/76164627.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||AU prof files plaint against registrar||Visakhapatnam: Dalit unions staged a protest at Andhra University on Tuesday demanding suspension of varsity registrar Professor V Krishna Mohan for allegedly humiliating the head of the department of political sciences and public administration, Prof P Premanandam. They also demanded that the police register a case against the registrar under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Premanandam said he organised a seven-day ‘research methodology course for SC/ST research scholars in social sciences for South India students’ from February 7 to 14 at the AU campus. He incurred expenses to the tune of Rs 2.2 lakh for the course. Out of the Rs 2.2 lakh ICSSR-SRC, Hyderabad, sanctioned Rs 1.76 lakh. “I approached the registrar to forward the bills to ICSSR for the remaining Rs 44,000. But ultimately, he abused and humiliated me in his office on March 20. He said, ‘useless fellow, get out of my room’ and also used unparliamentarily language,” alleged Prof Premanandam. However, Prof Krishna Mohan has denied the allegations and said that they are false and fabricated. “No conversation took place between Prof Premanandam and I. He had already collected the utilisation certificates and forwarded them to the funding agency of the course. I do not know why he is making such allegations after two months,” the registrar said. The controversy took political colour when TDP national general secretary and former minister Nara Lokesh took to Twitter and commented, “I seriously condemn the caste discrimination showed against Dalit professor Premanandam. I demand serious action against those who humiliated Prof Premanandam.” Lokesh also mentioned about Dr Sudhakar and other recent alleged false cases against Dalit leaders and activists in his tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/au-prof-files-plaint-against-registrar/articleshow/76162811.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||No screening at Nashik Rd rly stn||Nashik: There has been no screening of inward or outward passengers at Nashik Road railway station, since the trains started plying from Monday. Railway officials said that under the current guidelines it is the responsibility of the local administration to carry out screening of passengers at the station. “NMC authorities had deployed personnel who carried out the screening of outward passengers of two trains on June 1 evening. But, thereafter there has been no screening of passengers,” claimed Nashik Road station sources. On Monday night, five trains from Mumbai had stoppages at Nashik Road station. On Tuesday, another Mumbai-bound train from Lucknow had stopped at the station with about 50 passengers exiting the station without any screening, claimed railway sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-screening-at-nashik-rd-rly-stn/articleshow/76162807.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: VAT on fuel and gas to go up||GANDHINAGAR: The state government is considering the option of hiking value added tax (VAT) on petrol, diesel and gas to compensate the huge losses in government revenue because of the lockdown necessitated because of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. However, the government is still weighing its options, as the move could create a backlash and uproar. The state government has been borrowing heavily to meet its expenses and also pay back existing debt, as its revenues from various quarters have dwindled because of the lockdown. Sources close to the development said, “As compared to peer group states, our VAT and cess on petrol, diesel and gas are lesser. Due to loss of income because of the lockdown, many states have increased VAT on petrol, diesel and gas. The state government is also pondering to increase rates.’’ At present petrol and diesel attract a VAT of 17% and 4% cess while on gas, only 15% VAT is applicable. “Government is looking at option to raise VAT rates. There is also a possibility to two different rates for petrol and diesel. Final decision is expected in next two three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vat-on-fuel-gas-to-go-up/articleshow/76164633.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||Unlock 1.0 brings no cheer to caterers, cameramen, tent owners & wedding card printers||Bareilly: With marriages called off and all bookings canceled, thousands of people involved in organizing weddings have lost their earnings in Bareilly region also. And the government’s decision to allow weeding with a cap on the number of guests to check the spread of Covid-19 is unlikely to bring cheers on their face. Card publishers, cameramen, caterers, tent owners, dairy product suppliers have to wait a little more for respite. “With fewer guests allowed, people will prefer to either postpone the wedding or complete the rituals with just family members participating. Which means no cards will be printed. No caterer will be required and obviously there will be no decoration, marriage halls and high-end cameras to cover the event,” a wedding organizer said. Tent owners in Shahjahanpur normally book the important venues in advance for the important dates of the year to ensure they get the order for tent and decoration. But, their trick has brought them loss instead of profit this time. Suneel Gupta, president of photographer’s association, said, “Nearly 1,200 people are associated with photography business in Bareilly and they were expecting a business of nearly Rs 1.5 to 2crore during wedding season. Many marriages were called off and many photo studio owners are planning to temporarily switch their business.” “We are not needed because everyone’s face has to be covered with a mask. People don’t want their functions to be covered by an outsider. Many people are asking for the advance back. We have purchased expensive drones to cater the need of the customer and now it is impossible to pay the EMIs,” said a photographer. Anand Singh, an invitation card seller, said, “We have suffered massive loss as we take very less amount as a token money for the cards. Now the cards are ready and most of the customers are not turning up to take their cards. We have made advance payments to main suppliers and the cards can’t be reused as content is already printed on them. We are unsure about the future as there is no customer footfall in our shop now.” Lucky Gandhi, a caterer, told TOI, “There are many people like dishwasher, waiters, generator boys, chef who are associated with us. They are suffering more than us because they get money for the work they did and due to lack of catering orders, we can only help them for a small period of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unlock-1-0-brings-no-cheer-to-caterers-cameramen-tent-owners-wedding-card-printers/articleshow/76162809.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Autos, cabs run empty on Day 2 of Unlock 1.0||BHOPAL: The barriers may have lifted but autos and taxis are in neutral gear. On Tuesday, when relaxations in public transport kicked in, there wasn’t much enthusiasm seen on the roads, from auto-wallahs, cabbies and commuters alike. Everyone seems to be in wait and watch mode. There weren’t many hands waving at the few autos seen on the streets. Even fewer cabs were seen. It was a rerun of the first days of opening of markets, when shopkeepers and customers alike seemed to be wary of being the first one to open the shutters or show up for a purchase. If anything, the salons had an even more dull day. With barber shops shut for over two months, selfies with wayward beards and all-over-the-place hair were among the social media staples of lockdown. When salons opened on Tuesday, there seemed to be no hurry to trim off the excess. The same goes for meat shops. Despite surviving on bhindi and the odd paneer all through the lockdown, non-veg lovers mostly kept their tastebuds under control and didn’t line up before meat and fish shops. Roads were busy all day and shops (which were empty in the first days of reopening) got a steady flow of customers. Like everything else, the rest too will pick up in time. “I don't know if people are being cautious, adopting a wait and watch policy for a couple of days or what, but they are taking time before beginning to start doing what they want to do and can do after a particular restriction is relaxed. You must have noticed, there were no customers in shops for a couple of days, traders were complaining, but over the past few days, the situation has changed,” said Pankaj Sharma, who opened his office only on Monday though he could have done it a week ago. It is not only the clients, who didn't go to their favourite salon on the first day of opening or didn't hire a cab, which they often did in the pre-lockdown era. Barbers, too, seemed to be ill-prepared to open their shops with all the precautions that have been stipulated for them and cabs were also virtually off the road though autos were seen in patches where they expected to find passengers. Most of the salon owners went shopping for the essentials of their trade. Harinarayan Thakur, 49, who runs a small salon in Katara Hills, said, “I cleaned my shop as it was closed for more than two months.” Apart from salons, the district administration also allowed chicken and meat sellers to open shops from Tuesday onwards. However, from May 26, they were allowed to make home delivery of chicken, meat and fish. On the first day, when these shops opened, the prices had already gone up as there was shortage in supplies due to the lockdown of two months. Ashish, a chicken seller in Bagsewania, said, “There is acute shortage of chicken and rates have gone up. On the first day, there were a few customers, but not as many as expected.” Dressed chicken now sells for Rs300-Rs350 per kg – twice what it went for before the lockdown. A chicken seller on Hoshangabad Road, Ahmed Shah, said, “There is no business. Prices are so high that customers are not willing to purchase”. Apart from the price, one of the factors that could have led to the slump in demand for chicken on Day 1 is it was a Tuesday. Many people don’t have meat on this day. Plus, it was Nirjala Ekadasi, a festival observed in Hindu families. Though there were less autos on the roads than the normal days, on Tuesday, it was pleasant sight to see decorated Bhopali autos back in action. “Autos give you a trust more than anything else. A trust that if your vehicle conks out for some reason, you can still be sure to get an auto to reach your destination,” said Parag Saxena, an executive with a private firm, relishing his first auto ride in two months. There are around 12,000 auto-rickshaws and close to 10,000 taxis in Bhopal. As per rough estimates, only 10% of them were seen on the first day. “There is a persistent fear both among residents as well as auto owners and drivers. Several measures are to be taken, so it will take time and effort to bring things back on track,” said Praveen Dholpure, convener of MP Taxi Union. “Any customer who now steps in into a cab will wish that the cab is sanitized after every ride. It will also depend on the alertness of the drivers. Moreover, since incomes have dipped, there may be fewer commuters, while running expenses will go up due to sanitization and other Covid precautions. Cab aggregators should provide sanitizer sprays and other such things. Around 10% of taxis were operational on the first day. I am hopeful it will increase in the near future,” Dholpure said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/autos-cabs-run-empty-on-day-2-of-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76164634.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 3, 2020||Pune||Two men drown in Mulshi dam||Pune: The Paud police and fire brigade on Tuesday brought out the bodies of two men who drowned at separate spots in the Mulshi dam on Monday. “Both the men were consuming liquor with their friends near the dam when the incidents occurred,” sub-inspector Anil Lavte of Paud police told TOI. He said one of the deceased, Kishor Phatak (42) from Mulshi, went to the dam for drinking water and did not return. In the other incident, Arunachal Bihari (20) from Bihar was consuming liquor with his friends near Dhokalwadi village. “His friends said he was walking towards the dam while on a call, and later went missing,” the officer added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-men-drown-in-mulshi-dam/articleshow/76164631.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chennai||‘Not in position to nominate experts for NGT panel’||Chennai: Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) has said it is not in a position to nominate experts for a committee, constituted by the Southern Zone of the National Green Tribunal (SZ NGT), to inspect a bridge constructed over a water body on Chennai's outskirts. Therefore, the tribunal has now directed state-run Anna University to take up the IIT’s task and submit a report soon. The said road overbridge constructed over Ponneri Lake in Konnerikuppam village connecting Chennai-Bengaluru national highways with Kancheepuram town, was inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami two years ago. Initial design of the bridge, which interfered with two ancient monuments, was changed. A Ayubkhan, a local resident, alleged that the state highways department did not carry out an effective environment impact assessment (EIA) test before starting the construction as per the revised design and it will affect local water bodies. The state highways department in response said the original estimated cost for the project was around Rs.49 crore and it would almost triple if they changed the design again. Besides this, it will be a detour for vehicles. Other related government departments argued that there will not be much disturbance to the water storage level in the said water bodies because of the construction. Therefore, in order to ascertain this, SZ NGT in January constituted a committee comprising representatives from Kancheepuram collectorate, Pollution Control Board, the Union environment ministry and IIT among others. IITM director Baskar Ramamurthy in response said they were not in a position now to nominate experts for this case as work already assigned to nominated experts in earlier cases was not completed yet. However, the committee conducted a meeting with IIT-M representative and submitted an interim report during the recent hearing of case in May. Not satisfied with it, the NGT has replaced IIT with Anna University and the committee will submit a report within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-in-position-to-nominate-experts-for-ngt-panel/articleshow/76163807.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 3, 2020||Pune||District admin readies plan, rescue team put on standby||Pune: As Pune district gets ready for the fury of Cyclone Nisarga, district collector Naval Kishore Ram said the hilly areas of Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval and Mulshi are on high alert and evacuation plans are ready. “Citizens have been warned not to venture out. We have an NDRF team in Pune too and it will be dispatched wherever necessary,” he said. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Shravan Hardikar said evacuation in the low-lying areas, especially near the riverside are a priority. “Such areas, if in the containment zone, will have to exercise extra precaution and follow social distancing norms. School buildings can be used as shelter homes,” he added. CMD of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), Nayana Gunde, said, “The PMPML will continue its bus operations in PCMC areas and a call will be taken on Wednesday,” she added. Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad said coordination meetings were held in each of the seven talukas with forest, police, electricity, rural development, irrigation and revenue department officials. Volunteers are ready and weak buildings and walls have been identified. “People have been told to shift to safer structures. JCBs and cutters are ready. Extensive patrolling would be done and communication links have been set up. Senior officers would be monitoring closely,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/district-admin-readies-plan-rescue-team-put-on-standby/articleshow/76165182.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||53 lakh food packets distributed to migrants, cops tell high court||Nagpur: The city police, through the district collector, filed an affidavit before the high court on Monday noting it’s role in providing around 53 lakh food packets to migrants passing through Nagpur between March 27 and May 31 this year. The police statement about it’s involvement in assisting migrants with food, accommodation, medical help and safe passage was part of the collector’s overall affidavit on behalf of various government departments in response to a suo moto PIL filed by DV Chavan. The number of migrants was 6,000 on the first day (March 27) but it swelled to around 60,712 on May 31, with some days in between when it crossed the one-lakh mark too. The city police, through the involvement of around 157 NGOs roped in by Addl CP Nilesh Bharne and his team, also distributed 1.53 ration kits with various items, 40,358 masks, 40,612 sanitizers or hand wash, and 66,375 water bottles. City police chief BK Upadhyay, while supervising the safe stay and passage of migrants, had visited Panjri Toll and Kapsi Toll nakas, where cops and NGOs had distributed 6,225 food packets, extended 640 people medical assistance, and also provided water bottles to 4,068. He also interacted with migrants to assure them food and shelter. At short notice, city police and their NGOs had also provided food packets to 94,776 migrants in trains passing through Nagpur railway station. Medicines were also provided to around 2,103 travelling in trains after they complained of illness. Around 25,987 water bottles too were distributed. In the affidavit, city police also mentioned that around 13,550 food packets were distributed among migrants at Ganeshpeth bus stand after free services were started on May 13. They also distributed 254 masks. Police efforts also included MIDC police senior inspector Hemant Kharabe and Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, who provided meals to around 9.50 lakh migrants through 12 community kitchens. Crime branch, under DCP Gajanan Rajmane, too had set up a kitchen at his unit where cops contributed physically and also financially to provide food to around 500-600 people every day. The food was also cooked by cops, said ACP Sudhir Nandanwar. Addl CP Bharne said police and NGOs had tried to extend maximum possible help to migrants since March 22 but there were no records or data maintained to prepare statistics for the initial days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/53-lakh-food-packets-distributed-to-migrants-cops-tell-high-court/articleshow/76164635.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Notification on MSME criterion leads to confusion||Nagpur: Even as the central government has further revised the criterion for defining micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), a disparity in the cabinet note and the gazette notification has left industrialists confused. Under the new definition, industries having an investment into plant and machinery up to Rs50 crore and a turnover of Rs250 crore will now come under the MSME segment. The press release following the cabinet meet also said that for counting the limits, the turnover in respect of exports will not be considered. So, the Rs250 crore limit has to be only for domestic sales. “However, the final notification does not have any mention of excluding the export turnover while calculating the limit,” said Julfesh Shah, a chartered accountant and project finance expert. “The bureaucracy will always go by the notification that has followed the cabinet decision,” added Shah. This has left many industrialists confused, according to Shah. “The gazette only has the fresh investment and turnover criterion,” he said. A senior official in the MSME department also accepted that there was a lack of clarity. “Export turnover can involve substantial amount after conversion from exchange,” he said. The fresh revision in criterion is expected to bring a major increase in the number of industries being classified as MSMEs in Vidarbha. Sources say the state may have to take a call to whether include the new entrants into the MSME segment for the benefits under its package scheme of incentives (PSI). This is because it may lead to a substantial outgo of funds. At present MSMEs having an investment up to Rs50 crore in land, plant and machinery have been included in the state’s PSI. The scheme provides full refund of the gross liability towards the state goods and service tax (SGST) for period ranging from seven to 10 years. Under the current definition industries up to an investment only in plant and machinery up to Rs50 crore and a turnover of Rs250 crore will be treated as MSMEs. To provide tax refund to the new industries covered under the definition the state government will have to amend its industrial policy. The state government shells out around Rs4000 crore a year as SGST refund to all types of industries. The refund is available to large industries too but on the net SGST liability. The state government will have to take a call considering its finances said a source. Atul Pandey, the president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), said despite the issues related to finer points, the revision in criterion is welcome as it was long pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/notification-on-msme-criterion-leads-to-confusion/articleshow/76164645.cms||Shishir Arya
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||GRD jawan attempts suicide in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A Gram Rakshak Dal (GRD) jawan posted at Vivekanandnagar police station of Ahmedabad district on Tuesday allegedly tried to commit suicide, saying that his superiors harassed him and subjected him to caste-based slurs. However, Ahmedabad district police officers said he had only ingested two antacid tablets and created panic so that his demand to be deployed in the day shift was met. The GRD jawan, Sandip Nainwane, 33, a resident of Vivekanandnagar, on Tuesday posted his video on various social media platforms alleging that the PSI in charge of Vivekanandnagar police, PSI R B Rana, and two other cops have been constantly harassing him. “They have been constantly harassing me for six months and subjected me to caste-based discrimination. Due to this, I am going to end my life,” Nainwane is heard saying in a video which he starts and ends with the ‘Jay Bhim’ greeting which is mainly used by Dalits, rights activists and political leaders. He was admitted to LG Hospital in Maninagar after he told his family members that he ingested some poisonous substance. During his treatment at LG Hospital, doctors found him to be stable. Ahmedabad SP Rajendra Asari directed an inquiry into the case by a deputy SP, Kamal Kamaria. An officer of Ahmedabad district police told TOI, “Prima facie investigation and medical examination of the GRD jawan suggested that the suicide attempt was a trick to pressure his superiors who changed his shift from day to night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grd-jawan-attempts-suicide/articleshow/76164642.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chennai||Going home only for families, say workers in Chennai||CHENNAI: Ramnath Munda is waiting to go back, but says he will return as soon as things are normal, while Sujan Das doesn’t want to go back. About 40% of guest workers in the city want to stay. “We get calls from our families every day who are worried about us. We are leaving only for their satisfaction. We will return as soon as train services resume,” said Munda, 26, who came to Chennai a year ago. “Situation back home is worse. We will stay here as long as we get work,” said 24-year-old Das. Greater Chennai Corporation has sent back one lakh guest workers in Shramik Specials until Tuesday and is set to send out another 2,500 in the coming days. The number of those seeking to return to their home states has reduced, said corporation deputy commissioner (revenue) Meghanatha Reddy. “We used to get about 1,500 calls earlier from workers who wanted to go back to West Bengal. Now we get only 150. Also, workers from Assam and Odisha want to stay back as they are getting feedback from other workers that their government hasn’t made proper arrangements for quarantine,” he said. The Unorganised Workers Federation (UWF) estimates there are nearly 5 lakh guest workers in the city, most of them in the construction sector. “Even though companies want to resume work, the workers want to go back to their hometown at least once as their families are worried. Also, only those given proper facilities and cared for by their employers will stay back. There are many who were not treated well and they may never return. We have many such complaints from Madurai, Namakkal and Ooty. However, their employers don’t want them to leave,” said R Geetha of UWF. Madras School of Economics director K R Shanmugam said when lockdown began on March 25, many workers left on their own. Trains were arranged only recently. “The probability of those who left coming back is only 40% ... There is a lot of panic. Though they are provided with work, social security will be more important.” Experts said many employers had tried their best to provide them with food and shelter. “We had promised them salaries and have started giving it to them now. Yet, only 40%-50% have stayed back. We are tapping the local migrants who have returned to Tamil Nadu from other states,” said Padam Dugar, president, CREDAI Chennai. There are 600 sites in Chennai, each housing 200-300 workers. “Now only 50-60 workers are at each site. And our industry is such that we need several skilled workers such as masons, carpenters and painters. If the tile layers stay back but we do not have carpenters, we still cannot resume work,” said Dugar. Vinodh Kumar of Aditya Infrastructure said those from other parts of the state were seeking double the salary in comparison to guest workers. “We can use them only if there is an emergency as we won’t be able to pay high salaries.” Sitaram Shelar, director of Mumbai-based Centre for Promoting Democracy, said only 40% of workers would have left states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu. The numbers would vary based on the states they come from. “In Mumbai, people thought 15 lakh would leave but no one has the actual numbers of hawkers, domestic workers, construction workers. Not everyone wants to leave,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/going-home-only-for-families-say-workers/articleshow/76164644.cms||Komal Gautham
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Village volunteer hangs self, cops probe abetment||Vijayawada: A 19-year-old village volunteer hanged herself at her residence in Dundlapalem village, Guntur district, on Monday but the issue came to light on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as M Bandhavi. While police are yet to ascertain the main reason for the suicide, preliminary investigation suggests that she was in a relationship with another village volunteer identified as Srinivas. Police said that they recently fallen out and suspect that it could be the reason. Consequently, Srinivas was called in and interrogated. Family members of Bandhavi have, however, alleged that Srinivas’s alleged harassment pushed her to commit suicide. Meanwhile, Bandhavi’s post-mortem was completed at a local government hospital and the body was handed over to the family members. A case under section 174 of IPC (death due to hanging) was registered at Tsunduru police station. Cops said that they are investigating the abetment angle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/village-volunteer-hangs-self-cops-probe-abetment/articleshow/76162829.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||Cop sprints to deliver milk to 4-month-old in moving train||Bhopal: In a real-life drama, akin to a Bollywood flick, an RPF constable posted at Bhopal Railway station turned a savior by providing milk to a four-month old kid travelling to Gorakhpur. Mother of the four-month-old, Safia Hashmi, was in tears and thanked the cop Inder Kumar terming him a “real hero”. Inder sprinted on the platform holding his service rifle in one hand and the milk packet in the other to get to the coach of the moving train. His struggle was captured in CCTV. Safia Hashmi who boarded the Shramik Special train from Belgaum forgot to carry milk for her baby girl. She kept feeding her baby biscuits and water for two days. She pleaded for milk at the different stations without any success. At Bhopal station hearing her plea, RPF constable Inder told her not to worry and dashed out to get some milk. By the time, he returned to the platform with milk packet, the train started moving. It was then that Inder raced to deliver milk packet to the mother in the train that had gained speed from the station. After reaching Gorakhpur Safia did not forget to thank Inder Yadav. She sent a video message to Inder saying, he was the real hero. Safia said that she was trapped in Belgaum with her family. They managed to return to Gorakhpur by Shramik train. "I forgot to keep milk for my daughter. When the train reached Bhopal station, I told the Inder about it and he asked me to sit at the window and went," said Safia. “When the train started moving, I lost hope. But, just as the train gathered momentum, I could see someone running fast. It was Inder Bhai, he just managed to give the milk packet to me. I couldn't even thank him. Inder bhai you are a real hero," she added in the video message. TI (RPF Bhopal station) Nihal Singh told TOI, jawan Inder has set an example for others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cop-sprints-to-deliver-milk-to-4-yr-old-in-moving-train/articleshow/76164656.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 3, 2020||Chennai||Guest workers keen to come back to Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Mithash Manjhi, 38, works in an agriculture field in Ismailpur in Bihar’s Vaishali district. A father of four, Manjhi says he misses his ‘home’ in Maraimalar Nagar – a room in the industrial town in suburban Chennai which he shared with 10 others for a decade. He and 30 other construction workers from his village returned to Bihar on Saturday by a special train, scared away by the Covid-19 onslaught. Though he is back home with his family, Manjhi is keen to return. Like him, nearly 3.5 lakh guest workers have returned to their native states from different parts of Tamil Nadu since May 6. Many guest workers are looking forward to returning though once normalcy returns as they feel TN was one of the better states that provided a decent livelihood. Hundreds of miles away, Jagadesh Sahu, 22, who worked with his father Vasanth Kumar of Odisha’s Ganjam district as housekeeping staff in the hotel industry in Chennai, echoed similar sentiments. “We will come back to Chennai once normal rail traffic is restored. Chennai was kind to us,” said Jagadesh, who earned Rs 15,000 per month. A young woman of Bhanpur in Odisha’s Balangir district, returned home along with 300 other women workers last week from a garment unit in Tirupur. “Many of us were forced to return home as our parents were scared we would be infected,” said the woman, unwilling to be named. “We reached here a couple of days ago. But we are kept in a community hall where social distancing is near impossible. We are hoping to return to TN soon,” she said. They earned around Rs 10,000 a month and were provided hostel facilities by their employer. Though the pandemic triggered an exodus of guest workers, many of them return home this time of the year for the Rabi season. “Usually, Tirupur units operate only with 30% to 40% of its workforce during this period. Only from September, the production will be in full swing. If they come back by then, it will be good for the industry, workers and the economy,” said Raja M Shanmugam, president of Tirupur Exporters Association. The Tirupur garment cluster engages around 2.5 lakh guest workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-keen-to-come-back-to-tn/articleshow/76164649.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||A year on, UP BJP president still waits for a new team||LUCKNOW: BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh will be completing one year in office next month, but he does not have his own team. He is still being assisted by a team of his predecessor Mahendra Nath Pandey, who is now a Union minister. Though West Bengal and Delhi units have gon for restructuring of the party setups with the national capital having a new state president, in UP the issue continues to linger on. It is causing resentment among the middle-level party leaders aspiring for their inclusion in new setups for over a year now. Alhough Singh himself attributed the delay in initiation of the reorganisation process to the lockdown, party sources didn’t rule out the role of a tug-of-war going on between two factions of the state unit. Even the national leadership has taken note of the delay in the reconstitution of BJP committees in UP where panchayat elections are drawing closer and the party has to gear up for the 2022 Assembly elections. And when the BJP’s state unit continues to wait for a new team, there is a remote possibility that Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, state Mahila Morcha and regional committees would get an overhaul soon. This delay is hurting grassroots workers and the middle-level leaders who are not contenders for the party tickets. Most of this lot feels elated when they are included in the party’s regional panels. Now, they are feeling insecure as less than two years are left for the Assembly election and the party is yet to initiate steps for restructuring of its committees. “Such an attitude of the party leadership has triggered disappointment in the cadre. This is perhaps the reason why the BJP suffered losses in byelections to the LS and the Assembly elections,” said a middle-level leader. BJP unit has eight posts of general secretaries and 15 each of vice-presidents and secretaries. Besides, several posts would turn vacant if the party opts for ‘one man one post’ formula as about 12 office-bearers have been elected as ministers, MLCs, chairmen or advisors in government boards and corporations. General secretaries Nilima Katiyar and Ashok Kataria have been promoted as ministers. To replace them with new faces and also maintaining social and regional balances will be a major challenge for Swatantra Dev Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-year-on-up-bjp-presidentstill-waits-for-a-new-team/articleshow/76165198.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 3, 2020||Mysuru||Shivamogga SP resumes duty after self-isolation||Shivamogga: After 14 days of being in self-isolation, superintendent of police K M Shantharaju got back to work on Tuesday. He is the first SP level officer in the state who went into self-isolation. He went into self-isolation after a minor girl, who was a victim of sexual assault, from Shikaripura, tested positive for Covid-19, and had come in contact with police personnel who were investigating the case. Along with SP, six other personnel from his office were also advised self-isolation, and have resumed duty now. According to sources, the investigating officer of the sexual assault case had met senior officials in the SP’s office. As an ad-hock arrangement, the police department sent three new police officers (DSPs) and additional SP Jayaprakash to Shivamogga, to monitor the law and order situation. Shantharaju missed most of the events that took place during lockdown 4.0, due to being in self-isolation. On Monday, even though three ministers, including district in-charge minister K S Eshwarappa, cooperation minister S T Somashekar, and urban development minister B Basavaraj attended a series of programmes, Shantharaju remained absent. He joined Shivamogga deputy commissioner K B Sivakumar on Tuesday, to inspect the police quarters and the District Armed Reserved Police ground. This ground is now declared as a containment zone, after 9 KSRP constables and two DAR personnel tested positive for Covid-19. A total 22 KSRP personnel were deputed during the riots in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru. They returned to the district four days ago. Nine of them tested positive for Covid-19. The 11 infected, including two DAR personnel, are being treated at McGann Hospital. According to new guidelines, the primary contacts have been advised home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/shivamogga-sp-resumes-duty-after-self-isolation/articleshow/76162837.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Over 10k withdraw Rs24 cr from PF accounts||Nashik: A total of 10,578 employees associated with the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) have withdrawn over Rs 24.06 crore from their provident fund accounts till end of May. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the Centre has allowed employees to withdraw amount equivalent to 75% of the balance or three months basic salary. Moreover, the amounts are being disbursed on non-refundable basis. An EPFO official said that these employees from the region had applied withdrawal of money from their accounts. “Accordingly, we have deposited the money directly into their accounts in past two months,” he said. The Centre has also given relief to industries having less than 100 workers. “The monthly contribution of both workers and employers are 12%. The central government has also decided to pay the contribution of both workers and employers for three months from March to May. But industries having less than 100 employees are the only beneficiaries,” the official said. A total of 4,844 industries, having less than 100 workers, have got the benefits of the scheme. Nashik regional office of EPFO includes five districts – Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-10k-withdraw-rs24-cr-from-pf-accounts/articleshow/76162830.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Plea in HC for new cotton buying centres||Nagpur: A Zilla Parishad member has moved the high court demanding immediate opening of new centres for raw cotton procurement for the farmers in the state so they can sell produce to the government at minimum support price (MSP). While observing that the present situation was beyond the control of government or farmers, a division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor issued notices to the state government and other respondents. “It’s necessary for the government to come out with a policy,” the bench said. Petitioner Nitin Rathi through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar contended new procurement centres were needed immediately in view of forthcoming monsoon to prevent loss to the farmers. The petitioner further prayed for directives to Department of Cooperatives’ principal secretary to grant financial aid to cover the gap between the MSP fixed by the government for cotton and the price at which they sold their product to private entities. The petitioner further prayed for directives to the principal secretary and Pune-based marketing director to restart the registration of farmers at local Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC). “It should be intimated to them through wide publication means so that those who couldn’t register themselves due to lockdown can do it now at local APMC offices and sell their cotton to the government. It will be in the interest and betterment of the farmers,” he contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plea-in-hc-for-new-cotton-buying-centres/articleshow/76164671.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt replies sought to PIL over lockdown||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday sought a report from the central and state governments, in response to a PIL challenging the legal validity of the nationwide lockdown that has been imposed since March to curb the spread of Covid-19. The high court asked the advocates representing the governments to take instructions and submit a report to the bench, which will take up a hearing on the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and the lockdown on June 19, said the petitioner’s advocate, K R Koshti. The PIL claims that the central government did not make any preparations before going into the lockdown and put the people of India in misery. Had proper safeguards been used, as were by many other countries across the world, the difficulties could have been avoided. Sections 12 and 13 of the Disaster Management Act prescribe that the government take proper measure for relief to the people. “The lockdown has not been imposed constitutionally nor has it been implemented legally, logically and scientifically,” the petition reads. The petitioner submitted that the lockdown has been imposed by invoking the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act. But these laws do not have provisions for imposing curfew and house arrest. The restrictions on movements of senior citizens and children below 10 is in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The PIL also claimed that police have registered thousand of FIRs for lockdown violations, but when the lockdown itself is not constitutionally valid, the cases mean harassment for those who refused to follow illegal orders. It further contended that the lockdown, under the guise of measures to limit the spread of Covid-19, exposed the vulnerable and those with low levels of immunity. The aftermath of the lockdown was evidenced by the poor condition of migrant workers. The PIL questioned the interpretation and use of Section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits the assembly of four or more persons in public spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-replies-sought-to-pil-over-lockdown/articleshow/76163924.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||NHAI engineer jumps into Hooghly||Howrah: A 28-year-old Dum Dum resident, who worked as an executive engineer at National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), reportedly jumped off Bally bridge into the Hooghly around 4pm on Tuesday. His body is yet to be traced. The youth, identified as Trinjan Kusari, studied civil engineering from Jadavpur University and did his MTech from IIT Madras. He came walking on the Bally Bridge from the Howrah-end towards Kolkata when suddenly he jumped off, witnesses told police. The bridge has waist-high guard rails, making it easily negotiable. The witnesses said the youth was decently dressed and nothing looked out of the way. Cops from the Bally police station found an abandoned bag on the bridge’s sidewalk, from where he jumped off. From the papers and a smartphone found in the bag, they found he was a Dum Dum resident and that he was not married. They did not find any suicide note. The cops alerted the river traffic police and a search for the body was launched. But it was yet to be found even after two hours. A search would be held on Wednesday, said DCP (Port) Waqar Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nhai-engineer-jumps-into-hooghly/articleshow/76164710.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gold heist main accused held in Mohali||MOHALI: The Punjab police arrested the alleged mastermind behind the 2-kg gold robbery, which took place in Ludhiana’s Ghumar Mandi, around four months back. The masked robbers had entered V K Jewellers and looted gold after holding the owner and the workers captive on January 29. The accused has been identified as Tejinder Singh alias Teja, a resident of Mehandpur village, in Nawanshahr district. He was arrested by a special team of the organised crime control unit (OCCU) from Mohali. The officials claimed that he had committed the robbery to mobilise funds for carrying out targeted killings as part of a pro-Khalistan agenda and disturb peace and communal harmony of the state by spreading mayhem. Dinkar Gupta, director general of police (DGP), Punjab, said, “A set of Punjab police uniform and an ID card of Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB), have been seized from the accused mastermind.” The police said he was the prime accused in the January 2020 car-jacking incident, in which two men entered into the showroom of a Mohali resident in Kharar. They tied him up with a tape and fled with money and his Chandigarh registered Toyota Fortuner SUV. Giving further details, the officials claimed that the miscreant reportedly planned to use the Punjab police uniform and an ID card to gain access to restricted areas for conspiring crime, including terrorist actions. “He posed as a risk to the state,” said the DGP. The officials have also recovered a Chinese 30 caliber pistol, 10 cartridges and one Chevrolet Optra car. “He had also prepared other fake ID cards, including Aadhar card, driving licence from Noida, Uttar Pradesh, in order to evade his arrest. While on the run, he stayed at different locations in Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana,” said the DGP. He was earlier too arrested by the Punjab police for his involvement in more than 25 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, car-jacking, dacoity etc. “He was radicalised and motivated to carry out targeted killings by hardcore terrorists, with whom he came into contact during his stay in various prisons,” added the DGP. During preliminary investigation, the miscreant also revealed that he and his close associate Rachpal Singh alias Daula, a resident of Bhuchar Kalan village in Tarn Taran, had planned to loot a bank cash van, used in transporting currency from the main branches of the State Bank of India (SBI) to ATMs in Maur and Talwandi Sabo. “They had also checked out the route and conducted a recce for the same,” said the cops. A case has been registered under Sections 153-A, 171, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, 25/54/59 of the Arms Act and Sections 10/13/18/19/20 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act at the state special operation cell, Mohali, against Tejinder and his associates on the statement by DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar. “He was produced in the court on Tuesday and is currently under the police remand for six days,” said a source. “After his release from prison in December 2019, Tajinder and Rachpal, who was earlier in jail for his involvement in cross-border smuggling of drugs and weapons, and is now absconding in a recent case of murder in district Tarn Taran, had procured sophisticated weapons from across the border,” added the DGP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludhiana-gold-heist-main-accused-held-in-mohali/articleshow/76164653.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Fines as high as Rs 20,000 leave DAV students stumped||CHANDIGARH: DAV College, Sector 10 caused a furore by imposing a fine of as much as Rs 20,000 on students missing out on lectures, mid-session exams and college fest. Officials sent the total amount to students without break-up, leaving them wondering why they had been so heavily fined. The college student council raised the issue with the principal, following which the decision was withdrawn. The college charges students Rs 2 for each lecture missed, Rs 200 for each exam missed and Rs 250 as college fest charges. Students said they were shocked at being asked to pay fine amounting to Rs 18,000, Rs 11,000 and even more. Students said if the break-up was considered, maximum fine any student could get would be between Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,400. Student council president Lakshit Sansanwal said, “The impact of the economic crisis can be seen on everyone in one way or the other. Instead of showing some understanding, the college has imposed fine on students, which is only adding to their woes. The Student Council does not stand by this decision of the college at all. We had written to the principal with the hope that the college would empathise with the students and cancel the fine for this semester, except the fees for college fest.” The student council also asked college authorities to come up with a helpline number to address students’ grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fines-as-high-as-rs-20k-leave-dav-students-stumped/articleshow/76164667.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali municipal corporation loses Rs 89 lakh tree pruning machine papers||MOHALI: The municipal corporation has failed to recover part payment made for purchase of the automatic tree pruning machine after Punjab local bodies department cancelled the purchase and issued orders to make recoveries in April, 2018. The MC has also lost recovery documents worth Rs 89 lakh related to the machine. The machine was ordered for Rs 1.69 crore during the tenure of then mayor Kulwant Singh via tendering process. The order was stopped after part payment of Rs 89 lakh was made. While cancelling purchase orders, Punjab local bodies department directed the MC to make recovery from the company. Councillors have demanded registration of an FIR in the case of the missing file, for which a memorandum was submitted to MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg on Tuesday. Garg said, “We have received a memorandum by former councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi addressed to the local bodies minister in which he has alleged that recovery documents of Rs 89 lakh have gone missing from MC records. It has come to my notice that the file is missing and I have sent a note to officers concerned to trace and produce the file. I will take legal action as per the law.” Bedi said loss of the file having recovery documents worth Rs 89 lakh show the negligence of the record caretaker. “It has been two years and the MC has so far failed to make recoveries. The interest plus principal amount have now gone beyond Rs 2 crore. We demand registration of an FIR in the missing file case and action against errant officials,” he said. The controversy erupted after local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu alleged in April 2018 that mayor Kulwant Singh had connived to pay an exorbitant amount for purchase of the machine, which, Sidhu said, was available for Rs 25 lakh. The MC had issued purchase orders of Rs 1.69 lakh. After issuance of show cause notice, Mayor Kulwant Singh challenged the orders in high court, which ruled in his favour. The letter received at the time stated that the machine is overpriced. The vetting review was conducted by a chief engineer of the local bodies department, Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-mc-loses-rs-89l-tree-pruning-machine-papers/articleshow/76164661.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Moved by migrants’ plight, filmmaker arranges rides home||HYDERABAD: It took a migrant couple with three children walking from Chennai to Odisha, almost five days to reach Perkit Junction in Telangana on Tuesday morning. The family was exhausted and did not get even a morsel of food for almost two days, when A Ganga Reddy, a documentary filmmaker gave them some food and a new pair of footwear for their three children. The parents broke down in tears and it inspired Ganga Reddy to help the distressed. Moved by their plight and many other migrant workers walking on national highway 44 in Telangana, Reddy started hiring trucks to transport them to their hometowns. In the last two months, the 40-year-old spent nearly Rs 2 lakh from his life savings, hired 10 trucks and helped over 600 migrant workers reach their native places up north. “I hired the first vehicle for about 60 migrant workers from Armoor border to Maharashtra border. I just couldn’t see children and even pregnant women walking hundreds of kilometers walking under the scorching summer heat on this highway,” said Reddy. From the day he learnt about the migrant crisis, Reddy started driving to the highway every single day not just to help them with transport and food but also mobilised the people from villages located close to the highway to come forward and help them. “I started interviewing migrant workers and putting up their stories on Facebook. While that made a lot of people aware of the situation here in Telangana, many who were reading about their problems but did not know how to help have also reached out to me to provide food for these migrants on the highway,” said Reddy. He also motivated 100 teachers ,who set up a camp and distributed food to several thousands of migrants in the last couple of months. “We walked nearly 800 kilometers from Tamil Nadu with our children. No one has come forward to help us till now. We don’t even have enough money to hire a vehicle. My family will never forget the help we received in Telangana through him (Reddy),” said Sumitra Mand, who was among the many migrant workers to go home on a truck arranged by Reddy to their hometown in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moved-by-migrants-plight-filmmaker-arranges-rides-home/articleshow/76164686.cms||Moulika.KV
June 3, 2020||India||To cut dependence on China for APIs, Centre offers incentives to desi firms||NEW DELHI: With an aim to reduce its import dependence on China for sourcing drug raw material and spur production in India, the government proposes to offer local manufacturers of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) production and viability-linked incentives up to Rs 10 crore. The detailed proposal — framed by a technical committee under the Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) — includes guidelines for the production-linked incentive scheme for local manufacturing of API, as well as that for promotion of bulk drug parks. The government will provide Rs 10 crore each to domestic companies setting up plants to produce 41 products covering 53 crucial active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for which the domestic drug industry is completely dependent on imports from China. Besides, it suggests distribution of an annual incentive of Rs 720 crore per annum to four fermentation products including penicillin G. The incentive is part of a Rs 10,000-crore production-linked incentive scheme approved by the cabinet in March to speed up manufacturing of critical bulk drugs and APIs here. The incentive will be given to companies investing in greenfield plants to manufacture 53 crucial APIs of anti-TB drugs, steroids and vitamins. The proposal says incentives will be given on condition that products must be manufactured with complete backward integration and supplied to domestic drug-makers only. While drug-makers are required to apply for the incentive, the technical committee will review applications based on specific criteria such as scale of economies, cost of production of products, potential technological obsolescence, environmental burden to prevent the industry from falling sick post incentive period, the proposal said. This assumes significance because price of API or bulk drug has been a crucial factor hindering local players to enter into manufacturing in India as API imported from China has been priced much cheaper than the domestically manufactured ones. The idea behind the government’s incentive package is to support the local drug manufacturing industry to create capacities to be self-sufficient and secure backward integration starting from sourcing of key starting material to API to finished products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-cut-dependence-on-china-for-apis-centre-offers-incentives-to-desi-firms/articleshow/76166113.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Terming quarantine centres at village level ‘worst of the lot’, U’khand HC directs state to release funds to gram pradhans||NAINITAL: Calling the quarantine centres established at the village level ‘worst of the lot’, their state ‘pitiable’ and the hygiene condition ‘extremely poor’, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the secretary health and the secretary disaster management to order the district magistrates (DMs) to disburse funds to the gram pradhans. The direction came from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani while it was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) highlighting the state of quarantine centres established across the state as well as the threat posed by the migrant workers entering Uttarakhand without proper screening. The observations were made by the bench as it took cognizance of the report submitted by the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSA) of Dehradun, Nainital, US Nagar and Haridwar districts. “The sense which we are getting after studying these reports is that the quarantine centres which have been established at village level are the worst of the lot. These quarantine centres in villages are mostly functioning in government primary schools and secondary schools. Their condition, as per the reports, is pitiable. First and foremost, there are no facilities in these centres to provide food to the inmates. Food is being provided by the villagers and the family members of the inmates. In many of these quarantine centres where inmates are more than 30, there are only 1 or 2 toilets. What is most shocking is that the hygienic condition of these toilets is also extremely poor,” read the court order. It added that since the gram pradhans lack funds, they are in no condition to manage these centres. “We refer here to a Government Order dated 04.05.2020 passed by the Government of Uttarakhand wherein a duty has been cast upon the district magistrate to coordinate with the 'gram sabhas' and 'gram pradhans'… We are afraid that this is not being done properly as of now. We therefore direct the secretary, health, and the secretary, disaster management, of Uttarakhand, to pass appropriate orders to the district magistrates so that their own order dated 4.05.2020 should be implemented in letter and spirit and there are enough funds with the 'gram sabhas' to manage and run these centres,” the court said, adding that alternative arrangements should be made for villages where gram pradhans are not functioning. The court also directed the state government to study the report submitted by the legal services authorities and return with solutions by the next date of hearing. The health secretary, meanwhile, has also been directed to file a report on the rapid testing which was ordered by the court on May 20. The petitioners also informed the HC that several district administrations are using hotels as quarantine centres and charging people for that as well. The bench has directed the state government to provide details of these hotels and discrepancies in them by June 17 when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terming-quarantine-centres-at-village-level-worst-of-the-lot-ukhand-hc-directs-state-to-release-funds-to-gram-pradhans/articleshow/76162900.cms||Prashant Jha
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Migrants now want to return to Mohali: DC||Mohali: Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has said the migrants who were sent to their native states in Shramik Special trains, have now shown interest in coming back to the city. He said there have been requests from them to make arrangements for their come back. The labourers are now calling up at the administration’s helpline number as well as industry owners for helping them return to Mohali. Around 50% of the total registered migrants are also opting to stay back in the city. The DC said they are receiving hundreds of requests from migrants in UP, Bihar and Jharkhand, and asking to arrange for their return to the city. “We are now receiving phone calls from migrants expressing their desire to come back and asking to arrange transport for them. Similar requests have also been received from the local industrial units, asking the administration to chalk out a plan for helping migrants come back to Mohali. We are also receiving phone calls from the group leaders of the migrants for similar requests,” said the DC. In line with the inherent aim of the Mission Fateh, DC Girish Dayalan has directed all the sub-divisional magistrates in the district to set up special help desk-cum-registration camps for stranded migrants in their respective jurisdictions. He said relocation of all the migrant workers, desirous of going back to their native districts through special Shramik Special trains, should be facilitated. Camps will be organised from 10am to 5pm on Wednesday, June 3, at Radha Soami Beas Satsang Bhawan, adjacent D-Mart in Zirakpur; Sports Complex, Sector 78, near gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana; and Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Nijjer Chowk, Kharar. One member per family or from a group can reach the camp and register for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/migrants-now-want-to-return-to-mohali-dc/articleshow/76164678.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||With 153 on board, flight from Dubai reaches city||Mohali: The third flight under phase 2 of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission arrived at Chandigarh International Airport from Dubai on Tuesday. The flight arrived directly from Dubai with 153 passengers. Earlier, two flights arrived from USA with 100 passengers and Ukraine with 144 passengers under the evacuation plan. Air India’s evacuation flight from Dubai arrived at Chandigarh airport at 9:28pm, 18 minutes late from its scheduled arrival of 9:10pm. It departed for Delhi at 11:30pm. Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said, “Passports of all passengers were taken and will be handed back to them after they undergo 14-day institutional quarantine.” Guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs and ministry of civil aviation were followed on the flight. Covid-19 safety measures were taken at the airport as well, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said. “All passengers were screened by the health department, Punjab and subsequently handed over to respective states after immigration and customs clearances,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-153-on-board-flight-from-dubai-reaches-city/articleshow/76164691.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Hunger pangs drive cleaner to kill truck driver||Nagpur: A 20-year-old cleaner bludgeoned the driver of his truck on the head repeatedly until the latter died and then tossed the body out of the cabin on Saoner-Patansawangi road late Monday evening. There had been three murders in the district, including that of a Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) office-bearer, in the last 24 hours. Chhotu Prajapati, in custody of Saoner police of Nagpur rural, was made to starve by his driver Uday Narayan Yadav since May 31. Prajapati had a fight with Yadav as latter was reluctant to get him food even after keeping him hungry for more than a day. The fight escalated and Prajapati clubbed Yadav to death. Asst police inspector Nishant Fulekar, who led the team of Saoner police that nabbed Prajapati, said deceased Yadav was an alcohol addict to such extent that he would not stop even for food. “Yadav had loaded his truck with some consignment from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh on May 31 and was heading to Chennai. Prajapati had not eaten since joining Yadav on the journey,” he said. Police said a hungry Prajapati rushed to a house located along the Saoner-Patansawangi highway requesting for food to a woman. She had food for only one person. Prajapati wanted food for two persons but the woman declined. Prajapati then murdered driver on returning to truck. The woman saw the body being thrown and alerted the police. She also later helped cops nab Prajapati. In city, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha’s (BJYM) central Nagpur vice-president, 28-year-old Raj Dorle, was stabbed and clubbed to death at Bhuteshwar Nagar leading to tension in the locality. Dorle was targeted for supporting a friend when his rivals had attacked him around a month ago. Police said Dorle was murdered over an old enmity allegedly by Mukesh Narnaware and Ankit Chaturkar when he was heading to his uncle’s place. It is learnt that Narnaware, Chaturkar and others are also part of a group called ‘Marpeet Sanghatna’ in the social media. The police had taken preventive actions against Narnaware, Chaturkar and their accomplices and also Dorle and others following a scuffle between two groups. Dorle had presented himself before the police and completed the formalities of preventive action. Narnaware and Chaturkar were taken into custody in Kotwali police station. In another case, 28-year-old Raju Kashyap was stabbed to death by Virendra Chauhan, his brother Raghvendra and two others at Kanhan late Monday evening. Chauhan, a goon, was unhappy as Kashyap did not entertain him when he had requested for a job and money from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hunger-pangs-drive-cleaner-to-kill-truck-driver/articleshow/76164715.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC Bar president resigns, seeks to end virtual court||AHMEDABAD: Citing differences among elected members of the Bar over the opening of courtrooms in the Gujarat high court and starting physical functioning of courts, its president Yatin Oza resigned on Tuesday and sought a fresh mandate on the single issue of starting regular court. Oza asked for re-election on a one-point agenda, “If I am elected president of the Bar, I promise I shall go to any extent regardless of its result or consequence to see that the court physically re-opens. Those sitting in air conditioned bungalows and air conditioned chambers have really no idea what pain and suffering it is to 1,800 members of 2,400 members.” The HC has shut itself and is functioning through video conferencing since the lockdown came into effect due to Covid-19. Oza, the 18-time president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association GHAA), has been requesting the HC administration to open courtrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-bar-president-resigns-seeks-to-end-virtual-court/articleshow/76163921.cms||Saeed Khan
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Dharamshalas as quarantine centres? Hry told to decide||Chandigarh: Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday directed the Haryana government to take a decision on the representation against setting up of dharamshalas and similar establishments in thickly populated parts of Panchkula as quarantine centres. The state has been told to decide on the issue within a week. These places are being used by the Panchkula administration to quarantine people who have returned from abroad to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “The respondents are directed to ensure that the protocol and safety measures required to be adopted at quarantine centres and restrictions imposed upon inmates lodged in the centres are strictly complied with and followed by the authorities. Counsel for Haryana fairly submitted that the representation dated May 26 filed by the petitioner shall be considered and decided by the authorities within a period of one week,” observed the HC while disposing of the matter. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli passed these orders while disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Devender Mahajan, a resident of Mansa Devi Complex area of Panchkula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dharamshalas-as-quarantine-centres-hry-told-to-decide/articleshow/76164700.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||Society domestic help rules rile residents, complaints reach cops, CM’s secretary||Pune: Some residents of an upscale Hadapsar housing society have complained to the local police and the chief minister’s office over ‘excessive and stringent’ rules imposed by the society’s committee alleging that they go above and beyond any orders passed by the state government. The rules apply to entry for domestic helps, drivers, caregivers, and other staff. Prakash Mirpuri, who works for a leading realty firm, alleged in his complaint to the Hadapsar police station that the housing society’s ad hoc managing committee is ‘perpetrating a social injustice’ on hundreds of domestic helps and other staff by restricting their livelihoods, forcing them to take Covid-19 tests and bring medical certificates. “They are asking domestic helps to get medical certificates and Covid-19 tests, despite the associated costs and risks. They are imposing rules that violate various orders issued by the state or the civic body, which allow domestic helps and other staff to work in housing societies provided they are not from a containment zone. The size of the houses in my society are large and some require more than one staff member to deal with everything. One of my neighbours couldn’t get her maid into the society to take care of her old parents, as she was accosted by the committee members, who used foul language against her. She has also filed a police complaint against them,” said Mirpuri.He added that he had escalated his complaint to the city police commissioner K Venkatesham, as well as to the state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, and Vikas Kharge, principal secretary to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Kharge has forwarded Mirpuri’s complaint to the city police for action. The local police said that although the powers of housing society committees to set such rules are dubious, safety is also a concern. “We will investigate the complaint. The societies can’t impose such rules but the safety of residents also needs to be taken into account. They must verify whether the domestic helps or other staff are coming from containment zones,” said Ramesh Sathe, senior inspector at Hadapsar police station. According to the ad hoc committee, the rules were agreed upon by most apartment owners and many of the staff are working already. “A majority of the 320 residents in our society agreed to the rules. The complainant did not bring us any objections then. What we have asked for is keeping in mind the safety of our residents. We have followed all guidelines of the authorities. Live-in maids have been working from May 18 and day maids will also come to work as the new lockdown rules take effect. In case of any emergency, we are looking into the cases and allowing the concerned personnel in,” a member of the committee told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/society-domestic-help-rules-rile-residents-complaints-reach-cops-cms-secretary/articleshow/76165216.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
June 3, 2020||Pune||Domestic helps’ issue exposes fault lines in housing societies across the city||Pune: On most housing society forums, a key topic of discussion these days is about allowing domestic help back on the premises. While a number of people are in favour of the services resuming, an equal number of people stand in opposition.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Sunday further relaxed its lockdown guidelines but it did not address the issue of domestic helps. Last week, on social media municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “There is no harm if people want to call for domestic helps. They should take reasonable precautions while doing so and domestic helps should only be called from non-containment zones.” Many feel that the committees are ignoring the voice of residents. “Housing society committees have been forcing their views on all members and taking a unilateral stance without appreciating the overall situation. They are naming committees to ascertain the authenticity of the need and stopping people illegally at the gate,” said a young IT professional, who has to juggle between office work, domestic chores and taking care of her toddler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/domestic-helps-issue-exposes-fault-lines-in-housing-societies-across-the-city/articleshow/76165234.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 3, 2020||Goa||Probe reveals more forest clearings||Keri: Less that a week after TOI reports brought to light rampant tree felling in the Mhadei region of the Western Ghats in Caranzol, investigations conducted by the forest department have found more areas that have been cleared of trees. Range forest officer Vilas Gawas, who visited the Hulan hill in Caranzol where villagers had cleared a large area and which TOI had first reported in its May 26 edition, said, “We visited the Hulan hill area and arrested two persons red-handed. We have confiscated the mechanised tree-cutters and sickles.” Additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar has directed forest officials to investigate the matter and take action. “I visited the site in Caranzol and saw how the clearing of forest was done. It is painful to note that this will pose threat to the wildlife and biodiversity of the area. A meeting with the forests staff concerned has been held and instructions have been issued for monitoring the sanctuary area,” assistant conservator of forests Nandkumar Parab, said. On May 31, the Sattari Bhumiputra Sanghatana held a meeting at Valpoi where a decision was taken to restrict movement of forest officials in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. The president of the Sanghatana, Harishchandra Gawas said, “We are the owners of the forest in Caranzol and have been protecting it since generations. The forest department has been unnecessarily harassing villagers for tree felling on the Hulan hill.” Despite the Western Ghats being declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1999, villagers in areas within the sanctuary have continued to claim ownership of the land without producing any documents. Some villagers have even formed a group and erected a sign board stating ‘No Entry For Forest Officials’. When contacted, the deputy conservator of forests, wildlife division, Arulraj Jebastin, said, “Our officials are investigating the matter of tree felling in Caranzol. Two persons were arrested and conditionally released on bail. We will initiate needful action against those involved. A meeting will be convened with the villagers and a strategy will be planned to stop further degradation of forests in the sanctuary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/probe-reveals-more-forest-clearings/articleshow/76164782.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||When to go home from quarantine?||Bhopal: Thirty-year-old Sameer (name changed) has completed his 14-day quarantine in a public school and, like many others, has not been informed as to when he would be ‘discharged’. The confusion is adding to more apprehensions in the community over the treatment and care of ‘suspected Covid-19’ patients. Sameer and his family members have twice tested negative for Covid-19. “I have not been informed when the quarantine would end. As per initial communication with officials, it was to be a 14-day period. It has been over 15 days and there is no indication when I can return home to Jehangirabad. Staying in the school poses more risk,” said Sameer. Eight members of his family are quarantined in a school in Bhopal. “If we complain, there might be repercussions,” he said. Several countries have changed the criteria for discharge from test-based strategy to symptom-based or ‘time based strategy. A review of the ICMR laboratory surveillance data also indicated that after initial RT-PCR positive results, patients became negative after a median duration of 10 days. Recent studies have also suggested that the viral load peaks in the pre-symptomatic period (two days before symptoms) and goes down over the next seven days, according to ICMR guidelines. Health experts explain that available evidence does not indicate any increase in the risk of transmission from patients discharged based on the revised discharge criteria. The revised criterion also specifies that such patient will be advised to isolate himself/herself at home and self-monitor his/her health for further seven days. In this scenario, not many have been allowed to ‘home-isolate’ in densely populated areas of the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/when-to-go-home-from-quarantine/articleshow/76164728.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||Different lockdown conditions in NIBM Road area||Pune: The lockdown scenario in NIBM Road is a study in contrast, with different rules being followed in the same area. While the rules are strict on some stretches, restrictions are followed more in the breach in some parts.On the stretch along Jyoti restaurant, barricades have been removed and several non-essential shops have started functioning. Vijay Shah, a resident of Parmar Park society in the area, said, "All shops, including wine stores and gift shops, have reopened here." But the scene is quite different a few metres away. Near the RIMS International School on NIBM Post Office Road, the lockdown rules are quite stringent. Only essential shops are open right up to Cloud 9 society. "The grocery shops are open from 10am to 2pm. Dairy and medical shops are open, too. But nothing else. There have been relaxations in lockdown regulations everywhere, but not here. We hope non-essential shops open their shutters here soon. The rules are followed strictly here. Grocery shopowners do not entertain anyone without mask," said Rahul Kumar, a resident of Orchid Palace society. Near Nivedita Garden society, off NIBM Road, most non-essential shops have started functioning. Even a beauty parlour has opened shutters, but is attending to clients by appointment only while taking utmost precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/different-lockdown-conditions-in-nibm-road-area/articleshow/76165256.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||If fee not paid, kids’ education can’t stop: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Non-payment of school fee will not result in the denial of education or any other adverse consequence to the student, said the Punjab and Haryana high court while disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL). The court laid emphasis on clause 4 of the UT administration order of March 18 stating that “neither any name of any student is to be struck off nor he/she is to be deprived of teaching on account of non-payment of fee.” The court said if parents have any grievance, they can go to the Fee Regulatory Authority. Advocate Pankaj Chandgothia had challenged the fee payment order claiming it would in depriving students of their Right To Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-fee-not-paid-kids-education-cant-stop-hc/articleshow/76164718.cms||Neha Sharma
June 3, 2020||Chennai||Temples across Tamil Nadu lose Rs 75 crore due to lockdown||CHENNAI: Temples in Tamil Nadu have lost a potential Rs 75 crore in hundial collection and ticket sales ever since the lockdown was enforced on March 25. The state government has refused to allow the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department to reopen around 40,000 temples under its jurisdiction, despite the Centre allowing religious places to open from June 8. HR&CE officials said annual festivals fell during the lockdown owing to which the Palani Dandayudhapani Swami temple, Tiruchendur temple, Samayapuram Mariamman temple and Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple lost substantial revenue. “Out of the 40,000-odd temples, only a handful earn big revenue. Others have a large number of properties in the name of the deity and rent is their main revenue,” a senior HR&CE official told TOI. He said a temple earns two types of revenue. “The main source is the hundial collection, the revenue from sale of tickets, prasadams, letting out of marriage halls and guest rooms. Due to the lockdown, revenue from these sources is completely lost. The other source of revenue is the rent from properties and this may be delayed but it not lost completely,” said the official. “During the lockdown, three important annual festivals in Murugan temples could not be held -- Panguni Uthiram, Vaikasi Visakam and Chitra Pournami. During these festivals the revenue for the Arupadai (six) Murugan temples is the maximum,” said the official. Palani temple collections are about Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore during the non-festival season. During festival season, it collects about Rs 10 crore in the months of March, April and May, due to the Panguni Uthiram festival and then the Vaikasi Visakam and also holiday season. “This year, as the Panguni Uthiram and Vaisaki Visakam came in April, and the temple was closed before that. It has incurred a loss of about Rs 10 crore,” said a temple official. Madurai Meenakshi temple has lost Rs 2.40 crore during the lockdown in hundial collection alone. “Apart from hundial collection, the revenue loss from other sources including ticket sales, rent from letting out marriage halls, shops and establishments is around Rs 2 crore. April would be the peak hundial collection,” said a temple official. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Temple in T Nagar lost Rs 1.2 crore a month in collection and Rs 7.5 lakh from sale of laddus per week. “We used to get not less than Rs 1.20 crore each month in the hundials and each week we used to sell 15000 laddus at Rs 50 per piece. Loss from sale of laddus alone is Rs 90 lakh,” said a TTD board member. (Inputs from Padmini Sivarajah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/temples-across-state-lose-rs-75-crore-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76164725.cms||B Sivakumar
June 3, 2020||Lucknow||With eye on investments, Japanese panel to visit UP||LUCKNOW: In a boost to the government’s efforts to bring foreign investment to the state, a delegation of Japanese business and industrial represetatives has written to MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh, seeking time to visit Uttar Pradesh in November this year to assess the possibility of starting projects here. The letter written by the Organisation for Industrial, Spiritual and Culture Advancement International, has said that its members in Japan, who have “interest in a wide range of industries and services have now requested to coordinate a business delegation to India this year”. Tadashi Watanabe, vice-president for international relations for OSICA International, has indicated that the delegation would consist of 20-25 members and would like to visit Lucknow and Delhi where they will make presentations on their proposals. Singh, who has met OSICA International secretary general Fumio Kitsuki in December 2019 and Japanese ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki on May 7 this year, said that the development was a positive sign for the state. “UP is clearly being recognised as a state with immense possibilities for investment. OSICA has asked to be shown at least two sites, one in west UP and another in east UP during their visit. It has also indicated, so far, that the delegation is interested in setting up an electronics park, warehousing and logistics and food processing units. We have sought more details so that we can prepare a detailed itinerary for the visiting delegates,” he said adding that the visit is likely to take place around November 20. With several foreign companies moving out of China in the Covid-19 scenario, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to turn that into an opportunity for the state. A committee consisting Singh and industries minister Satish Mahana, has been set up to specifically focus on bringing foreign investment into the state which includes reworking several policies for making investment easier in UP. The Japanese government has created a US $ 2.2 billion fund to help companies migrate from China, creating a huge potential for UP. The state government has set up a help desk for three countries from where it is anticipating investments, including Japan, South Korea and the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-eye-on-investments-japanese-panel-to-visit-up/articleshow/76165259.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Liquor shops reopen, but sales limited||AHMEDABAD: In a major relief to liquor permit holders and hoteliers in the state, permit liquor shops finally resumed business from Monday. Permit holders thronged liquor stores. To ensure social distancing was maintained, hoteliers with liquor shops on their property issued token numbers to buyers and made them wait in their banquet or reception spaces. “Hoteliers were stocked up while permit holders had not received their quotas for two months. The customer footfalls were fairly good on the first day but they declined on the second. Business was normal and there was no unprecedented sales,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA), Gujarat. Hoteliers said limited people were allowed in. “Due to social distancing, we are able to take in only 40% of the usual number of customers in the store. We have also reduced staff strength to 40%. A number of customers demanded for more than their quotas as shops were shut. This is illegal and customers must refrain from such requests,” said a city-based hotelier, on condition of anonymity. Hoteliers also said that they were forced to destroy part of their beer stock due to the lockdown because of it had expired. Permits of several holders had expired during the lockdown and they had no means to renew them. Hoteliers recommend that those whose permits have expired be given an extension for 3-4 months because it is not possible to go to Civil Hospital to get oneself examined for permit renewals. Most buyers were irked by losing out on their quota for two months. “I finally procured the units allotted to me. The past two months were difficult. However, since no permit holders procured their quota of liquor for the past two months, their permits should be extended by two months,” said a city-based permit holder, who asked not to be named. “Moreover, liquor is very expensive in Gujarat and the government must consider revising taxes on liquor, at least for senior citizens because we use it for health reasons and it is nearly unaffordable,” the permit holder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/liquor-shops-reopen-but-sales-limited/articleshow/76163919.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 3, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Civic chief orders physical inspection of private hospitals||NASHIK: Annoyed over the lukewarm response from private hospitals in providing details about reservation of beds to treat Covid-19 patients, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has directed the health department to carry out physical inspection of these private health centres. The health department of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had sought details from private hospitals about the number of beds that can be reserved for Covid-19 patients, but no hospital provided the details. “As per state government guidelines, 80% of the beds in private hospitals should be reserved to treat Covid-19 patients. But we are yet to hear from the hospitals,” a civic official said, One more death in cityA 56-year-old positive male patient from Bidi Kamgar Nagar in the city succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was undergoing treatment in Nashik district civil hospital. With addition to this case, a total of 11 people have succumbed to infection in the city so far. Meanwhile, 11 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Tuesday. The tally of the positive patients in the city has reached 245. Of the 245 positive cases, 85 have recovered and got discharged. There are a total of 149 active patients undergoing treatment in hospitals across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-orders-physical-inspection-of-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76162913.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun DM issues inter-state travel advisory||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun district administration officials on Tuesday said that people travelling to Dehradun from green and orange zones within the state would not require any pass. However, such travellers would require to register themselves on the Dehradun smart city official website before their arrival. E-pass will be mandatory for travellers coming from red zones. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava said that people coming from areas with major Covid-19 positive cases would have to undergo seven days mandatory institutional quarantine along with 14 days of home quarantine." However, travellers coming from areas which have a few cases Covid-19 cases, will have to be home quarantined for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-issues-inter-state-travel-advisory/articleshow/76162918.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||3 cases, death push Covid-19 count to 301 in city||Chandigarh: The Covid-19 count touched 301 in the city on Tuesday, with four cases, including a death. Three cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 and the death from containment zone of Sector 30 B. The colony patients are a 35-year-old man, a 15-year-old boy and a 40-year-old man. All of them are family contacts of a Covid-19 patient who delivered a baby in Manimajra on Monday. The recovery rate in the city is 73%. “The active cases are 82. We are following protocols of testing as per the central government,” said Arun Gupta, health secretary, UT. On the contrary, public health experts said these numbers should be taken seriously. “For a city like Chandigarh, reaching this figure is unbelievable. Due to the revised discharged policy, active cases have declined, otherwise they would have spiked,” said an epidemiologist in PGI. As many as 4,902 samples have been tested in the city. The results of 27 samples are awaited. A passenger who travelled in a Shramik Special train from Una to Delhi was among the tested. “Medical screening at the railway station revealed he had fever. He was taken to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. His report is expected soon,” said an official. Samples of a UT administration employee who had fever for the last few days were given for testing on Tuesday. He works in the urban planning department as a junior assistant. The office was sanitised on Tuesday as a preventive step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-cases-death-push-covid-19-count-to-301-in-city/articleshow/76164745.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 3, 2020||Pune||A week on, outbound flyer count remains high||Pune: The city airport recorded a footfall of over 20,000 flyers in the past one week, since the resumption of domestic flight services on May 25 but the number of travellers flying out of the city was almost double than those landing at the Lohegaon airport, giving an impression that people were taking flights only in emergency. “A total of 13,416 passengers flew out of Pune and only 7,019 came to the city from May 25 to June 1. A total of 119 flights landed and 117 took off,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. Sources in the airport claimed that the number of flights had increased but cancellations remained an issue. “On Tuesday, a total of 34 flight movements (both arrivals and departures) were slotted but around 14 flights to destinations such as Jaipur, Bengaluru, Chennai and Ahmedabad were cancelled. The decision to cancel flights is taken by the respective airlines and one of the main reasons for the cancellations is few passengers,” another airport official said. Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents Association of Pune (TAAP), said the trend of urgent travel was expected to remain for some more time. “We are receiving queries only for essential travels. There have been no queries for leisure travel,” Bhansali said. Businessman Atul Rabe, who cancelled his trip to Goa in March, said, “There are several restrictions now in all states and the COvid-19 cases are high. There is no point travelling for a holiday now.” Shailesh, the director of Kesari Tour and Travel Company, said, “We are hopeful that the tourism in the country will start from September and our customer communications will begin next week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-week-on-outbound-flyer-count-remains-high/articleshow/76165264.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-Roorkee develops nanocoating for masks, PPE that provides better protection against Covid-19||ROORKEE: Researchers at IIT-Roorkee claim to have developed a nanocoating which when applied to masks, gloves and personal protective equipment (PPE) can provide better protection against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The four-member team which developed the nanocoating said it could reduce the risk of virus transmission by as much as 95%. The coating also eliminated pathogens — such as Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli — within 10 to 15 minutes in a clinical setting. Lead researcher professor Naveen K Navani from the department of biotechnology and centre of nanotechnology at the institute, said the team had sent their product to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology for further tests. According to Navani, the coating could act as an additional layer of protection for frontline healthcare workers. Once applied, it can remain effective on a surface for three days. Researchers said the coating was made using silver nanoparticles and a phytochemical from a tulsi plant, called badri tulsi which is found in the upper reaches of Uttarakhand. Ajmal Hussain, another member of the research team, said the coating could easily be mass produced and a mask polished with this coating would cost only Rs 12, a modest increase over an ordinary mask that costs Rs 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-develops-nanocoating-for-masks-ppe-that-provides-better-protection-against-covid-19/articleshow/76162953.cms||Tapan Susheel
June 3, 2020||Faridabad||Sealing Delhi borders: Over 4.5 lakh suggestions in||NEW DELHI: Over 4.5 lakh people have already responded to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s request for public opinion on keeping the Delhi borders sealed and reserving the hospitals in the capital only for Delhiites. The chief minister made the request on Monday. Suggestions can be sent till 5pm on Friday to 8800007722 on WhatsApp and delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com, or a call can be made to 1031. No suggestion has been analysed yet, but a decision will be taken after considering the public opinion and consulting experts, said a source. Meanwhile, Delhi government has started issuing e-passes for travel from the neighbouring NCR districts in UP and Haryana to the national capital. Kejriwal on Monday announced sealing the borders for a week so that patients from outside Delhi do not overwhelm the city’s healthcare system. All essential movement, however, will be allowed and government employees can travel by showing ID cards. People commuting to airports or railway stations can travel showing their tickets. “Passes issued by the DM of these areas are also valid for travel to Delhi,” said a government official. The government is scaling up its treatment infrastructure and working towards better coordination between hospitals and the agencies fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic, the source said. IAS officer Udit Prakash Rai, managing director of Delhi SC/ST/OBC/Minorities and Handicapped Finance Development Corporation, has been made the nodal officer for coordinating with private sector hospitals and Ravi Dhawan, another IAS officer posted as excise commissioner, is the nodal officer for coordination with four central government hospitals — AIIMS, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College. S M Ali, special secretary in the health department, is the nodal officer for LNJP Hospital. While some officers have got additional charges, a few have been transferred. In South district, a mobile testing clinic bus was launched by chief secretary Vijay Dev. It is equipped with artificial intelligence-enabled thermal testing, separate airtight cabins for doctors and technicians, and contactless and rapid testing facilities. It also has a separate ambulance zone to evacuate critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/sealing-borders-4-5l-suggestions-in/articleshow/76174183.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Sealing Delhi borders: Over 4.5 lakh suggestions in||NEW DELHI: Over 4.5 lakh people have already responded to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s request for public opinion on keeping the Delhi borders sealed and reserving the hospitals in the capital only for Delhiites. The chief minister made the request on Monday. Suggestions can be sent till 5pm on Friday to 8800007722 on WhatsApp and delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com, or a call can be made to 1031. No suggestion has been analysed yet, but a decision will be taken after considering the public opinion and consulting experts, said a source. Meanwhile, Delhi government has started issuing e-passes for travel from the neighbouring NCR districts in UP and Haryana to the national capital. Kejriwal on Monday announced sealing the borders for a week so that patients from outside Delhi do not overwhelm the city’s healthcare system. All essential movement, however, will be allowed and government employees can travel by showing ID cards. People commuting to airports or railway stations can travel showing their tickets. “Passes issued by the DM of these areas are also valid for travel to Delhi,” said a government official. The government is scaling up its treatment infrastructure and working towards better coordination between hospitals and the agencies fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic, the source said. IAS officer Udit Prakash Rai, managing director of Delhi SC/ST/OBC/Minorities and Handicapped Finance Development Corporation, has been made the nodal officer for coordinating with private sector hospitals and Ravi Dhawan, another IAS officer posted as excise commissioner, is the nodal officer for coordination with four central government hospitals — AIIMS, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College. S M Ali, special secretary in the health department, is the nodal officer for LNJP Hospital. While some officers have got additional charges, a few have been transferred. In South district, a mobile testing clinic bus was launched by chief secretary Vijay Dev. It is equipped with artificial intelligence-enabled thermal testing, separate airtight cabins for doctors and technicians, and contactless and rapid testing facilities. It also has a separate ambulance zone to evacuate critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-borders-4-5l-suggestions-in/articleshow/76164773.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL to send actual power bills||Nashik: Power consumers will now start getting actual and not average bills, as the MSEDCL has decided to start meter reading along with printing and distribution of bills. The power utility had stopped taking the meter reading, printing and distribution of bills since March due to the lockdown in view of the outbreak of Covid-19. “The district administration has given permission on the condition that all the rules such as social distancing and face-mask are followed,” said MSEDCL officials on Tuesday. The MSEDCL had appealed to consumers to send the actual meter reading through a mobile application so that actual bills could be sent. While some consumers sent the meter readings and paid the exact amount while those who failed to do that were sent average bills through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-to-send-actual-power-bills/articleshow/76162950.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Raids on tobacco dealers||Ahmedabad: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department, raided paan masala and tobacco products dealers at 56 locations in 16 towns and cities of Gujarat. Dealerships of 37 traders were raided by the department officials for alleged tax evasion during the lockdown, when cigarettes, paan masala and other tobacco products were sold at a premium. Raids were conducted at Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Siddhpur, Deesa, Palanpur, Nadiad, Bhiloda, Kalol, Vapi, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Morbi, Godhra and Surendranagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raids-on-tobacco-dealers/articleshow/76163916.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Only people from Uttarakhand to attend Char Dham yatra now||DEHRADUN: After the nod from the Centre, the Uttarakhand government is going to start the much-awaited Char Dham Yatra for pilgrims from June 8. In the initial phase, the government intends to keep the number restricted and open the yatra only for the residents of the state. On basis of the developments in the second fortnight of June, the state government will take a call on allowing people from other states for the yatra. This year, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri were opened on April 26 and Kedarnath were opened on April 29 followed by Badrinath on May 15. Keeping in mind the lockdown due to Covid-19, only religious activities were permitted and people were not allowed for the yatra. Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushi said, “For other states, we will have discussion with the authorities concerned on issues such as starting bus services between the two states, and thereafter a decision will be taken on permitting pilgrims from different parts of the country.” He added that preparations for the yatra were underway. “We are ensuring sanitisation and proper health and safety arrangements on the route,” the minister said. He added that the number of pilgrims to be allowed each day would be later announced by the government. Last year saw a record turnout of pilgrims and there was a significant rise in the numbers compared to 2018. In 2019, Badrinath saw maximum devotee turnout with 12.44 lakh, Kedarnath witnessed 10 lakh pilgrims, 5.30 lakh paid obeisance at Gangotri and 4.65 lakh at Yamunotri taking the total number to 32.39 lakh. In 2018, 27.81 lakh devotees came for the Char Dham Yatra and 23.24 lakh paid obeisance at the four shrines in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/initially-only-people-from-ukhand-to-attend-char-dham-yatra-commencing-june-8/articleshow/76162975.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 3, 2020||Pune||Pandemic casts shadow on Purandar airport project||Pune: Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) officials fear that the proposed airport project at Purandar might be delayed by another year in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The pandemic, followed by rounds of lockdown, has taken a toll on the state’s exchequer. The state government has told all the departments to prepare with a list of the projects that were either on the anvil or recently announced. The government said it was not currently possible to undertake these projects, including the airport at Purandar, in this financial year,” a senior MADC official said. “The government also said that no new projects will be announced. It said work on certain projects, like that of the airport, can wait,” the official told TOI. Then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis announced the Purandar airport project in 2016. It was said that the airport would be ready for operations within five years. “Of what we have got to know, the government at present doesn’t have the funds for the Purandar airport, or any new infrastructure project. It was expected that the government would provide funds for the airport this year. But in the current scenario, it looks impossible. One doesn’t see complete revival before 2022,” another MADC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-casts-shadow-on-purandar-airport-project/articleshow/76165271.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||Cure count higher than new covid cases, yet again||Bhopal: Six more patients died of Covid-19 in MP on Tuesday, including three deaths in Indore and one each in Bhopal, Burhanpur and Ratlam. So far, 364 people have died of coronavirus in the state. The only silver lining — more people recovered from covid than the number of people who tested positive in the state on Tuesday. While 137 more were infected, 218 recovered from the deadly disease. The state tally now stands at 8420. New cases were reported from 23 of the 51 infected districts of the state — Indore (31), Neemuch (24), Bhopal (20), Jabalpur (10), Sagar (9), Gwalior (9), Dewas (8), Ujjain (4), Khandwa (3), Rajgarh (3), Datia (3), Dhar (2) and 1 each in Khargone, Bhind, Ratlam, Betul, Damoh, Dindori, Panna, Anuppur, Narsinghpur, Shahdol and Shivpuri districts. On the brighter side, with 218 recoveries on Tuesday, 5221 people have become covid free — overtaking number of active cases, which stands at 2835.  In simpler terms, of total 8420 patients, over 60% people have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cure-count-higher-than-new-covid-cases-yet-again/articleshow/76164804.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||3 booked for attacking constable||Pune: Three men were booked on Monday on the charge of attacking a constable the previous night when he warned them of action for not wearing face masks in violation of the lockdown directives. Constable Amit Bhimrao Jadhav from the Pune police’s motor transport department was on patrol when he spotted three men without masks on the road. Jadhav advised them to wear masks as a preventive measure and warned them of action for violating the lockdown norms. The trio, however, picked up an argument with him and later charged at him, police said. Jadhav tried to ride back to the police station on his motorcycle for seeking help but the enraged trio followed him on their two-wheelers and intercepted him at Hatti Chowk. “They hurled abuses at Jadhav and threatened him with dire consequences. One of the suspects slapped him before the trio sped away,” an officer from the Sahakarnagar police said. Jadhav has named one of the three suspects in his FIR. Offences under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-booked-for-attacking-constable/articleshow/76165276.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 3, 2020||Delhi||PIL in Delhi high court against sealing of borders||NEW DELHI: A day after AAP government announced its decision to seal Delhi’s borders for a week, a lawyer on Tuesday approached Delhi high court challenging the move. The plea, which is likely to be heard on Thursday, seeks immediate direction to de-seal the border to enable the citizens in National Capital Region or other states to access the central government hospitals and medical facilities in Delhi. The plea was mentioned before the high court for an urgent hearing through the web link by advocate Kushagra Kumar after the government sealed the borders for one week starting June 1. Justifying the move in the backdrop of rising numbers of Covid-19 cases, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said, “The moment we open the borders, people from across the country will come to Delhi for treatment. Delhi hospitals should be reserved for the people of Delhi.” Delhi-Gurugram, Delhi-Ghaziabad and Delhi-Noida borders are shut for a week. Only essential service providers will be allowed and employees can cross the border by showing ID cards, the CM had ordered. The plea said those working in Delhi and residing in Noida, Gurugram or other states, were deprived of their right to avail the central government’s medical facilities like AIIMS in Delhi. These hospitals are funded by the Centre and can’t be denied to all the citizens, it added. “Instead of creating medical infrastructure and working to ensure medical facilities, Delhi government is sealing the borders, and stopping people from availing facilities in Centre-run hospitals,” it claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pil-in-hc-against-sealing-of-borders/articleshow/76164792.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||‘Carry sharp objects in cars; construction sites must be secured’||MUMBAI: With the cyclone threat looming over Mumbai, the state government instructed civic agencies to meticulously prepare for the possibility of floods in low-lying areas. In a marathon virtual meeting held on Tuesday afternoon, municipal commissioner I S Chahal and all civic ward officers were also instructed to immediately shift out Covid patients from temporary facilities. The BMC, on its part, has directed motorists to carry sharp objects in case their vehicles get stuck in flooded areas. If a vehicle’s auto-lock malfunctions, the object could be used to break the window glass to escape. In the past, they said, citizens had suffocated and died in locked cars. At the six beaches of Girgaum, Dadar, Versova, Juhu, Aksa, and Gorai, life guards were positioned on Tuesday and a coordination drill between beach safety and flood response teams conducted. Chief fire officer P S Rahangdale said, “Mumbai fire brigade is shouldering the responsibility of beach safety in addition to its regular fire fighting and hence life guards have been told to be on alert and essential equipment has been provided to them." The BMC also sent out a notice to construction sites to prevent accidents like dislodging of machinery cranes and scaffolding and the possibility of dislodged roofs that could harm life and property. MMRDA said cranes and piling rig masts have been lowered at all project sites. “We have not evacuated anyone but five schools have been kept ready as shelters,” said Manish Walunju, assistant municipal commissioner of L Ward. In G-North Ward ( Dadar and Mahim), announcements were made on loudspeakers for those living along the sea that they can shift to municipal schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/carry-sharp-objects-in-cars-construction-sites-must-be-secured/articleshow/76163901.cms||Richa Pinto
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guessing game begins in Gujarat BJP over Jitu Vaghani’s future||GANDHINAGAR: The guessing game has begun over Jitu Vaghani’s future as the Gujarat BJP president, after the central leadership changed the state unit presidents of Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Manipur on completion of their term. As Vaghani has completed his term as head of the state unit, there is speculation about whether he will be asked to continue for another term or be replaced. As of now, the state unit of the BJP is clueless as to whether Vaghani will continue as president or whether he will be given another responsibility in the party or government. Vaghani became the youngest state BJP president when he was appointed as the state party chief in August 2016, replacing Vijay Rupani, who took over as chief minister. Vaghani was a first-time MLAs when he became state party president, and won the 2017 election again from Bhavnagar. Before being appointed chief of the party, he worked with the youth wing of the party. Jitu Vaghani was appointed state BJP chief at a time when the Patidar agitation and other stirs were at their peak. A senior BJP leader said, “Initially, many had doubts over Vaghani’s capabilities, but he has proven himself and met the expectation of the PM and Amit Shah. Despite several challenges, the BJP performed very well in both the 2017 assembly election as well as the 2019 general election. Vaghani has earned the respect of the leadership and cadre.” Another senior BJP leader commented, “Nobody knows what plan the two national leaders have for the state BJP, so we don’t know whether Vaghani will get a second term or will get some responsibility in the government or in national politics. The BJP normally gives a major responsibility to every party president after his or her term ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guessing-game-begins-in-state-bjp-over-vaghanis-future/articleshow/76163913.cms||Kapil Dave
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP spent Rs 150 Cr on transporting migrant workers||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh government has spent more than Rs 150 crore on transportation of migrant labourers’ within and outside the state using trains, buses and other means, as per the status report submitted by the government in the Supreme Court in a suo motu petition. State government has informed that more than 18 lakh workers including 4.5 lakh workers of other states were transported. As per the submissions, government had said that ‘in the first week of the lockdown there was a huge exodus of migrant workers and approximately more than eight lakh workers from various states returned to Madhya Pradesh borders and they were carried to their respective villages by the government. “They were provided shelter, food/ratio and medicines after health screenings by the government. The government has further informed the apex court that buses were put on Maharashtra, Gujarat, UP, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh border. All foot walkers were carried to their destination in state since the lockdown. Government also said that it has been using 200-250 buses every day for this. So far, it has used around 11,000 trips for this purpose. Till now the government have brought 132 trains loads of Madhya Pradesh labourers from other states and sent them to their villages in 6,000 buses after health check-ups and food at government cost, said the submission. State government has also informed court that it had provided an immediate cash relief of Rs 1,000 each (total Rs 14.57 crore) to 1,45,567 labourers from MP stranded in other states. State government also informed court that, ‘In view of thousands of persons walking on the highways in the scorching summer mainly on Maharashtra border, government of Madhya Pradesh put a system in place that those entering Madhya Pradesh on foot will be made to sit in the buses and be dropped to the Jhansi, Malthon, Itawa borders of UP.” Ten thousand buses were used so far to transport around 4.5 lakh labourers of other states to their respective state borders, who were walking on foot and had entered Madhya Pradesh, the government said. “Government of Madhya Pradesh has already spent approximately Rs 150 crore on these efforts”, the government informed court. GFX Total labourers returned –14 lakh (8L in first week of lockdown and 6L later) Money spent in transportation—Rs 150 crore (approx.) Trains used for bringing workers—132 Workers of other states on foot transported from to state borders— 4.5 lakh (approx.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-spent-rs-150-cr-on-transporting-migrant-workers/articleshow/76164811.cms||Amarjeet Singh
June 3, 2020||Goa||New online portal to simplify food licencing norms||Panaji: A new online platform has been introduced for food operators to apply for and renew registrations under the Food Safety and Standards Act (FSSA), 2006. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has launched a cloud-based, upgraded food safety licencing and compliance online platform called the Food Safety and Compliance System (FoSCos), replacing the Food Licencing and Registration System (FLRS) which was used for applying and renewing licenses and registrations under FSSA. The new online platform is conceptualised to provide a one-point stop for all engagements with food business operators with the regulatory department for matters relating to licencing, renewals, modification, and inspection, as well as with provisions to file annual returns. For food operators in the manufacturing business, the system offers a paradigm change in the shift of methodology of licencing. This is expected to help manufacturers endorse their products as per the list of standardised products under FSSA, in the licence product category According to the old FLRS system, for a manufacturer of a particular product like “carbonated water”, the FLRS system would ask to endorse a general beverage category to your license. This new system allows endorsement of exact product in case of all standardised products, and in case of non-standards products, manufacturers will have to opt for proprietary foods category. The existing manufacturers, re-packers and relabelers will have to make the necessary change to their existing licence by logging in to the new system using the existing user credentials, same user Id and password as used in FLRS, and make the necessary endorsement and modification to their existing license for product category before December 31, 2020, without paying any licence fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-online-portal-to-simplify-food-licencing-norms/articleshow/76164819.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Virtual is real: Delhi HC frames rules for hearing cases||NEW DELHI: Virtual hearings in courts are here to stay. Delhi high court on Monday introduced rules to streamline the procedure relating to use of videoconferencing for courts in the capital, allowing lawyers and litigants a greater say in the process. Since the lockdown began in March, the high court and subordinate courts, to an extent, have been conducting hearings via videoconferencing but limited to urgent matters. The rules also allow litigating parties to opt for virtual hearing at all stages of judicial proceedings conducted by the court. Titled “High Court of Delhi Rules for Video Conferencing for Courts 2020”, these rules came into effect from June 1 and apply to the court’s functioning, service of summons, recording of evidence, examining a person, exhibiting documents to a witness or accused at a remote point, judicial remand, framing of charge, etc. The rules have also adopted some of the Centre’s guidelines, including if a witness or an accused has to depose from abroad, the facility could be used with the help of the local Indian embassy/high commission. As per the rules in criminal proceedings, the expenses of videoconferencing facility shall be borne by such party as directed by the court while in civil cases generally, the party that makes a request for recording evidence through videoconferencing shall bear the expenses. Since court proceedings in India are open to public, the rules say that members of the public would be allowed to view the hearings conducted through videoconferencing, except proceedings ordered for reasons recorded in writing to be conducted in-camera. It will be the responsibility of the court administration to make available sufficient links (consistent with available bandwidth) for everyone interested in accessing the proceedings. The rules specify the attire for judges, lawyers, cops and court staff as per the relevant rules. It said the proceedings should be conducted at the appointed date and time and punctuality should be scrupulously observed. Advocates and others attending the proceedings have to keep their microphones muted till they are called upon to make submissions and remote users, who are participating through videoconferencing, should ensure that their devices are free of malware. Mobiles have to be switched off during the proceedings, the rules stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-is-real-hc-frames-rules-for-hearing-cases/articleshow/76164808.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 3, 2020||Pune||Gap year possibility for some kids as incomplete admissions stall schooling||Pune: Shweta Rathi was happy to find the name of her daughter in the early March admission list of the school she wanted. But lockdown forced a freeze on confirmation of the admission putting Rathi, and several parents like her, in a precarious situation.Incomplete admissions are a worry for parents. Many are contemplating cancelling them for this year and trying again next year. They reason that half the year has been wasted, and the atmosphere has not turned conducive.Rahul Kulkarni from Kothrud said his four-year-old son has been admitted to a state board school. “But I am not sure if I will send him. Half the term will be gone by the time schools re-open and I am concerned about his safety once schools reopen. My wife and I feel it would be wise not to send him to school at all this year,” he said. Most non-state board schools start admissions by November and the process of inviting applications and announcing the list as well as confirmation of admissions end by February. The state board schools begin this process by March which has affected parents. School heads said there are massive cancellation of admissions from applications outside Pune.Principal of Amanora School Meera Nair said there is a certain anxiety among parents who have sought new admissions. A few have dropped the idea of relocating and have chosen to continue their schooling with the previous school, she said. “For all those who have decided to continue with us, we have extended all support by providing online classes, orientations and helped them get acclimatized into our system of learning. Regular counseling over phone calls have ironed out teething problems. Admissions are carried out through video conferencing and online interactions,” she added.Another parent, Vivek Agarwal, said, “We are still waiting for instructions from the school where we secured admission for my daughter. The school website said parents will be notified once they restart the admission process.”Principal of Akshara International Sonali Balwatkar said their admission process was going on and they had switched to the online mode. Admissions at Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh School were still open, principal Manasi Marulkar said, while principal of Mansukhbhai Kothari National School Varsha Kokil said they had very few new entrants, this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gap-year-possibility-for-some-kids-as-incomplete-admissions-stall-schooling/articleshow/76165291.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 3, 2020||Vadodara||Bedade removed as Baroda senior women’s team coach||Vadodara: Former Indian cricketer Atul Bedade, has been removed as the coach of Baroda senior women’s cricket team following allegations of harassment levelled against him by a senior woman cricketer. The decision was taken by the Baroda Cricket Association's (BCA) apex council committee on Tuesday. Bedade was suspended in March this year and an inquiry was initiated against him by the association. Interestingly, the complaint against Bedade was withdrawn by the complainant and BCA even withdrew his suspension on Tuesday. But the association removed him considering the sensitivity of the matter and in the interest of BCA. "An inquiry was conducted against Bedade after some women players accused him of harassment and passing inappropriate remarks. His suspension has been withdrawn but the apex council on Tuesday decided to not take his services any more," said Satyajit Gaekwad, chairman of BCA's press and publicity committee. A BCA official said that a woman cricketer's father had complained against Bedade earlier this year but he decided not to pursue his complaint any more. Though embarrassing, the decision comes as a relief for Bedade as he wasn't indicted by the inquiry committee. In March this year, BCA had in its letter to Bedade said that they had received complaints against him regarding women’s cricket that come under the police of sexual harassment and public shaming. The letter to Bedade said that he passed personal comments on physicality to personal menstruation, comments that discourage the morale of team members, angry outbursts unbecoming of a women’s team coach and using unparliamentary language that is not accepted of a person in-charge. Bedade has been accused of behaviour oblivious of gender sensitivity. Bedade wasn’t issued any formal show-cause notice before his suspension. Bedade was appointed as Baroda women’s cricket team coach last year after he asked for the position.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bedade-removed-as-baroda-senior-womens-team-coach/articleshow/76162460.cms||Tushar Tere
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||'Old land records contradict Nepal claim, show key areas in Uttarakhand'||PITHORAGARH: Contrary to Nepal’s claims of Kalapani and Lipulekh being parts of its territory, land records in Pithoragarh show that according to the 1962-66 settlement, all lands of Nabidhang and Kalapani belong to Garvayang village of the district in Uttarakhand. Speaking to TOI, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Dharchula AK Shukla said, “According to the land settlement conducted in Kumaon from 1962 to 1966, Kalapani, Nabidhang and Kuti were parts of then Uttar Pradesh (present Uttarakhand). The land records show that Nabidhang and Kalapani were part of Garvayang in Dharchula tehsil of Pithoragarh.” Controversy over the land started after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 78-km-long Ghatiyabagar Lipulekh road, popularly known as the Kailash-Mansarovar road, on May 8. Nepal released a new political map, claiming Kalapani and Lipulekh were parts of its territory and by building the road, India had encroached on it. Backing the claim, Nepal insisted that it collected revenue in these areas till 1961 and that residents here also participated in the 1959 general election of Nepal (parliamentary democracy had been established in the country that year for the first time, for a short period of time). Shukla added that according to the land records, 4,500 to 5,000 agricultural plots as well as grazing land, forest land and van panchayat land belonged to Garvayang village. “Some of the land (in Garvayang) was initially allotted to a special task force constituted by Uttar Pradesh Police. Once it was dismantled, the land was transferred to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Kumaon Scouts,” the SDM said. Krishna Garvyal, a local resident, said, “Kalapani and Nabidhang always belonged to the Garvyals (natives of Garvayang) and were a part of India, as mentioned in the land records available with the Dharchula tehsil. Lands to the east of Kali river also belong to Garvyals but are part of Nepal’s territory. I am 35 now and as a child, used to go to these places with my parents to do agriculture work. We even have a small house in the area, which now lies deserted.” Gopal Datt Ojha, a former MLA who represented Didihat, which constitutes Kalapani, Nabidhang and Gunji, said that people of these villages have been voting in assembly and central elections since 1952. Ojha was an MLA in 1967, 1969 and 1974. “Byas and Darma valleys have migratory settlements. So when elections were held in the summer, people would vote in the upper region of the valley and in the winter, they voted in the lower regions,” Ojha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/old-land-records-bely-nepal-claim-show-nabidhang-kalapani-part-of-ukhand-dist-officials/articleshow/76162990.cms||Prem Punetha
June 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctors at KIMS hospital treat elderly patient with plasma therapy||HUBBALLI: Doctors at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital (KIMS) here in Hubballi have "successfully" treated a Covid-19 patient with plasma therapy – the first in the state, according to KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antaratani. “Although the therapy was used in Bengaluru, the patient [P-796] died within three days of the transfusion being administered on May 15,” Antaratani said. KIMS treated a 65-year-old male (P- 2170), who was admitted on May 27. The man was on oxygen support when the therapy was administered on May 28. Ironically, the plasma for the treatment came from a 63-year-old male patient (P-373). “With help from experts at Dr RB Patil Cancer Institute, Navanagar, Hubballi, we extracted the plasma and 200ml was twice administered to the patient,” Antaratani said. “We obtained permission from ICMR and the state expert’s committee on Covid-19 to conduct the procedure. We have informed medical education minister K Sudhakar of its success.” Antaratani said the patient’s condition has improved tremendously after the therapy. The man is now breathing on his own and the symptoms have abated. He is likely to be discharged in three or four days. “This is why we are claiming it a success.” he said. The director said KIMS is ready to try the therapy on other patients who meet the criteria set by ICMR. The therapy can only be used in specific cases of moderate to severe symptoms and basically involves transferring plasma from a cured patient to one that is ill. “But we need blood donors from patients who have recovered,” he said. “We are counselling many people who have been cured, but the response is very low. Even educated people are refusing to donate plasma. Any person aged between 18 and 65 years who is cured can donate plasma.” He said plasma can be stored for a year. However, Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid-19 taskforce of Karnataka, said the treatment can be called a success only when the patient completely recovers and is discharge. "Plasma therapy may have its benefits. But success can be claimed only after the patient is discharged," he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/docs-at-kims-hospital-treat-elderly-patient-with-plasma-therapy/articleshow/76164094.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contact-less stay new normal at Gujarat hotels||AHMEDABAD: Checking into a hotel will be a different and perhaps a contact-less experience, as hotels across Gujarat resume operations next week under the new normal. As the fight against Covid-19 pandemic continues, hotels are all geared up to resume business from June 8. Even though the Government of Gujarat is yet to come up with guidelines, individual hotels have imposed a strict standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure hygiene. Most hotels are likely to create a system right from making a booking to checking in and out, that will ensure minimum or no human interface. “Our hotel is all set to reopen on June 16. We are fully prepared and are committed to strictly adhere to all government guidelines. We are promoting a contact-less experience for our guest,” said Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel. “This includes mobile check-in to ensure minimum contact during arrival, contact-less dining, mobile check-out with online payment options and a digital menu with QR code on the table for guests to explore the restaurant menu.” Sharma said that the highest level of cleaning, disinfecting and sanitizing protocol for public spaces like the front desk, elevators, guest rooms, restrooms, and restaurants will be followed. Some hotels in Ahmedabad have also imposed restrictions on accepting walk-in guests and only those who pre-book will be allowed. Some also plan to limit the number of rooms allotted for bookings. “We will initially make available only half of our room capacity and eventually expand as the situation demands, to ensure the highest level of hygiene,” said Jay Sudhakar, general manager, Novotel Ahmedabad. “Once a customer checks out, the same room will not be given to another patron for 24 hours and necessary sanitizing of the room will be ensured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/contact-less-stay-new-normal-at-hotels/articleshow/76163912.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||With 85 new cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 count crosses 1000-mark||DEHRADUN: With 85 new cases on Tuesday, the Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand has reached 1,043. Of the 85 new cases, 67 are returnees from Maharashtra. With 30 recoveries reported on the same day, active cases in the state are now 781. Meanwhile, a 44-year-old man from Champawat’s Lohaghat area died at a Haldwani hospital on Tuesday. While doctors claimed that he was a chronic alcoholic and diabetic, he had, however, tested Covid-19 positive on May 24. He had returned from Maharashtra on May 18. This is the 7th death of a Covid-19 patient in the state in the past one month. Dr Arun Joshi, chief medical superintendent of Dr. Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani, said that the deceased was suffering from severe pneumonia. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that Dehradun reported maximum, 37, cases on Tuesday, followed by 22 in Nainital. “Tehri reported 14 new cases on Tuesday, followed by six in Chamoli, three in Pauri, two in Rudraprayag and one in Haridwar,” said Pant, adding that all the positive cases from Nainital, Haridwar and Tehri are returnees from Mumbai. “Even 25 of the 37 cases reported in Dehradun and five cases in Chamoli are returnees from Mumbai,” he added. With 1,268 new samples being sent for testing on Tuesday, the pendency of reports reached 6,863. The state’s Covid labs are so overburdened that over 500 samples from Haridwar district were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, in the past four days. Haridwar chief medical officer Dr Saroj Naithani told TOI that All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, has stopped accepting samples from Haridwar after which the decision was taken to send them to Delhi. “We have now received the level 1 Covid testing machine in Haridwar and we will start testing here soon,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-85-new-cases-ukhands-covid-count-crosses-1000-mark/articleshow/76162998.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Transport services to resume on June 5||PUNE: Cabs and autorickshaws will ply in non-containment zones of the Pune Municipal Corporation from June 5. Speaking to TOI, municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said it would be the responsibility of passengers and drivers of cabs and autorickshaws to take precautions when the services resume. “Public transport services will be available from June 5. Covid-19 is here to remain with us for long,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-services-to-resume-on-june-5/articleshow/76165287.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 3, 2020||Pune||Fresh locations with Covid-19 patients in list of sealed areas||Pune: The civic body on Tuesday made major changes to the list of containment clusters in the city by adding 28 new localities — mostly in Hadapasar, Parvati, Satara Road, Shivajinagar and Kothrud — and excluding 27 not recording any Covid-19 cases over the past 15 days.The number of containment clusters in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits is 66 now — one more than 65, declared on May 19. Only essential shops will remain open in these areas from 9am to 2pm.The changes in sealed areas are in tune with Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad’s statement on Monday that 1,450 fresh cases were reported from areas outside the previous containment zones.Kothrud, relatively free from the virus concern, now has three containment clusters. Shivajinagar is also emerging as an area of concern. Gaikwad told TOI on Tuesday, “The civic administration reviewed the areas and positive cases reported over the last fortnight. New areas have been added as many cases have come up there.”According to the PMC order on Tuesday, the first phase of unlock will start on June 3, the second on June 5 and the third on June 8. In the first phase, private and municipal gardens will be opened from 5am to 7pm. In the second phase, all marketplaces barring malls and commercial complexes will be opened following the odd and even system. Places like Mahatma Phule Mandai, Hong Kong lane and Tulsibaug will remain open from 9am to 5pm. The use of trial rooms has been prohibited. In the third, private offices can function with 10% staff.On Tuesday, the PMC reduced the mandatory distance between two hawkers from 10m to 5m. The usage of masks, hand sanitizer and gloves will be mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fresh-locations-with-covid-19-patients-in-list-of-sealed-areas/articleshow/76165281.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nashik||14 externed criminals found in city during lockdown||Nashik: As many as 14 externed externed criminals were found in the city by police during the lockdown following which they were booked and again sent out of the district. A senior police officer said, as lockdown was imposed people were appealed not to move out of their houses unnecessarily. “Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil had instructed to conduct a review if externed criminals had managed to sneak into the city during the lockdown,” he said. “Subsequently, we intensified their vigil and also alerted our informers to report if externed criminals were spotted in the city limits. Also, there was no scope for the criminals to escape owing to the checkpoints in place due to the lockdown,” he added. During the review, 14 externed criminals — booked under Section 142 of the Maharashtra Police Act — were detained and sent out of the district. One such criminal, Chandrakant Waghmare (30), was found in Hotel Rajdoot area on Sunday. The officer said that they also externed a gang of four criminals from the city on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-externed-criminals-found-in-city-during-lockdown/articleshow/76163000.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 3, 2020||Delhi||AAP ex-councillor Tahir Hussain played pivotal role in NE Delhi riots, claim cops||NEW DELHI: The second chargesheet filed by police on Tuesday alleged that Tahir Hussain, the suspended AAP councillor, played a pivotal role in the northeast Delhi riots. It also claimed that Hussain transferred Rs 1.1 crore to shell companies in the second week of January and later got that amount in cash. The investigation claimed that Hussain transferred Rs 92 lakh to the accounts of Meenu Fabrication and SP Financial Services, Rs 20 lakh to Show Effect Pvt Ltd and another Rs 20 lakh to Yudhvee Impex. The money was allegedly used in preparations for the riots and distributed among anti-CAA protesters and several others from the locality, who were told to be ready for “big action”. The chargesheet accessed by TOI mentioned Hussain got his pistol released on February 22 from Khajuri Khas police station, a day before the riots. “He purchased 100 cartridges against his licence, but only 64 cartridges and 20 empty shells were seized. Hussain couldn’t give a satisfactory answer about the 14 remaining cartridges and the 20 spent ones,” police said. The location of his mobile number matched with two other accused, Khalid Saifi and Umar Khalid, police said, adding that it corroborates with Hussain’s disclosure about their meeting prior to the riots. All photos and videos recovered after the riots show the destruction caused by the rioters, but Hussain’s house and office were left untouched. Police found 44 vehicles in the parking lot near his house, of which 14 were burnt and 18 damaged. None of the CCTV cameras installed around the house were found functional during the days of the riots. Four DVRs that were seized didn’t have any data between February 23 and 28, the chargesheet stated. Police also seized crates containing glass bottles filled with liquid and plugged with a cloth. Three large improvised catapults allegedly used to lob Molotov cocktails were also seized. During the probe, Hussain claimed he had made six calls to the PCR on February 24 between 2.50pm and 6pm and six calls on February 25 between 3.50pm and 4.35pm asking police to rescue him. However, it was found he had made only four calls on February 24 and reported about stonepelting and rioters entering his house forcibly. Hussain’s supporters, Liyakat Ali and Riyasat Ali, were caught from their houses. They allegedly said they actively participated in the riots in and around Hussain’s house. Riyasat said he burnt cars and also looted money from some houses. Hussain’s stepbrothers, Shah Alam, Mohammad Shadab, Md Abid and Rashid Saifi, arrested later, allegedly joined the violence on his instructions. Meanwhile, Crime Branch of Delhi Police will file another chargesheet on Wednesday in the murder case of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma and the Rajdhani School violence case. Hussain is also an accused in these riot cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-councillor-played-pivotal-role-in-ne-riots-claim-cops/articleshow/76164830.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed uses pulse oximeter, thermal guns to check cops every day||Aurangabad: To detect Covid-19 at the initial stage, Beed police have procured pulse oximeters and thermal guns for each of the 28 police stations in the district as well as for all the side branches, including the special branch, crime branch, traffic branch and the office of Beed superintendent of police. After Pune city, Beed becomes the second unit in the state to mandatorily screen all the personnel using these medical gadgets on a daily basis. The police station chiefs have been tasked to ensure that each of the policemen is screened every day. The observed parameters and symptoms (if any) as informed by the policemen are to be filled in a spreadsheet and sent to the Beed police chief daily. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “We have been using thermal guns to check the body temperature of our personnel for the past couple of months. However, after we found that the Pune city police are using pulse oximeters, we too got them for our police stations and all the branches.” Going a step ahead, Beed police have already started preparing a dedicated isolation centre, capable of accommodating 100 policemen at one time. While 35 beds are already in place, the remaining 65 too will be installed by the weekend, said an officer privy to the work being carried out on war-footing. Beed police have managed to convince the district health authorities, following which an internal circular was issued asking the health staffers to take swabs of policemen as and when they reach the civil hospital and not to make them wait along with other citizens. Authorities said none of the policemen in the district have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-uses-pulse-oximeter-thermal-guns-to-check-cops-every-day/articleshow/76163008.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 3, 2020||Pune||Pass must for inter-district, inter-state movement: Maharashtra cops||PUNE: Wanowrie resident Vinay S (36), an engineer, and his family are worried about getting him a pass to travel from Mumbai to Pune. Vinay has been held up at an offshore ONGC installation since March 19. His relatives have many questions even as his employers told him he won’t require a travel pass and that they would arrange a private taxi for his journey back to Pune. Meanwhile, his family is exploring other options for a travel pass to ensure he doesn’t face any trouble returning to Pune. Similarly, a 35-year-old software engineer from Kothrud, who found himself stuck at his offshore work centre in Germany, is wondering how he would return to Pune once he lands in Mumbai. “I will be in India as soon as international flights resume, but I am worried if I will be allowed to travel without a pass or how I can secure one,” the techie told TOI. “In situations like these, the traveller can apply online for a pass on ‘covid19.mhpolice.in’, where applications are processed as per the urgency,” a senior state police officer said. The easing of restrictions and phased opening of the lockdown in the state between June 1 and 30 has spurred a slew of inquiries from people about the requirement of travel passes for travel between Pune and other districts or outside Maharashtra. The state’s guidelines of May 31 are categorical on this count — “Inter-state and inter-district movement of persons shall continue to be regulated.” “Passes are must for travel to and from other districts and states. People who wish to travel to other districts and other states can apply online for digital pass,” deputy Commissioner of Police Bachchan Singh told TOI. “No travel pass is required for commute within the city or district,” he said. “Many areas of Pune city have been declared as containment zones. Controlling movement of people from these areas is imperative to check the spread of the contagion and hence, passes are required,” he added. “Also, people will have to mention the nature of the work for which they are travelling,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pass-must-for-inter-district-inter-state-movement-cops/articleshow/76165295.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 3, 2020||Pune||43 containment zones in Pune rural have been infection-free for 21 days||PUNE: There’s now cautious cheer emerging from the rural parts of Pune distict. As many as 43 containment zones, spread across 13 talukas and over 100 gram panchayats, have not reported a single case of Covid-19 in the last 21 days. That time period is crucial: Areas that have not registered a single case through 21 consecutive days can shed their ‘containment zone’ tag. Hopeful officials, who credited surveillance and strict curbs for the drop in spread, said the challenge now is preventing fresh infections. There are currently 91 active containment zones in the rural parts of Pune. The 13 talukas that make up the region have collectively reported 288 cases and eight deaths, at a mortality rate of 2.7%. The talukas of Haveli, Shirur, Mulshi and Daund are the worst-hit. Fortunately, the spread of the virus has been limited to 105 gram panchayats, from a total of 1,398. The population of Pune rural is an estimated 40 lakh. “The spread of Covid-19 has been relatively low in the rural parts. Regular surveillance and restrictions on movement helped. It’s an achievement, but we remain vigilant,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Pune Zilla Parishad. Many villages now have checkposts to screen migrants seeking entry. “Some 20,000 migrants, mainly from Mumbai and Pune, have arrived in the villages here. We have home-quarantined some and others have been placed under institutional quarantine. We’re closely monitoring the inflow of migrants,” Prasad said. Haveli taluka recorded some of the highest numbers: 98 positive cases and two deaths. It lies within a red zone. “But nearly 65 patients in Haveli have recovered. There are 33 active cases undergoing treatment,” Prasad said. Of the 43 areas in rural Pune that are set to emerge from containment, 20 are in Haveli. The other 23 are in Shirur, Velhe, Maval, Bhor, Indapur, Baramati, Daund, Mulshi and Indapur talukas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/43-containment-zones-in-pune-rural-have-been-infection-free-for-21-days/articleshow/76165299.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||Not all senior MLAs can become ministers, says Vijayvargiya||Bhopal: Ahead of cabinet expansion in Madhya Pradesh and claims to ministerial posts by senior MLAs, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said on Tuesday that claimants are many, but not all can become a minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. Vijayvargiya also claimed that Congress will lose upcoming by-poll as the party has cheated youths and farmers. “Cabinet expansion is chief minister's prerogative. There are several senior MLAs in the party but, it is not possible to make all of them ministers. The party will decide the names,”Vijayvargiya told reporters. The BJP leaders’ statement came at a time when his close confident and MLA from Indore-2, Ramesh Mandola, has been named among strong claimants for a berth in the upcoming cabinet expansion. Vijayvargiya’s son Aakash is also an MLA from Indore-3 assembly constituency. The BJP stalwart who reached party's state head office to meet state president, VD Sharma and organising general secretary, Suhas Bhagat, held close door discussions separately over party’s strategy for the forthcoming by-polls, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/not-all-senior-mlas-can-become-ministers-says-vijayvargiya/articleshow/76164822.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludh-Delhi flight passenger count reaches 22||Ludhiana: Ludhiana-Delhi flight continued to get some response as the number of passengers crossed the 20 mark for the first time after the resumption of the flight. Airline officials expect the number to increase substantially after the hotels open. The flight operations between Ludhiana and Delhi had resumed on May 25 and on the first day 11 passengers had arrived from Delhi, whereas just five passengers had board the flight to Delhi from here. Last Saturday, the number of passengers from Delhi had risen to 26 and those boarding from Ludhiana were 16. Air India officials said that on Tuesday 30 passengers arrived from Delhi on the flight whereas 22 passengers left for Delhi in the same flight. They added that whereas the number of passengers coming to the city are on expected lines and are increasing, the number of passengers taking the flight from Ludhiana was a surprise as the number was below 20 since the resumption of the flight. Airport officials said that they expect that number of passengers taking the flight to city to rise after June 8 when hotels open. They added that this was because of the fact that people from outside who wish to come to Ludhiana would have somewhere to stay, which was not the case previously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-delhi-flight-passenger-count-reaches-22/articleshow/76163940.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||PMR’s death toll at 367, infected tally over 8,000||Pune: Twenty-two coronavirus casualties were reported in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, of which 10 occurred on Monday and one on May 31, taking the death count to 367 in the region so far. Besides, 308 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Tuesday, pushing the case tally in the region up to 8,134. Of the total new cases, 256 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 31 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas and 21 in the rural areas of the district. “About 192 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after they were declared Covid-free. Besides, 194 critical Covid patients are under treatment in the region at various hospitals,” a district health official said. PMC health officials said they had continued with rigorous checks and contact tracing in containment areas. Over 1,500 swab samples were collected on Tuesday. About 2,331 active Covid patients were being treated at various hospitals and centres of civic administration, the officials sid. Patients who died at Sassoon General Hospital include a 56-year-old woman from Shivajinagar, a 68-year-old woman from Gultekdi, a 78-year-old man from Ganesh Peth, a 45-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man from the Ramtekdi area, a 62-year-old female from Hadapsar, a 60-year-old woman from Ramtekdi, a 65-year-old man from the Tadiwala Road area and a 40-year-old woman from Yerawada. Those who died at private hospitals included a 76-year-old woman from Hadapsar, an 86-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 70-year-old woman from Wanowrie, a 55-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 60-year-old man from the Ramtekdi area, a 72-year-old woman from Yerawada and a 78-year-old man from Janata Vasahat. A 79-year-old man of Mangalwar Peth died at YCM hospital, while a 60-year-old man of Yerawada died at Naidu hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-death-toll-at-367-infected-tally-over-8000/articleshow/76165306.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 cases take a leap in West Bengal, Kolkata||KOLKATA: Kolkata and the rest of the state recorded their highest single-day spurt in Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. Experts fear the return to normal routine and resumption of commute on crowded public transport may impact Covid-19 numbers. While 116 tested positive in Kolkata, 396 were detected with the virus across the state. The number of positives had touched 300 in Bengal on May 31 when the state recorded 371 cases. The city now has 1,103 active cases. The spurt in number of cases in Kolkata comes in the wake of cyclone Amphan, which ravaged the city two weeks ago. And now, Kolkata is entering the most critical phase and flouting social distancing norms could make thousands vulnerable to Covid-19 transmission, experts said. For Bengal, the worst may have just begun with migrant workers returning to the state and train services resuming, they said.  The spurt in cases in Cooch Behar was proof enough that the virus was now being carried into the state. “With travel restrictions lifted and streams of people arriving, we are on the verge of a second wave of transmission. It will be difficult to stick to safety norms now and things could gradually slip out of control. Transmission can be restricted, though, by enforcing social distancing norms as far as we can. That is the best that can now be done,” said R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. The sharp spurt proves that the lockdown has merely pushed the inevitable back, according to AMRI Hospitals consultant Debashish Saha. “This was waiting to happen and we will either win or lose the battle over the next three-four weeks. If travel remains unregulated, we are staring at an epidemic that we can’t fight,” said Saha. Within the city, travelling on a bus or an auto or walking down a crowded road makes you several times more likely to catch the virus even if you are following safety precautions, they said. “Transmission may happen even if you interact with your fellow passenger without a mask. So, it’s now more imperative to stick to the precautions,” said Biswas. Experts suggested that travelling should still be restricted and time spent outdoors kept minimum. “Many would now be forced to return to office where maintaining social distancing will be a challenge. More importantly, transmission is more likely to happen in offices since you are required to handle objects that could aid transmission. So, it’s better to wear gloves,” said Biswas. Constant air-conditioning inside an office could help transmission, warned Belle Vue internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “Rather than a constant temperature, intermittent air-conditioning is better. Cross-ventilation and a temperature fluctuation is better than having a constant temperature inside an enclosed office space,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-cases-take-a-leap-in-state-kol/articleshow/76163934.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||70 active nCoV cases in SRPF units, but another 65 recover||Pune: A total of 135 State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans in Pune have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last two months. As many has 65 jawans have been discharged post-recovery. “The remaining 70 active cases are in Covid-19 care facilities. All are asymptomatic and healthy,” deputy inspector general of police Naveen Reddy told TOI. These jawans were part of the SRPF contingents posted in Mumbai or Pune for bandobast duties and had recently returned to their base camps, SRPF Groups I and II, in Ramwadi. “Eighty five infected jawans from Group-I, and 49 from Group-II, besides, a lone jawan from SRPF’s Mumbai unit on duty in Pune city, had tested positive,” he said. The jawans deployed for bandobust duties across Mumbai, Pune and other cities are assisting the local police in managing the law and order situation and in executing checkpoint duties in the containment zones. “Those who return to their base camps are quarantined for 14 days at facilities located on SRPF campuses. Their swab samples are taken and sent for testing. Those testing positive for the virus are then moved to the Covid-19 care facilities,” Reddy added. Meanwhile, 40 personnel of the Pune police have tested positive for nCoV. Two have succumbed, 30 have been discharged and the remaining eight are active cases undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-active-ncov-cases-in-srpf-units-but-another-65-recover/articleshow/76165314.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Monetary package for workers a scam: GFP||Panaji: The one-time monetary relief meant for registered construction workers in Goa has been diverted to BJP office bearers, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) said on Tuesday. The NDA ally said that the Rs 13-crore monetary package under the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board Assistance Scheme has turned out to be a “multi-crore” scam, with residents of Sakhali and Bicholim being the biggest beneficiaries. While labour and employment minister Jennifer Monserrate had announced that Rs 6,000 would be disbursed to construction workers through direct benefit transfers, GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat, quoting government data, said that at least five individuals were paid Rs 1 lakh each, and one individual was paid Rs 9 lakh under the scheme. “This clearly shows that the BJP has used the labour welfare fund for the welfare of their workers. This is a multi-crore scam and we will send this to the Prime Minister so that he knows what the BJP is doing,” said Kamat. Kamat also said requested the Goa Lokayukta to take suo moto cognizance of the allegations and initiate an inquiry. “Some people did not believe that their names were on the list. Some people’s names and numbers did not match when we called them. Some people were not even aware that they had applied for the scheme. Some say that they did not receive any money and others claimed that they sell chicken and mutton. Most of the beneficiaries are in Sakhali and Bicholim,” said Kamat. Kamat played an audio recording of purported conversations with some of the beneficiaries based on the list provided by the department of labour and employment. In the audio recording, the alleged beneficiaries refute suggestions that they are labourers or construction workers. In the aftermath of the nationwide lockdown, all registered construction workers were to get 15-day wages of a semi-skilled worker under the scheme as an emergency measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monetary-package-for-workers-a-scam-gfp/articleshow/76164846.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Pune||Four test positive in Khadki Cantt||Pune: Khadki Cantonment recorded four new Covid-19 cases after its bazaar area was opened for three days, from May 29 to May 31, as a part of a relaxation. The bazaar area has been shut again. One of the patients is critical . Of the four cases, two each are from the Khadki bazaar and the Range hills areas. Three of the patients had recently returned from Mumbai and Satara. The fourth is an employee of a city-based hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-test-positive-in-khadki-cantt/articleshow/76165317.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Autos, taxis go back to pre-Covid-19 3+1 formula as buses struggle to tackle rush||KOLKATA: Keeping in mind the rush of commuters, the transport department on Tuesday modified its stance on social distancing in public transport. From Wednesday, autos and taxis can ply with full — 3+1 — seating capacity. Earlier, it was decided that autos and cabs would ferry two passengers. This is in accordance with the public transport order that allowed buses to ferry full-seating capacity commuters. Since people can sit in buses without leaving any gap, there is no reason not to allow the same in autos and taxis, said a senior transport department officer. A transport department official said the auto count in the city is set to go up three-fold on Wednesday with 30,000 more joining the 15,000 that plied on Tuesday. The auto unions have been asked to roll back hikes in routes where they were charging more after they were allowed to carry only two passengers instead of four. However, use of masks and hand sanitizers is compulsory. Bus, cab and auto operators can refuse passengers without masks. On Tuesday, there were more government and private buses on the road. But the numbers still proved way short of the requirement to meet the commuting needs of office-goers. Hundreds of commuters were left stranded in bus stops as the yawning demand-supply gap continued to prove a challenge. With majority of private bus operators still off the road, the plight of passengers continued to spiral into a crisis. Serpentine queues at bus termini, passengers failing to board the odd buses that halted at bus stops. The situation will ease further if more private buses hit the road. On Tuesday, 539 private buses of 22 routes resumed services. Transport department officials said 400 more buses could ply on Wednesday on nine additional routes. The transport department has also made arrangements to bring back all the drivers of state transport undertakings ( STUs) who had gone to their homes in rural Bengal or distant places. West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) will operate over 800 buses on Wednesday. “I have personally monitored the deployment of buses and real-time demand. There are some teething issues. With more private buses joining the service, we will resolve the problem shortly,” said transport minister Suvendu Adhikari. Online cab hailing firm Uber on Tuesday resumed its airport operations at Kolkata airport. “We hope it will ease the problems faced by riders and also revive earning opportunities for drivers,” said Uber head ridesharing (east and south India) Ratul Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/autos-taxis-go-back-to-pre-covid-31-formula-as-buses-struggle-to-tackle-rush/articleshow/76163938.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 3, 2020||Bhopal||Heard on Bhopal Janshatabdi: Why do I need Aarogya Setu app?||BHOPAL: Last-minute arrival? Check. Heavy bags? Check. Carelessness? Unchecked. Even the coronavirus pandemic hasn’t been able to change old habits in a large section of rail passengers in India. You know the ‘new normal’ is off the tracks when passengers question why they need to install the Aarogya Setu app and why they can’t carry heavy luggage. TOI took the Bhopal-Jabalpur to Itarsi and back and found shocking lapses by passengers and officials alike on both runs. At both stations, no official was seen checking passengers for Aarogya Setu app and its status at entry and exit. The app is mandatory for everyone getting on a plane or train, but despite the buzz around it, many passengers claimed to be unaware it’s a must. “Do I really need to download this app? How it will help me?" asked passenger Ram Yadav when TOI asked him if anyone had checked his Aarogya Setu status at the Itarsi station entrance. Then, there are the latecomers, come rain, shine or Coronavirus. Despite being repeatedly told to reach the station at least 90 minutes before departure for Covid-19 screening, people still turned up at the last minute or even past it both at Itarsi and Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/heard-on-bhopal-janshatabdi-why-do-i-need-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/76164844.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Ex-mayor Adesh Kumar Gupta replaces Manoj Tiwari as Delhi BJP chief||NEW DELHI: Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday appointed Adesh Kumar Gupta, a sitting councillor from West Patel Nagar ward and former mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, as the president of its Delhi unit. The move comes three months after BJP got a drubbing at the hands of Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi assembly elections and barely managed to win eight seats in the 70-member House. Gupta (51) replaces Bhojpuri singer-turned-politician and two-term MP from Northeast Delhi, Manoj Tiwari. Talking to reporters, Gupta said it would be a challenge to expand and consolidate the party during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I will fulfil my responsibility with honesty and dedication. We need to reach out to more people to enhance our voter base,” he added. Though Tiwari’s term as Delhi BJP chief ended on November 30, 2019, he continued to hold the post initially due to assembly elections and later due to communal riots and the national lockdown. However, the sudden change on Tuesday surprised many even in the party. A first-term municipal councillor, Gupta is said to be the choice of BJP’s national vice-president and Delhi in-charge Shyam Jaju and general secretary (organisation) Siddharthan and his appointment has the stamp of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. He is also considered close to BJP national president Jai Prakash Nadda. Sources said Gupta started his political career with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and rose through the ranks. He held various posts in the state unit, including the office secretary in 2012, won his maiden municipal election in 2017 and was elected the mayor of the north corporation in 2018. He is currently the member of the standing committee of the north corporation. Interestingly, Gupta is third councillor in the last 10 years to have been appointed for the coveted post. Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta and former councillor Satish Upadhyay have also led Delhi BJP earlier. Party insiders said that the top brass was looking for a leader from the ‘Baniya’ community, considered the BJP’s voter base along with the Punjabis, for the post after giving the baton to Tiwari, a Purvanchali, for over three-and-a-half years. “This clearly shows that BJP doesn’t want to lose its core voters, who had started feeling a little marginalised in the last couple of years. With his clean image and being a councillor himself, the party is looking to gear up for the 2022 civic polls under his leadership,” said a party functionary. Another section of leaders said that RSS, which had a few run-ins with Tiwari, wanted somebody from the Sangh to lead the state unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-mayor-gupta-replaces-tiwari-as-delhi-bjp-chief/articleshow/76164856.cms||Atul Mathur
June 3, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Unlock 1.0 brings no cheer to caterers, cameramen, tent owners and wedding card printers||BAREILLY: With marriages called off and all bookings canceled, thousands of people involved in organizing weddings have lost their earnings in Bareilly region also. And the government’s decision to allow weeding with a cap on the number of guests to check the spread of Covid-19 is unlikely to bring cheers on their face. Card publishers, cameramen, caterers, tent owners, dairy product suppliers have to wait a little more for respite. “With fewer guests allowed, people will prefer to either postpone the wedding or complete the rituals with just family members participating. Which means no cards will be printed. No caterer will be required and obviously there will be no decoration, marriage halls and high-end cameras to cover the event,” a wedding organizer said. Tent owners in Shahjahanpur normally book the important venues in advance for the important dates of the year to ensure they get the order for tent and decoration. But, their trick has brought them loss instead of profit this time. Suneel Gupta, president of photographer’s association, said, “Nearly 1,200 people are associated with photography business in Bareilly and they were expecting a business of nearly Rs 1.5 to 2crore during wedding season. Many marriages were called off and many photo studio owners are planning to temporarily switch their business.” “We are not needed because everyone’s face has to be covered with a mask. People don’t want their functions to be covered by an outsider. Many people are asking for the advance back. We have purchased expensive drones to cater the need of the customer and now it is impossible to pay the EMIs,” said a photographer. Anand Singh, an invitation card seller, said, “We have suffered massive loss as we take very less amount as a token money for the cards. Now the cards are ready and most of the customers are not turning up to take their cards. We have made advance payments to main suppliers and the cards can’t be reused as content is already printed on them. We are unsure about the future as there is no customer footfall in our shop now.” Lucky Gandhi, a caterer, told TOI, “There are many people like dishwasher, waiters, generator boys, chef who are associated with us. They are suffering more than us because they get money for the work they did and due to lack of catering orders, we can only help them for a small period of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unlock-1-0-brings-no-cheer-to-caterers-cameramen-tent-owners-wedding-card-printers/articleshow/76163041.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 3, 2020||Goa||Ramrao Wagh to head theatre college||Panaji: Ramrao Wagh has been appointed as the first principal of Kala Academy’s College of Theatre Arts from June 1. He is the third member of the Wagh family to have a close association with the institution. His brother former MLA Vishnu Surya Wagh was the erstwhile chairman of Kala Academy while his father, Surya Wagh was a member of the institution. “Vishnu was well-known in the field of theatre, so I am very happy to take over a course in the institution where he served as a chairman. Through this position, I will try to help the theatre movement in Goa,” Wagh told TOI. He further said that there is immense theatre talent in Goa but the formal education to propel a career in the same was lacking. The theatre course at KA will therefore provide the right platform for those aspiring to come up in this field, he said. “My effort is to ensure that this course not only gives education related to theatre and performing arts, but also serves as a research centre in the field of dramatics,” Wagh said. In his role as an academician for almost 30 years he has taught at post graduate and undergraduate level. The college was established two years ago, and the administration was looked after by former member secretary, Gurudas Pilernekar as officiating principal.Fresh admission to the first year of 4-yr programme in BPA (Bachelor of Performing Arts, Theatre) affiliated to Goa university will commence soon and intimation in this regard will be posted on Kala Academy website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ramrao-wagh-to-head-theatre-college/articleshow/76164869.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Man bleeding from face injuries fined for not wearing mask||Ludhiana: A resident of Tibba Road has accused staffers of ESIC hospital for fining him Rs 500 for not wearing mask on Monday evening when he had gone there for treatment after he was attacked y a group of miscreants. The complainant stated that as his mask was completely drenched with blood, he removed it but when he reached the hospital for treatment, the staffers fined him. The victim has complained to the CMO via email. Rahul Kumar (32), a painter from Tibba Road, said, on Monday afternoon he was at work when his neighbours had an argument with his wife and even abused her. When he returned home his wife narrated the incident to him. Following this, he went to the neighbours’ house and inquired about the issue. However, this led to an argument, following which he left from there. Rahul added that he wanted to complain to the police against his neighbours. He left on a bike but the accused, along with their accomplices, intercepted him on his way and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. Some onlookers informed his wife, who came to his rescue, but the accused started beating up her. Thereafter, they escaped from there. Rahul sustained injuries on his head and arm and near his eye. Rahul added that his brother and brother-in-law rushed him to ESIC hospital. He was bleeding profusely, therefore, his mask got drenched in blood till the time they reached hospital, so he removed the mask. However, there the hospital staffers fined him Rs 500 for not wearing a mask. “It was visible that I got serious injuries and was bleeding heavily, which was the reason I removed mask, but they did not listen to me,” he added The injured man paid the fine and returned home after getting treatment. Kumar added that he had sent a complaint to chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga via email. The victim added that so far the police have also not registered any FIR in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-bleeding-from-face-injuries-fined-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/76163953.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||CLU, EDC same as 2014; action demanded against erring MC officials||Ludhiana: Having given the desired relief to residents, sub-committee members meant for fixing the change of land use (CLU) and external development charges (EDC) have decided to impose rates which were applicable in 2014. It will bring relief to the people who want to construct residential buildings in the city because as of now the officials were taking rates as per their will, without caring for the MC general house directions or government orders. The committee members have recommended action against officials who were responsible for taking decision in violation of MC house and state government rules. An inquiry has also been marked against the approval to the map of a 10-storey commercial building in Feroze Gandhi Market. The committee members asked the officials to explain how in one day they approved the commercial building plan and that too without caring for the revenue of the department. Only Rs 3.78 lakh under CLU has been deposited but nothing else has been mentioned. The committee members asked the officials that they had approved the basement of 4,900 sq ft area while the owner has deposited property tax for 2,900 sq ft area, then why they did not pay attention towards this difference. The committee members, including Jai Parkash, Mamta Ashu and Gagandeep Bhalla, questioned senior IAS and PCS officers for their carelessness towards revenue loss to the civic body. Congress councillor Mamta Ashu said, “We have decided that rates of 2014 will remain implemented in the city if anybody has to deposit CLU or EDC charges and the committee has recommended action against erring officials. We have sent the decision of the sub-committee to the local bodies minister for action.” She said another inquiry had been marked against those officials who ignored revenue loss in the 10-storey building in Feroze Gandhi market and “additional commissioner Rishipal Singh will inquire the matter on Tuesday and will submit the report to mayor Balkar Sandhu for action”. She said they would request the mayor for converting this committee into one for building branch so that regular monitoring of working of this branch could take place. In 2017, a proposal was put up in the MC house meeting to revise the CLU and EDC charges but that was declared pending as all councillors rejected the same. However, at that time it was decided that a sub-committee would be constituted but then MC elections were declared. The issue of imposing change of land use and external development charges came to light in Janaury when the mayor formed the committee and the first meeting took place. In the meeting councillors who are members of the committee came to know about the fact that in all four zones officials were imposing charges as per their will and these were revised without taking consent from the MC general house. The committee members had demanded a detailed list of buildings approved in the last one year and other related details from officials in that meeting. But after passing of almost five months when officials did not produce the report, Mamta, who is member of this committee, wrote a letter to MC commissioner K P Brar on May 19 and sought details. She asked the councillors to call a meeting of this committee as well. The meeting took place on Thursday but officials could not give the report and so it was decided to call another meeting on Tuesday. Now, after every 15 days regular meeting will be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/clu-edc-same-as-2014-action-demanded-against-erring-mc-officials/articleshow/76163973.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court says Pinjra Tod activist not a habitual offender, grants her bail||NEW DELHI: Saying she wasn’t a habitual offender or a previous convict, a Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita in a case related to violence during the anti-CAA protest at Daryaganj. Kalita was produced before duty judge Abhinav Pandey inside the Tihar Jail complex on expiry of the three days of police custody. She has two other cases—an unlawful protest case and a rioting case in northeast Delhi—against her. While Kalita was granted bail in the unlawful protest case, police arrested her in the rioting case. Her counsels Adit S Pujari and Tusharika Mattoo sought bail submitting that Kalita was ready to cooperate in the investigation and willing to obey bail conditions. It came on record that Kalita had participated in the protest on the basis of social media posts against the NRC bill. It was argued that there was no direct evidence attributable so as to prosecute her under sections 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC. The investigation carried out on the basis of details provided in the medico-legal case (MLC) reports of the injured persons and related call data records allegedly showed Kalita at the place of the incident. The court, however, pointed out that the CCTV footage,reportedly, did not specifically show Kalita’s involvement in any violent activity. Police, according to the court, had also not indicated any incriminating material being recovered from Kalita’s laptop or phone. For the court to infer if she had incited a mob or participated in it, or, for that matter, intended to participate in a peaceful protest that later turned violent, was a matter of trial. “The accused is not a habitual offender or a previous convict and the other criminal proceedings pending against her relate to the same or similar incidents. The accused can be released on bail subject to stringent conditions,” the court held. Kalita was directed not to get involved in a similar activity, deposit her passport with the court concerned till further orders besides being asked to furnish Rs 30,000 personal bond with two sureties and cooperate with police. She was sent to judicial custody till June 16 until the bail conditions were complied with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-says-pinjra-tod-activist-not-a-habitual-offender-grants-her-bail/articleshow/76164866.cms||Aamir Khan
June 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reserves 7,800 beds as per Maharashtra order||KOLHAPUR: The district administration has listed 7,800 beds in 694 private hospitals for treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients as per the charges fixed by the state government. The hospitals in areas outside Kolhapur city, which will have to have fixed charges for 80% of the beds, have been notified. The process of notifying hospitals in Kolhapur city is going on. Currently, some of the private hospitals are not just screening Covid-19 patients but also providing them treatment as per the guidelines of the government. The state government has invoked the Essential Services (Maintenance) Act for the private hospitals to ensure the Covid and non-Covid patients referred to these hospitals get proper treatment. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “We have all the infrastructure in place to treat the Covid-19 patients. We are also seeking services of private doctors in Covid care centres. As per the state government order, 80% of the beds in the private hospitals have to be reserved. Accordingly, we have listed and notified the hospitals and the doctors working therein.” “Incase there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, we will refer them to the private hospitals. Charges have been fixed for treatment and surgeries of non-Covid patients. Action will be taken if we find that any patient referred to the private hospitals have been overcharged,” said Sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reserves-7-8k-beds-as-per-state-order/articleshow/76163053.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Decomposed carcass of female elephant found||Coimbatore: A decomposed carcass of a female elephant was found at Kallar reserve forest in Mettupalayam range on Monday. Forest department officials said that the elephant, aged between 5 and 7, had fallen into a 30 feet deep gorge when it tried to climb down from a rocky pathway for water. On Monday afternoon, a team of foresters Suresh, guards Aravindan, Praveenkumar and anti-poaching watchers were on patrolling duty at Iruttupallam in Kallar reserve forest in Mettupalayam forest range when one of them complained of a foul smell emanating from a nearby gorge. They climbed down and found the decomposed carcass of the elephant. D Venkatesh, district forest officer (DFO), Coimbatore forest division and M Senthilkumar, assistant conservator of forests (AFC), were informed of the situation by Mettupalayam forest range frontline staff. A team led by Senthilkumar immediately visited the spot. The officials said the elephant suffered fractures on its legs while trying to climb down and slipped and fell into the gorge. The accident might have happened atleast two weeks ago, they said. A veterinary doctor carried out a postmortem on the spot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/decomposed-carcass-of-female-elephant-found/articleshow/76163999.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar reports 24th Covid death, 151 positive cases||PATNA: One more Covid death and 151 fresh positive cases were reported in the state on Tuesday. The death toll now stands at 24 while the number of positive cases in state so far surged to 4,096. Altogether 1,803 patients were discharged from different hospitals, including 62 in the last 24 hours. There were 2,269 active cases in Bihar till Tuesday evening. The 24th Covid death was reported from Sitamarhi, the second in the district. A 70-year-old man from Sitamarhi died due to cardiac arrest at Gopalganj’s Jalalpur station on May 30. He was a migrant worker. “He returned from Maharashtra with his family members on May 29 by a bus at the district border. On May 30, a special train was arranged for the passengers to reach their home district. While boarding the train, the man fell and died. The passengers on that bus were quarantined for a day,” said Dr Tribhuvan Narayan Singh, Gopalganj’s civil surgeon. He said the man’s test report came positive on June 1. As per the health department’s information, fresh Covid cases on Tuesday were reported from 29 districts, with 19 each from Purnia and Lakhisarai, 12 in Araria and 11 in Siwan. Six cases were reported from Patna, taking the district tally to 260. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said four of them were from Bakhtiyarpur, including a 60- year-old woman. Meanwhile, 1,000 positive cases have been reported in the state in the last six days. The cases doubled in the last 11 days. The number of Covid cases increased sharply after the migrants started returning home since May 3. According to the health department’s bulletin, 2,903 migrants, who returned from other states after the lockdown, had been tested positive till Tuesday morning. Most of them are from Maharashtra (713), Delhi (681), Gujarat (437) and Haryana (246). Altogether 81,413 samples have been tested at several testing facilities across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-reports-24th-covid-death-151-positive-cases/articleshow/76163993.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 3, 2020||Agra||Odia actor does a Sonu Sood, helps hundreds return home||Award-winning Odia actor Sabhyasachi Mishra, known for movies like Mu Eka Tumar and Pilata Bigidigala, is doing a mini Sonu Sood for native migrant workers stranded in other states. The 34-year-old actor has arranged food, buses and even flight tickets for migrant labourers stuck in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. The actor, who has now set up a helpline run by people he rescued earlier to help others reach their destinations, said, “This has been altogether a new experience for me. From rescuing 80 students of Central Sanskrit University in Rajasthan, to migrant labourers stuck in Chennai, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and arranging food with the help of various groups and government machinery for migrant labourers whose bus broke down in middle of road in Nagpur and to those whose food were snatched in train coach near Secunderabad.” With his aid, a seven-member family of migrant labourers, one of them a septuagenarian who has suffered a paralytic attack, is all set to fly home from Bengaluru to Bhubaneswar on Wednesday. The family that hails from Balangir district (Odisha) was first spotted by a local photojournalist on a footpath near a railway station and a video of their plight shared on Twitter on May 31. Speaking to TOI, Pradeep Tandi, 35, said, “There was moment when my family lost hope to get any help, but Sabhyasachi became a real life hero for us. He and his friends arranged plane tickets for my family.” Sabyasachi, who received Odisha State Film Awards for best actor twice, said, “Earlier social media was a tool for me to promote movies. Now, I am using it to bring migrant labourers home. My phone and laptop are an essential part of my small control room. People in need contact me on Facebook and Twitter, and I’m available 24*7 for them.” “All this effort could not have been possible without state authorities of Odisha, Rajasthan and help from Indian Railway officials. The best part of my little efforts has been that those who received my help earlier have now joined me in rescuing and counselling others who are in distress and want to return home,” the actor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/odia-actor-does-a-sonu-sood-helps-hundreds-return-home/articleshow/76163072.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 3, 2020||Agra||Jobless for 2 mnths after return, migrant workers stage protest in Hathras||Agra: As many as 40 migrant workers staged a protest at Hirapur village in Hathras district on Tuesday for not getting any work under government scheme, MGNREGA, even after two months of their return home. Roop Kishore, who returned from Noida, to his village, Hirapur, two months ago, said, “I have submitted an application to the officials concerned but no ‘job card’ has been issued to me for MGNREGA. I don’t even have a ration card and it is becoming extremely difficult to survive like this.” Another resident, Ajay Kumar, who returned from Ghaziabad two months ago, alleged that the village head is issuing job cards and money to only those who are close to him. "There is no improvement in our situation since we returned as we are still jobless,” he said. Tikam Singh, who returned from Delhi, also alleged that village heads favour their own people and that is the reason why many returnees like him are not getting work. He said, “We have to borrow to buy rations as we have no money.” Hathras administrative officials claimed that some of the migrants have been provided work at the place of their choice but many of those who are being sent to other places are refusing to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jobless-for-2-mnths-after-return-migrant-workers-stage-protest-in-hathras/articleshow/76163078.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Shramik train resumption makes migrants turn up at stadium||Ludhiana: After failing to get confirmed tickets for two Uttar Pradesh-bound trains from the reservation counters of the railway station due to excessive booking, a large number of migrants labourers turned up at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Tuesday morning for registering themselves under the district administration scheme of returning to their home states on special Shramik trains. Earlier, there were around 20-30 labourers who were frequently visiting the local reservation counter of the city station for booking ticket on the long-route passenger trains for UP passing through the city station. But due to shortage of trains, they could not get confirmed tickets. But after hearing reports about resumption of special Shramik train service from the city station, they left the reservation counters and reached Guru Nanak Stadium for availing of the benefits of the train service. Although, the administration appealed to them of not taking their belongings to the stadium as only registration process would be held on Tuesday, still migrants workers reached the stadium along with their luggage. However, police officials tried to convinced them for returning to their local areas and wait for a message from the administration side about the train’s arrival time, which will be in the next two to thee days. A migrant labourer, Ajay Kumar, who is a resident of Basti Jodhewal, said, “After enforcement of strict lockdown in the city, the embroidery business faced huge losses as several boutiques closed and a large number of migrants workers got unemployed. “After facing several hardship in finding any jobs in some other boutique, we have decided to leave the city and so we had been visiting the reservation counters for the past few days for getting tickets, but to no avail. After getting information about resumption of special Shramik trains, we reached Guru Nanak Dev stadium for registering ourselves for returning to our home,” the worker added. Another passenger, Rupesh Kumar, said, “We had got the done registration a few days back but even after that we didn’t receive any confirmation message from the district administration about the final date of the arrival time of the Shramik train here. This forced us to come here to take part in third phase of registering process on Tuesday for returning to our home states.” Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “We have made all necessary arrangements to handle the flow of labourers travelling on Shramik or others travelling on the long-route trains. Heavy security forces have been deputed across the city station premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shramik-train-resumption-makes-migrants-turn-up-at-stadium/articleshow/76163990.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 3, 2020||Bengaluru||One in seven virus-infected senior citizens dying in Karnataka||Bengaluru: While Karnataka’s fatality rate of 1.3% is among the lowest of states in the country, it may have to change its strategy and focus on elders, especially with the influx of people under relaxed lockdown norms. Data up to Tuesday shows the number of people above the age of 60 account for only 6% of the cases — 228 of the total 3,796 — but account for 60% of the total number of deaths. Of the 52 deaths so far, 31 were people aged above 60. Of these, 13 were aged above 70 years and 18 were between 60 and 70 years. Dr MK Sudharshan, chairman, Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee on Covid 19, said: “Senior citizens are more vulnerable to Covid-19. The government has realised this and has already conducted a survey to identify such people across the state, especially those with comorbidities. The focus now will be on protecting them. But people will also need to be proactive and responsible.” Experts say that the way forward would be to conduct random tests on seniors, especially those with comorbidities, and track them. “This must be done to ensure they have access to healthcare. In many cases, death has occurred because there was a delay in hospitalisation,” a senior official said. As on June 1, around 54.5 lakh households in Karnataka had seniors, data from a government door-to-door survey of 1.3 crore households shows. And, of these households, 14.7 lakh seniors have comorbidities such as high BP, diabetes and cardiac problems. A government doctor said conditions like BP and diabetes are not something to be concerned about if they are under control. “For most people above the age of 50, these are milestone conditions, so there’s no need to be too worried. But they must be very careful,” the doctor said. Sudharshan added that conducting random tests may not be viable. “At present the testing capacity is about 12,000 per day and the priority is for those with symptoms and those returning from high-risk states. I don’t think random testing of seniors can be done.” Instead, he advised families to keep tabs on seniors in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/one-in-seven-virus-infected-senior-citizens-dying-in-karnataka/articleshow/76164013.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Lockdown due to Covid-19 has changed life at individual level: Survey||Ludhiana: While the world is trying to cope up with the rising infections and death toll due to Covid-19, lockdowns announced in different phases has affected all sections of society at various levels. In a survey conducted recently by PAU, nearly three-fourth of the respondents, 73%, were of the belief that the lockdown due to Covid-19 had changed their way of living and they had learnt to live with this virus, while 90% added that the lockdown had made them more aware about water, sanitation, hygiene, waste management and cleanliness. 80% respondents were concerned about the hindrance in education of students studying in schools, colleges and universities due to lockdown. Social scientists define three different levels of society— macro, meso and micro levels. At the micro level, the focus is on individuals and the relationships between different individuals. The individual level is the strongest one to shape up one’s personality and develop the traits that shape positive or negative outlook. A survey of 750 respondents by Surabhi Mahajan of the department of apparel and textile science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) made an attempt to investigate the impact of the lockdown in India at the individual level. As far as the background information of respondents is concerned, 56% of them were males; majority i.e. 64% of them were less than 35 years of age, followed by 31% between 35 to 58 years (middle aged working population) and remaining over 58 years. 46% of them were students, while rest were government or private employees, businessmen, doctors, police personnel and housewives. 59% respondents belonged to nuclear families and majority (30%) had monthly family income of less than Rs 50,000, followed by 29% who had family income between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh. Though all types of educational and coaching institutions took many steps to conduct online classes for the students during the lockdown period, but 77% respondents opined that online classes were not as effective as traditional classrooms for the students because of technical issues in networking and also lack of congenial environment in homes of many students. They are not good substitute but may play supplementary role to strengthen classroom teaching. According to 75% of the respondents, their routine has become monotonous and boring due to no movement outside the homes and absence of any physical work for most of the individuals during lockdown,. The regular, repeated pattern of daily routine is being followed without any change. This has made individuals restless and agitated leading to mental trauma as stated by 61% respondents. The situation has aggravated due to closure of schools/colleges/universities, workplaces and business establishments. 60% of the respondents felt that social isolation was very difficult to experience and they felt tense about it. 74% respondents stated that lockdown and uncertainty about future due to Covid-19 had increased social insecurity among individuals. Pointing at the other side of the coin, 90% respondents revealed that social media had become immensely popular during lockdown for idling away time and the most joyous activity during the lockdown period has been connecting to their friends and relatives virtually through internet and other social media platforms. 86% of the respondents opined that availability of ample time during the lockdown had given them an opportunity to introspect themselves and to become more responsible citizens of the country. 75% respondents also added that the extra time had been utilised by them in a productive manner and lockdown had proved a blessing for them as they were able to pursue their hobbies and relax for future busy schedules. Only 40% of the respondents utilised this time for yoga/exercise/meditation for keeping fit and feeling energetic. Rest of the respondents disagreed to utilisation of time by indulging in such activities. 89% respondents felt that individuals have become more aware about advanced technology, which enabled them to work from home. They added that this was going to surely benefit them in future to fit in the MNC culture or to operate for their own businesses from home. It may be concluded that our life at individual level is not going to be the same as that before the global spread of Covid-19. Social distancing, use of masks, sanitisation and washing hands repeatedly are going to be part of our life in school/colleges/universities, during journey by bus or train, morning and evening walk, shopping in market places and malls and going out for dinning in hotels and restaurants, joining marriage or birthday parties and so on. How we shall be able to learn the new way of life and customise ourselves, only time to come will validate. This survey was guided by Sandeep Bains, dean of College of Community Science, PAU, Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-due-to-covid-19-has-changed-life-at-individual-level-survey/articleshow/76164007.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tender invited for Rs 1,621-cr Avinashi Rd flyover||Coimbatore: The state highways department has invited tender for the Rs 1,621.3-crore Avinashi Road flyover project. The tender will be finalized on July 18 and the flyover work will be completed in four years. As of now, the state government has allotted Rs 200 crore for the project. An official source confirmed the tender for the project was floated on May 27, 2020 and that the work would be handed over to only one company, which will be finalized on July 18. The source said there was a need to acquire land to construct ramps to connect the flyover with the main junctions on Avinashi Road. “The construction of flyover will be completed in four years from the date of commencement of work, which is expected in another four months,” the source said. As per the data available with the state highways department’s project wing, Avinashi Road used to see around 1.25 lakh vehicles a day in 2017. The stretch usually reports heavy traffic congestion during peak hours of 8am-11am and 4pm-8pm, thanks to the increased vehicle movements. The flyover – from Uppilipalayam junction to Goldwins on Avinashi Road, covering a distance of 10.01km - is expected to decongest the stretch. The state highways department has already conducted soil test and prepared a detailed project report, which was accepted by the state government. The state has allotted Rs 200 crore to implement the first phase of the project. The project entails the state highways department to acquire 18,000sq metres of land to construct down and up ramps on main junctions. According to the source, ramps would be constructed at Anna Statue, Nava India, Hope College and SITRA to help motorists easy access to the destinations within the city. The flyover, which will be 17.25 metres wide, will have four lanes and 304 pillars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tender-invited-for-rs-1621-cr-avinashi-rd-flyover/articleshow/76164016.cms||A Subburaj
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Woman hides hubby’s murder to save relative||COIMBATORE: A 46-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for murdering his relative in a drunken brawl at Seerapalayam village near Madukkarai a few days ago. To protect the accused, a police officer said, the wife of the deceased had earlier lodged a police complaint stating her husband, who was drunk, had died of injuries that he sustained after he fell on a drinking water tap in front of his house. “However, postmortem report revealed that he was attacked with some object on his head.” The officer identified the deceased as S Sakthivel, 44, of Seerapalayam. He said Sakthivel’s 39-year-old wife Maragatham had on May 31 lodged a complaint with the Madukkarai police stating her husband had died of injuries that he had sustained the previous day after he fell on the drinking water tap in an inebriated state. As per her complaint, Sakthivel was first taken to the government hospital at Arisipalayam and later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where he died without responding to treatment around 3pm on May 31. She also said there wasn’t any foul play behind his death. Following this, the Madukkarai police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Meanwhile, autopsy report revealed Sakthivel had died of head injuries that were sustained in an attack with a heavy object. On Monday, a team led by police inspector Thooyamani Vellaisamy held inquiry with the family members and relatives of the deceased. His wife then told police that her husband had picked up quarrel with her relative Suresh, 46, a construction worker. “She said Suresh had hit her husband on head with an iron rod when he attempted to attack the former with a sickle,” the officer said. Police subsequently altered the case to Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Suresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-hides-hubbys-murder-to-save-relative/articleshow/76164009.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||4 held for raping minor girl in Patna||PATNA: A minor girl from Nepal was allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped by six youths at Ram Nagri under Rajeev Nagar police station in the city on Monday evening. A woman spotted the girl crying while coming out from a secluded place behind Paras Nath Garden and informed the police. Women police station SHO Arti Kumar Jaiswal told TOI that the victim, aged around 15 years, is a native of Sarlahi area in Nepal. She said four youths were arrested on Monday night from different locations in Rajeev Nagar. “The accused used to follow the girl. The victim had reached Patna from Nepal in January to help her elder sister, who is pregnant. Her sister and brother-in-law live in a slum area of Rajeev Nagar and earn livelihood by selling vegetables. The girl had also started working as a domestic help,” the SHO said. “The arrested youths were identified as Anshu Kumar alias Karu, Mantu Kumar, Roshan Kumar and Vikash Kumar,” the SHO said. They are 18 to 20 years old and worked as daily wagers. They lived at Rajeev Nagar, she added. The two other accused, Sudhir Kumar and Jai Prakash, were absconding and raids were on to nab them. The victim was returning home after finishing domestic work in an apartment when the youths kidnapped and raped her while she kept begging for mercy, the SHO quoted the girl as saying. “An FIR was lodged against the accused under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO Act on the victim’s statement recorded by the police,” she said. The SHO said Anshu and Roshan belong to Harnaut in Nalanda while Mantu is from Sirsha at Hajipur in Vaishali and Vikas from Harshanchak diara at Akilpur in Patna district. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-held-for-raping-minor-girl-in-patna/articleshow/76164010.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Five of family attempt suicide||Jharsuguda: Five members of a family were hospitalised after they allegedly tried to commit suicide by consuming phenyl at Lahandabud, under BTM (Bhaskar Textile Mill) police outpost in the district on Monday night. It is believed the members went into depression after the death of Deepak Biswal (25), the youngest in the family. The five were identified as Pushpa Biswal (56), Lily Biswal (37), Bandita Biswal (35), Srikanta Biswal (33) and Pinki Biswal (31). BTM Police outpost in-charge Suchismita Mohanty said, “We received information around 1 am and took the family members to Jharsuguda district headquarters hospital. It seems they tried to commit suicide after the death Deepak.” Sources said in 2008 Deepak met with an accident. Since then he was under treatment at AMRI hospital, Bhubaneswar. Last year, the family members brought him home and was taking care of him there itself. In the meantime, Deepak’s father passed away in 2015. For the past one week Deepak had stopped taking food and was not keeping well. On Monday, his condition deteriorated and he was taken to the nearest Samleswari Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Since then the family members went into depression and tried to end their lives. Police said most of the family members are out of danger barring Lily, who is said to be critical and has been shifted to Vimsar, Burla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-of-family-attempt-suicide/articleshow/76163101.cms||Ritesh Sharma
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘Ambulance stayed out, we took her in stretcher’||CHANDIGARH: An 80-year-old woman from Sector 30 on Tuesday tested positive for novel coronavirus after she died in an ambulance while on way to a hospital on Monday, pushing the death toll to five. Relatives alleged they had to carry her on a stretcher to the ambulance from their house as health worker refused to enter the containment zone. “The ambulance was parked 200 metres away from the barricades. No health worker agreed to come inside,” said the grandson of the woman. “I and with my friend lifted her, put her on a stretcher and took her to the ambulance.” UT health secretary Arun Gupta said there is no such order that does not allow an ambulance to enter a containment zone. “I have no idea whether it was stopped at the barricade or not,” he said. The woman’s samples were taken at Government Multi-specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. According to doctors, she fell down on Monday after complaining of giddiness and a bout of vomiting. She was suffering from renal and liver disease and taking treatment at GMSH and civil hospital, Kharar, since January. She has two family contacts, her daughter-in-law and grandson. Their samples were taken. The results are awaited. According to the health department, a team of health workers had surveyed the house of the woman on May 31 during a special drive in the area. At that time, the woman and her family members were asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambulance-stayed-out-we-took-her-in-stretcher/articleshow/76164874.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMC focus back on markets as Covid-19 cases shoot up||KOLKATA: The anti-Covid squad of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has shifted its focus back on city’s markets that are witnessing a crowd surge in Unlock 1.0 and may have had a direct bearing on the increased corona cases. Oximeter tests will now be randomly done on people visiting the markets. Police are stepping up their vigil to break the transmission chain. Even earlier, KMC and cops had introduced several measures, like traders opening stalls on alternate days and curtailed time, but this time the authorities are stepping up the vigil a few notches. Times ViewThe decision to focus on markets is correct; this is one place that has seen the maximum violation of social-distancing norms (before the start of commute by public transport). Every household should rationalise and reduce market visits as far as possible.In the past two weeks, especially in the last couple of days, the number of red zones in the south and eastern suburban Kolkata saw a dramatic rise in Covid cases. This week, Kolkata reported 269 positive cases and statistics indicate that they were now being reported from apartments and standalone buildings. Preliminary investigation in the the rise in containment zones linked it to a surge in footfall in markets, sources said. When cops and KMC officials begun collecting information from the affected areas, it became clear that local markets could have played a pivotal role in spreading the virus. “When we spoke to the patients, they said they had hardly ventured out except visiting the markets regularly,” said a KMC official. KMC board of administrators chairperson Firhad Hakim has repeatedly conceded that the civic body was keeping a hawk’s eye on the markets in areas where the number of containment zones were rising rapidly. “Though I have asked the civic officials to locate the origin of infection, I feel the markets in the neighbourhoods could be the trouble spots,” Hakim said. According to him, large areas of Beliaghata-Kankurgachi-Phoolbagan under ward 31 and Selimpur and Dhakuria in wards 90-92 were under fresh threat. Beliaghata Rashmoni Bazar, Maniktala market, Layalka makeshift market and the Jorabagan police station market are now all part of containment zones. Hakim has threatened to shut down the markets if fresh cases are reported from market areas. The civic officials and cops are keeping a special watch on Karunamoyee-Siriti, Kudghat and Kalitala markets as fresh cases are being reported from these places. KMC has now decided to introduce oximeter tests in neighbourhoods located close to city’s major markets. “Our team would move around apartments close to markets and test people randomly. People with adverse heart and breathing conditions will be sent for further tests,” said a KMC official. With the result being instant, KMC will have a quick idea og f an area’s Covid status. Kolkata Police have stressed on oximeter tests after two traders in Baghajatin-Layalka and Behala Simultala markets tested positive. “We even had locals protest the reallocation of the Baghajatin marklet from the main road towards Layelka. With cases on the rise, we need to introduce random tests,” said an officer from south suburban police. Lalbazar said that while it will not be possible to put cops on everyday rounds, there will be intensified patrolling at the markets. In addition, no one without masks will be allowed entry inside markets. Sanitization and cleaning efforts will continue under the supervision of market committees. “If severe violations are reported, the market will be shut down or timings drastically cut,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-focus-back-on-markets-as-covid-19-cases-shoot-up/articleshow/76184596.cms||Saikat Ray
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter results before June 15: Telangana to HC||HYDERABAD: Advocate General BS Prasad on Tuesday informed the Telangana high court that the state government and TSBIE have completed the spot valuation of the Intermediate answer scripts and that they are ready to declare the results before June 15. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by Katikala Omprakash against evaluation of inter answer sheets during the ongoing lockdown period. Citing the precarious conditions and the dangerous consequences that may flow from commencing inter spot valuation with some of the evaluators coming from red zones, the petitioner wanted the evaluation work to be postponed. The government, contended, “The students will go for several national-level competitive exams after this stage and they will all suffer if their results are not declared on time,” it contended. The bench said, “We all must learn to move forward with the required precautions and that we cannot lockdown things for longer periods.” The bench posted the case to June 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-results-before-june-15-t-to-hc/articleshow/76164877.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hauz Khas Village ready for dawn after dark night||NEW DELHI: On Hauz Khas Fort Road, at the entrance to the pedestrianised Hauz Khas Village, the guard at the barrier asks you to halt and directs you to the parking lot. It’s nearly 5 pm and the parking lot is nearly empty. There aren’t many people on the lane leading to the locality either. Unusual for HKV, as it is popularly known, because it is one of Delhi’s hotspots — this, of course, before Covid-19 gave the term an insidious meaning. Initially a hub for designer clothes, after the mid-1990s the HKV experience has meant a throbbing mix of cafes, bars, destination restaurants, art galleries, tattoo parlours, co-working spaces, curio shops, gyms and, of course, fashion boutiques. The quirky neighbourhood was a hit particularly with youngsters and tourists for its happening nightlife. Night now comes hours before dusk at HKV, with the nightlife being in the form of street dogs, security guards, a few cagey takeaway joint managers, bored shop attendants impatient to go home and one paan shop owner. With the Covid lockdown being relaxed, a few shops and takeaway eateries have opened, though many are still shuttered. “You wouldn’t have been able to stand where you are right now at this hour before the outbreak,” points out Akash Srivastava, a burger outlet manager. “Now we mostly get online orders from the vicinity.” Indeed, delivery executives zipping past occasionally is a sign of that the locality is once again on the move. Surajit Sen, general manager of Naivedyam restaurants, agrees that things will be back to normal, the pace quickening as a Covid vaccine nears fruition. HKV, with its village ambience, historical monuments and the lake, is unlikely to lose its cachet, he says. “Naivedyam will see restructuring of the dining area, apart from adherence to all government directives,” Sen says. “We have been here for nearly 25 years and will survive this crisis. Even now we are delivering food after taking all precautions.” Mala Singh, who runs an eponymous boutique, also continues to believe that fashion will be important in shaping HKV’s post-Covid future. “HKV is known for eclectic fashion that is young and trendy,” Singh says. “Our largest clientele are NRIs who visit Delhi between Diwali and New Year. Though this year, a huge segment will be absent due to the pandemic,they will come back soon.” Mayank Bhatt, brand head of co-working space Social, which has a popular place at HKV with an all-day café, reasons that fewer people coming, and so a less crowded market, will only enhance the village experience. “For survival, and with people preferring ordering, delivery will be important and will now pick up,” Bhatt says, adding that the HKV experience now will depend on the guidelines for marketplaces as the lockdown is gradually lifted. Other establishments too are gearing up for the new normal. “We will ensure a single, exclusive appointment per day,” assures tattoo artist Vikas Malani, founder of Body Canvas, which apart from HKV has branches in Mumbai and London. “We already maintain high hygiene levels, in addition we will provide customers with masks, gloves and face shield. No one will be allowed to bring anything into the studio except wallets and phones, which too will be deposited in a ziplock.” Today though, life in the lanes behind the main road is at a standstill. Through the large windows of boutique stores, you see mannequins and clothes hangers gathering dust. The upturned chairs and tables of cafes indicate desertion in a hurry, perhaps in the belief that they would soon be back. Behind the graffiti-decorated walls, tattoo parlours and co-working spaces, the tranquillity of the 14th century lake surrounded by archaeological ruins, which once contrasted with the pulsating pace of HKV, now seamlessly blends with the silence of the place. On the lane overlooking the waterbody, Gurcharan Singh emerges from a half-shuttered art gallery. “We opened three days ago and are in the middle of maintenance work,” he says, pulling down his face mask. “We haven’t had customers though. When it’s about survival, art obviously takes a backseat.” HKV has to regain its image as a hub for nightlife. “While it was a perfect mix of high street fashion, bakeries and cafés, more and more people started opening restaurants and bars while fashion boutiques kept dropping,” narrates a store owner. “HKV is a cultural hub, and it may take time to recover from the Covid-19 jolt,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hkv-ready-for-dawn-after-dark-night/articleshow/76164891.cms||Sidharatha Roy
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur cop helps woman with learning difficulties reunite with her family||Coimbatore: A young woman with learning difficulties, who had gone missing, was reunited with her family on Sunday, thanks to timely intervention by a police head constable from Tirupur. On May 29, head constable R Suresh from Tirupur rural police station was on patrolling duty in Kasipalayam when he found the young woman ambling aimlessly on the roadside. He offered her a cup of tea and biscuits, but she refused. Later, he came to know that the woman had mental health issues. He convinced her and took her to a shelter home at S Periyapalayam as he was not able to get details about her identity.The next day, he posted her photograph on his Facebook page and requested people to contact him if they knew her relatives. On May 31, A Salim from Sarangadu in Tirupur responded to his post and said that the young woman was his younger sister who had gone missing on Friday.“I asked Salim to bring valid documents to prove his identity in order to get back his sister. After verifying his documents (Aadhar card, ration card), I confirmed that the woman was the younger sister of Salim,” said Suresh.The head constable contacted the shelter home on Monday and asked the administration to send the young woman with Salim. He also arranged a vehicle to help the woman reach her home at Sarangadu. Tirupur city police posted the extraordinary efforts of the head constable on its Twitter handle on Monday. Tirupur police commissioner Sanjay Kumar and deputy commissioner of police V Badri Narayanan congratulated Suresh for his efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-cop-helps-woman-with-learning-difficulties-reunite-with-her-family/articleshow/76164025.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula administration notifies new collector rates, seeks suggestions||PANCHKULA: The district evaluation committee of the Panchkula administration has prepared a draft of collector rates of all the four blocks of Panchkula. They have uploaded the documents online and asked for suggestions from residents. According to the draft collector rates of 2020-21 in Panchkula, the prices per square metre of all residential plots, covered area of the Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) residential and commercial sites, industrial area, commercial place (booth), service booths, double storey shops, shop-cum-office (SCO) and grain market in Sector 20, remains the same as it was in 2019-2020. Only the prices of SCF (shop-cum-flats) in Sectors 7, 8, 9 and 11 have been decreased from Rs 2 lakh per square metre to Rs 1,90 lakh per sqaure metre. A dip of 5% was seen in the collector rates of SCFs in these sectors. Changes have been done in the floor-wise prices of collector rates. Earlier, it was 40% for the ground floor and 30 % for both first and second floors. Now, floor-wise rate of the property will be in equal share as permission for the fourth floor construction has been granted by Huda. If somebody is constructing four floors in a house, the collector rate will be 25% for each floor on equal basis. The rates of commercial properties in the inner market will be given 15% rebate, instead of 10% in the last year’s policy. The rebate will be given with respect to the rates of commercial property as per the sector location. Rates in 47 villages falling under the Panchkula tehsil have been increased up to 76% in some villages, while the same has been decreased by 5% in some village. In Kalka tehsil, the draft collector rates of total 151 villages remain unchanged. No changes have been made in 45 villages of Raipur Rani tehsil. In Barwala, an increase up to 11% and decrease up to 6% has been done in total 30 villages under the tehsil and in Morni tehsil, the draft collector rates remain the same for all the 14 villages. Deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja, said, “We have issued a draft collector rates and suggestions from residents are awaited before finalising them.” ——————————————————————- BOX: Floor-wise rate will be in equal share Floor-wise rate of the property will now be in equal share. As Huda has approved construction of four floors in a house, therefore the collector rates will be 25% for each floor on equal basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-admn-notifies-new-collector-rates-seeks-suggestions/articleshow/76164878.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Tweet to Uttarakhand CM helps mentally unstable man reach home||DEHRADUN: A tweet marked to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat from a Mainpuri resident helped a mentally unstable man reach home in Almora district of Uttarakhand. On May 30, K C Dubey, a resident of UP’s Mainpuri district, tweeted a message to CM Rawat and DG law and order Ashok Kumar about a mentally unstable man moving around in UP. On being asked about his identity, the man, who is in his early 30s, wrote names of places in Uttarakhand such as Ranikhet and Dwarahat. Following which, Almora police flung into action and with the help of a photograph traced the residence of the man, who was identified as Manoj Nath. Nath’s father Puran told police about the mental condition of his son and also that he had taken him to several cities such as Delhi and Bareilly for treatment. He had been missing for the past several days. A two-member police team comprising sub inspector Hari Ram and constable Santosh Yadav of Almora police reached Mainpuri on May 31 and reunited Nath with his family on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tweet-to-cm-helps-mentally-unstable-man-reach-home/articleshow/76163118.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Kolar’s Kamala Nehru TB sanatorium takes on Covid-19||KOLAR: The Kamala Nehru TB Sanatorium in Kolar, which successfully neutralised tuberculosis that ravaged the region over 60 years ago, is now the nerve centre of the battle against Covid-19. Named after the wife of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru – she herself was a victim of TB – the building now houses Kolar district’s health office which is at the forefront of surveillance activities against Covid-19. Officials working out of this building oversee and steer activities like testing, quarantining and isolation of confirmed patients in designated isolation hospital, while the building also houses the state’s first facility where randomised blood tests for high-risk patients is conducted, Dr MA Charini, district surveillance officer, told TOI. Kits from South Korea are being used for testing. When TB raged in the region during the 1950s the state government decided to establish a sanatorium for those suffering from the disease. The sanatorium in Kolar was expected to also cater to districts in neighbouring states like Chitoor in Andhra Pradesh and Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu. Built on a sprawling seven-acre plot, the hospital began functioning in 1955. It was inaugurated by then AICC President Indira Gandhi, recalls C Gangadhar, a coffee planter whose father Channabasavaiah got the administrative block constructed for the sanatorium. Gangadhar told TOI he was 10 years old when he witnessed the inauguration. He was seated in the donors’ gallery. With TB spreading in the region, the hospital’s strength was raised from 160 to 264 and on an average it would always have not less than 250 inpatients. As recently as between 2000 to 2003, over 2,000 patients were treated at the sanatorium, according to the Kolar district gazetteer. With gradual decrease in TB cases between 2005 and 2010, staffs working at the sanatorium were shifted to various other hospitals. With no activities, the huge structure wore a deserted look until the Kolar administration decided to move the district health office to the building eight years ago. The building also houses the Digital Nerve Centre ( DiNC), the first ever telemedicine centre set up by Tata Group in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kolars-kamala-nehru-tb-sanatorium-takes-on-covid-19/articleshow/76164040.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Business||ICICI Bank to give Rs 4cr Amphan relief to state govt||Kolkata: ICICI Bank has committed Rs 4 crore to aid the West Bengal government in its efforts to provide relief and assistance in the areas affected by cyclone Amphan. Of this, the bank has contributed Rs 3 crore to the West Bengal State Disaster Management Authority. Further, it has stated that the bank has committed to distribute essential food supplies like rice, pulses, oil among others, worth Rs 1 crore in the districts impacted by the cyclone. These districts are: North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly. Speaking on the initiative, Akash Raghav, zonal head (retail), West Bengal, ICICI Bank said, “Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of West Bengal in this hour of need. We, at ICICI Bank, are committed to assist the people of West Bengal and give them a helping hand to recover from this natural calamity through our humble initiatives as well as in solidarity and partnership with the state government.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-bank-to-give-rs-4cr-amphan-relief-to-state-govt/articleshow/76164030.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||750 road deaths in 2 months of lockdown||NEW DELHI: On average at least one person died in every second road accident during the lockdown between March 24 and May 30, according to an analysis of road crashes and fatalities by a not-for-profit organisation dealing with road safety issues. “Overall, 750 road crash deaths in 1,461 accidents have been recorded in the country over a Covid lockdown period of over two months. Migrant workers killed during their commute back home comprise 26.4% of the overall deaths during the lockdown whereas essential workers comprise 5.3% of the total deaths. 68.3% of the overall deaths involve general/other road users,” the study by SaveLife Foundation said. In the analysis based on instances of road crashes and fatalities reported across media, the Foundation said the fourth phase of lockdown was the worst as it recorded 322 deaths. Nearly 60% of migrant workers killed in road crashes were reported during the third phase of lockdown. This is presumably because of the large number of migrants walking back home during this phase. It said 198 migrant workers heading home were killed in these crashes adding that the data has been compiled using media-tracking and multi-source verification. Uttar Pradesh accounted for over 30% of the total deaths at 245 followed by Telangana and Madhya Pradesh each reporting 56 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/750-road-deaths-in-2-months-of-lockdown/articleshow/76166142.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Rajkot||Cyclone Nisarga: Over 79,000 in Gujarat shifted to safety||SURAT/RAJKOT: Around 79,000 people in Gujarat, majority of them in coastal districts of south Gujarat, have been have been shifted to safer locations as heavy rains coupled with extremely strong winds are expected to pound the region under the impact of Cyclone Nisarga over the next couple of days. Harshad Patel, relief commissioner, said over 78,891 persons have been shifted to safer places. “Six team of SDRF and 13 teams of NDRF have been stationed at locations likely to be affected. Five more five NDRF teams will be deployed,” he said. Approximately 15,000 living in vulnerable areas near the coast in Valsad, Surat and Navsari districts as well as union territory Daman were taken to safer places as precautionary measures on Tuesday. Daman collector Rakesh Minhas told TOI: “The sea in Daman is rough and waves are raging up to 12 foot. We are geared up to tackle any eventuality.” All industries in Daman and adjoining Silvassa have been told to shut operations on Wednesday. According to Valsad collector RR Rawal, over 3,000 people living in one km periphery of the sea have been shifted and places to shelter them have been marked across the district. Two NDRF teams have arrived in the district and two more will be coming soon.” Navsari collector Ardra Agarwal said, “We have alerted people on the coastal area and around 2,000 have been shifted to safer places.” Surat collector Dhaval Patel said a team of NDRF has been deployed in the city for the rescue and relief operation if required and around 2,000 people from coastal villages were shifted on Tuesday. The wind speed in Surat and Bharuch could reach up to 80 kmph. In Bharuch, over 1,415 people were taken to safer locations in 25 vulnerable villages, said collector Dr. M D Modia. On Tuesday, heavy rainfall continued to lash Amreli district with Savarkundla and near-by villages getting maximum rain that resulted in rivulets and drains overflowing. Heavy waterlogging was reported in Vijpadi village while 16 goats died after being struck by lightening. Temple town Palitana and nearby villages also reeled under wet spell along with some parts of Rajkot. Bhavnagar district administration shifted 2,134 people from 34 villages while 1,800 from nine villages were shifted in Amreli district. Arrangements have been made in primary schools and community halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/79000-in-south-guj-shifted-to-safety/articleshow/76166839.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Surat||Cyclone Nisarga: Over 79,000 in Gujarat shifted to safety||SURAT/RAJKOT: Around 79,000 people in Gujarat, majority of them in coastal districts of south Gujarat, have been have been shifted to safer locations as heavy rains coupled with extremely strong winds are expected to pound the region under the impact of Cyclone Nisarga over the next couple of days. Harshad Patel, relief commissioner, said over 78,891 persons have been shifted to safer places. “Six team of SDRF and 13 teams of NDRF have been stationed at locations likely to be affected. Five more five NDRF teams will be deployed,” he said. Approximately 15,000 living in vulnerable areas near the coast in Valsad, Surat and Navsari districts as well as union territory Daman were taken to safer places as precautionary measures on Tuesday. Daman collector Rakesh Minhas told TOI: “The sea in Daman is rough and waves are raging up to 12 foot. We are geared up to tackle any eventuality.” All industries in Daman and adjoining Silvassa have been told to shut operations on Wednesday. According to Valsad collector RR Rawal, over 3,000 people living in one km periphery of the sea have been shifted and places to shelter them have been marked across the district. Two NDRF teams have arrived in the district and two more will be coming soon.” Navsari collector Ardra Agarwal said, “We have alerted people on the coastal area and around 2,000 have been shifted to safer places.” Surat collector Dhaval Patel said a team of NDRF has been deployed in the city for the rescue and relief operation if required and around 2,000 people from coastal villages were shifted on Tuesday. The wind speed in Surat and Bharuch could reach up to 80 kmph. In Bharuch, over 1,415 people were taken to safer locations in 25 vulnerable villages, said collector Dr. M D Modia. On Tuesday, heavy rainfall continued to lash Amreli district with Savarkundla and near-by villages getting maximum rain that resulted in rivulets and drains overflowing. Heavy waterlogging was reported in Vijpadi village while 16 goats died after being struck by lightening. Temple town Palitana and nearby villages also reeled under wet spell along with some parts of Rajkot. Bhavnagar district administration shifted 2,134 people from 34 villages while 1,800 from nine villages were shifted in Amreli district. Arrangements have been made in primary schools and community halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/79000-in-south-guj-shifted-to-safety/articleshow/76163131.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Patna||Get ready for Bihar assembly polls, CEO tells DMs||PATNA: Bihar chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa on Tuesday held a videoconference with all district magistrates and deputy election officers and asked them to start preparations for the upcoming assembly elections due in October-November this year. All leading political parties have already begun preparations for the assembly polls as BJP is to hold a ‘virtual rally’ of Union home minister Amit Shah on June 7 through social media platforms while ally JD(U) has started interacting with its grassroots workers through live chat using different cellphone Apps. Shah’s meeting was earlier scheduled on June 9, said state BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal in a press statement on Tuesday. When contacted, the CEO told TOI that the motive behind the meeting was to keep the election machinery ready and complete groundworks for the assembly polls as and when asked by the Election Commission of India (ECI). “Six months before the constitution of assembly is considered election period. The present legislative assembly was constituted on November 12, 2015. Accordingly, Bihar has entered the election period for the next assembly polls. We have to initiate a number of activities like systematic voters’ education and electoral participation program (SVEEP), fist level checking of EVMs and VVPAT machines, their storage and transportation,” Srinivasa said.  “We are also required to initiate special summary revision of the voter list,” he added. When asked if the assembly election could be delayed owing to Covid-19 pandemic, Srinivasa said: “We have no such information. We want ourselves to be ready.” One of the DMs told TOI that they will have to expedite poll preparations as significant time has been lost due to Covid-19. “We are already going behind schedule. The Covid crisis is another stumbling block in such works but we will be ready for ECI order to conduct the elections,” he said. Another DM said they will start updating voter list first, which may take up to two months. “Bidding process will have to be initiated for several works,” he said. Meanwhile, JD(U) national secretary general K C Tyagi told TOI on Tuesday that party president and CM Nitish Kumar held a series of interaction programmes with the JD(U) grassroots and field workers using mobile Apps. Asked whether JD(U) is planning a virtual rally on the pattern of BJP, Tyagi said Shah’s proposed virtual rally is part of the NDA political campaign for the coming assembly elections. BJP’s state vice-president and former MLA Rajib Ranjan said the party is making preparations on all 243 seats. “We will contest the seats finalized after seat-sharing among the NDA allies,” he told TOI. Ranjan said Amit Shah would sound the poll bugle in state on June 7 by addressing the party workers of all 45 organizational districts through social media platforms. “We are making preparations to ensure that Shah’s speech is heard by around 50 lakh party workers at more than 9,300 ‘shakti kendras’ across the state,” Ranjan said.  ‘Shakti kendra’ is an organizational unit of BJP at panchayat level to energize the party workers in rural areas. In the opposition camp, RJD has already launched a ‘vitriolic’ attack against government alleging poor law and order in Bihar. However, RJD is yet to come out with a plan of campaigning like the BJP. “For RJD, extending help to the returned migrant workers in this hour of crisis is more important than holding a virtual rally. The RJD workers are visiting villages and helping the returned migrant workers,” party spokesperson Chittranjan Gagan said on Tuesday. RJD ally Congress on Tuesday staged ‘dharna’ at all district headquarters on the issue of migrant workers, while former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) has planned a two-hour ‘dharna’ at its all district offices on June 3, with an eye on the forthcoming assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/get-ready-for-assembly-polls-ceo-tells-dms/articleshow/76164029.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt advisory for dists, officials on possible locust attack||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Tuesday asked officials to remain vigilant for the next 10 days in view of a possible invasion of locusts in Odisha. Chairing a high-level review meeting, chief minister Naveen Patnaik emphasised on creating awareness among farmers of bordering districts of Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Jharkhand. In the meeting, held through video-conference, it was decided to use large sprayers (if needed) of the Odisha fire service to drive out the swarm of locusts. It was told that the insects may attack some of the southern and western districts like Nabarangpur, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Baragarh districts. A control room has been opened at the state level and in each of these districts to tackle a possible locust attack even as it is believed the insects have reportedly returned to Madhya Pradesh from Chhattisgarh. “We have alerted officials of the bordering districts. Advisory has also been issued to more than 15 lakh farmers on possible locust attack,” said S K Vashisht, special secretary, agriculture department. He said according to reports, the swarm of locusts have returned from Korea district in Chhattisgarh to Madhya Pradesh. State agriculture director M Muthukumar said though the swarm of locusts is yet to enter Odisha, the agriculture department has prepared a contingency plan to tackle its possible invasion. “We have adequate chemicals to spray on the fields in case the locusts enter Odisha. The fire department has been requested to provide large sprayers while district fire officers have also been alerted,” said Muthukumar. The Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) has already issued advisory to farmers to spray 200 litres of solution of five per cent neem seed kernel extract (5% NSKE) per acre during afternoon to prevent the attack from locusts. The advisory also said that farmers can also prepare a solution by adding neem-based insecticide and spray on the crop to protect it from locusts. Besides, farmers have also been advised to beat tin cans to drive away the locusts. To ensure proper surveillance in the bordering districts, the field level officers of the agriculture department have been asked to keep tabs on the movement of locusts and to report to the district control room accordingly. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-advisory-for-dists-officials-on-possible-locust-attack/articleshow/76163132.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Peddlers go to Bengaluru on pass, get cocaine||HYDERABAD: In the first such instance after the lockdown was announced in March, 54 gm of cocaine was seized from two peddlers at Lothukunta in Alwal on Tuesday. Interestingly, the peddlers had managed to obtain an inter-state travel pass from Telangana police and got the cocaine from a Bengaluru-based Nigerian. Both the accused were arrested. Acting on specific information, enforcement sleuths of the excise department intercepted a car at Saraswati Nagar in Lothukunta and seized 54 gm of cocaine from the possession of Taran Jyoth Singh, who runs an electronics shop in Panjagutta, and Amith Kumar, a consultant from Trimulgherry. “Apart from 54 gram of cocaine, we have also seized two cars and three mobile phones from the accused,” assistant superintendent, excise, N Anji Reddy said. The sleuths are analysing the details in the cell phones to verify the claims of Taran and Amith who said they had purchased the cocaine for personal consumption and not for sale. During the interrogation, the duo confessed to the probe team that they had gone to Bengaluru in the last week of May after obtaining an inter-state pass by claiming that they were travelling to Karnataka to buy face masks. “The accused purchased 70 gm of cocaine from Bengaluru-based Nigerian, Mike, by paying Rs 2 lakh and returned to Hyderabad on May 30 in their car,” said an excise official. Mike used to stay at Paramount Colony in Tolichowki here. He was earlier arrested by city police five years ago in a cocaine peddling case. Subsequently, he shifted to Bengaluru and began selling drugs to customers in Hyderabad through his agents, said a source. On Monday, the excise team arrested three persons in the city and seized 55 kilos of ganja they brought from Tadepalligudem in a Tata Ace vehicle, concealing the contraband under a load of bananas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peddlers-go-to-bluru-on-pass-get-cocaine/articleshow/76164915.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||UT lifts sealing restrictions from six Bapu Dham pockets||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Tuesday lifted sealing restrictions from six pockets in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. Since March 23, when the curfew was imposed in the city, these six pockets in which over 10,000 people reside did not report a single Covid-19 case. The six pockets include pocket numbers 2, 3, 9, 17, 18 and 19. UT adviser Manoj Parida said UT administrator VP Singh Badnore approved the proposal of a committee in a meeting on Tuesday. There will be no restrictions on the entry and exit of residents in these six pockets. In a day or two, they will review the status of other pockets as well, he added. The affected area committee comprising municipal commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director health services, sub-divisional magistrate (east), state surveillance officer and superintendent of police, had submitted their recommendation to the UT adviser, who further discussed the issue with the UT administrator. The colony, which has turned into Covid19 hotspot in a city with over 200 positive cases, has 20 pockets, in which 60,000 people are staying. There are two pockets, which have been declared containment pockets, and the remaining 18 pockets fall under the buffer zone. In all these 20 pockets, the UT has restricted entry and exit. Recently, a committee under the chairmanship of UT adviser had even invited local area councillor Dalip Sharma, and had discussed about opening of clean pockets of the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-lifts-sealing-restrictions-from-six-bapu-dham-pockets/articleshow/76164882.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar police uses social media to reach out to residents||RUDRAPUR: Udham Singh Nagar police has taken to social media to address the problems and concerns of local residents in wake of the coronavirus crisis. Launched and maintained by a team of police officers, the Facebook page of US Nagar police has videos by senior superintendent of police (SSP) Barinderjit Singh explaining social distancing, the process of obtaining permission for inter-state travel, ration requirements and how exposure to the coronavirus can affect people, among other issues. “Social media has been an effective tool in dissemination of information. The district police have started sensitising people about the lockdown and social distancing rules. It has also been providing updates on various issues. I go live almost every day on the Facebook pace and answer enquiries promptly during the session. Since social media has a wide reach, the district police has been using it effectively,” said SSP Singh. The page currently has more than 60,000 followers. The SSP added that information on public safety, road safety tips, crime and cyber crime prevention are also updated on the page. The initiative has also been appreciated by All India IPS association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-police-uses-social-media-to-reach-out-to-residents/articleshow/76163146.cms||Aakash Ahuja
June 3, 2020||Surat||Surat records 53 new cases, two deaths in one day||Surat: Surat city witnessed a spike in fresh Covid-19 cases with 53 new infections reported on Tuesday. On the same day two persons succumbed to the deadly virus taking the death toll in the city to 72.The new cases on Tuesday include 17 from Limbayat zone, 13 from Katargam zone (13) and 11 from Central zone.The deceased were identified as Nirmala Chotaliya (5%) from Varachha zone and Komal Rana (61), a resident of Athwa zone.According to officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), 27 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Surat city. With this the number of patients discharged reached 1,120. Meanwhile, the SMC has now asked private medical practitioners to mention the name of the drugs/medicines prescribed to patients especially, suspected pneumonia cases and those patients coming from Covid-19 containment zone. This information has to be sent using SMC’s Jaimini mobile application. “During the discussion with members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Surat branch, it was decided to give Hydroxychloroquin to patients with pneumonia symptoms and from containment areas. We have also asked private doctors to give details about patients and their symptoms via our mobile app,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-records-53-new-cases-two-deaths-in-one-day/articleshow/76163141.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Big players under MSMEs to pose threat to small units||Coimbatore: The micro and small industrialists in the city on Tuesday said the reclassification of medium enterprises would affect them very badly as they were already facing a big crisis.For the second time in as many months, the Centre had altered the definition of medium enterprises on Monday. While the investment limit for medium enterprises was increased to Rs 50 crore from Rs 20 crore, the turnover limit was increased to Rs 250 crore from Rs 100 crore.Representatives of micro and small industries said this would create unfair competition among the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and undermine the benefits and identity of micro and small units. ‘It would also affect their growth.”S Surulivel, president, Railway Suppliers’ Association, said the move would bring in several enterprises that were until recently considered ‘big’ into the MSMEs arena and create unfair competition. “This means that the big industries, which would enter the MSME category, would eat into the 25% procurement reserved for the latter by public sector undertakings. This would be unfair, as micro and small units won’t be able to compete with big units that have extensive infrastructure and production capacity and could afford to charge less.”To help them tide over the crisis, the representatives said, the Centre should address micro units separately in matters related to relief packages and loans. J James, district president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said, “There should be separate fund allocations and benefits for micro units. The Centre should identify micro units separately in its policy decisions, so that there would be fair play.” On May 13, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had redefined MSMEs, while announcing Rs 3-lakh crore Covid-19 lockdown relief package for them.Until then, MSMEs were classified based on investment alone. A micro enterprise was the one with an investment up to Rs 25 lakh, while it required only up to Rs 5 crore investment to be classified as a small enterprise and up to Rs 10 crore to come under the medium enterprise category.Sitharaman reclassified them based on both the investment and turnover. According to the first reclassification, a micro unit was the one with an investment up to Rs 1 crore and a turnover up to Rs 5 crore and the small unit was the one with up to Rs 10 crore investment and up to Rs 50 crore turnover. It required an investment of up to Rs 20 crore and turnover up to Rs 100 crore to be classified as medium enterprises.On Monday, MSMEs minister Nitin Gadkari redefined the criteria for medium enterprises and enhanced the investment limit up to Rs 50 crore and turnover limit up to Rs 250 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/big-players-under-msmes-to-pose-threat-to-small-units/articleshow/76164049.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bengaluru||48 K’taka cops infected so far||Bengaluru: With 48 personnel testing positive for Covid-19, Praveen Sood, director general and inspector general of police, on Tuesday said his department is focusing on checking the spread of the virus in the ranks by effective contact tracing and immediate segregation and quarantine. Of the 48, nine have been discharged as on Tuesday evening, Sood chaired a meeting of senior IPS officers including officers of the rank of additional director general of police (ADGPs) and superintendent of police (SP) from the districts. Sood told TOI that depending on situation, new SOPs are being tried and drafted as there are no precedents. “The fight against the pandemic is a daily challenge and there are lessons to be learnt on a daily basis,” Sood said. “Of course we cannot run away from the reality — this is going to be a long-drawn fight. Keeping the morale of those testing positive and their family members high is our first preference. I and other ADGPs including Amar Kumar Pandey and Alok Kumar have visited police staff in Shivamogga, Hassan and Tumakuru so far. We will travel to other places this week.” He said his force has done a commendable job in the fight against Covid-19 in last three months. “Battalions from reserve force have to be extra cautious from here onwards as they will have to deal with tough situations like walking into containment zones and screening travellers at checkposts. We know the source of the infection and it is the right time to break the chain,” he said. In a post on Facebook, Alok Kumar, ADGP, Karnataka State Reserve Police, “It has been trying times and performance of duty by our men n officers is getting tougher day by day as Covid-19 is spreading its tentacles towards Police force. 3 of our men tested positive in Hassan Battalion and 10 of them have tested positive in Shimoga Battalion, who had been on outstation duties. Visited Hassan along with DG and IGP. Visited Shimoga Battalion on Saturday and Sunday and interacted with our men under quarantine. Enquired their well-being. The onus to ensure welfare and safety of our men lies on the senior leadership. It’s a time for caution and care (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/48-ktaka-cops-infected-so-far/articleshow/76164055.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||25-year-old drowns in Ganga, another missing||HARIDWAR: A 25-year-old man from Delhi drowned in Ganga on Monday night while his friend got swept away and is still missing. Another friend of the two victims was rescued by people and is currently undergoing treatment. According to police three people — Chitrakoot-resident Anant Mishra, Delhi-resident Manish Pandey, and Haridwar-resident Ram Lakhan Das — went to take bath in the Ganga at Saptrishi Ghat in Haridwar on Monday night. However, all three of them started drowning. While locals could somehow take out Pandey and Das out of the river, Mishra got swept away by strong water currents. “Pandey and Das were rushed to the district hospital. While Manish died during treatment, Das has been saved. Their third friend Mishra is still missing. They all had come to Haridwar a week ago,” SHO city police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/25-yr-old-drowns-in-ganga-another-missing/articleshow/76163162.cms||MS Nawaz
June 3, 2020||Surat||Cops hunt for clues in migrant’s death||Surat: Three days after the Bihar migrant was lynched, Pandesara police are still clueless about the exact details of the case, even though the friend of the deceased claimed they were thrashed suspecting to be thieves. However, police have raised doubts on the friend’s claims and suspect the victims to have been attacked in an ongoing dispute. According to details, the man was murdered at the same spot by the accused after they had around two hours’ fight outside their homes in Bhairav Nagar, in which weapons were also used. While this had been reported to the police at around 12 midnight on May 30, cops failed to prevent the murder which took place exactly two hours later at around 2.30 am on May 31 at the same spot. What is more surprising is the fact that as part of the lockdown in the city, there was night curfew on that day too. Deceased Sangam Pandit, 30, and his friend Sujit Singh suffered serious injuries in the attack. During treatment in SMIMER hospital Pandit died at around 4.30 am on May 31. However, Pandesara police registered an offence of ‘attempt to murder’ at around 7.30 am on May 31 and recorded the murder almost after 12 hours of the migrant’s death. Meanwhile, city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt transferred two police inspectors from Pandesara police station and appointed a new PI. D K Patel, first PI, has been transferred to traffic police and he has been replaced by D K Korat, who was posted in missing cell. Second PI in Pandesara police station R M Vasaiya has been transferred to Hazira police station. “Due to lack of effectiveness in policing the first PI has been transferred. There is no regular post of second PI in Pandesara hence the second PI has been moved out,” said Brahmbhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-hunt-for-clues-in-migrants-death/articleshow/76163157.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Shots fired at Sector 9 liquor store, four hurt||CHANDIGARH: Two masked men opened fire at a liquor vend in Sector 9 on Tuesday, leaving four employees injured. The assailants reached the market in a Honda Amaze car at 7.35pm. As soon as they alighted from the vehicle, the two — one of them holding two guns and the other armed with one — started firing indiscriminately. Police said 10 bullets were fired. Ram Avatar Batra, owner of the liquor vend, said he has no enmity with anyone. He runs another vends in Sector 35. The injured are Rajesh Kumar, Ankur, Madan and Pawan. Two bullets hit the hands of Rajesh. The others received splinter injuries. Rajesh is admitted to PGI and the others at Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Cops claimed the incident had no connection with the firing outside the house of the brother of Arvind Singla, a liquor baron, in Sector 33, on May 31. The assailant used different weapons, police sources said. “The two used .22 bore gun and mostly fired in the air. They did not come with an intention to kill,” cops claimed. Police are scrutinising footage from CCTV cameras to identify the accused. Police registered a case of attempt to murder and under Sections of Arms Act. Vineet Kumar, SP, city, crime branch, operation cell and sector 3 police, reached the spot. A forensic team collected bullet shells for examination On May 31, five miscreants fired 17 bullets at the house of the brother of Arvind Singla, a liquor baron in Punjab. The accused had used two weapons, one was .9mm pistol and .32 bore revolver, cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shots-fired-at-sec-9-liquor-store-4-hurt/articleshow/76164899.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 3, 2020||Delhi||1,298 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, 33 more deaths reported||NEW DELHI: The city recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 1,298 people testing positive for the disease. Delhi’s tally has now reached 22,132, the third highest in the country after Maharashtra (72,300) and Tamil Nadu (24,586). On Monday, 990 people tested positive. The health authorities also confirmed 33 more deaths, taking Delhi’s toll to 556. “Of the 33 fresh deaths, 11 were reported on Tuesday. The rest were pending cases from April 19 to May 30,” said an official. As per government data, Delhi has 12,573 active cases of Covid-19. Of these, 2,819 are admitted to various hospitals. “We have 6,731 beds, of which 3,912 — 58% — are vacant,” the official claimed. Many ventilator beds are also available across hospitals, he added. In Covid-19 health centres and Covid-19 care centres, the data shows, 34% and 75% of the available beds are vacant. The majority of the vacant hospital beds are in the government sector. In big private hospitals, many patients seeking admission said, enough beds aren’t available. “I checked with at least four big private hospitals but all of them said there was no bed,” said a patient. With the increase in cases, the number of calls received for CATS ambulance and general queries related to Covid-19 on the government helpline has also gone up. On June 1, the data shows, the CATS control room received 264 calls while the helpline got 1,346 calls. “People mostly call to know about whether and how to get the test done. Many people are seeking information regarding quarantine requirements for people coming to Delhi from other cities,” said an officer managing the government helpline. While the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise across the country, doctors say the severity of illness and needs thereof for ICU support hasn’t gone up significantly. “Most patients can be managed at home. Only those with severe symptoms, such as persistent high fever, breathing difficulty and comorbidities, need to be admitted to hospitals for continuous monitoring,” said a doctor. Many private hospitals are offering to monitor Covid-19 patients at home against a payment, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1298-new-cases-in-city-33-more-deaths-reported/articleshow/76164912.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Erode||SBI disburses loans to 500 MSMEs||COIMBATORE: The State Bank of India (SBI), Coimbatore Branch, has sanctioned and disbursed loans to the tune of Rs 280 crore to 500 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore zone, which comprises Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Karur and Namakkal districts. At least 152 units in the city have been issued a total loan amount of Rs 58 crore, said a release from the Joint Council of Associations in Coimbatore, a forum of MSMEs. The loans would help MSMEs augment their networking capital, meet operating liabilities and restart operations once the lockdown is over, it said. The rate of interest would be 7.8% per annum and a maximum of 9.25% during the loan tenure. There would be a principal moratorium of 12 months. And the principal repayment would be in 36 monthly instalments after the moratorium, it said. A total of 20 micro units were given Mudra loans under Rs 10lakh, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/sbi-disburses-loans-to-500-msmes/articleshow/76175334.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Coimbatore||SBI disburses loans to 500 MSMEs||COIMBATORE: The State Bank of India (SBI), Coimbatore Branch, has sanctioned and disbursed loans to the tune of Rs 280 crore to 500 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore zone, which comprises Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Karur and Namakkal districts. At least 152 units in the city have been issued a total loan amount of Rs 58 crore, said a release from the Joint Council of Associations in Coimbatore, a forum of MSMEs. The loans would help MSMEs augment their networking capital, meet operating liabilities and restart operations once the lockdown is over, it said. The rate of interest would be 7.8% per annum and a maximum of 9.25% during the loan tenure. There would be a principal moratorium of 12 months. And the principal repayment would be in 36 monthly instalments after the moratorium, it said. A total of 20 micro units were given Mudra loans under Rs 10lakh, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sbi-disburses-loans-to-500-msmes/articleshow/76164056.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Daily airport footfall only 10% of pre-Covid figure||BHUBANESWAR: The current daily footfall at Biju Patnaik International Airport here is only 10% of what it used to be before the Covid pandemic shut down domestic and international flight services. The average daily footfall at the airport before the suspension of domestic flights was around 15,000; now the number of passengers of all flights taken together (arrival and departure) is around 1,500. At present, 10 flights of five airlines — Air India, Vistara, IndiGo, Air Asia and Alliance Air — are operating from Bhubaneswar to Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mumbai and Jharsuguda. Domestic services started here on May 25, as part of the resumption of flight services all over the country. On that day, 600 passengers passed through the airport. An airport source said the capacity of an A320 aircraft was 180 seats, but none of the 10 flights operating out of the airport here is being booked to capacity. On an average, the number of seats booked per flight is between 90 and 160, the source said. Besides, only 12 to 30 passengers are travelling on the Bhubaneswar-Jharsuguda sector, which is serviced by a smaller aircraft with capacity of around 90. Except the Bhubaneswar-Delhi and Bhubaneswar-Bengaluru sectors, which have two flights each daily, all other destinations are being served by a single flight. In the first week of May, the average daily passenger count on the flight to Kuala Lumpur — the state’s only direct international flight — had come down to 76. It was the lowest on March 2 — 36 passengers. Airport authorities hope that with more flights being added, the passenger count would go up in the coming days. “Given that services have just resumed, a footfall of 1,500 is good enough. The passenger flow will pick up from the middle of June,” said an airport official. “Since the government has decided to open hotels with 30% capacity, business tours are expected to start soon,” said an officer. Hotelier Debashis Patnaik said the passenger flow should ideally increase provided that the number of infection did not rise further. An official source said passengers flying now were mostly people who were stuck in Odisha during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/daily-airport-footfall-only-10-of-pre-covid-figure/articleshow/76163166.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Two persons hurt in animal attacks||DEHRADUN: A 65-year old man from Chaugulu Tok village of Chamoli district sustained severe injuries after a bear attacked him. The attack took place when victim Ganga Singh had gone out to collect wood in the forest area near his village. Soon after the attack, he was rushed to the local hospital from where he was referred to a higher centre. He is currently undergoing treatment and his condition is told to be critical. In another similar incident on the day, 40-year-old Balbir Singh was attacked by an elephant in Udham SIngh Nagar while he was working in fields. He sustained injuries in the attack and is undergoing treatment in a local hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-persons-hurt-in-animal-attacks/articleshow/76163181.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 3, 2020||Hubballi||CM announces Rs 5 lakh compensation to ambulance driver’s family||Hubballi: The state government on Tuesday announced Rs 5 lakh compensation to the family of Umesh Hadagali, an ambulance driver, who died of heart attack while on duty on May 27 in Konnur of Naragund taluk in Gadag district. The compensation amount has been released and will be transferred to the account of Jyoti, wife of deceased Umesh, from the CM’s relief fund, stated S Selvakumar, secretary to the chief minister, in a press release. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had called Jyoti on Monday morning and assured her of all help and support from the government. When 108 ambulance driver Umesh, 38, died following cardiac arrest on May 27, after being on non-stop duty as Covid warrior for nearly two months, his wife had to pawn her mangalasutra to conduct his final rites. Her video on social media, seeking help for her two children, aged 12 and 7, triggered a call from the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cm-announces-rs-5-lakh-compensation-to-ambulance-drivers-family/articleshow/76163173.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Taxis, autos allowed for late trains, only cashless payment||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to permit taxis and autorickshaws at the Ahmedabad station to serve passengers coming by trains that arrive late in the night. The Union government has imposed curfew between 9pm and 5am. As five trains arrive late in the night, the AMC, the road transport office and city police will be making arrangements for taxi and rickshwas. The AMC on Tuesday issued a notification for this. The notification states that such passengers will have to use cashless payment options such as electronic or online payments. An AMC official said that apart from the trains terminating at Ahmedabad, two stop in the city: the Suryanagri Express to Jodhpur and the Suryanagari Express to Bandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/taxis-autos-allowed-for-late-trains-only-cashless-payment/articleshow/76164084.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown cripples artisan hub still reeling from Fani||Bhubaneswar: More than two months into the lockdown, the only way to keep the hearth burning for painter-cum-stone sculptor Lingaraj Maharana of the famed Raghurajpur village was to pledge his gold chain with a bank. He repaid Rs 5,000 to a villager from the Rs 20,000 loan that he received from the bank, hopeful that with the remaining Rs 15,000 he would be able to provide food for his family of five for at least a month. The condition of the 150 artists’ families living at Raghurajpur village in Puri’s Malatipatpur gram panchayat is no different. The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have dealt a blow to the village’s tourist-driven economy that had not yet recovered from last year’s Cyclone Fani. “The number of tourists dwindled after Fani and now there is none,” sarpanch Pusparani Prusty said. “The situation has forced some artists to work as labourers, although their number may be between 10 and 20,” Sudarshan Swain, president of the Raghunath Chitrakarigari Industrial Cooperative Society and a stone sculptor, said. Prasanta Muduli of Mahipur village in Nayagarh district, who used to work with Sudarshan on his projects, is now working as a labourer in his native place. “I have a five-year-old son and my wife is pregnant with our second child. I am working as a construction labourer and, sometimes as a mason, earning Rs 300 to Rs 500 per day whenever I get work,” Prasanta said. Before this, Prasanta was part of the team that was involved in sculpting laterite and khondalite stones for the beautification of Jagannath Ballabh Matha in Puri. “We had to stop the work midway owing to the lockdown,” Sudarshan (49), who headed that team, said. A pattachitra painter or stone sculptor in Raghurajpur used to earn Rs 12,000 a month, while women involved in papier-mâché craft would make Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 a month. Most of their money used to come from tourists from the US, France, Italy and Denmark and orders placed by art connoisseurs from Mumbai and Kolkata. “Now we don’t expect tourists for the next two years,” pattachitra artist Biswanath Swain, 50, who is also the president of Raghurajpur Heritage Village, said. Many artists like Kirtan Das are living off their savings. With the markets shut, they are unable to procure a particular kind of gum required for their paintings. “Some relief has come from the government like the 5kg rice per head per month for three months, 3kg dal for three months and Rs 1,000 per ration card. Besides, old-age, widow, disabled and artists’ pensions have been disbursed for four months,” the sarpanch said. But painters feel this is not sufficient. “We, artists, like to live life well. Our creativity flourishes when we are happy. Rice and dal are not sufficient to cook a meal,” a crestfallen Biswanath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-cripples-artisan-hub-still-reeling-from-fani/articleshow/76163189.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
June 3, 2020||Surat||No active case in Tapi district, 2 discharged||Surat: With the discharging of two Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, Tapi district now doesn’t have any more active cases. According to Tapi district health officials, Rishi Bagde, 37, a resident of Songadh town, tested positive of the virus on May 22 and was admitted to Covid-19 hospital in Vyara town. He was discharged from the hospital along with Ranjna Kahar, a resident of Uchhal town, who too tested positive on May 22.“Till date, total six Covid-19 cases have been reported in Tapi district and all have recovered and discharged,” said an official. Meanwhile, four new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bharuch district on Tuesday taking the total number of cases to 44. Health officials said that four State Reserve Police (SRP) jawans who returned from Ahmedabad, tested positive at an SRP camp in Valiya and were shifted to Covid hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-active-case-in-tapi-district-2-discharged/articleshow/76163179.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Nephrology department launched at Rims||Ranchi: State health, medical education and family welfare minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday inaugurated the nephrology department at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). The department’s OPD services had become functional last week and is catering to at least five patients each day and the inflow is expected to rise post lockdown. Speaking to the media, Gupta said, “The new unit will provide dialysis services very soon. This will help the state’s poor patients who have to go to other states to get themselves treated. Patients in this unit will be treated for free under the Ayushman Bharat, Mukhyamantri Swasth Bima Yojana and Mukhyamantri Gambhir Bimari Yojana health insurance schemes.” The nephrology unit will also have a 12-bedded indoor patient department (IPD). For now, the IPD service will operate out of the Urology department of Rims. After the IPD services begin, the hospital will become the first state-run medical facility in Jharkhand to have a fully-operational nephrology unit. The new unit, Dr Pragya Pant said, can treat patients with kidney failures, urine infections, recurrent kidney problems and can conduct kidney biopsies once completely operational. Later, Gupta held a review meeting of the hospital’s Covid-19 management and stressed that treatment of other ailments must be resumed. “Pregnant women and patients with serious ailments must not be left out,” Gupta was quoted as saying. Others present at the inauguration included Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Kanke MLA Samri Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nephrology-department-launched-at-rims/articleshow/76163763.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Rims doctor accused of molestation surrenders before police||Ranchi: Senior resident doctor of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Arun Kumar Maurya, who was wanted for allegedly molesting a junior doctor at the hospital last week, surrendered at Bariatu police station on Tuesday morning. Maurya, who was absconding since May 28, walked into the police station with his advocate around 11.30am and surrendered shortly after. Bariatu police station in-charge Swapan Mahatha said, “He was forwarded to judicial custody at the Birsa Munda Central Jail. A case has been filed against the accused under Section 376/511 of the Indian Penal Code.” Mahatha said an arrest warrant was to be issued against Maurya later in the day. Maurya’s surrender comes a day after a delegation of Rims’ medicos met state health minister Banna Gupta and sought his immediate arrest and trial. On the morning of May 28, a junior resident doctor of Rims’ anaesthesia department, tabled a written complaint to the hospital’s director Dr D K Singh, accusing Maurya of molesting her the night before. In her complaint, the medico claimed Maurya was deputed along with her on Covid-19 duty. The incident happened after Maurya and the junior doctor shifted a patient, who was on ventilator, from the Covid-19 ward to the hospital’s cardiology ICU after he tested negative for the novel coronavirus. After the junior doctor’s submission, Singh forwarded the complaint to Bariatu police station, which filed an FIR against the accused. A native of Bhadohi district in UP and the son-in-law of a prominent Ranchi-based nephrologist, Maurya was on the run since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-doctor-accused-of-molestation-surrenders-before-police/articleshow/76163738.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Road diversion collapses near NTPC thermal project site in Tandwa||Chatra: A road diversion over Geruwa river was washed away by rain, halting movement of heavy vehicles and putting National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in a spot as its vehicles have to take the route for coal and construction material transportation. The road, washed away on Sunday night, was partially restored on Tuesday but only light vehicles are allowed. Sources said the road problem started on March 14, when the 200-foot-long and 50-foot-high Geruwa bridge, the lifeline of Tandwa and constructed in 1995 to bear a load of 50 tonnes, collapsed due to movement of large numbers of vehicles daily beyond its capacity. Tandwa is known for NTPC’s under construction super thermal power project and two largest coal mines of Asia — Magadh and Amrapali. It is 30km away from Chatra town and 55km away from Hazaribag. A road diversion was constructed as a stopgap arrangement, but it was washed away snapping connectivity between Tandwa, Chatra district headquarters and Hazaribag. A new diversion was made, but only for light vehicles were allowed to ply. Local residents said there has been no effort to repair the dilapidated Geruwa bridge. They said Simaria MLA Kishun Das had raised the issue with authorities concerned but to no avail. Das said the temporary diversion was operational from Tuesday after his initiative. NTPC public relations officer Gulshan Toppo said, “Due to lack of a bridge, our vehicles are standing on both sides on the damaged diversion. We need machines for the ongoing work but the road collapse has come as a big problem for us. We are planning to make a temporary diversion on the river in a few days.” He said the Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road is under repair till Bijupada of Odisha via Tandwa and a new bridge was supposed to come up on Geruwa river. “Due to the lockdown, the plan got delayed, but it will be resumed soon,” Toppo added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/road-diversion-collapses-near-ntpc-thermal-project-site-in-tandwa/articleshow/76163790.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||77 year old cancer patient, son beat Covid in Dhanbad||Dhanbad: A 77-year-old woman suffering from blood cancer was discharged from hospital in Dhanbad after she made a full recovery. Paramjeet Kaur, a resident of Jamadoba, remained in hospital in Dhanbad’s Saraidhela area for 23 days before she was declared cured on Sunday evening along with a few other patients. Till Tuesday evening, 57 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Dhanbad and 45 of these are active. Kaur, who was living in Mumbai with her son Manpreet Singh for a year for treatment was, tested positive for Covid-19 positive on May 9 soon after her return to Dhanbad on May 8. She was shifted to hospital on May 9 along with her son, who was also diagnosed with Covid-19. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Manpreet, whose family owns a garment shop, said, “We are looking forward to go to Mumbai soon so that my mother’s treatment can continue. She was diagnosed with blood cancer in Mumbai a year ago and was undergoing treatment there, but we had to return in May due to the spike in Covid cases in Maharashrtra.” Singh, currently living in his ancestral house in the coal hub, said, “We are thankful to doctors. They too good care of us and ensured we returned home in good health.” Talking to TOI over phone, Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said, “Treating her was a bit of a challenge as she is in an advance stage of cancer. We consulted Apollo Hospital oncologist Dr Karmakar for inputs for the Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) team led by Dr U K Ojha.” He added that Bharat Coking Coal Ltd (BCCL) management, led by its chairman-cum-MD P M Prasad helbed by making all its resource and best doctors available for her treatment. The Covid hospital in Dhanbad has been set up in BCCL’s Central Hospital at Jagjivan Nagar area in Dhanbad. Kumar added, “Staying positive and keeping the spirit up is crucial for treatment in such cases. All the patients, including Kaur, followed all the instructions given by the doctors during treatment and showed immense faith and confidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/77-year-old-cancer-patient-son-beat-covid-in-dhanbad/articleshow/76163946.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Ace archer who quit practice and worked as house maid gets monetary aid||DHANBAD: A 23-year-old archer forced to work as a domestic help and sell vegetables on the roadside to eke out a living received some monetary help from the administration in the coal belt on Tuesday. Sonu Khatoon, a daughter of construction worker Idris Alam from Jorapokhar area of Jharia, about 12 km of Dhanbad, had won bronze in the under-17 category at the 56th National Games in Pune in 2011. She clinched another bronze at 10th Jharkhand State Archery championship in Bokaro in 2012. Talking to TOI, Sonu said, “My aim was to participate in the National Archery Championship in the senior category, but I had to give up my dream and discontinue practice a year ago when my Indian round bow broke during practice. I worked as a domestic along with my mother to earn a livelihood. I lost the job when the lockdown was imposed and started selling vegetables on the Dhanbad-Sindri road.” On being informed about her ordeal, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar called her on Monday night and told her a that vehicle would pick her up from her home and bring her to the district collectorate. “DC sir gave me a Rs 20,000 cheque, which is in the name of my father as I don’t have my own bank account. He also took details of my achievements and assured me that he will explore ways of extending more help soon,” she said. As a student, Khatoon practiced archery with a self-made bamboo bow in the forests near her home she finally got an opportunity for formal training in 2009 when she was selected for the Digwadih stadium-based feeder centre for Tata Steel’s Jharia division. She continued training here until 2016, when she turned 20.  “I was allowed to practice here with my own bow after 2016, but I had to quit practice when my Indian round bow was damaged last year. I joined my mother, who worked as a domestic help in the nearby households.” A new Indian round bow costs as much as around Rs 10,000 and with the help from the administration, she can now purchase one to resume training, Sonu said. DC Kumar said, “We have giver her an immediate assistance of Rs 20,000 so that she can buy a new bow and resume training. We are exploring more ways to help her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ace-archer-who-quit-practice-and-worked-as-house-maid-gets-monetary-aid/articleshow/76163885.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Over 100 inmates overstay in Bokaro||Bokaro: Over one hundred migrants are currently overstaying in different institutionalised quarantine centres in the district even after completing their mandatory 14-day period because of delay in arrival of their Covid-19 test results. District authorities said they are finding it difficult to manage resources at the centres amid the growing number of returnees. They are, however, not allowed to release anyone, who should compulsorily undergo testing, without the negative reports. The samples are sent to PMCH in Dhanbad, which is also overloaded. Civil surgeon A K Pathak said, “As per figures available with me, more than 60 migrants are awaiting release from different centres.” DC Mukesh Kumar said, “We are trying to speed up the installation process of an RT-CPR testing machine in the district to avoid the delays. We are planning to use the district mineral fund trust (DMFT) to buy the necessary equipment.” The delay in release is also leading to anxiety among the inmates who tend to create ruckus, officials said. Sources said test reports of more than 400 samples sent between May 18 and 31 are pending with PMCH. So far, more than 25,613 migrants have returned to the district. Of them, 13,521 were in home quarantine while about 4,825 were in quarantine centres. A district health official said they are receiving several calls from the centres set up at offices like GGPS, ANM training institute and others, requesting permission to release the inmates. He said, “We are now releasing only those whose samples were not sent as testing is not mandatory, after they completed the quarantine period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-100-inmates-overstay-in-bokaro/articleshow/76163907.cms||Divy Khare
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Eyes on Speaker over JVMP-BJP merger after RS poll announcement||Ranchi: With the date for the deferred Rajya Sabha biennials announced, all eyes are on Jharkhand assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto as he is expected to take a call on the merger of JVM-P’s legislative party into BJP and appointment of Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi as the leader of opposition. Mahto, who reached Ranchi from his assembly constituency Nala (in Jamtara district) on Tuesday, deflected questions on the matter. “A decision will be taken soon and you will come to know. As of now, I will not comment on it,” Mahto told TOI. The BJP, however, is looking to mount pressure on Mahto in the coming days. The party’s state president and its Rajya Sabha candidate Deepak Prakash said, “We have urged the Speaker to appoint Babulal ji as the LoP. We will do it again. We will also seek a list of eligible voters for the Rajya Sabha biennials and move the Election Commission (EC) if required.” Following an approval for the merger from JVM-P’s central committee, Marandi merged his party into BJP in February. Soon after, the BJP had moved EC seeking the latter’s ratification of the merger. The EC had on March held the merger valid. It also rejected the merger plea of JVM-P into Congress, moved by the party’s expelled legislators Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey. The budget session proceedings of the fifth Jharkhand assembly, which was shelved before its scheduled closure in March in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, was disrupted by BJP over Marandi’s appointment as the LoP. The BJP had alleged that a decision on the matter was being delayed keeping in mind the Rajya Sabha biennials to provide advantage of numbers to the ruling alliance of JMM, Congress and the RJD. However, the Speaker is yet to validate Tirkey and Yadav’s membership as Congress legislators and Marandi’s membership as a BJP legislator. As per the assembly’s bench division, the trio have been allotted seats in capacity of JVM-P legislators. Expelled JVM-P legislator Yadav said, “As per the 10th schedule of the Constitution, a merger of the legislative party is held valid if two-third of the legislators supports the move.” Meanwhile, a watchful JMM stayed clear on the incident. “The matter is in the Speaker’s disposition,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. Bhattacharya, however, demanded that the EC must devise a strategy to conduct the pending assembly by-polls in Dumka. “If Rajya Sabha polls can be held, why can’t assembly by-poll be held? JMM urges EC to come with a strategy and issue dates,” Bhattacharya said. The Dumka assembly constituency fell vacant on January 6 after its MLA-elect Hemant Soren took oath from Barhait assembly constituency. As per mandate, by-polls in Dumka are to be held by June 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/eyes-on-speaker-over-jvmp-bjp-merger-after-rs-poll-announcement/articleshow/76163819.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||CM okays grant for 14 extremists||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday approved a proposal for rehabilitation grants to 14 extremists who laid down their arms under the government’s surrender policy. According to an official communiqué from the chief minister’s office, three extremists would get Rs 4 lakh each, nine will get Rs 2 lakh each and two will be given Rs 1 lakh each. Of the 14, 11 extremists belong to CPI (Maoists), two hail from People’s Liberation Front of India and one from Tritya Prastuti Committee. The CPI (Maoist) regional committee member Kundan Pahan, zonal commander Ainul Khan and Dimba Pahan of Khunti would get Rs four lakh each. In another development, CM approved a proposal for Jharkhand Advocates Clerk Welfare Fund rules following the directive of the Jharkhand high court. According to the rules, chairman of Jharkhand State Bar Council will head the trust while the principal secretaries of law, home and finance departments and the registrar general of Jharkhand high court will be honorary members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-okays-grant-for-14-extremists/articleshow/76163708.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||India among first to plan Covid fight: I&B ministry||NEW DELHI: In its 92-page e-booklet highlighting its key achievements, the ministry of information and broadcasting has said India is among the first few countries to have put in place a “comprehensive action plan” to contain the spread of coronavirus. Listing the achievements of the Modi government in its second term in office, the e-book titled ‘‘One Year of Modi 2.0 — Towards A Self-Reliant India’‘, says: “Even as social distancing and change of lifestyles became a new normal, India under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is one of the first countries to put up a concerted, comprehensive action plan to stop the spread of the virus and limit the number of infections.” The e-book says India made every effort to turn the crisis into an opportunity. “It went into a mode of selfreliance and sprung into action to become ‘‘Aatmanirbhar’‘. International organisations like the WHO have praised the efforts by the Indian government to fight the pandemic, it said, adding that India is among the few countries to announce a complete lockdown when the number of cases were less than 500. “When the Corona crisis started, there was not a single PPE kit made in India. The N-95 masks were produced in small quantities in India. Today we are in a position to produce 2 lakh PPE and 2 lakh N-95 masks daily,” the book’s introduction says. It also boasts of the government’s flagship Make in India as a success story citing Swadeshi Swab Sticks. “As the global supply chains suffered and in order to scale up the testing capabilities in the country, India geared up to produce high quality, low cost testing swabs...This was achieved under the ‘Make in India’ initiative in record seven days,” the e-book said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-among-first-to-plan-covid-fight-ib-ministry/articleshow/76166155.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||Revised MSP doesn’t factor in input cost: Congress||NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday said the increase in MSP had not lived up to the hype created by the government, adding that the revised procurement prices was too little and calculated without factoring in the input cost of crops. Addressing reporters, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said the Centre should announce revised MSP for crops. “Due to reverse migration of farm labourers, agricultural cost has increased in many states and the government has neglected this factor while announcing the MSP,” he said. Ahmed Patel said, “If this is going to be the government’s attitude towards farmers, its promise to double farmers’ income by 2022 will end up becoming another ‘jumla’. Forget about profit, this so-called raise in Kharif crops’ MSP won’t even cover their losses and debts.” Meanwhile, citing the downgrading of the country’s economy by Moody’s, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Lack of support to the poor and the MSME sector means the worst is yet to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/revised-msp-doesnt-factor-in-input-cost-congress/articleshow/76166193.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Housing project for poor to take off in 3 districts in phase 1||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the officials to start construction of new houses for the poor. The CM wanted the officials to take up the work on a pilot basis Visakhapatnam, Nellore and Kurnool districts in the first phase. Speaking to the officials at a review meeting on housing programme at the chief minister’s camp office at Tadepalli near here on Tuesday, Jaganmohan Reddy told the officials to plan the construction of 15 lakh houses in the first phase. He told them to have a uniform design for all the houses with each house having a bedroom, living room, kitchen, toilet and portico. The chief minister also told the officials to pool money to clear pending dues worth Rs 1,323 crore to the beneficiaries. When the officials told him that the previous government had to pay this amount, the chief minister asked them to clear this due before taking up the new project. This would benefit 3,38,144 beneficiaries across the 13 districts, who have constructed own houses during the previous government and were not paid the bills. The chief minister also reviewed the work relating to the distribution of house sites to 27 lakh women in the state on July 8, marking the birth anniversary of the late chief minister Y S Rajasekhar Reddy. The chief minister told the officials to take government lands in the villages for house sites. He also told them to identify private land and purchase them to distribute among the poor. The officials told the chief minister that the house sites are ready for distribution as the exercise was already completed across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/housing-project-for-poor-to-take-off-in-3-dists-in-phase-1/articleshow/76174016.cms||Gopi Dara
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Housing project for poor to take off in 3 districts in phase 1||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the officials to start construction of new houses for the poor. The CM wanted the officials to take up the work on a pilot basis Visakhapatnam, Nellore and Kurnool districts in the first phase. Speaking to the officials at a review meeting on housing programme at the chief minister’s camp office at Tadepalli near here on Tuesday, Jaganmohan Reddy told the officials to plan the construction of 15 lakh houses in the first phase. He told them to have a uniform design for all the houses with each house having a bedroom, living room, kitchen, toilet and portico. The chief minister also told the officials to pool money to clear pending dues worth Rs 1,323 crore to the beneficiaries. When the officials told him that the previous government had to pay this amount, the chief minister asked them to clear this due before taking up the new project. This would benefit 3,38,144 beneficiaries across the 13 districts, who have constructed own houses during the previous government and were not paid the bills. The chief minister also reviewed the work relating to the distribution of house sites to 27 lakh women in the state on July 8, marking the birth anniversary of the late chief minister Y S Rajasekhar Reddy. The chief minister told the officials to take government lands in the villages for house sites. He also told them to identify private land and purchase them to distribute among the poor. The officials told the chief minister that the house sites are ready for distribution as the exercise was already completed across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/housing-project-for-poor-to-take-off-in-3-dists-in-phase-1/articleshow/76163458.cms||Gopi Dara
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Panel mulls mobile bank for schools||NAGPUR: Creating a mobile bank of donated smartphones and roping in college students for teaching schoolchildren are some of the suggestions given by the state-appointed panel for school reopening process. As reported by TOI earlier, education minister Varsha Gaikwad is seeking suggestions from various stakeholders on how to proceed with online education till schools physically reopen. Ravindra Fadnavis, member of the panel said the biggest barrier in online education is access to technology. “There are lakhs of children in the state who do not have access to smartphones, hence the priority is to bridge this gap. I spoke to the minister (Gaikwad) today and suggested that we must open up a mobile bank at school level. Donated handsets — old or new — will be kept here and distributed to needy students,” said Fadnavis. Recharges could be done either by parents or through financial donations. “There are some mobile companies that offer really cheap data plans, so I don’t think it will be a problem for most of the parents. For the rest, people could recharge it as charity,” said Fadnavis. Another suggestion he gave to the state school education minister was about roping in college students by calling them ‘Shikshan Mitras’. “Students, especially those who are part of National Service Scheme (NSS), can be brought on board as Shikshan Mitras. They will then use their smartphones and enable education for five or six students. With thousands of NSS volunteers at our disposal, I am sure the impact can be wide-ranging,” said Fadnavis. Minister Gaikwad had earlier told TOI that through TV and radio, they will reach around 85% of the students, and it is for the remaining that innovative methods need to be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-mulls-mobile-bank-for-schools/articleshow/76164324.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Thakur plays guardian, sends deaf and mute woman home||Amravati: Pining to meet her family but unable to communicate with people, the joy of a 45-year-old deaf and dumb K Manjula knew no bounds on Tuesday when Amravati guardian minister Yashomati Thakur not only traced her hometown but also arranged a vehicle to take her to the native place Mandagiri (Adoni) in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. Waving happily at Thakur and staff of the district general hospital, Manjula, accompanied by Prashant Pande of tehsil office here, finally drove off to her place after being stranded here for more than one-and-a-half-month. “It was a difficult task for the health administration here to trace her whereabouts as she could not speak. She communicated through signals which the hospital staff was unable to comprehend,” said Thakur while talking to TOI. “I came to know of her plight on May 20 and met her the same day at the hospital along with sign language experts and asked the administration to take the help of Aadhaar system to find out her details on the basis of her fingerprints,” said Thakur. The efforts bore fruits when the administration succeeded in tracing her origin on the basis of her fingerprints. It showed that she was K Manjula from Andhra Pradesh. Manjula, married but staying away from her husband, got down from a truck she had boarded, in Walgaon in April last. A policeman noticed her and made enquiries. Realizing that she could not speak or hear, he informed the administration which quarantined her there. Manjula caught fever there following which she was shifted to district general hospital here in 108 ambulance on May 6. “Her swabs were tested twice and on each occasion it came negative. We declared her corona-free,” said civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam. “Manjula also responded to treatment and became healthy enough to return home. But we had no idea of her whereabouts and she too could not tell us anything being a deaf and dumb,” said Dr Nikam. On the instructions of Thakur, she was shifted to ward 9 of the hospital to ensure her security. Thakur instructed hospital matron Sindhu Khaninde and other nurses to take her special care. Meanwhile, the OSDs at Thakur’s office, Santosh Kakade busied themselves in finding her native place. When it was traced, Kurnool administration was informed and necessary permissions for travel were obtained. Thakur presented a sari and blouse piece to the woman, who was extremely happy today after days of despair as she sat inside the vehicle that took her to Mandagiri, where she will be able to unite with her mother and children. Thakur, Dr Nikam and the hospital staff bade her a warm farewell this noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thakur-plays-guardian-sends-deaf-and-mute-woman-home/articleshow/76164351.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Jagan cancels Delhi visit, to meet Shah later||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy cancelled his New Delhi visit on Tuesday. The cancellation was attributed to unavailability of Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. With cyclone Nisarga posing a threat to Maharastra and south Gujarat, the Union home ministry is busy handling the situation. The chief minister was scheduled to leave for New Delhi from his Tadepalli camp office in the morning and reach the national capital by noon. He was to meet water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat and mines minister Prahlad Joshi before meeting Amit Shah. The chief minister’s office in Tadepalli had prepared detailed notes on the issues to be discussed with the central ministers, including the proposed irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers and the dispute with the Telangana government besides the steel plant proposed at Kadapa by the state government. The steel plant was part of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014 and the state government had started the project even before the Centre cleared it in fulfilment of the bifurcation promise. The office of the Union home minister advised the chief minister’s office to defer the tour and reschedule it once the home minister is available in the national capital. Meanwhile, the chief minister held discussions with party senior leader and Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy, ministers Kodali Srivenkateswara Rao and Balineni Srinivasa Reddy after his Delhi tour was deferred. Sources said that the meeting was to take stock of the political situation and the scheduled Rajya Sabha elections to be held on June 19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-cancels-delhi-visit-to-meet-shah-later/articleshow/76163485.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Temple staff among 27 accused in ticket scam||Tirupati: The special police team probing the darshan ticket scam at the Lord Mallikarjuna Swamy and Goddess Brahmarambika Devi temple at Srisailam, Kurnool district, on Tuesday accused 27 persons, including temple staff, in the Rs 2.12 crore scam. Briefing reporters on the episode, Atmakur DSP Venkata Rao, the investigating officer, said they have registered four FIRs in the case. “Using loopholes in the ticket issuance and MIS softwares, 20 outsourced employees along with four other regular employees and other outsourced bank staff diverted temple funds to their pockets by resorting to techniques such as reprinting/double printing arjitha seva tickets, creating fake ids, shift before closing and by changing login ids”, stated Rao. The fraudsters have been diverting proceeds from arjitha seva tickets, donations from devotees and by duplicating Abhishekam darshan tickets since 2017. Investigation revealed that the ‘temple gang’ had diverted Rs 14 lakh from the sale of fake Abhishekam tickets, Rs 56 lakh from donations and Rs 1.42 and Rs 150 crore by duplicating arjitha seva and special darshan tickets, respectively. The DSP added that of the Rs 2.12 crore diverted by the gang, police have so far recovered Rs 83.40 lakh in cash and seized a car worth Rs 8 lakh. The report will be submitted to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temple-staff-among-27-accused-in-ticket-scam/articleshow/76163511.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 3, 2020||World||George Floyd’s killing: World outrage grows, EU ‘shocked, appalled’||From Sydney to Paris, world outrage at George Floyd’s killing was growing on Tuesday as the European Union’s top diplomat said the bloc was “shocked and appalled” by it. Canadian PM Justin Trudeau said that Canadians are watching what’s unfolding in the US with “horror and consternation” and he paused for 21 seconds when asked about US President Trump and the use of tear gas against protesters to clear the way for a photo opportunity. In France, thousands of Paris protesters defied a virus-related police ban and rallied Tuesday against racial injustice and heavyhanded police tactics. A protest was also planned in The Hague, Netherlands. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Floyd’s death was a result of an abuse of power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/george-floyds-killing-world-outrage-grows-eu-shocked-appalled/articleshow/76166204.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor ban in Chandrapur has failed: Min||Chandrapur: Recent attack on a police sub-inspector by liquor smugglers in the city has once again stirred the debate on effectiveness of liquor ban in the district. Disaster management, relief and rehabilitation minister and guardian minister of Chandrapur Vijay Wadettiwar has added fuel to the debate by saying prohibition is not a solution for de-addiction, it needs effective awareness. Wadettiwar, who has always been a supporter of lifting of prohibition, had announced a committee to review the impact of prohibition during his first visit to the city as guardian minister. In a statement given to media persons on Tuesday, the minister claimed liquor ban has been imposed in Chandrapur out of vote bank politics. “Even after prohibition was imposed five years ago, it failed to curb liquor smuggling and its sale. A police officer was killed and there had been many instances of attack on cops by smugglers,” he said. Wadettiwar said either the government will have to take stern measures to curb liquor smuggling, and if it fails, then there is only alternative left but to lift the liquor ban. The committee headed by district collector Kunal Khemnar had submitted its report in the third week of March. The report comprises 2.82 lakh opinions from people, institutions and organizations. Interestingly, 2.61 lakh opinions favoured revoking the ban, whereas only 20,585 supported its continuation. The committee had evaluated various aspects of the prohibition and its impact, domestic violence, crime, health, revenue, industries, business, tourism etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-ban-in-chandrapur-has-failed-min/articleshow/76164411.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 21-year-old student of IIT-Tirupati kills self||TIRUPATI: A 21-year-old student of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Tirupati is reported to have committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his flat at Lakshmi Apartments in KT Road in Tirupati on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as Sasidhar Reddy, was pursuing a course in mechanical engineering at IIT-Tirupati. Alipiri SI Vinod Kumar said that the student has left behind a suicide note which read that he was vexed with his life and that nobody was responsible for his death. On Tuesday, Sasidhar’s parents discovered that their child had locked himself up in his room. Despite knocking numerous times, they got no response. Worried, the parents broke open the door and saw their son hanging from the ceiling fan, dead. Upon receiving information, Alipiri police reached the spot of the incident and moved the dead body to SVRR Government General Hospital for an autopsy. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/21-year-old-student-of-iit-tirupati-kills-self/articleshow/76163532.cms||---
June 3, 2020||World||‘China delayed in giving corona info, frustrating WHO’||Throughout January, the WHO publicly praised China for what it called a speedy response to the new coronavirus. It repeatedly thanked the Chinese government for sharing the genetic map of the virus “immediately”. But behind the scenes, it was a much different story. Despite the plaudits, China in fact sat on releasing the genetic map, or genome, of the virus for more than a week after three different government labs had fully decoded the information. Tight controls on information and competition within the Chinese public health system were to blame, according to dozens of interviews and internal documents. Chinese government labs only released the genome after another lab published it ahead of authorities on a virologist website on January 11. Even then, China stalled for at least two weeks more on providing WHO with detailed data on patients and cases, according to recordings of internal meetings held by the UN health agency through January. WHO officials were lauding China because they wanted to coax more information, the recordings obtained by AP suggest. Privately, they complained. “We’re going on very minimal information,” said US epidemiologist Maria Van Kerkhove, now WHO’s technical lead for Covid-19, in one internal meeting. “We’re currently at the stage where yes, they’re giving it to us 15 minutes before it appears on CCTV,” WHO’s top official in China, Gauden Galea, referring to the state broadcaster, said in another meeting. Between the day the full genome was first decoded by a government lab on January 2 and the day WHO declared a global emergency on January 30, the outbreak spread by a factor of 100 to 200 times, according to data from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. WHO and its officials named declined to answer questions asked without audio or written transcripts of the recorded meetings, which AP was unable to supply to protect its sources. China’s National Health Commission had no comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-delayed-in-giving-corona-info-frustrating-who/articleshow/76166231.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Six new cases emerge from Mangor Hill||Panaji: A day after two Covid-19 cases were detected from Mangor hill, Vasco, six more were reported from the area on Tuesday. Four family members and two neighbours of the fisherman, who tested positive on Monday along with his wife, have been confirmed positive, secretary health Nila Mohanan said. “We have six cases from Mangor Hill, four are family members of the two people who are residents of Mangor hill and their two neighbours who were in contact with them,” Mohanan said. Mangor Hill was declared a containment zone on Monday. Since then swab samples of 200 people of the area have been collected and testing is underway, Mohanan said. “We have focused on the immediate vicinity of the residence of confirmed cases. We have testing covering people in high risk group, like expecting mothers, elderly people, and those who have comorbidities, and we will continue contact tracing and testing till the time the area remains a containment zone,” she said. The swab collection process at Mangor hill will resume on Wednesday morning and will be on until the health department is satisfied that they have tested enough people in the area, Mohanan said. Inquiries into whether the Mangor family had any travel history are still underway, she said, adding that the authorities have not been able to establish anything to that effect till now. For contact tracing, the authorities are following all leads. The process involves expanding from the focal point to the outward area. To a question, Mohanan said that the Mangor hill cases are partly symptomatic and partly asymptomatic. She also clarified that the doctor from the area, who tested positive in the TrueNat test, tested negative in the confirmatory test on Tuesday. A family of three from Canca-Verla in Mapusa, which had tested positive in the screening test on Monday, tested negative in the confirmatory test. The initial reports of the three had led to commotion in the area on Monday night. There were also rumours that they had fled, and police had to be called. “The three suspects have tested negative today. It was false news that they had absconded. They were very much with us. We had taken them to our quarantine facility,” Mohanan said. Thirteen patients were discharged on Tuesday after recovery, while the total number of active cases dropped to 22 even as six cases were added. Out of 79 cases, 57 have recovered so far. In sample testing, 1,690 tested negative while 980 reports are still awaited. Meanwhile, 19 suspects were admitted to the isolation wardand 124 were placed in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-new-cases-emerge-from-mangor-hill/articleshow/76164531.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||Soon, Delhi to Amritsar in just 4 hours on e-way||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday approved a new Greenfield connectivity to Amritsar city from Nakodar as part of Delhi-Amritsar Expressway project. The new link will provide connectivity to holy cities of Sikhism — Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Dera Baba Nanak/ Kartarpur Sahib International Corridor. Under this project, the road from Amritsar to Gurdaspur would also be fully developed and made completely signal free. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari which was attended by other central ministers and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Gadkari said with the road from Amritsar to Gurdaspur becoming signal free, commuters would have the option to travel to Gurdaspur onwards from Nakodar via Amritsar or via Kartarpur. The minister said once the expressway is completed, travel time from Amritsar to Indira Gandhi International airport would reduce by half to about four hours. The first phase of the expressway would involve investment of about Rs 25,000 crore. The expressway project is part of the Centre’s ambitious Bharatmala Pariyojana. The alignment of expressway was firmed up in January 2019 and process of land acquisition was also initiated. Recently the proposal to provide connectivity to Amritsar was raised by political representatives and the Punjab government as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soon-delhi-to-amritsar-in-just-4-hours-on-e-way/articleshow/76166259.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||After Colva cop tests +ve, 108 of his colleagues test -ve||Colva: Over a hundred police personnel posted at the Colva police station tested negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The swabs of 108 cops were taken on Monday after one of their personnel tested positive via the TrueNat screening test. A day later, the result was confirmed. The actual strength of the station stands at 114. However, at any given time, there are 50-70 personnel on duty, including administrative staff. South Goa SP Arvind Gawas told TOI that the swabs were collected as soon as the cop tested positive on Monday. The police station continues to function as usual, said PI Melson Colaco. “We adopted precautionary measures right from the beginning, and use thermal guns to screen the public visiting the building.” Now on, police personnel too will be screened by the thermal gun every time they report to work. However, sources said that the movement of Colva police personnel in its jurisdiction has been curtailed, and they have been directed to avoid much movement for the next seven days while being on high alert. TOI has also learnt that there is no question of replacing the entire staff, since the police throughout the state is stretched to its limit. “It is impossible for the police to be inactive,” Gawas said. “We are present at railway stations, the airport, and where migrants are sheltered. It is our duty and we cannot shirk our responsibility. I myself visited the Mangor Hill containment zone on Tuesday to oversee arrangements. If we policemen show fear, how will the public have faith in us?” Gawas said that he also spoke telephonically to the Covid-positive constable, who assured him that he is well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-colva-cop-tests-ve-108-of-his-colleagues-test-ve/articleshow/76164552.cms||Nisser Dias
June 3, 2020||Nagpur||Forest min to launch ‘Nagar Van’ scheme in all states||Nagpur: With biodiversity the theme of World Environment Day (WED) this year, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) will launch ‘Nagar Van’ (city forest) scheme on June 5. Forest officials said Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar will open the celebrations online by laying emphasis on urban forestry by setting up ‘Nagar Vans’ in cities having municipal councils and corporations. The details of the scheme will be announced the same day. Javadekar will showcase the example of Warje in Pune, where forest land falling within the city after urbanization was developed into a ‘Nagar Van’ with public participation. Talking to TOI, Vivek Khandekar, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Pune, said, “We protected 25ha forest inside city from encroachments and improved vegetation by planting 6,500 indigenous trees and created walking tracks. People planted trees in memory of their beloved and today the same people are protecting the forest. Daily 1,000 people visit this urban forest.” Urban forestry concept is not new to Maharashtra. During 1990-91, massive greening drive was taken up in Amravati, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad and Nashik. Under this, huge plantations were taken up at Ambazari and Gorewada. Nagpur CCF P Kalyan Kumar said, “Nagpur is bestowed with urban forests like Ambazari (756ha), Seminary Hills (76ha) and Gorewada (1914ha). All these forest areas are the lungs of the city and have different floral and faunal biodiversity.” In 2016, Maharashtra government had launched a parallel scheme by opening urban gardens on forest areas under ‘Uttamrao Patil Van Udyan’ scheme. “The basic idea was to create awareness about nature education,” said Kumar. Regional MoEFCC officials said, “Urban forestry is an integrated concept of forest resource management to provide improved environment, pleasing and relaxing surroundings in an urban system. The launch of ‘ Nagar Van’ scheme will provide opportunity to the states to manage urban ecosystems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-min-to-launch-nagar-van-scheme-in-all-states/articleshow/76192822.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 3, 2020||Goa||Authorities kept on toes at Margao stn||Margao: With two transit trains making a scheduled halt at the Margao railway station in the early hours of Tuesday, officials of the Konkan Railway (KR), district administration and the health services had to spend sleepless hours making arrangements. With a Shramik Special train departing from the station later in the afternoon, officials literally worked through the night and day. Forty seven passengers alighted from both trains on Tuesday, and those without Covid negative certificates were sent to the new district hospital for tests. While 230 passengers boarded the Shramik train for Chhattisgarh, several hundreds more boarded the same train at Karmali, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/authorities-kept-on-toes-at-margao-stn/articleshow/76164582.cms||---
June 3, 2020||India||4 killed, 3 injured in explostion at Telangana coal mine||HYDERABAD: An explosion on Tuesday at one of Singareni Collieries’ open cast mines in Telangana killed four workers at the spot and left three others badly injured. Another five workers at the mines in Peddapalli’s Ramagundam area had a narrow escape as they went to fetch water around the same time when the blast occurred at 11am. The Director General of Mines Safety (DGMS), under the Union ministry of labour, has taken up the investigation into the incident. Workers alleged that the blast occurred due to the negligence of a private contractor. The explosion killed four workers at the spot. While, three others who were injured were rushed to the Singareni area hospital at Godavarikhani. One of them, who was critical, was later shifted to Karimnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-killed-3-injured-in-explostion-at-telangana-coal-mine/articleshow/76166263.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 3, 2020||Goa||Quarrel over quarantine as first direct Vande Bharat flight arrives in Goa||PANAJI: The arrival of stranded expats on the first direct Vande Bharat flight to Goa was marred by chaos and lack of coordination between the authorities, resulting in passengers reaching their quarantine centres almost 12 hours after they landed. The Air India flight which landed at 12.28 am on Tuesday, brought back 110 expats from Dubai, UAE. Their journey was smooth until they arrived in Goa, passengers said. Arguments broke out between passengers and the authorities outside the terminal building with some passengers refusing to comply with the SOP stipulated by the Union ministry of home affairs, which mandates a seven-day paid quarantine. They demanded home quarantine instead. Several pregnant women also pointed out to the exemption for pregnant women from the seven-day institutional quarantine but their pleas fell on deaf years. “Why should we spend money and stay in a quarantine facility? There are pregnant women here who need food every hour, senior citizens who need their medicines. Will chief minister Pramod Sawant take responsibility if something happens to them in the hotels?” one of the protesting passengers said. Sayad Imran, one of the Goan expats on the flight, said, “The government of India made it clear that pregnant women, senior citizens and those with medical problems be quarantined at home.” When the authorities failed to diffuse the situation, Goa police and CISF officers intervened and convinced the protesting passengers to move to a paid quarantine facility. Passengers complained of a lack of clarity on protocol as they were first informed that they had to take a blood test for Covid-19. When they questioned this and stated that they had already done a blood test before boarding in Dubai, the authorities clarified that only their swab samples would be drawn and tested for Rs 2,000. They were subsequently made to wait in buses for police escorts to be taken to their quarantine centre and paid Rs 500 each for transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quarrel-over-quarantine-as-first-direct-vande-bharat-flight-arrives-in-goa/articleshow/76164600.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||HSRP work suspended in Vasco after Covid scare||Panaji: Installation of high security registration plates (HSRP) at the Vasco-based fitment centre has been suspended after reports emerged of covid-19 positive cases in the port town. The bookings counter, housed at the Vasco regional transport office (RTO), remained shut on Tuesday. “There were instances of crowding at the Vasco fitment centre. People are also queueing up at the RTO for driving licences and we cannot tell who is coming from where. We have, therefore, suspended HSRP operations there as a temporary measure. We will review the situation in a day and two and decide whether the decision must be deferred,” transport director Rajan Satardekar said. The contractor appointed to execute the fitments, Real Mazon India Ltd, is now sending out messages to vehicle owners from Vasco that were scheduled for fitments this week, to standby until new dates are announced. HSRP operations resumed from May 18 with fitment centres permitting installations at brief intervals in a bid to maintain social distancing. At the largest fitment centres at Porvorim (for Panaji registrations) and Arlem (for Margao registrations), vehicles have been coming in at a frequency of four vehicles every 30 minutes while the other centres have one vehicle coming every 20 minutes. “We are assigning time slots for everyone. It is taking a while to complete the target,” said Kate Kayani, who is overlooking HSRP installations across the state. Online bookings and walk-ins, however, have gradually decreased, assistant general manager, Real Mazon India Ltd, Biswajeet Mukherjee told TOI. “We have been taking only minimal installations. We will start giving appointments to new ones after we clear the backlog of installations pending from before the pre-lockdown period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hsrp-work-suspended-in-vasco-after-covid-scare/articleshow/76164623.cms||Nida Sayed
June 3, 2020||Goa||Health secy: Flyers violated MHA norms||Panaji: Health secretary Nila Mohanan on Tuesday said that the arguments and altercations at Goa International Airport by passengers of the Vande Bharat flight from Dubai were not only unacceptable but also violated MHA clauses and provisions of the Disaster Management Act. “Raising a hue and cry to not go to paid institutional quarantine created a very unpleasant situation at the airport. Their behaviour is in violation of a whole lot of clauses that have been laid down under MHA and MEA guidelines. They went back on the commitment they had given when boarding the plane in Dubai,” she said. The procedure, which would have taken 1.5 hours, took seven hours as a result, Mohanan said. “Clause 8 clearly mentions that before boarding, all travellers shall give an undertaking that they will undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for a minimum of 14 days on arrival in India, at their own cost,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-secy-flyers-violated-mha-norms/articleshow/76164637.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Goa||Screen everyone entering police establishments: IGP||Panaji: A day after the father of a police constable tested positive for Covid-19, IGP Jaspal Singh on Tuesday advised Goa police to screen all persons entering police establishments. “All persons entering police stations, units and offices should be screened with thermal guns,” he said in a letter to superintendents of police (SPs) and other senior officers. “Please ensure that the batteries of the gun are replaced from time to time. Everyone needs to be alert all the time, and take care of themselves and their famlies.” Singh also told personnel to brief their families, and that if any of them show symptoms like fever, influenza or respiratory infection, they should contact the nearest government hospital. “Don’t consult unqualified private practitioners,” Singh told police personnel. Singh said that the force is aware that these are challenging times, and that the police, being in the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, are vulnerable to it. He asked senior officers to brief all inspectors and other staff every day about safety measures circulated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. He also said that the safest and surest away to keep safe is to follow precautions, which include wearing masks and gloves, especially when dealing with others and in crowds. He also asked police personnel to always follow social distancing and to tell their family members and others to do the same. “Use handwash or sanitiser after you touch surfaces and documents,” Singh said. Singh advised cops to avoid unwarranted movement and participation in gatherings. His advice to traffic police personnel was to not use alcometers on drunken driving suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/screen-everyone-entering-police-establishments-igp/articleshow/76164648.cms||Murari Shetye
June 3, 2020||Goa||6 Maha interns working on spl trains long for home||Panaji: On Monday, Maroti Kamaji Pisal from Parbhani, Maharashtra, could only watch helplessly as he saw hundreds of Biharis board a train back home at Karmali railway station. Pisal and five other friends were helping pack food at the station for those leaving by the Shramik Special, but were clueless about their own return. The six of them arrived in Goa last November as part of a hotel management programme. Unfortunately, the lockdown was announced before their internship at a hotel in Baga could end. The youth now find themselves stranded in the state, with no train scheduled to Maharashtra so far. “When the lockdown was announced, the hotel we were interning at also shut down. The owner allowed us to stay and provided us with food, thinking that transportation would resume sooner or later. On May 28, when he realised that the lockdown was being extended, he told us we could no longer stay there and that he could not look after us indefinitely,” Pisal said. The six young men suddenly found themselves without shelter, food or any means to return home. “Some boys from Uttarakhand were also working with us. We learnt from them that there is a government shelter at the athletics stadium in Bambolim. The day we reached there, there were thousands already. We were then accommodated at the youth hostel in Panaji,” said Nalit Nagora, a native of Yavatmal. Pisal said they spend the day packing food at the station after being asked to help out during their stay at the youth hostel. “We just want to return home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/6-maha-interns-working-on-spl-trains-long-for-home/articleshow/76164694.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Runaway Faridabad couple gets relief in Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Getting married during the lockdown landed a Faridabad-based runaway couple into trouble as a local court ordered that they should be booked for marrying without permission. The newlywed couple had appeared before the local court in Faridabad seeking security as they apprehended threat to their lives from their families. The local court, however, took umbrage to the fact that they had got married during the lockdown without taking requisite permissions. The couple, however, heaved a sigh of relief after the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed the investigation of the FIR registered against them at Faridabad. The couple, Lokesh Garg and Sonia, had got married on May 7 with the help of a priest, Rakesh Pandit in a local temple against the wishes of their parents. Fearing threat to their lives, they approached a local court seeking directions to protect their life and liberty from their families and relatives. When the matter came up for hearing before the duty judge, Rajesh Garh, additional sessions judge, Faridabad on May 14, he found it a prima facie case of violation of lockdown as the couple had got married during the lockdown without permission from the authorities. Observing that the couple as well as the priest, who solemnized the wedding without permission from local administration had violated the instructions of the Union of India as well as the district magistrate, the judge ordered an FIR to be registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/runaway-faridabad-couple-gets-relief-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court/articleshow/76166280.cms||Ajay Sura
June 3, 2020||Goa||Faithful may have to book a seat for Mass||PANAJI: As the faithful and clergy wait for guidelines from the government and the Church authorities for reopening of the religious places of worship from June 8, some are already considering innovative ways to ensure social distancing doesn’t prevent them from welcoming all devotees. After having live streamed the Masses for past two months during the lockdown, the Carmelite Monastery in Margao is considering online registration for Masses to control the number of faithful that attend each service. “A team of volunteers could be kept at the Church entrance to check whether those wanting to attend Mass have received our message and will then be allowed in. It will be just like booking an appointment with a doctor,” superior at the monastery, Fr Archibald Gonsalves, said. He reckoned that there will have to be some relaxation in the obligatory Sunday Mass and the faithful could be given leeway to fulfil their obligation by attending a Mass during the week, instead of only Sunday. Besides these measures, the clergy is also gearing up to celebrate more Masses in each parish during the week and especially on Sundays. The parish priest of Holy Family Church in Porvorim, Fr Caetano Fernandes, said he is awaiting guidelines for the opening of churches. “We will definitely have to celebrate more Masses in English and Konkani on Sundays and weekdays according to the parishioners’ needs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faithful-may-have-to-book-a-seat-for-mass/articleshow/76166288.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 3, 2020||Business||Hyundai ships 5k car since lockdown ease||Kolkata: Hyundai Motors India Ltd has achieved a morale-boosting milestone of exporting 5,000 cars since its resumed operations post lockdown on May 8, 2020. Its rival Maruti Suzuki exported 4,651 cars since beginning production on May 12. The Indian subsidiary of the South Korean auto giant Hyundai Motor Co was the leading passenger car exporter in 2019-2020 when it shipped 1.8 lakh cars to 88 countries across four continents. Though the exports clocked this year is nearly a third of what it achieved in the corresponding month last year, that it has managed to ship more than 5,000 cars to markets abroad despite the Covid situation worldwide is what makes the achievement more creditable that last year. "The ability to revive exports and achieve these numbers is testimony to the strength of the Hyundai brand worldwide. Some of the orders were pending when India went into lockdown," said HMIL assistant vice-president (exports and operations planning) Pankaj Tiwari. Earlier this year, the company achieved the milestone of exporting 30 lakh cars since it began operations in 1999. While it had started with exports of the Santro, the only product it made back then, the new generation Santro, it now exports all the other models it manufacures here including the Verna.Currently, Hyundai India exports 10 models: Atos (Santro), Grand i10, Xcent, Grand i10 (Nios) and Grand i10 (Aura), Elite i20, i20 Active, Accent (Verna), Venue and new Creta. The 10 lakh milestone was achieved in FebruAry 2010. The 20 lakh came four years later in March, 2014. Earlier this January, the company clocked 30 lakh exports. "We are exporting to four continents. Some of the bigger markets are Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Egypt, Nigeria, Colombia, Bahamas and Ecuador," said Tiwari. Maruti Suzuki, meanwhile, posted sales of 18,539 cars in May 2020. Of these, 13,865 cars were sold in the domestic market. It also sold 23 units of Baleno to Toyota that sells it under the Glanza badge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hyundai-ships-5k-car-since-lockdown-ease/articleshow/76164020.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Malad traffic cop is force’s 18th casualty in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 49-year-old traffic constable succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, becoming the 18th Mumbai Police casualty. Attached to Malad traffic division, he was quarantined as a high-risk contact after his son-in-law, also a policeman, tested positive. A Malwani resident, he had diabetes and Hepatitis B. He was admitted to a hospital in Navi Mumbai for Hepatitis on May 17, but he tested positive and was moved to Seven-Hills hospital in Andheri on May 21. “We would send fruits for him but gradually he gave up eating. Doctors put him on a liquid diet and then on an IV drip. He was given oxygen but he succumbed on Monday evening,” said a senior officer. His wife is being quarantined and will be tested. Nearly 1,500 policemen from across Maharashtra have tested positive and 29 have succumbed to the virus. Families of police personnel who lose their lives due to Covid will get Rs 60 lakh, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had stated recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malad-traffic-cop-is-forces-18th-casualty-in-mumbai/articleshow/76166301.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||BMC will revert to testing of all high-risk contacts of positive patients||MUMBAI: In yet another change in testing protocol, BMC decided to revert to its old strategy of testing all high-risk contacts of positive patients irrespective of symptoms between 5-10 days of quarantine. A civic official said high-risk contacts under home quarantine would not even need a doctor's prescription and can get tested by providing a self-declaration. Previously, in a major deviation from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol, BMC had decided that high-risk contacts would be tested only if they developed symptoms. BMC had on May 12 issued comprehensive guidelines on testing, where it stated that "all symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases" should be tested, which ruled out testing for those without symptoms. But the decision caused anxiety among relatives and close contacts of positive patients as they could not get tested through the home quarantine period. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani confirmed that testing guidelines were revised and a circular would be issued shortly. "Previously, high-risk contacts were not tested if they did not develop symptoms. We are changing that now and going for aggressive testing of contacts. We are focussing on high-risk contacts who are under home quarantine. We relaxed norms. They will not need a doctor's prescription to get tested. They can provide a self-declaration letter to labs and get the test done," he added. BMC estimates that nearly 10,000 people could be under home quarantine and eligible for testing under the new norms. Kakani added that home testing will continue to be unavailable. A doctor welcomed the move, saying it was a huge "blunder" by BMC to not test high-risk contacts and keep them guessing. "We had many frantic calls from patients, including those in institutional quarantine, that they were not tested. It adds to one's anxiety," the senior physician said. Another expert added that even ICMR, in its multiple revisions of testing guidelines, has remained consistent with testing of direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case and said the asymptomatic contacts should be tested once between day 5 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-will-revert-to-testing-of-all-high-risk-contacts-of-positive-patients/articleshow/76166306.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan wrecks bumper mango crop in West Bengal||MALDA/KOLKATA: Cooped up at home, many a mango lover was waiting eagerly to bite into a slice of ripe ‘Himsagar’ to transform the sultry summer afternoon into a delightful gastronomic experience. The king of fruits that grows in rich abundance in Bengal would indeed have lifted moods during listless lockdown days had not a monster called Amphan dashed much of the hope. The raging cyclone — whose name spelt in English ironically has a close resemblance with ‘aam’, the fruit’s name in Bengali — that devastated the state two weeks ago also plundered mango orchards in Murshidabad, Malda, Nadia, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, uprooting thousands of trees and shedding lakhs of fruits. Almost all varieties of the fruit — Himsagar, Lyangda, Begumphulli, Lakhanbhog and Fazli — were badly affected in a year that was otherwise poised to yield a bumper crop. According to preliminary reports, the cyclone damaged an estimated 40,000 tonnes of the fruit. The projected crop of 3.5 lakh tonnes this year had already been pared to 2.5 lakh tonnes following the hailstorms that struck the districts in early summer. Post-Amphan, that figure is set to be revised to around 2 lakh tonnes. The Mechua fruit market that is usually flooded with mango varieties in early-June is listless this year. According to traders, every year around 125-150 trucks laden with 15 tonnes of mango each roll into the market daily from mid-May. But this year, around 45 trucks are arriving every day. “We lost a lot of business due to the lockdown and lack of labourers and were really looking forward to the mango trade. We were hoping for a turnaround as the crop was good this year and the lockdown was being eased. But then the cyclone dashed our hopes,” said Shahid Ahmed Khan, general secretary of Mechua Fruit Merchants’ Welfare Association. The period between June 15 and July 15 is the peak mango season in Kolkata when all varieties from Bengal, UP and Bihar are simultaneously available. “We can expect around 12-14 lakh kgs of mango every day by the middle of June if inter-state movement of trucks is allowed. This will be nothing close to the supply from previous years but people will at least get to taste some varieties,” said Samir Paul, a fruit merchant on Madan Mohan Burman Street near MG Road. Even before cyclone Amphan razed the trees and dashed hopes of a recovery after two years of poor crop, the lockdown had led to problems in sourcing labour to harvest the crop. “Mangoes are seasonal and perishable. So there is a very small window during which the crop has to be harvested, sorted, packed and transported for sale. Since there are different varieties that ripen at different times, the activity continues from March to June. This year, the lockdown led to problems in sourcing labour and that has cost mango farmers dear,” said Uzzwal Saha, president of Malda Mango Merchant Association. The cyclone has also affected litchie farmers with an estimated 10,000 tonnes of the fruit being damaged. The state administration believes the loss incurred by the state farm sector due to the twin-factors of Covid-19 and Amphan could scale to record levels this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-wrecks-bumper-mango-crop-in-bengal/articleshow/76165309.cms||Subhro Maitra
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||2 intern docs test + at Rims, dir goes under quarantine; state tally past 700 with 49 new cases||Ranchi: The coronavirus scare reached the state’s lone Covid-19 tertiary care centre with four persons —two female intern doctors and two admitted patients — testing positive at Rajendra institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Tuesday. The infected interns had met Rims director Dr D K Singh recently and he said he will go into isolation immediately. The third floor of the new girls’ hostel at Rims where the interns lived has been converted into a micro containment zone. In a bigger concern, sources at Rims said that the two had interacted with several hospital staff, including Singh, in the last couple of days. Talking to TOI, Singh said: “Two of our intern doctors and one patient each from orthopaedics and Covid-19 ward have tested positive. The third floor of girls’ hostel has been converted into a mini containment zone and the orthopaedics department is being sanitized. I had met the infected interns recently and will be going into quarantine immediately.” “The other who tested positive in Ranchi apart from intern doctors and patients has undergone treatment at Medica hospital in Ranchi in last few days and both were being traced right now. The rest who tested positive on Tuesday are migrants who have arrived from various parts of country,” said a health department official. The four were among 49 fresh coronavirus cases detected in nine districts on Tuesday. This is the second biggest single-day spike in the state since 72 cases were recorded on May 30 Along with the 11 cases reported from Dhanbad around midnight on Monday, the total number pf positive cases in the state now stands at 724, of which, 398 are active, 321 have recovered (including 24 on Tuesday) and five have succumbed to the infection, according to the Covid-19 bulletin issued by the state health department at 9pm on Tuesday. On Tuesday, Ramgarh recorded its biggest single-day spike with 20 cases, Ranchi recorded six (including the four at Rims), Dhanbad nine, Hazaribag five, East Singhbhum three, Dumka two and Bokaro, Saraikela, Garhwa and Palamu one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-intern-docs-test-at-rims-dir-goes-under-quarantine-state-tally-past-700-with-49-new-cases/articleshow/76163733.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Online hocus-pocus adds magic to coronavirus-sad lives in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Even though the general consensus seems to be that the novel coronavirus isn’t going to suddenly disappear like magic, Kolkata’s illusionists have got their acts going... with help from a little bit of tech wizardry. So what if you can’t flock to the theatres just yet for fear of catching Covid-19? You can still catch some of the city’s best magic performers in the act, from your computer. Even as a large section of Kolkata’s white-collar workforce settles into the WFH format, a number of the city’s magicians have also been trying to do the same. They’ve been pulling the proverbial rabbit out of the hat from behind a computer screen, but with little tweaks to customise their acts for small laptop screens. “The primary challenge is to accept the fact that the 100 sq ft stage is now cramped into a 15-inch monitor,” says David Nobo, a city-based magic performer, who hosted a Zoom show after selling tickets through online platforms. “And there’s one other thing: you don’t have live audience feedback,” he adds. “In live shows, we feed off the energy of the audience.” David says he changed portions of his routine to accommodate tricks that could easily be seen on laptop or desktop screens. “I realised you don’t always require big boxes to host a show,” he says. “People constantly watch shows on YouTube in hi-res. Here, I had to make the show more interactive. I was moving around in a small room, while trying to make it equally theatrical.” Certain types of tricks lend themselves to the format-change more easily than others, felt others. While performing a levitation may not be initially possible on Zoom, tricks involving sleight of hand, playing cards, billiard balls or colour-changing flowers could be an instant hit. “I may not be able to perform something like cutting a girl in half on Zoom right now, but there are hundreds of other illusions that can be performed,” said performer Sourav Burman, who has for long performed on cruise ships, and is now planning to shift online. “Magic, after all, is all about engaging the audience and entertaining them.” David says he got in touch with an online ticketing platform for selling tickets, and his show got sold out well in advance. “We have to remember that people are also looking for a means to escape the grim reality that’s facing them,” Burman adds. “And while online shows might not be as financially rewarding as corporate shows, we can surely improve on that.” Raouf Gangjee, co-founder of Kalkutta Konjurors, a platform that regularly hosts magic open mic sessions, says even online platforms can be used to receive audience feedback. “They send feedback and comments through chats,” he says. “They even react after the show has ended. If social distancing is going to be the new normal, we have to adapt to the new channels of entertainment.” There are technical issues like connectivity problems and internet speed lags, but these are minor issues that could be ironed out, feel most performers, at a time magic seems to be getting its mojo back. Gangjee, who’s a stand-up-comedian himself, feels going back to the stage looks to be a distant possibility now. “Online shows are the future,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-hocus-pocus-adds-magic-to-corona-sad-lives/articleshow/76165393.cms||Rohit Khanna
June 3, 2020||Jamshedpur||20 medical students from Jharkhand stranded in Philippines||JAMSHEDPUR: Twenty youngsters studying medicine at various colleges in the Philippines are stranded in the island nation ever since India stopped all international flights in March to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Ravi Kumar, senior teacher of mathematics at Loyola School in Jamshedpur said his daughter Kritika Aryan (23), a second-year student of medicine, and five are from Jamshedpur are among them. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, he said, "My daughter and the others registered for the Vande Bharat plane service to return to India, but could not avail it. They only had the option to register for their nearest international airport — which is in Kolkata. Due to some technical reasons, no flights from the Philippines was approved to operate on this route.” Kumar said Kritika had told him over phone that there some medical students from the northeast are also stranded in the Philippines. “All the students are waiting for the next round of Vande Bharat service, which is likely to begin on June 13.” Kumar appealed to the local MLA and state health minister Banna Gupta and chief minister Hemant Soren to help the distressed parents and get their children back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/20-med-students-from-state-stranded-in-philippines/articleshow/76163711.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||MNREGA figures dismal in May, but job creation picking pace||Ranchi: Employment generation under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Gurantee Act (MNREGA) was dismal in Jharkhand in the month of May compared to same period in the last five fiscals. Unemployment data maintained by Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data shows that six out of every 10 job seekers are unemployed in Jharkhand in May. At 59.2%, the state has the highest joblessness rate in the country. The figure was 8.2% in March, before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Over a longer time period, unemployment has moved from 1.6% in Jul 2017 to its current rate. With the scheme, which aims to guarantee the ‘right to work’, assuming immense importance because of job losses and return of migrants amid the pandemic, figures suggest the total jobs (person days) created last month was comparable to the figures in the 2015-16 fiscal, when 60 lakh man-days of work was generated in May. Even last year, around 80 lakh man-days of work was available during this month. Between 2015-16 and 2020-21 fiscal, 2016-17 saw the highest job creation with over 1.4 crore man-days. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of different rights group, has compiled the data for May through Government of India’s MNREGA website. In view of the influx of migrants, chief minister Hemant Soren on May 4 had rolled out three flagship MNREGA schemes aimed at generating mass employment for those hit by the lockdown and reviving the rural economy. The schemes — Birsa Harit Gram Yojana, Neelambar Pitambar JAL Sammridhi Yojana and Poto Ho Khel Vikas Scheme — aimed to absorb about six lakh migrant workers in addition to the existing job card holders in the state. Talking to TOI, James Herenj, convenor of Jharkhand NREGA Watch, an independent outfit working in this field, said that limited scope of works compared to the demand is one of the biggest reasons for poor job creation. He said, “Currently, there is heavy demand for MNREGA works, but scope of work is limited to activities like digging trenches, PM Awas Yojana, plantation and a few more minor works. The government needs is to open up big public projects so that people can be accommodated in large numbers.” Panchayat and block offices shutting down because of the lockdown are other reasons. He said, “Even if I need work, there is no one to give one as officials responsible to create muster rolls (creation of job account) are engaged in Covid duty.” Siraj Datta, one of the functionaries of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, said though the slow-paced trend is slowly picking up in last week, the state government has to act faster. He said, “If people don’t get work for a long time, they will again start migrating in search of livelihood. This isn’t advisable during a pandemic. The government must open large public projects under MNREGA and start weekly cash payment system. We have already demanding this during our last meeting with the rural development department.” State rural development minister Alamgir Alam said the situation will improve soon as his department is working on various levels to speed up job creation in rural areas. He said, “During the lockdown, the number of jobs generated became zero, but since relaxation in rural areas in the last week of April, we have managed to churn out more than 5 lakh jobs so far. Things will pick up pace now as all districts have been asked to create maximum jobs at village and block levels.” He added that to accommodate migrants into MNREGA jobs, they have begun counselling at quarantine centres to issue job cards. Alam said, “We have given new job cards to about 62,000 migrants of which about 6,000 have already started working. We are also mapping migrants to place them in private firms as per their sets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mnrega-figures-dismal-in-may-but-job-creation-picking-pace/articleshow/76163685.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Rickshaws, e-ricks flout SOP on Day 1 of Unlock 1.0||Ranchi: The standard operating procedures (SOP) set by the state transport department were blatantly flouted in the city on Day 1 of Unlock 1.0 on Monday. Under the state-specific guidelines, the department had fixed the SOP for resumption of public transport services, except for city buses. The SOP said cycle rickshaws can ferry only one passenger while e-rickshaws can carry two. It also mandated use of masks, gloves and sanitizers. But in areas like Main Road, Purulia Road, Dangratoli and Circular Road, hardly anyone followed the rules. Ranchi district transport officer Sanjiv Kumar said special drives will be launched against the violators soon. He said, “We have written to the traffic department for enforcement. The transport department and traffic police will launch checking drives. Erring drivers will be fined on the spot.” A rickshaw puller, who pedalled his way from Main Road to Dangratoli carrying a young couple, said, “I don’t know about the SOP except the fact that we are allowed to earn our livelihoods from today. I have also worn masks and so did my customers.” Shamsher Alam, another rickshaw puller, added, “If two of a family want to avail a rickshaw, should they hire two vehicles?” Many e-rickshaw drivers echoed similar expressions and stressed that using sanitizers round-the-clock isn’t practically possible. Subodh Kumar, an e-rickshaw driver said, “Masks are okay but sanitizers won’t be possible for us as we have to be on road from morning till night. Moreover, our focus now is to earn as much as we can.” On the contrary, autorickshaws plied in limited numbers within the prescribed capacity. A driver at Kantatoli, Md Khalid, said, “Not many customers are keen to take autos since the sharing system isn’t allowed currently. Many prefer rickshaws or e-rickshaws for shorter routes as booking an autorickshaw for one person is not economically feasible.” Meanwhile, shops and market places were crowded on Day 1. Those dealing in jewellery, electronics, mobile phones, hardware, consumer durable items and service centres were abuzz with customers. Ankita Yadav, a bank employee at Circular Road, said, “I came to buy a mobile phone urgently as my existing one suffered a snag two weeks ago.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rickshaws-e-ricks-flout-sop-on-day-1-of-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76163626.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Cap in no. of passengers push auto, e-rick fares in Steel City||Jamshedpur: With the state transport department capping the number of passengers on auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and rickshaws, commuters in the Steel City had to shell out more from their pockets on the Day-I of relaxations for public transports here. According to the new rules, seven-seater auto-rickshaws can ferry only four passengers while the four-seater petrol ones have been allowed to take two commuters. For 2-seater e-rickshaws and rickshaws, the rules allow only one person onboard. The transport department as of now has allowed only point-to-point movement of auto-rickshaws and have barred drivers from accepting passengers midway. With the new norm in place, the common practice of sharing autos has come to a halt in Jamshedpur. However, a reduction in the number of passengers and an absence of regulation by the administration have led to an increase in the fares. Shyam Kinkar Jha, a functionary of the Sikshit Berojgar Tempo Chalak Sangh, said, “Running vehicles at pre-lockdown fares with nearly 50% reduction in the capacity of passengers is not viable. In order to sustain, auto-rickshaw drivers have made a moderate increase in the fare.” Jha added, “Till the district administration notifies route-wise revised fares, auto drivers will charge more from passengers.” Appealing to the auto drivers not to charge exorbitant fares from commuters, Jha said 16,000 registered auto-rickshaws run on the streets of Jamshedpur but all the drivers are not members of the union. “Once the local administration announces a regulated fare, it would be binding on all auto-rickshaw owners and drivers to abide by the rules,” Jha said. The District Transport Officer, Dinesh Ranjan, on the other hand said that so far there’s no direction from the state government to fix the auto-rickshaw fares. An auto-rickshaw driver on condition of anonymity, said, “Normally we used to ferry nine passengers in the seven-seater autos on a shared basis. With the new norms, the number of passengers reduced and I do not know if it will be possible to sustain ourselves even after increasing the fares.” Bhakto Das (63), a vegetable merchant, who availed an auto-rickshaw from Kadma along with his staff to a wholesale dealer in Sakchi said he had to pay Rs 36 for the auto ride for the two of them. “Normally, the fare is Rs 12 per head from Kadma to Sakchi, but the driver could take only four passengers and charged us Rs 18 each,” Das said. Compared to normal times, the turnout of commuters at auto-rickshaw stands in Sakchi and Bistupur was low on the first day of reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cap-in-no-of-passengers-push-auto-e-rick-fares-in-steel-city/articleshow/76163660.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu’s health better, but spirit low: Rims doc||Ranchi: Incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad, who is admitted in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) for treatment of various ailments, is battling loneliness ever since the administration suspended his weekly meeting with visitors, sources said. Lalu, serving prison terms in various fodder scam cases, is admitted at the paying ward in Rims since August 2017. Rims professor of Dr Umesh Prasad, who visited Lalu on Tuesday, said the former Bihar CM’s vital parameters, including blood pressure and sugar levels, are stable. “The blood test carried out last week shows an improvement in his health. However, he is not allowed to meet any one owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and he is no longer in his chirpy self. He spends most of the time watching television.” Until March 21, Lalu was allowed to meet three persons every Saturday in accordance to the jail manual. The administration has now cordoned off Lalu’s room from the rest of the building. Prasad said, “We have advised him to take short walks in the verandah. He can also take in the view of the outside world through a window. In fact, he spends a lot of time looking out of the window from where he can see a lake and the super-specialty heart unit.” During the doctor’s visit, Lalu expressed concern over rising cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, said Prasad. “Lalu is fortunate he is not in Bihar where a large number of cases have been detected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalus-health-better-but-spirit-low-rims-doc/articleshow/76163720.cms||Sanjay Sahay
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar intimidating VCs of West Bengal varsities: Education minister Partha Chatterjee||KOLKATA: The Bengal government-versus-governor conflict reached yet another flashpoint on Tuesday, with state education minister Partha Chatterjee accusing governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of “intimidating” state varsity vice-chancellors with his “mastaan-marka kathabarta (ruffian-like demeanour)”. “The governor is intimidating V-Cs, threatening institutional heads with punitive measures to make them follow his orders. Such mastaan-marka kathabarta does not behove the governor. The governor’s post is an honourable post,” Chatterjee said. The minister’s comments came after Dhankhar ordered VCs to directly communicate with him, the chancellor of state varsities, even though the state government had adopted rules making it mandatory for universities to route all communication through the higher education department. “All orders emanating from the chancellor be effected without delay and compliance duly reported. There has been lack of seriousness and omission by several VCs in performance of their functions under the applicable Act. Any laxity will entail consequences (in accordance with) the legal regime,” the governor’s order said, implying that state government rules could not “override” the provisions of an Act. Dhankhar’s order came after Ashis Kumar Panigrahi took over as the Burdwan University pro-vice-chancellor following a state higher education department directive that ignored Dhankhar’s appointment of Gautam Chandra to the same post. “I joined office after I got an appointment letter from the higher education department,” Panigrahi said on Tuesday. Dhankhar on Tuesday said the chancellor took suggestions from the state government and gave them “full consideration” but the power of appointment rested with the chancellor in accordance with university statutes; implicit in the statement was the view that consulting the state government might not always mean agreement. Dhankhar also took “strong exception” to Chatterjee’s Monday’s remark that Dhankhar had appointed a “BJP man”. There was trouble at Bidhan Chandra Kirshi Viswavidyalaya (BCKV), Kalyani, as well where Trinamool-affiliated professors started an agitation against V-C Dharani Dhar Patra. Dhankhar last week gave a six-month extension to Patra, whose tenure would be ending next Tuesday. “The chancellor can give an extension to the V-C but the university statute warrants that he should do it in consultation with the state government,” BCKV employees’ union representative Maran Kumar Dey said. Bengal has infrequently witnessed government-governor conflicts in the field of higher education but the recent exchanges between the state government and the current governor have easily overshadowed even the 1983 controversy when then governor AP Sharma appointed Santosh Bhattacharya as Calcutta University V-C against the Left Front government’s wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-intimidating-vcs-of-state-varsities-minister/articleshow/76165390.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to procure sunflower at Rs 5,650||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has announced that it would procure 13,784 metric tonnes of sunflower at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 5,650 per quintal during the current season, which will start from June 5. Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary (agriculture and farmers welfare) Haryana, said that sunflower crop is mainly grown in Kurukshetra, Ambala, Panchkula and Yamunanagar districts. The state government has designated Haryana State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (HAFED) and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) for procurement of sunflower, he added. Kaushal said with a view to double farmers’ income, provide remunerative prices to the farmers and avoid distress sale of their produce, the state government has decided to procure sunflower. He said the state government will initiate the procurement of sunflower from June 5 in the procurement centres at Ambala Cantonment, Ambala City, Mullana and Sahajadpur in Ambala district; Barwala in Panchkula district; and Ismiliabad, Shahbad and Thanesher in Kurukshetra district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-procure-sunflower-at-rs-5650/articleshow/76166328.cms||Manvir Saini
June 3, 2020||India||Jessica Lall murderer Manu Sharma’s life term ends after 17 yrs||NEW DELHI: Siddharth Vashishtha, better known as Manu Sharma, the killer of Jessica Lall, walked out of Tihar Jail on Monday after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal approved the Delhi government’s recommendation for his premature release. Sharma was serving a life sentence for shooting the model dead in 1999. He was in prison for 16 years, 11 months and 24 days. Delhi government’s sentence review board had recommended Sharma’s early release on May 11. As per procedure, the recommendation of the seven-member board went to the LG for his final clearance. The LG’s office said that Baijal had concurred with the recommendations of the review panel on May 21 to release 19 prisoners, including Sharma. Sharma walked out of jail on Monday afternoon, but Sharma had been living as almost a free man for over two years. Lodged in the open jail given his record of good conduct during imprisonment, he spent days outside the walls of Tihar, worked with his NGO, and returned to his cell at night. According to Tihar sources, Sharma was hardly excited when he stepped out of jail for the last time at around 2.30pm on Monday. He had been asked to pack his belonging on Sunday after the orders for his release arrived, but he didn’t have much to tote. Tihar officials have mostly positive comments about Sharma’s incarceration. While none agreed to be quoted, many staffers narrated tales of his helping prison officials on numerous occasions, especially after he had spent a few years in jail. Sharma was often the focus of public scrutiny for his frequent paroles — at least seven since 2009 — and some of his activities when outside jail, including a pub brawl with a police officer’s son. There were other allegations too, such as he received special facilities from jail officials and regularly managed to visit a hotel in Janakpuri. In December 2016, Sharma was granted parole till January 12, 2017 to sit for his LLB examination. The parole was extended a day before expiry to enable him to get married. The Jessica Lal murder case is one of India’s most highprofile cases. On April 29, 1999, Sharma was at Tamarind Court in Qutub Colonnade with his friends Vikas Yadav, son of politician D P Yadav, and Amardeep Singh Gill. They had arrived at the upscale lounge drunk at a time Lall was tending the bar. As the party wound up, Sharma wanted another drink but was turned down by Lall. Incensed, he threatened her. Moments later, Sharma fired two shots from his pistol, one of which hit Lall on her forehead. After a full-fledged investigation was launched, the absconding Sharma finally surrendered in court in Chandigarh. There was more drama when the case began. Actor, model and star witness Shayan Munshi, who had been with Lall at the club, turned hostile, claiming he hadn’t seen Sharma shooting Lall and hadn’t written the police complaint because he did not know Hindi. He was later booked for perjury when the cops found Munshi had studied Hindi in a school in Kolkata and used to read film scripts in Hindi. The lower court acquitted Sharma amid confusion created by the defence on the use of two guns in the crime. TOI’s front-page headline when it reported the acquittal — No One Killed Jessica — later became the title of a movie on the incident. Police appealed in Delhi high court, which convicted Sharma in 2006. Sharma’s appeal in the SC ended with it upholding the conviction in 2010. In November 2017, Sharma was sent to the open jail. According to prison guidelines, life convicts are eligible for release after serving 14 years of actual imprisonment on the discretion of the SRB, which considers several factors, including the prisoner’s conduct during confinement, and circumstances in which the crime was committed, his conduct during parole and furlough and prospects of post-release rehabilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jessica-lall-murderer-manu-sharmas-life-term-ends-after-17-yrs/articleshow/76166298.cms||Atul Mathur
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Gurugram to check passes again as CM Manohar Lal Khattar cites Delhi's border sealing||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: Anxious commuters on both sides of the Delhi-Haryana border, already struggling for clarity on passes, may be staring at yet another week of confusion and vehicle pileups, with daily directives from governments on sealing, de-sealing and re-sealing leaving them little time to catch up with the last one. From Wednesday morning, Haryana will once again seal its borders and allow entry to only e-pass holders, with some exceptions. This comes a day after it had reopened its borders after keeping them sealed throughout May.  The state blamed the Delhi government's move to seal its own border on Monday. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday put the ball in Delhi's court, saying his government's decision on allowing traffic was tied to his counterpart Arvind Kejriwal's. "Consequent to the Centre's advisory, we had opened the borders for general movement. But, as far as inter-state movement is concerned, traffic could resume after both the states have consented," said Khattar. Respite for commuters as cops allow accessAs far as interstate movement is concerned, traffic can resume after both the states consent. As Delhi has not done this, we will resume after Delhi government agrees to allow traffic movement. Else, we have already opened the borders with all the other states,” said Khattar. Home minister Anil Vij, too, put the onus on the Delhi government and Kejriwal. “They (the AAP government) have to go against the central government, hence they have put restrictions. We have already decided to open the borders,” he said. The Gurugram administration also issued an order, reinforcing the requirement of e-passes. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, however, said for movement within the state, there will be no requirement of any kind of permit. For commuters, meanwhile, there was a brief respite on Tuesday, a day after Haryana reopened its borders and Delhi sealed its own. Despite putting up barricades, Gurugram cops did not stop any vehicles, and neither did Delhi. Traffic flow was unhindered in the capital during the morning peak hours, since there were no guidelines on exemptions. However, by evening, cops stopped those without movement passes. The scene was similar at the Faridabad-Aya Nagar border as well. A senior government official there was “no clarity or clear direction from the top” about cross-border movement. “Some people in the government want to continue with the restrictions, but it is not possible practically and will create problems for people, particularly in NCR cities,” the official said, adding even though the border is open, restrictions could kick in soon. Those travelling between the cities are facing a tough time keeping up with the conflicting directives from various authorities. “The Union government announced easing of restrictions and did away with passes for inter-state movement. Gurugram police eased border curbs too but now there is again an order for getting e-pass for cross-border movement,” said Sachin Prashar, a software professional who lives in Gurugram but works in Delhi. Karan Talwar, who owns a construction business in Gurugram, had started going to his office since Monday but was stopped at the border picket while returning. “I did not carry a physical copy of my movement pass presuming that the restrictions would not be in place. I was allowed to pass through to Gurugram from Rajokri side in the morning. However, while returning the police had stopped me to check my pass. I managed to get a soft copy on WhatsApp from a family member, after which I was allowed to go,” said Talwar. Since May, guidelines on inter-state movement have been changing regularly and have often led to chaos at the borders. Haryana first ‘sealed’ borders on May 1, and then eased curbs after a high court directive. Checks were tightened again recently after an order by Vij to ‘seal’ borders. While the borders were ordered to reopen, confusion reigned on Monday as only pass holders were allowed, triggering snarls. (With inputs from Somreet Bhattacharya and Sakshi Chand in New Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-gurugram-to-check-passes-again-as-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-cites-delhis-border-sealing/articleshow/76166398.cms||Manvir Saini
June 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Gurugram to check passes again as CM Manohar Lal Khattar cites Delhi's border sealing||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM: Anxious commuters on both sides of the Delhi-Haryana border, already struggling for clarity on passes, may be staring at yet another week of confusion and vehicle pileups, with daily directives from governments on sealing, de-sealing and re-sealing leaving them little time to catch up with the last one. From Wednesday morning, Haryana will once again seal its borders and allow entry to only e-pass holders, with some exceptions. This comes a day after it had reopened its borders after keeping them sealed throughout May.  The state blamed the Delhi government's move to seal its own border on Monday. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday put the ball in Delhi's court, saying his government's decision on allowing traffic was tied to his counterpart Arvind Kejriwal's. "Consequent to the Centre's advisory, we had opened the borders for general movement. But, as far as inter-state movement is concerned, traffic could resume after both the states have consented," said Khattar. Respite for commuters as cops allow accessAs far as interstate movement is concerned, traffic can resume after both the states consent. As Delhi has not done this, we will resume after Delhi government agrees to allow traffic movement. Else, we have already opened the borders with all the other states,” said Khattar. Home minister Anil Vij, too, put the onus on the Delhi government and Kejriwal. “They (the AAP government) have to go against the central government, hence they have put restrictions. We have already decided to open the borders,” he said. The Gurugram administration also issued an order, reinforcing the requirement of e-passes. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, however, said for movement within the state, there will be no requirement of any kind of permit. For commuters, meanwhile, there was a brief respite on Tuesday, a day after Haryana reopened its borders and Delhi sealed its own. Despite putting up barricades, Gurugram cops did not stop any vehicles, and neither did Delhi. Traffic flow was unhindered in the capital during the morning peak hours, since there were no guidelines on exemptions. However, by evening, cops stopped those without movement passes. The scene was similar at the Faridabad-Aya Nagar border as well. A senior government official there was “no clarity or clear direction from the top” about cross-border movement. “Some people in the government want to continue with the restrictions, but it is not possible practically and will create problems for people, particularly in NCR cities,” the official said, adding even though the border is open, restrictions could kick in soon. Those travelling between the cities are facing a tough time keeping up with the conflicting directives from various authorities. “The Union government announced easing of restrictions and did away with passes for inter-state movement. Gurugram police eased border curbs too but now there is again an order for getting e-pass for cross-border movement,” said Sachin Prashar, a software professional who lives in Gurugram but works in Delhi. Karan Talwar, who owns a construction business in Gurugram, had started going to his office since Monday but was stopped at the border picket while returning. “I did not carry a physical copy of my movement pass presuming that the restrictions would not be in place. I was allowed to pass through to Gurugram from Rajokri side in the morning. However, while returning the police had stopped me to check my pass. I managed to get a soft copy on WhatsApp from a family member, after which I was allowed to go,” said Talwar. Since May, guidelines on inter-state movement have been changing regularly and have often led to chaos at the borders. Haryana first ‘sealed’ borders on May 1, and then eased curbs after a high court directive. Checks were tightened again recently after an order by Vij to ‘seal’ borders. While the borders were ordered to reopen, confusion reigned on Monday as only pass holders were allowed, triggering snarls. (With inputs from Somreet Bhattacharya and Sakshi Chand in New Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-gurugram-to-check-passes-again-as-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-cites-delhis-border-sealing/articleshow/76166374.cms||Manvir Saini
June 3, 2020||Business||Government eyes $17 billion investment proposals to boost local manufacturing||NEW DELHI: The government is considering proposals for investment of $16-17 billion (around Rs 1.25 lakh crore) to boost domestic production of air conditioners and its components, furniture and leather footwear, while looking at options, including duty hikes, to reduce import dependence and push exports. “To increase manufacturing, ‘Make in India’ and employment, priority sectors have been identified and work has started in three — furniture, air conditioner, leather & footwear. Just in case of air conditioners, we import over 30% of our demand. We need to reduce this quickly. Similarly, we have a small share in global exports, despite being the second-largest leather producer,” PM Narendra Modi said at CII’s annual session. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal has held several rounds of talks with a group of CEOs, led by M&M MD Pawan Goenka, with development clusters being the key. “The overall thrust is to give a push to domestic manufacturing once Covid-19 ends,” he told TOI. Others who have been part of the deliberations suggested development of clusters held the key, while ensuring that it doesn’t turn into real estate development. “The opportunity lies in large-scale manufacturing, which you can do, given the resources and labour. The key is to set up clusters and identify agencies which can set them up,” said Mohit Singla, who leads industry body TPCI. For furniture, three-four clusters involving investment of $10-11 billion (over Rs 75,000 crore) have been discussed, while investment of around $6 billion (around Rs 45,000 crore) has been proposed to reduce the dependence on imports, which is as high as 90% in case of compressors and 80-100% for other components. Further investment of over $1 billion has been proposed to scale up the leather footwear business to attract global investors and improve the quality and branding exercise so that Indian exports, which have a meagre 3.5% share, can compete with rivals from China, Vietnam and Indonesia, sources told TOI. For ACs, the government has been advised to increase customs duty on components to discourage imports from China. Steps are also being contemplated to reduce imports from Thailand. Similarly, some duty hikes for wood that goes into making furniture are also being contemplated, with the long-term solution lying in a forestry policy that supports ecology and the economy, something that Vietnam has done successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-eyes-17bn-investment-proposals-to-boost-local-manufacturing/articleshow/76166375.cms||Sidhartha
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 69% cases in a week from more populated Punjab districts||CHANDIGARH: About 69% of Covid-19 cases reported in the last one week were in the densely populated districts of Punjab, with Amritsar topping the list. All the districts that have reported more cases during this period have a population density in the range of 978 to 469 per square kilometre as per Census 2011. And with the population of the state increasing by 14% in the last decade, the density of population of these districts is also expected to have gone up since the 2011 Census. From May 25 to June 1, a total of 222 fresh cases came up in Punjab, of which 153 were from heavily populated districts. A total of 57 cases were reported in Amritsar alone, the second-most populated district of the state. The district also accounted for the highest active cases (69) in the state.  Last month, Amritsar figured among 30 municipal areas spread in 12 states which had contributed over 70% of total positive cases in the country. Amritsar, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur see drop in doubling rate of infectionThe officials of the state health department and municipal corporation were briefed by the health ministry about precautions and steps required to curb spread of the virus. In Jalandhar, 26 people got infected during the period while as many as 22 and 21 cases cropped up in Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana, respectively. The doubling rate of Amritsar dropped from 70.1 to 30.4 while in Jalandhar the rate came down to 43 from 94.6. Similarly in Hoshiarpur, the doubling rate saw a drop from 44.3 to 25.7 in the last one week. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, spokesperson of Punjab health department for Covid-19, said the situation in still under control, but warned that things could get worse if precautions are not taken by people, especially in populated areas. "As restrictions have been eased to great extent, maintaining social distancing will be the key," he added. Acknowledging population density as a major challenge for India, Soumya Swaminathan, deputy director general of the World Health Organisation (WHO) had called for preparing a strategy by involving local communities in keeping down the infection rate. In line with this, Punjab government had launched a month-long drive to spread mass awareness about the pandemic. The government had urged NGOs, charitable institutions and social organisations to help it in spreading awareness among general public about what precautions that need to be taken for staying safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-69-cases-in-a-week-from-more-populated-punjab-districts/articleshow/76166379.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||ENT surgeon who resumed practice in May is seventh Mumbai doctor to die of Covid-19||MUMBAI: A 61-year-old ENT surgeon died on Sunday after undergoing treatment for Covid-19 for 13 days at a Mahim hospital, making him the seventh medical practitioner to succumb to the infection in the city. Dr Chittaranjan Bhave, who had a history of heart disease, resumed practice early in May after staying home the previous two months. Doctors across hospitals went in mourning at the news. They said Dr Bhave, an alumnus of KEM Hospital, didn’t want his patients to go without treatment despite his comorbid conditions. He had begun seeing patients and scheduling surgeries only from May 4 onwards. He developed symptoms of sore throat, dry cough and fever on May 17, two days after he had carried out a facial nerve decompression surgery on a patient, who incidentally had a Covid-negative report. The patient, one of Dr Bhave’s old clients, was on chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma and had developed facial palsy, prompting the need for surgery. The doctor’s family said a Covid-19 test on May 18 came positive the next day. ENT doctor’s daughter denies not finding a bed for 10 hoursOn the day he received his report, he didn’t have major symptoms and initially thought of home quarantine. “But later he decided that it was best to get admitted. He then called SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim, which didn’t have a bed at the time. Around 10-10.30pm, a bed had opened up,” said his friend and colleague Dr Sanjay Gala, who recalled standing behind him in the OT when Dr Bhave performed the last surgery. He was a Dadar resident and used to practice in his Mahim clinic, Maru Hospital and was also attached with Raheja Hospital. Dr Bhave’s daughter refuted stories that her father couldn’t find a bed for ten hours. “After calling a few hospitals, we found a bed in Raheja,” she said. Dr Hiren Ambegaonkar, CEO of Raheja, said the surgeon had called him after testing positive around 10am on May 19 for a single room. “By the time a single bed was available and his wife drove him to hospital, it was 6pm. But there is no truth in the allegations that he had to wait outside the hospital,” said Dr Ambegaonkar. Dr Bhave’s assistant too has come positive, though five others who were inside the OT at Maru tested negative. “It’s unlikely he got the infection from that case as the incubation period is 5-10 days,” said Dr Gala. Dr Bhave had diabetes and had two stents. His wife drove him to Raheja on May 19 where he was admitted in a ward. He didn't seem breathless during the first three days in hospital. On the fourth, he developed breathlessness and underwent a CT scan that showed extensive disease. He was put in ICU on May 23 for high-flow oxygen. It is learned that his condition worsened though he was given immunesuppressive drugs. He was eventually put on ventilator on May 26. He died on June 1 after suffering a cardiac arrest. “Except once when his condition improved marginally, his health continued on a downward slide,” said Dr Gala. “He had worked relentlessly for 30 years for his patients,” said his daughter, who, along with her mother, tested positive. She said his last rites were performed by relatives since they (wife and daughter) were under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ent-surgeon-who-resumed-practice-in-may-is-seventh-mumbai-doctor-to-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/76166378.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 3, 2020||Business||India not alone to get Moody’s downgrade tag||NEW DELHI: A clutch of over 30 countries, including India, has seen ratings downgraded or outlook changed by global ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service this year as the Covid-19 pandemic smothered economies across the globe and governments stepped up spending to protect growth and provide relief. On Monday, Moody’s downgraded India’s sovereign rating a notch to Baa3, which is still investment grade, and retained its outlook as negative, citing slow reforms, policy makers facing rising challenges from a prolonged period of slower growth, rising government debt and weakening debt affordability and stress in the financial system. South Africa, part of the BRICS group of countries, witnessed its ratings downgraded on March 27, while France saw a change in its outlook. Hong Kong and Mexico have also faced downgrades. Thailand, Israel and Saudi Arabia have also seen their outlook change. Argentina, which is grappling with a debt crisis and faces a contraction of 2.2% in its GDP growth, was downgraded by Moody’s on April 4. Several economists said Moody’s had jumped the gun to upgrade India in June 2017, taking the government’s promise of reforms and prospects of growth to move ahead of other ratings agencies such as Fitch and S&P. Now, with Monday’s downgrade, it is in line with the ratings of the other agencies. “The ratings downgrade by Moody’s is not a surprise as the agency had already downgraded India’s outlook to negative from stable in November 2019 on concerns of lower economic growth, weak reform traction and stressed financial sector. The worsening of fiscal position in Q4FY20 and the external Covid-led shock was a final nail, which led to Moody’s rating on par with peers on India’s rating status,” Madhavi Arora, economist at Edelweiss Securities, said in a note. Financial markets were muted in their reaction to the Moody’s downgrade as indications from the agency had prompted them to price in the possibility. Now, all eyes are on the action that S&P and Fitch take. Economists said emerging markets are seen to be more prone to downgrades. “So far, around 21 emerging and developing countries have registered either a rating and/ or outlook downgrade by the agency,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at SBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-not-alone-to-get-moodys-downgrade-tag/articleshow/76166388.cms||Surojit Gupta
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Family loses breadwinner, waits 20 days for test at quarantine centre||MUMBAI: Three members of the Kulkar family from Kanjurmarg who were close contacts of a COVID-19 victim were not tested for the virus until Tuesday-- the 20th day of their quarantining-- despite their repeated pleas. ICMR guidelines say that asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming into contact. After the family's breadwinner, Manoj Kulkar, passed away on May 12, only his father was tested for the virus. Manoj's father is positive while the others are awaiting their reports. Manoj, 33, worked in a private insurance company and lived in a joint family with his parents, uncle, brother and his wife at Kanjurmarg. He developed fever in the first week of May. Doctors suggested that he get tested for COVID. Manoj's family approached seven hospitals in Mumbai-- two of them dedicated COVID hospitals-- but were denied a test. On May 11, when his condition had aggravated, Manoj was given admission to a private hospital at Thane. A COVID test was done and by the time the positive report came in the next day, Manoj succumbed. "We were grieving when a civic team visited our home and said we would have to be quarantined. They stamped us all," said Prashant, Manoj's brother. With the exception of Manoj's wife, the four other family members were moved to Parivar Allure building, a CCC-1 quarantining centre for high risk suspects at Kanjurmarg. Manoj's wife was home quarantined at Kurla. "As days passed, we grew concerned that none of us were being tested," said Prashant, who approached doctors at the quarantining centre with his query. Then on May 26, just a day before the Kulkars were to be discharged, Manoj's 68-year-old father was tested. "The doctors said that given his age, he was at risk. I pointed out that my uncle was 74 and my mother was 60 plus but to no avail," said Prashant. As soon as his father was tested positive, the doctors moved him to a Covid Care Centre for positive patients (CCC-2) at Karve Nagar in Kanjurmarg. As Prashant, his mother and uncle were close contacts of his father, their quarantine was extended by another 14 days. "We had many issues at the quarantine centre, one of them being food, but being refused tests was our biggest concern. We then called up civic corporator Sarika Pawar for help," said Prashant. Pawar said she repeatedly contacted the BMC medical officer's Vilas Mohokar over several days till the Kulkars were finally tested on Tuesday. Mohokar did not respond to TOI's calls and texts for a comment. Assistant municipal commissioner (S Ward) Santosh Dhonde, said doctors at the CCC-1 might have taken a call (of testing just Manoj's father and none of the other kin) on the basis of symptoms shown by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-family-loses-breadwinner-waits-20-days-for-test-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/76166389.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 3, 2020||Business||India to take on China in electronics production||NEW DELHI: The government is taking China headon in the area of electronics manufacturing as it boosts efforts to attract local production of mobile phones and ancillaries, while creating fresh investments and jobs. The scheme is aimed at attracting large international manufacturers, while also empowering homegrown companies to emerge stronger and gain scale globally. A production-linked scheme, which will give incentives worth Rs 50,000 crore on incremental output in the area of electronics manufacturing, is likely to help global companies such as Taiwanese Foxconn and Wistron (that manufacture iPhone and other products for Apple), South Korean Samsung, and homegrown players like Lava, Karbonn, Micromax, and Intex. IT and telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said India wants to attract the top five global mobile manufacturing companies and also promote five local firms, and these would be identified through a screening process. Global phone companies with at least Rs 10,000 crore consolidated revenue in 2019-20 and selling handsets priced over Rs 15,000 a unit will be eligible for the incentive scheme, according to the guidelines issued by the government. Domestic companies need a minimum revenue of Rs 100 crore in 2019-20 to apply for the scheme and there is no cap on the price of handsets to be sold by them. Prasad said India is the second-largest mobile manufacturing country in the world (behind China), and is aiming to lead the category globally. The government had notified three schemes on April 1 for the promotion of electronics manufacturing. These plans were Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors, modified electronics manufacturing clusters, and production-linked incentive for large-scale manufacturing. The minister said the government hopes to create 15-20 lakh direct and indirect jobs over few years on account of additional business. The schemes are estimated to take mobile production to Rs 8 lakh crore in value terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-to-take-on-china-in-electronics-production/articleshow/76166419.cms||Pankaj Doval
June 3, 2020||Mumbai||54,600 industrial units back at work in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: About a month after the Centre relaxed the Covid-19 lockdown rules, industrial activity statistics show that revival is on the fast track. Barring containment zones in the state, production has resumed in most places. MIDC CEO P Anbalagan said 81,534 units had accomplished the requisite self-certification and 54,678 units with a workforce of 13.82 lakh had begun production as of Tuesday. “We expect more units to join production activity. So far, we have issued 12,047 passes for vehicles,” Anbalagan said in a text message. Labour commissioner Mahendra Kalyankar said that of the 36,623 units registered under the Factories Act with a combined workforce of 28.54 lakh, 8,559 units had resumed production with 5.13 lakh workers. Units registered under the Factories Act employ 20 or more people. “Initially, permission was granted for factories involved in manufacture of essential commodities. After lockdown conditions were relaxed, now permission has been granted to more units. We expect that most of the units will be revived as early as possible,” Kalyankar said. A leading industrialist said that once the lockdown was lifted fully, reopening may take two months. “Even if the lockdown is lifted, we will require at least two months for restoring normalcy. We will have to organise the labour force, particularly those working in steel industry, which requires specialised manpower,” the industrialist said. The industrialist said that an estimated 18 lakh migrant workers had left for their home states, particularly UP and Bihar, but not all of them had been industrial workers. “They were in different activities. Not all of them were industrial workers. We feel that most of the migrant workers who were in steel and such other units are still in Maharashtra and may return to work immediately after the production activity resumes,” the industrialist said. The industrialist said that the labour department had done a spot survey of workers in industrial units, seeking data on workers in 3,467 industrial units and finding there were 3.19 lakh permanent workers, 2.6 lakh contract workers and 34,371 interstate migrant workers. “This information has been given by the factory owners. From the data it is clear that compared to permanent and contract workers, the number of migrant workers is very low,” the industrialist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/54600-industrial-units-back-at-work-in-maharashtra/articleshow/76166423.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
June 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Wear mask or pay Rs 500 fine in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Not wearing a mask will cost you Rs 500 in the city. The UT administration on Tuesday issued a notification stating that the violation of not wearing a mask will be punishable by imposing a fine of Rs 500 and non-payment will attract proceedings under Section 188 of IPC Tehsildars, naib tehsildars, municipal corporation (MC) additional commissioner, MC joint commissioner, medical officer of health of MC, medical officers as designated by director health and family welfare, station house officers of Chandigarh police, and any other officer specifically designated by Chandigarh deputy commissioner time to time will be responsible to implement the directions. Recently, the administration had discussed the Punjab government decision on imposing charges on violating Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wear-mask-or-pay-rs-500-fine-in-chandigarh/articleshow/76166425.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 3, 2020||Business||IndiGo lands in the red, posts Rs 871 crore loss in Q4||NEW DELHI: The devastating impact the coronavirus has had on airlines is now showing. IndiGo has reported a loss of Rs 871 crore in the January-March quarter versus a profit of Rs 596 crore in the same period last fiscal. The pandemic-hit Q4 numbers saw the airline on Tuesday announce a loss of Rs 234 crore for FY20 compared to a profit of Rs 157 crore in the previous fiscal. “Closure of flight operations during the lockdown significantly impacted revenue for the quarter,” the airline said. IndiGo stock ended 0.8% down at Rs 946 on the BSE. While IndiGo with its cash reserve of almost Rs 20,377 crore is better placed to brave the pandemic storm, many other Indian airlines are struggling to survive. GoAir, for instance, has extended leave without pay (LWP) for many of its employees till the month-end. The airline said since it is restarting a fraction of the domestic flights from June 1, it will be calling only about onethird of its employees to work while others will remain on LWP. Air India is yet to pay flying allowance (that accounts for over 70% of total pay of crew members) for March, April and May apart from basic salary of May. SpiceJet also has significant pay dues to employees. Meanwhile, IndiGo’s total income for the quarter ended March was Rs 8,635 crore, an increase of 4.5% over the year-ago period. Total expenses for Q4 were Rs 9,924 crore, an increase of 30% over the same quarter in the previous year. IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said, “IndiGo started domestic operations last Monday at 20% capacity and will like to raise it to 30% as soon as possible depending on demand. Things are looking reasonably good but I will not like to make any forward statement on that front right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indigo-lands-in-the-red-posts-rs-871-crore-loss-in-q4/articleshow/76166433.cms||---
June 3, 2020||Kolkata||Carrier calls for airlock checks on planes after dry toilet fiasco on Bagdogra flight||Kolkata: The grounding of planes for over two months due to the lockdown led to air lock in the front toilet of the Airbus A319-112 aircraft that flew to Bagdogra and back on Sunday with the front washroom unavailable as there was no water in the faucet. Speaking to TOI, an Air India spokesperson said the engineering team at Kolkata had found that air lock had blocked water flow in the plane’s front washroom that did the return flight on the Kolkata-Bagdogra sector on Sunday. “The problem was rectified after the plane returned to base. The engineering department has been asked to check all outbound aircraft to avoid such recurrence,” he said. An air lock happens when air gets trapped in the plumbing causing a vacuum, stopping airflow altogether and prevent a faucet from working. Many a times, it can happen if a faucet is suddenly closed. Though an air lock can happen anytime, it is particularly inconvenient now as washing hands with soap is constantly advised as an effective measure to prevent novel coronavirus infection. On Sunday afternoon, cabin crew had discovered the tap in the front lavatory of the aircraft was dry. The flight engineer was informed and he looked into it. The flight took off from Kolkata after the latter assured the problem had been set right.After the plane was airborne, the cabin crew discovered the problem still persisted and directed passengers to the rear where there are two washrooms.Attempts to rectify the problem failed during the flight as well as after landing at Bagdogra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/carrier-calls-for-airlock-checks-on-planes-after-dry-toilet-fiasco-on-bagdogra-flight/articleshow/76164570.cms||---
