June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Unique environment conservation campaign in Bareilly||One of the edible oil companies located in Parsakhera industrial area of Bareilly has come forward to spread awareness about environmental protection and have contributed virtually to planting trees. In wake of World Environment Day, a unique campaign has been launched on Facebook titled as #SeedsofHappiness. Under this initiative, a special environmental protection post has been posted and all social media users have been requested to comment on the post and tag their friends. At the end of campaign on June 10, whatever number of comments would be made on the campaign/post, the same number of trees shall be planted in the city while contributing its bit to the cause of environment protection. The 10-day campaign is being carried out to commemorate Environment Day which is being celebrated across the world on June 5. Additionally, several activities related to environment are also the part of the event. Ghanshyam Khandelwal, chief managing director of the edible company says, "We have taken this initiative of planting saplings to improve the environment of our region and seek support from all strata of the society to make it successful. However, our goal is to earn at least 10,000 comments on Facebook by June 10, so that plantation of 10,000 trees could be done. We expect people to come forward as responsible citizens to contribute their bit in the wake of social improvement and environmental protection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/worldenvironmentday-one-facebook-commentone-tree-unique-environment-conservation-campaign-in-bareilly/articleshow/76184317.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
June 4, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Speculation rife over AAP getting in touch with Navjot Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH/AMRITSAR: A fresh round of speculation over Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) opening channel with Congress MLA from Amritsar (East) Navjot Singh Sidhu to switch sides ahead of the 2022 assembly elections is keeping state party leaders anxious as the state unit is not involved in any such deliberations. AAP sources confided that though there had been backchannel talks as a section of AAP is keen that Sidhu be brought on board, there is nothing concrete at this juncture. "The last time too, Sidhu had stopped short of joining AAP before the 2017 elections due to lack of clarity over the role he would be given in the party. This time, he would ensure the terms are clearly spelled out," said an AAP leader, requesting anonymity. The sources in AAP told TOI on Wednesday that poll strategist Prashant Kishore is likely to mediate for Sidhu's entry into AAP. Punjab Congress is already consulting its MLAs and other leaders on their opinion about hiring Kishore's services as poll strategist for the 2022 assembly election When contacted, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said, "It is not about Navjot Sidhu alone, any leader who wants to stand up against the two traditional parties of Congress and SAD, which follow the same policies when in the saddle, is welcome in AAP. But talks with Sidhu to join AAP are not in my knowledge at this stage," he said. At the same time, many in the AAP feel that with a little less than two years still remaining for the next elections in Punjab, it will be a bit early for Sidhu to make a switch. Earlier, there was talk of Sidhu joining AAP in February and party's state president Bhagwant Mann had said that there was no official communication with the former Congress minister. Some AAP leaders in Punjab have publicly said that Sidhu would be an asset for the party, but others are not sure about his possible role as the existing leadership has failed to put up a united front in the past. To complicate the matter, sources in the ruling Congress party are of view that Sidhu could again be inducted into Punjab cabinet on instructions of party high command to ensure a truce between him and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The rift between the CM and his cabinet minister became public during the campaign for the Lok Sabha elections in May 2019 and in June that year Sidhu was divested of his local government, tourism and cultural affairs portfolios and given the charge of power and new and renewable energy. Sidhu never took over the new ministry and withdrew from public only to return with the opening of one-way communication through his YouTube channel Jittega Punjab in March 2020. A senior Congress leader, who wished to remain anonymous, said the ruling party was aware of Sidhu's ‘excursions' and there was a group within the Punjab Congress, which wanted him to be re-inducted as minister with a portfolio of his choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/speculation-rife-over-aap-getting-in-touch-with-sidhu/articleshow/76185451.cms||---
June 4, 2020||India||Cabinet clears ordinances to kick in agri reforms, create ‘One India, One Agri-Market’||NEW DELHI: Formalising its plan to unlock the growth potential of farm incomes by allowing unrestricted sale of produce, the Centre on Wednesday approved three major legislative reforms through ordinances intended to create “one India, one agriculture market” while also attracting private investments in a sector hamstrung by varying regulations. The three legislative reforms, which have failed to see light of the day despite several attempts in the past, include laws on promoting barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce, empowering farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers and exporters through advance contracts on pre-agreed prices and an amendment to the Essential Commodities Act (ESA) which removes cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from list of essential commodities. The amendment in the ESA will give freedom to hold, move, distribute and supply such farm commodities and attract private sector and foreign direct investment into agriculture sector. “Long-pending agrarian reforms will enable transformation of the (agriculture) sector,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a series of tweets on the cabinet’s decisions. The decisions were announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month as part of the government’s stimulus to the farm sector. Since Parliament is not in session, the government in order to provide quick relief to farmers during the Covid-19 situation preferred the ordinance route. Asked how the Centre can legislate as agriculture is a "state" subject, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was very much in the domain of the central government as it dealt with inter-state trade of agriculture produce which was covered under the "Central" list. Currently, farmers face several obstacles in marketing their produce as there are restrictions on farmers selling agri-produce outside notified market yards which are governed by the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) legislations of respective states. Under these legislations, farmers can sell their produce only to registered licencees and agents of state governments, who often play the role of informal money lenders. The ordinance aims to create an ecosystem where farmers and traders enjoy freedom of choice of sale and purchase of agri-produce and open additional trading opportunities outside the APMC market yards to help farmers get remunerative prices due to enlarged competition. Though many states during the lockdown period allowed certain freedom to farmers to maintain supply chain of fruits, vegetables and other farm produce, the central law will provide a a permanent mechanism where farmers can sell directly to individuals, cooperatives or farmer producer organisations (FPOs). The government will bring new legislations in Parliament during its monsoon session to replace the ordinances, approved on Wednesday. The ordinance on contract farming - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 - looks to transfer the risk of market unpredictability to the sponsor and also enable the farmer to access modern technology and better inputs. Since the farmers would now be able to enter into contract with traders and private players on pre-agreed prices, it will ensure guaranteed returns even if their prices crash in the market. The Centre under Modi’s first term had tried to bring those reforms through model Acts and asked the states to amend their respective APMC Acts. But, most of the states did not come on board. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal said the issue was discussed with states through video conference on May 21 and none had any objection. He said the states would continue with their respective APMC Acts and regulated mandis, but new arrangements under the central law would now simultaneously be available to farmers as additional platforms with adequate safeguards. As far as amendments to the ESA is concerned, Tomar insisted that there won’t be any compromise with the consumers’ interests. “It has been done in such a way that interest of both farmers and consumers will be protected,” said the agriculture minister. The amendment has provisions to regulate agricultural items in situations such as war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamity. However, the installed capacity of a value chain participant and export demand of exporters will remain exempted from such stock limit imposition so as to ensure that investments in agriculture are not discouraged. Such move will also prevent wastage of agri-produce that happens due to lack of storage facilities in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cabinet-clears-ordinances-to-kick-in-agri-reforms-create-one-india-one-agri-market/articleshow/76185392.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 4, 2020||Business||Google pulls out ‘Remove China Apps’ over policy violations||NEW DELHI: Google pulled out the ‘Remove China Apps’ (RCA) application from its Play Store on Tuesday. The software, which claimed to remove apps developed in China from a user’s phone, had gone viral amid a nerve-jangling border stand-off between India and China. According to analytics firm Sensor Tower, which tracks the number of downloads of popular applications, RCA was downloaded over 4.7 million times between May 27 and June 1. It’s removal created a furore on Wednesday. Jaipur-based firm OneTouch AppLabs (OTA), who had developed RCA, tweeted, “Dear Friends, Google has suspended our #RemoveChinaApps from google play store. Thank you all for your support in past two weeks.” Google said the application was removed because it violated the “Privacy, Security and Deception” policies which prohibit any app on the Play Store from “misusing any network, device, or personal data”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-pulls-out-remove-china-apps-over-policy-violations/articleshow/76185718.cms||Anam Ajmal
June 4, 2020||Business||Companies get 6-month grace on defaults after lockdown||NEW DELHI: The Union cabinet on Wednesday recommended the promulgation of an Ordinance to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and provide relief for loan defaults after March 25, initially for six months. Default in repayment of loans by companies — other than financial services — up to September-end, which can be extended by another six months, will not be counted as default under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). This is in addition, to a bar on initiating any insolvency action either by banks or other creditors, such as suppliers, in the National Company Law Tribunal. A formal announcement by the corporate affairs ministry is expected over the next few days. While the amendments to the IBC will provide respite to the corporate sector, it has not gone down well with lenders and insolvency professionals. A top banker said that the move was not required as the Reserve Bank of India had provided a standstill clause for six months, while announcing the loan moratorium. Besides, bankers said, it will upset the payment culture, which had improved in recent years due to the fear of lenders invoking the IBC, which could result in the promoter getting ousted. Read AlsoScientists estimate Covid may have entered India in November-DecemberTop scientists in the country have estimated that the ancestor of the novel coronavirus strain from Wuhan was in circulation by Dec 11, 2019. Using a scientific technique called "time to most recent common ancestor", MRCA, scientists estimated the viral strain now circulating in Telangana and other“Pushing the pause button on classification of non-performing assets of borrowing post 25 March can cause many pitfalls. This is simply treading on RBI terrain and sets a dangerous precedent. It also poses risk of abuse by scrupulous borrowers,” said Sumant Batra, managing partner at law firm Kesar Dass. The government has, however, argued that the move is necessary to ensure that businesses are not going to get back to full capacity immediately after the lockdown is lifted. During the lockdown, most businesses had lost significant amount of revenue. Separately, the government is readying a simpler framework for insolvency resolution of micro, small and medium enterprises, which will have fewer processes to comply with and come out of the framework during a shorter period. Under the current mechanism, the corporate insolvency resolution process has to be completed within a maximum 270 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/companies-get-6-month-grace-on-defaults-after-lockdown/articleshow/76185792.cms||Sidhartha
June 4, 2020||India||India briefs Russia on LAC, Afghanistan||NEW DELHI: While PM Narendra Modi exchanged views with US President Donald Trump on the situation at LAC, India has also briefed Russia about the border standoff with China. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in a meeting Tuesday with Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev discussed regional issues of interest like Afghanistan and also the border situation in Ladakh, ToI has learnt. Russia is seen by many as China's ally but it's also a key partner of India with which the government has lined up a series of heavy-duty bilateral and multilateral engagements this year. Russia's unqualified support to India on reorganisation of JnK has been critical to India's efforts to fend off criticism over the issue. India remains against any form of mediation on the border issue. In the past though, on the limited issue of NSG membership, it has used Moscow to convince China to not oppose India's bid, as then foreign minister Sushma Swaraj confirmed in 2017. Shringla and Kudashev discussed in detail plans for the upcoming events. These include Indian military participation in the Military Parade in Moscow on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War, SCO/BRICS summits in Russia and meetings of defence ministers and foreign ministers, visit by President Vladimir Putin for the annual summit, RIC foreign ministers' meeting and also the SCO heads of government meeting which will be hosted by India in November. Russia is said to have backed India and China to resolve the latest border flare up through their existing bilateral agreements and protocols. Russia's deputy ambassador Roman Babushkin was Monday quoted as having said that while Russia was worried about the current situation at LAC, it was also confident that India and China would be able to find a way out through the "dedicated special mechanisms and tools" they had developed like hotlines, special representatives' dialogue and informal summits. He had also said Russia would encourage any such endeavour, while underlining the significance of Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral and SCO cooperation for regional stability and developing mutual trust. Like India, Russia is also among the 4 countries Trump has invited to join G-7 as he seeks to turn the "outdated" group effectively into G-11. Moscow doesn't appear as enthused by the invite though, and perhaps expectedly so because of its ties with China. Russia's foreign ministry spokesperson was Tuesday quoted as having said that while the idea of an expanded G-7 summit was in general a step in the right direction, it didn't really mean a true representation. "For instance, it's obvious that it's hardly possible to implement serious global initiatives without China. We currently have an efficient, tried and tested format, G20, which includes G7, BRICS and other leading centres of economic growth and political influence of the entire world, not just one part of it," she said. India-Russia in 2020 1. Indian military contingent’s participation in the Military Parade in Moscow this month on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War  2. SCO/BRICS Summits in Russia  3. Meeting of SCO/CIS/CSTO Defence Ministers  4. Meeting of SCO/BRICS Foreign Ministers  5. India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission proposed in September  6. Foreign Secretary – deputy foreign minister consultations before the Annual Bilateral Summit  7. Visit of President Putin to India for the Annual Summit – latter part of 2020  8. SCO Heads of Government Meeting in India in November  9. RIC Foreign Ministers Meeting to be held in Russia 10. Visit of deputy PM Trutnev with 11 Governors of the Russian Far East region||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-briefs-russia-on-lac-afghanistan/articleshow/76185917.cms||Sachin Parashar
June 4, 2020||India||Mathura, Vrindavan temples wary of reopening without police help||AGRA: Prominent temples in Mathura and Vrindavan on Wednesday expressed reluctance to open their portals from June 8 without adequate police deployment to enforce physical distancing, in the absence of which they said over 80% pilgrims will get infected with Covid-19. Hundreds of temples of the twin towns of Mathura-Vrindavan were shut on March 22 to check the spread of novel coronavirus. After the Centre’s nod to reopen religious institutions across the country from June 8, the temples’ managements held a meeting with the district administration on Wednesday. Representatives of several famous temples, including Banke Bihari, Dwarkadhish, ISCKON and Radha Raman demanded police force deployment to maintain the social distancing. Mammu Goswami from Banke Bihari temple said, “If temples open without police deployment, it will be difficult to follow social distancing norms due to the crowds in the narrow lanes that lead to most of the shrines. 80% pilgrims will get infected and temples will have to be shut again, if proper care is not taken.” Chief executive officer of Rangnath temple, Angha Shri Niwasan demanded that the administration should allow only a limited number of people to visit temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mathura-vrindavan-temples-wary-of-reopening-without-police-help/articleshow/76185959.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 4, 2020||India||Hyderabad builders pay for migrants’ air tickets to lure them back to work||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers from Hyderabad may have suffered nightmarish journeys in their bid to escape the lockdown and return to their homes in UP, Bihar and Jharkhand. But many of them are all set to return, and in style. Pushed into a corner by approaching deadlines and a skeletal workforce, many desperate builders are now booking air and AC train tickets for labourers in the hope of luring them back to their sites. The average cost per head for air tickets is Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000. So, jet-setting into Hyderabad are carpenters, painters, granite workers and scaffolding experts primarily from Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. They comprise 40% to 50% of the city’s labour strength. The rest come from UP, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. "These are desperate times and we need to invest in bringing workers back to the city. We have told our contractors to book flights, as long as the fares are less than Rs 5,000," said R Suresh Kumar, senior vice-president (business operations), of Prestige Group (Hyderabad) that has three ongoing projects in the city. The Bengaluru-based group has a team of 10 carpenters flying into the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Patna on June 6. "There will be similar batches coming in subsequently," Kumar added, ruing how he has just about 700 labourers on the ground against a usual strength of 3,000. As on Wednesday, a one-way ticket from Patna to Hyderabad was pegged at about Rs 4,900. "There are a few construction firms that are looking at flight options. It is mostly to bring in workers from Bihar and Bengal," said a contractor manning one of Hyderabad’s largest labour camps housing over 2,500 workers. The workers here are employed with multiple developers. "Right now, only 10% to 15% of them are left. We have to give some incentives for them to return. Developers have no choice but to spend," he added. If some are using air tickets to sweeten the deal, there are others who are gift-wrapping a hefty advance along with AC train tickets — about Rs 1,800 to Rs 2,000 per seat — to win over the migrant workers. "We are offering up to Rs 10,000 in advance, over and above their travel fare. This month, we have booked tickets for at least 300 labourers," said Tapas Patel, CEO of Om Sree Builders and Developers. Roughly 1.5 lakh migrant labourers — a majority from the realty sector — have returned to their home states since the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hyderabad-builders-pay-for-migrants-air-tickets-to-lure-them-back-to-work/articleshow/76186075.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 4, 2020||India||RSS mouthpiece recalls Tiananmen massacre on cover||Amid a tense border stand-off with China, RSS mouthpiece Organizer has recalled the 1989 massacre of students in Beijing's Tiananmen Square by PLA on the cover of its latest issue. The Organizer has used the iconic photograph of the solitary young man standing up to the column of tanks the Communist rulers had rushed on June 4, 1989, to break up a defiant protest by students who were demanding, among other things, more political freedom. Captioned "Revisiting Tiananmen Square", the Sangh organ mentions the effort made by Chinese leadership to gloss over what has been widely adjudged to be the massacre of peaceful protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rss-mouthpiece-recalls-tiananmen-massacre-on-cover/articleshow/76186189.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Coronavirus cases cross 25,000, Tamil Nadu batting on a sticky wicket||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count stood at 25,872 on Wednesday, 19 days after registering 10,000 cases. In comparison, Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country, touched the mark of 25,000 cases in 13 days between April 30 and May 13 with 975 deaths. Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country after Maharashtra, which has so far reported 74,860 cases. However, Chennai’s share of the state’s cases was higher compared to Mumbai, when the two states touched the mark, experts pointed out. The first case in Tamil Nadu was registered on March 7, when a passenger from Muscat tested positive for the viral infection. Maharashtra reported its first case two days later. By April 30, Maharashtra breached the 10,000 mark and registered 10,498 cases, with Mumbai accounting for 6,800 cases. Tamil Nadu reached 10,108 cases on May 15, when there were 5,946 cases in Chennai. While it took five days for Maharashtra to reach 15,525 cases on May 5, Tamil Nadu took eight days. Tamil Nadu registered 15,512 cases on May 23 with 9,989 cases in Chennai. On May 13, Maharashtra had 25,922 cases, with Mumbai having 60% of the share (15,747 cases). On June 3, Chennai accounted for 68% of Tamil Nadu’s share. The poor living conditions in the Tamil Nadu capital, a densely populated city, is making containment tough, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said. In a fortnight, Tamil Nadu is expected to double its case tally to 50,000, experts at the National Institute of Epidemiology, an ICMR (Indian Council of Medical research) institute based in Chennai, said. They point out that the doubling time – the time it takes for the number of cases to double – is 14 days. But its capital city, which has recorded 17,598 cases so far, will double it in 13 days. The forecast from the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University, the state medical university, has said that the state will have 1.3 lakh cases by the end of June, while Chennai will have at least 71,000 cases. Scientists in the university say the death toll in the city by then will be 748. “That’s when we will still be climbing the peak,” a scientist said. The state, according to the university prediction, will reach its peak by the middle of October, while the city will have scaled it a fortnight earlier. “Without the lockdown, the epidemic would peak in mid-July when there would be 3.5 crore cases at the same time, putting public health facilities under great stress,” they added. Senior infectious diseases experts and public health specialists agree. While epidemiologist Dr Jayapraskash Muliyal says an increase is inevitable when lockdown rules are being relaxed, infectious diseases expert Dr Subramaniam Swaminathan of Global Hospitals said that there was no stark difference in the trajectory or healthcare system between Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. “There will be increase in cases and deaths in Tamil Nadu too. We are already seeing the evidence in ICUs. More people are now reporting with respiratory infections than before,” he said. State health officials say they are now guarded. “We have managed to delay the peak, but we are getting our infrastructure and human resources ready,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “We want to focus on keeping the vulnerable population protected,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronavirus-cases-cross-25k-tn-batting-on-a-sticky-wicket/articleshow/76185401.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 4, 2020||Patna||Covid crushes students’ dreams to study abroad||PATNA: Many students from different parts of the state, who had dreamt of studying in foreign universities, have dropped their plans because of the Covid-19 pandemic. While some are highly disappointed, others have not lost hope and decided to reapply next year. Bodh Gaya resident Shubham Jaiswal, who is a final year MArch student at the Indian Institute of Technology-Roorkee, got admission offers from three reputed international universities, but he had to decline them. He told this newspaper, “My project has been selected by the University of Pennsylvania, Seoul National University and National University of Singapore. However, I did not accept their offer letters because I will have to spend a huge amount of money on travelling to any of the three places and staying there. Unfortunately, I did not even take part in the IIT’s placement drive because I was eyeing foreign universities.” Media student Abhilasha Kumari’s dream of studying in the University of Sheffield was also shattered when her parents asked her to cancel her plan. “I was ecstatic when I received an acceptance letter to be part of a fellowship programme in the first week of March. But my parents did not allow me to go to England because of the pandemic,” the Boring Canal Road resident said. Abhilasha, however, is determined to reapply next year. For now, she is looking for a job so that she gains experience in the field of journalism. Shubhendra Kumar, a native of Vaishali, has also cancelled his plan to study international business administration in a foreign university because of the “health risks involved”. “As soon as I got an offer letter in February, I applied for a loan. Sadly, it is of no use and now, I am trying to enter a reputed business school in India,” he said. Meanwhile, some students, who were selected for internship programmes outside India, have found a way out amid the pandemic. Firdous Alam, a BArch student at the National Institute of Technology-Patna claimed, “The internship offer I got from a private firm in Vietnam was cancelled because of Covid-19. So, I joined an online programme being run by an Indian company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-crushes-students-dreams-to-study-abroad/articleshow/76182874.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 4, 2020||Business||RIL’s Rs 53k-crore rights offer subscribed 159%||MUMBAI: The Rs 53,124-crore rights issue for Reliance Industries (RIL), the largest such offering by a non-financial firm in the world, closed on Wednesday with a 59% over-subscription. This translates into a book size of about Rs 84,000 crore. The public portion of the rights issue was subscribed 1.2 times, a company release said. The offer, which opened on May 20, was fully subscribed on Monday itself. The country’s most valued rights offer by RIL, which has a market capitalisation of Rs 9.8 lakh crore, was priced at Rs 1,257 per share. However, subscribers will pay only 25% of the offer price now and get partly paid-up RIL shares latest by June 11, which will be listed for trading the next day. The holders of the partly paid shares will have to pay another 25% of the price in May 2021, and the balance 50% in November 2021. According to market data, of the total demand for a little over 67 crore shares against 42.3 shares on offer, over 55 crore shares were through the BSE platform, while about 12 crore were on the NSE platform and another 80 lakh through various brokers. On May 20, the day the offer was opened, the exchanges had also created a window for trading of rights entitlements for RIL shares. A major part of the sellers in this window were the GDR and ADR holders since they are not allowed to hold partly paid shares. The promoters of RIL — Mukesh Ambani and his family members — currently hold a little over 50% in the explorations-to-telecom major, according to BSE data. Even before the rights offer opened, the promoters had said they will subscribed to their share in the offer. In addition, they had agreed to pick up the unsold portion of the shares in the offer, if any. Ambani, the CMD of RIL, said that the success of the rights offer was an extraordinary show of confidence in the future of the company by its shareholders. “Our vision is always rooted in furthering India’s inclusive and accelerated growth, propelled by the adoption of digital technologies, that helps improve the lives of 1.3 billion Indians. The tremendous vote of confidence in the rights issue convinces us that our shareholders endorse this vision and mission,” Ambani was quoted as saying in the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rils-rs-53k-crore-rights-offer-subscribed-159/articleshow/76185068.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Patna salons fail to attract customers||By Archi RaniPATNA: Salons and barber shops in the city have reopened with social distancing norms in place, but majority of them are struggling to attract customers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The owner of a small beauty parlour in Kadamkuan, Shobha Kumari, claimed that the number of customers visiting her had dropped drastically after the lockdown. “Although my parlour was closed for two months, I had to pay the rent. If there are no customers now, I am afraid I will have to shut this parlour permanently. I wonder what I will do after that because my entire family is dependent on me,” Shobha told this newspaper on Wednesday. Romi Singh, who runs a unisex salon on Saguna Mor, also rued the sudden fall in the number of customers. “Earlier, at least 10 women would come here for manicures, pedicures, facials or haircuts every day. Now, only men are visiting the salon for haircuts,” she said. To bring back its regular customers, another unisex salon in Kankarbagh is sending them text messages. Salon manager Raj Yadav said, “Even if the lockdown restrictions have been lifted, people are scared of stepping out of their houses. We have, therefore, started sending text and WhatsApp messages, pictures and videos to our customers to show them that we are taking all the precautionary measures to contain the spread of coronavirus.” He, however, hoped that the business would get back on track soon. Many Patnaites asserted that they would continue to stay at home and avoid non-essential services. Kadamkuan resident Hansika said, “The number of corona-infected patients is rising and I do not need anything that is not essential right now. Hence, I am trying not to go out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/salons-fail-to-attract-customers/articleshow/76182960.cms||Archi Rani
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Relief for commuters: 50% pvt bus fleet to hit the road today||KOLKATA: Commuters will finally get some respite as half the city’s private bus fleet will hit the road on Thursday, leading to a three-fold jump in bus count against the number that plied on Wednesday. By the weekend, the rest of the private fleet will also be out, assured the transport minister after meeting with bus associations on Wednesday. Additionally, there will be no immediate fare hike as bus operators agreed to forgo the demand for the time being. Transport minister Suvendu Adhikari has assured them that it would be looked into by the fare review committee. “At least half the private bus fleet will be on the road immediately. The rest will join in a couple of days when they become road worthy after two months of lying idle,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates (JCBS), the largest organization of bus operators. Though the state transport undertakings have stepped up bus availability from their fleet, it has not made much difference as the private fleet that plies in the city proper is nearly six times larger. Of the 6,000-odd private buses on city routes, only 350 buses and 16 minibuses have been ferrying passengers till now. Uttiyo Ghatak, who commutes from Parnasree to Lalbazar Street to attend office, is relieved to know private buses will be back. Though his commute experience was slightly better on Wednesday compared to Monday and Tuesday, he still had to wait 45 minutes for one. On Monday, it had been a two-hour wait while on Tuesday, it had been an hour and a half. In many places across the city, desperate passengers forcibly stopped and boarded buses without bothering about social distancing norms. Faced with a near-impossible situation, conductors had pleaded helplessness. In some instances, the driver and conductor had alighted till those who had forcibly boarded the bus stepped off. Some private buses that operated with only seating-capacity passengers charged a higher fare on Wednesday. Madhyamgram resident Jhuma Pal said she paid Rs 15 to go from Madhyamgram to Ultadanga, almost double the usual. Private sector employee Saikat Sengupta, who travelled from Lake Town to Kestopur, was charged Rs 10 for the 2km ride. When he questioned it, the conductor furnished a hand-written chart with the revised fare. After alighting at Kestopur, Sengupta submitted a complaint and even deposited the ticket he had been given. With a buzz about the minimum fare being raised from Rs 7 to Rs 10, the transport minister stepped in and reiterated there would be no hike as of now. Bengal Bus Syndicate, which ran services on Wednesday, clarified that operators had charged higher fares without their consent. The JCBS functionary, too, said the pre-condition of a hike for operating private buses had been set aside following an assurance from the minister that an independent bus fare regulatory committee will fix rates considering the operating cost of buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-for-commuters-50-pvt-bus-fleet-to-hit-the-road-today/articleshow/76184918.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 4, 2020||Patna||Passenger train operation resumes at Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: After prolonged suspension of train services since March 22 midnight till May 31 and in the backdrop of limited special train services resuming from June 1, the first passenger train, Dibrugarh-Delhi special train reached Bhagalpur railway station on Wednesday. Altogether 144 passengers from Bhagalpur and adjoining areas boarded the special train at the railway station while adhering to necessary railways medical protocol and the social distancing norms. Out of total 144 passengers, 34 passengers boarded air-conditioned coaches, including AC III-tier and AC II-tier, while 83 boarded sleeper class and 27 were seated in general second class. The special train started from Dibrugarh at 11:25pm on June 1 and reached Bhagalpur railway station at 7.45am on Wednesday. The train took passengers for onward journey to Delhi, where its estimated time of arrival is 6.05am on Thursday. The train will pass through 63 stations between Dibrugarh and Delhi. Bhagalpur railway station superintendent Samar Kumar Singh said, “Enormous enthusiasm and glee were noticed among the passengers boarding the trains as well as others for having train services to Delhi resumed after long period. Passengers went through thermal screening and were given hand sanitizer before boarding the train besides maintaining social distancing norms.” Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Yatendra Kumar said Railway Protection Force (RPF) and other staff helped the passengers to undergo the schedule of all protocols, including social distancing norms, thermal screening, getting hands of the passengers washed and all other measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passenger-train-operation-resumes-at-bhagalpur/articleshow/76183516.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After 2 months, defunct elevators, water crisis greet people at work||KOLKATA: Nitin Bhawalka has been climbing six floors to his Council House Street office since Monday as the elevator has developed a snag and the caretaker, who went to his native place during the lockdown, has not returned. Several washrooms in Johar Building near BB Ganguly Street, which houses some government offices, have been without water since it reopened on Monday as plumbing was damaged during Amphan. Anirban Ghosh, a chartered accountant in Commercial Towers in Clive Row, has been buying filtered water for his team as bacteria build-up in overhead tanks and supply lines is posing a risk to employees. Office buildings in the central business district, which were shut overnight when lockdown orders were issued two months ago, are now posing logistic problems and health hazards to employees. While some offices don’t have drinking water, some face bacteria growth in their tanks. “Most of these buildings are very old and not made to be kept shut for such a long time without proper maintenance,” said insurance agent Nitin Bhawalka. “Now, hundreds of workers have resumed work and the entire system has collapsed. We have to use the stairs at least three to four times a day, draining us of energy.” If the threat of coronavirus wasn’t enough, health experts are warning against other illnesses that office-goers may get inside these buildings. “There will be stagnant water in the tanks, supply lines and taps where bacterial growth may happen. Only replacing the water won’t help. A thorough clean-up is must,” said Arindam Choudhuri, a medical practitioner in south Kolkata. The management committees of these buildings plan to pour disinfectants to kill the microbes and repair elevators and invertors, but availability of labour has become an issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-2-months-defunct-elevators-water-crisis-greet-people-at-work/articleshow/76184985.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Parents seek cop nod for fee protest||KOLKATA: Nearly 13,000 guardians of students from at least 100 English-medium schools of the city and the suburbs have sought police permission to hold a demonstration at Esplanade on June 16. The letter addressed to the joint commissioner of police (headquarters) said the different private schools their wards attend have paid no attention to their pleas for fee rationalization. Many guardians complained they had lost their jobs and were finding it difficult to pay the fee. The letter asked for permission for a protest and said processions will march from Girish Park, Park Circus and Howrah towards Esplanade. When TOI asked joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar if the demonstration will be allowed, he said: “I cannot tell you off hand. I will have to look into it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-seek-cop-nod-for-fee-protest/articleshow/76184988.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Business||Tatas set to review business plan||MUMBAI: The board of Tata Sons is scheduled to meet on June 5 to chart the next move for the $111-billion salt-to-software group whose businesses have been significantly impacted due to the pandemic. The business scenario has undergone a drastic change since the board members met last time in March to consider commitments for Covid-19 treatments. Many of the group’s portfolios — including automotive, steel, construction, lifestyle retail, hospitality and aviation — have taken a big hit due to business restrictions in India and elsewhere, triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. Tata Sons, among other things, will relook at its strategies covering a fund-raise, budget allocation to portfolio companies, debt leverage as well as revenue generation. It will also consider the compensation of its executive leadership, including chairman N Chandrasekaran, for fiscal 2021. For fiscal 2019 (figures for FY20 are yet to be released), Chandrasekaran took home a remuneration of Rs 66 crore, which included a Rs 54-crore commission on Tata Sons’ profit. The earnings will be revised as Tata Sons battles lower revenues because of the Covid pandemic. The revenue of the holding company of the Tata Group mainly comprises dividend income and brand royalty fees. But, with its portfolio companies facing demand challenges even as business restrictions are eased in several countries, board members will be relooking at expenses. The health crisis will shrink the global economy by 3.2% this year and could contract by a further 0.5% in 2021 if infection cases and business restrictions continue till September 30, according to the United Nations. The Tata Group earns more than half of its revenues from outside of India. TCS, Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), Tata Steel Europe (TSE) and Tetley are significant contributors to the conglomerate’s international revenues. TCS, the most profitable company within the Tata Group, sees short-term business challenges due to the pandemic. But it expects to gain business later as clients would invest more in technology after the world emerges from the crisis. On the other hand, JLR and TSE have sought financial support from the UK government to weather the collapse in sales brought on by the Covid outbreak. Several Tata companies have been preserving cash and bolstering liquidity, besides reducing costs as they align themselves with the market situation. The board of Tata Sons will also discuss financial requirements for certain existing portfolios like aviation and financial services and for building new businesses. Tata Sons has recently registered an entity to manufacture ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPE), among other medical equipment and devices. The move follows its extensive work with the government to tackle the Covid situation. Tata Sons had announced a contribution of Rs 1,000 crore towards Covid activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-set-to-review-business-plan/articleshow/76185056.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Trade bodies urge govt to bring 4 dists under Madurai zone||Madurai: Trade bodies have urged the state government to bring Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari districts under Madurai zone since they are interdependent in carrying out various trade activities. Madurai being the distribution centre for food products, foodgrain merchants are finding it difficult to travel to take orders and collecting dues, they said. Traders said they need to get e-pass to visit the four districts, which is time consuming.. The state had recently anounced the division of districts into eight zones, with Madurai, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni and Virudhunagar falling under into Madurai zone. S P Jeyaprakasam, president of Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association said that business and trade ties between Madurai and the remaining nine southern districts are deeply rooted. “We have sent a representation to the chief minister urging him to bring all 10 districts under the same zone,” he said. Senior president of Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industries S Rethinavelu said that employees in match industries in Virudhunagar district are getting affected as they could not go to work to Kovilpatti. K P Murugan, president of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Maditssia) said the government has been ushering in various relaxations in a phased manner, and hoped there will be relaxation in movement between zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trade-bodies-urge-govt-to-bring-4-dists-under-madurai-zone/articleshow/76185403.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||BCA picks Anju as coach of senior women’s team||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has roped in former India cricketer and Arjuna-awardee, Anju Jain, for coaching its senior women’s cricket team. The decision was taken by the apex council on Tuesday that also hired ex-India cricketer Devieka Palshikar as an assistant coach. BCA officials said that Jain has been informed about her appointment. “I will be joining the Baroda women’s team as soon as I get guidelines from the BCA,” Jain told TOI. When asked about her priority as a coach, Jain said that she wanted to bring back confidence among the players and create an atmosphere of trust so that they could play freely. Jain also said that she had worked with a few Baroda women cricketers in the past and it will help her bond well with the team. Jain, a wicketkeeper, played for India for 12 years and had also captained the squad during Women’s Cricket World Cup in 2000. She retired in 2005 and went on to become the selector for Indian women’s team before taking up coaching. Jain assumed the role of Indian women team’s coach between 2011 and 2013. She then joined as the head coach of Bangladesh women’s team in 2018 and helped the team beat India in Asia Cup finals. A BCA official said that Jain’s experience will help Baroda women’s team in improving its performance. Her appointment was done after BCA decided to discontinue the services of former India cricketer Atul Bedade as its women’s team coach. Bedade was suspended after a woman cricketer’s father complained against him for harassment earlier this year. But his suspension was withdrawn on Tuesday as the complainant decided not to pursue with his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-picks-anju-as-coach-of-senior-womens-team/articleshow/76182267.cms||Tushar Tere
June 4, 2020||Patna||Stranded Biharis seek embassies’ help||PATNA: With the implementation of Unlock 1.0, a large number of students, who are stuck in countries like Australia and the United Kingdom (UK), are desperate to return home. Many of them have complained that even after repeated attempts, they are not able to get in touch with the Indian embassies in those nations. Sudhanshu Kumar, a management student at Northumbria University in the UK, has been spending sleepless nights during the last two months. “Because of the lack of money, I had to leave my flat and shift to a friend’s house. Now, I am desperate to return home and be with my family in Patna,” he told this newspaper over the phone from England. Boring Road resident, Utpal Mukherjee, whose son Indranil is stranded in Antigua, claimed that he had been writing e-mails to the ministries of civil aviation and external affairs, but to no avail. “Altogether 43 Indians, all in the age group of 18 to 21 years, are stuck at the American University of Antigua. Students from Canada and the United States have already left,” Utpal said. Mechanical student, Sagar Jaiswal, who is originally from Gaya district, wants to come back from Johannesburg. He rued, “I have been trying to contact the Indian embassy, but have not got any response yet. I really want to meet my parents.” Some people have also taken to social media for seeking the government’s help to return home. Mohammad Zaryab Tabassum, who went to London as a tourist, wrote, “I am a native of Bihar and I am on visitor visa, which has expired months ago because I stayed for prolonged period. Please help me in my evacuation (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stranded-biharis-seek-embassies-help/articleshow/76182830.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 4, 2020||Patna||Youngsters hope to make it big in career||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic may have led to numerous job losses, but it has not been able to demotivate many young professionals in the city, who want to make it big in their career. When Kislaya Ravi, a disc jockey (DJ), ran out of work due to the cancellation of shows during the lockdown, he switched to virtual DJing. He told this newspaper, “To stay connected with my audience, I began releasing podcasts and dance mixtapes. Luckily, the response was great.” Young photographers like Pawan Prakash were also hit hard by the pandemic, but they began looking for “alternative sources” to get back on their feet. “Staying at home without any source of income was quite difficult. Hence, I started selling my photos online and now, people from different parts of the world are giving me assignments,” Pawan said. Those without any jobs also hope that the situation will improve soon. Deepashree Biswas, a third-year undergraduate student, said, “Even after working hard, my final year exams got delayed. I did not get a job and my future looks bleak. Despite all this, I am sure that things will get better and I will achieve all my goals. We are all in this together and will emerge victorious.” Aspiring to become an air hostess, Patna’s Stuti Singh started working as a ground staff at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi few months ago. She had, however, never imagined that Covid-19 would be the “biggest stumbling block” in the way of her dream. “I am on leave without pay for the last two months and do not think I will be able to resume work before September. For now, the only thing I can do is not lose hope,” Stuti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youngsters-hope-to-make-it-big-in-career/articleshow/76182920.cms||Archi Rani
June 4, 2020||Patna||MU releases exam calendar for UG and PG sessions||GAYA: Magadh University (MU), Bodh Gaya, has released a calendar to clear the examination backlog. Undergraduate (UG) and Postgraduate (PG) exams are delayed by more than a year and as such, the university, this year, will be holding two exams of Part-I. As per the calendar released by the university’s examination department, degree Part-I exam for the session 2018-21 scheduled for June 2019 will now be held from July 16. If everything goes as per plan, results will be published on August 31. Degree Part-I exam for session 2019-22, scheduled for June will now commence on September 25 and result will be published on October 31. Degree Part- II exam for session 2018-21, earlier scheduled for May will also now commence on September 25. Degree Part-III exam for the session 2017-20, earlier scheduled for April, will now commence on July 16. While the Degree Part-I and Part- II exams will be held for students enrolled in 19 constituent, one government-funded minority college and nearly three dozen affiliated colleges spread over the five districts of Magadh division, the Part-III examinees, besides MU colleges, will also include students of 25 constituent, three government-funded minority colleges and all affiliated colleges presently attached with the Patna-based Pataliputra University. According to officiating MU registrar Prof Radhe Kant, at the time of the admission of 2017-20 batch students, Pataliputra University did not exist and all colleges of present Pataliputra University were part of the undivided Magadh University. Pataliputra University came into existence in March 2018. Calendar for PG exams of the university has also been released. As per the university notification issued under the seal of the exam controller, first semester exam of MA, M.Sc and M.Com courses for the session 2018-20 will begin on July 6. This exam was due in December 2018 itself. Result of this exam will be published on August 22. Programme for second semester, third semester and fourth semester exams for sessions 2017-19, 2018-20 and 2019-21 have also been announced. The other exams for which programme has been released are LLB (three-year course) LLB (five-years course), vocational courses, bachelor courses in education, technology, library science, dental surgery, pharmacy and physiotherapy. Programme for the master-level courses in business administration, education, dental surgery, computer science, information technology and computer application have also been released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-releases-exam-calendar-for-ug-and-pg-sessions/articleshow/76182958.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Patna||Nitish pays floral tributes to George on birth anniversary||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday unveiled a life-size statue of former defence minister George Fernandes through videoconferencing, on the occasion of his 90th birth anniversary. The statue has been installed at City Park, Muzaffarpur. Nitish unveiled it from the CM residence in the state capital during a state event organized at Muzaffarpur district headquarters. George, a veteran trade union leader, represented the Muzaffarpur Lok Sabha seat for several years. He also unveiled a prototype of George’s life-size statue at the CM residence here and paid floral tributes to the great leader. Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Bihar assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, energy minister Vijendra Prasad Yadav, industries minister Shyam Razak, urban development and housing minister Suresh Kumar Sharma, building construction minister Ashok Choudhary and water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha also paid floral tributes on the prototype statue at the CM residence here. In Muzaffarpur, local BJP MP Ajay Nishad, MLC Dinesh Prasad Singh and some other dignitaries paid floral tributes to George on his birth anniversary. Muzaffarpur district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh was connected through videoconferencing with the CM house at the time of unveiling of the statue. At the CM residence, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, building construction secretary Chanchal Kumar and both secretaries to the CM Manish Kumar Verma and Anupam Kumar also were present. At Muzaffarpur City Park, only a few people were invited to attend the event as the administration was following the norms of social distancing to avoid the risk of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-pays-floral-tributes-to-george-on-birth-anniversary/articleshow/76183469.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Civic body panel to take call on 2 parking lots today||Ludhiana: The finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of the municipal corporation may finally give nod to handing over two parking lots in Feroze Gandhi Market and I Block, Sarabha Nagar at a meeting on Thursday. Before the lockdown, the corporation was handling these parking lots.According to officials, these parking sites were supposed to be handed over to contractors before the lockdown, but approval for the same was pending from F&CC.MC zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, "For over two months, parking lots could not be started due to the lockdown. Contractors had been charging parking fee illegally, but after the permission from the members, we will be able to raise revenue for the civic body.”Besides these two parking sites, the contractors running two other parking lots — multi-storey parking facility near Mata Rani Chowk and Bhadhaur House — have also demanded that more space be declared chargeable.The meeting is going to take place after a long time and many pending issues are likely to be taken up there. The members are likely to push for pending development works.Considering the importance of project of canal-based water supply system for the industrial town, the officials have proposed that instead of waiting for a house meeting, the F&CC members should give nod to the 24x7 water supply proposal, as it is urgent to send the same to the state government to avail the World Bank aidThe municipal corporation is also likely to renew the agreement of Hero group for maintaining Rakh Bagh for another two years. The company has also sought approval for imposing charges for swings in the park. The officials have proposed to reduce the rates by up to 10% while keeping some swings free for the childrenBoxWall around illegal Hadda RodiAs per the directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the civic officials have decided to construct a wall around illegal Hadda Rodi at the bank of Satluj river for avoiding water pollution and also curbing direct view of dead animalsAwareness on waste managementThe civic body has demanded approval for hiring special announcement vehicles, so that they could create awareness among the residents about solid waste management. The vehicles will visit various areas for making people aware of dry and wet waste management at the household level||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civic-body-panel-to-take-call-on-2-parking-lots-today/articleshow/76183537.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Surat||SMC officer gets temporary bail to meet ailing mother||Surat: Parag Munshi, an executive engineer with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and one of the 14 accused in May 2019 Takshashila Arcade fire that claimed lives of 22 youngsters, was granted 20 days temporary bail by the Gujarat high court on Wednesday. Munshi had approached the HC requesting bail to meet his 95-year-old critically ill mother. Earlier in July last year, Munshi had got five-day interim bail for his daughter’s marriage. Jatin Gandhi, lawyer who represented Munshi said, “Munshi’s mother is on ventilator. Doctors have informed that she is suffering from multiple illnesses and she is in a state where withdrawing ventilator would be fatal.” Munshi, was posted as executive engineer in Varachha zone of SMC when Takshashila Arcade’s structure was approved after paying impact fee. The developers of the building got the illegally constructed dome regularized after paying impact fee but constructed and illegal floor inside the dome. The fire in the dome started after spark in an outer unit of an air conditioner due to power overload. The fire spread to the top floor of the building through a plastic signboard. Wooden staircase at entry of the architecture training institute Smart Design Studio first caught fire. Due to single entry to the illegally constructed floor, the students got trapped inside. As fire and smoke spread on the floor the students started jumping out from from the fourth floor. Many died due to the fall. Late police investigation revealed that the entire floor was illegally constructed and SMC officials did not take action despite have knowledge of the structure. So far police have arrested 14 accused including the developer, fire officer and SMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-officer-gets-temporary-bail-to-meet-ailing-mother/articleshow/76184147.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Business||Premium car buyers opt for moratorium whilemass segment stays away||Chennai: The RBI loan moratorium is finding more takers among premium and luxury car buyers as well as commercial usage customers like cab/fleet owners. Vehicle manufacturers and auto financiers said that nearly 20% of existing auto loan customers have opted for the moratorium as well as the EMI holiday schemes offered for new vehicle sales. But the numbers vary both for type of vehicle as well as usage segments. While luxury car companies like Mercedes Benz and BMW have seen 11% and 7% of their customers avail moratorium, premium priced car maker Toyota saw one in every five buyers opt for it, while mass market Ford saw just 5% . A large number of luxury car buyers are entrepreneurs and therefore have opted for both the loan holiday as well as the moratorium schemes rather than salaried car buyers. “There is a difference between financers from the loan moratorium point of view — it varies from as low as 20% to as high as 40%. Customers who buy the vehicles for their own use tend to go less for moratorium schemes as compared to customers using the vehicle for commercial use. Customers who have bought high end cars have opted for moratorium by more than double of low end cars,” said Naveen Soni, Toyota Kirloskar Motor senior VP-sales & service. “Customer preference for moratorium is not driven by asset class. Customers using the asset for commercial purposes are opting for moratorium more as the asset is not generating revenue due to lockdown. The same is followed by the self-employed segment and then by the salaried segment,” said Vyomesh Kapasi, MD, Kotak Mahindra Prime.“The moratorium has helped customers, both self employed and salaried and across segments of the automobile industry. At this juncture, given the scenario, any help to the business, self employed, will aid in enabling a sharper recovery of the economy,” agreed Arvind Kapil, country head for retail lending, HDFC Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/premium-car-buyers-opt-for-moratorium-whilemass-segment-stays-away/articleshow/76184880.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
June 4, 2020||Business||Standard Life to sell 2% in HDFC Life||Mumbai: Standard Life, the UK-based joint venture partner in HDFC Life Insurance, is on track to sell 2% in the company through block deals on Thursday to raise up to Rs 2,005 crore. After this selloff, Standard Life will hold about 10.25% in the private life insurer, while the majority stake, at 51.4%, is held by the domestic housing finance major HDFC. According to sources, Standard Life is selling 4 crore shares of HDFC Life in the price band of Rs 490-501 each, which will bring in between Rs 1,960 crore and Rs 2,005 crore for the seller. The Indian arm of Bank of America Securities is the broker for the deal. At the lower end of the price band, the discount to HDFC Life’s Wednesday closing price of Rs 501 on the BSE was 2.3%. Since HDFC Life listed on the bourses exactly two years ago, Standard Life has pared its stake in the company by nearly 11% — from 23% as of June 2019 to 12.25% as of March 2020, BSE data showed. At Wednesday’s close, the HDFC Life had a market capitalisation of Rs 1.01 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/standard-life-to-sell-2-in-hdfc-life/articleshow/76185081.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: The ‘place that never sleeps’ is now silenced by viral fear||VASCO: Returning home from work on Monday evening, 30-year-old Hussain Shaikh was shocked to see his ward in Mangor swamped with teams of policemen. The Goa Shipyard Ltd employee was then told by a constable that once he entered the area, he would not be able to even step out of his house. “Fear has gripped Mangor Hill entirely,” he said. It’s been close to 48 hours since the police sealed the area, which is part of the port town of Vasco. Although positive Covid-19 cases have been recorded in ward 17, Shaikh, who resides with his family in ward 19, said he hasn’t even opened the doors of his house. “My wife is pregnant, so I do not want to take any risks,” he said. Residents said that while the sudden declaration of Mangor Hill as a containment zone gave them no time to stock up on commodities, they preferred making do with just one simple meal rather than getting infected by the virus. Vijay Marathi, 25, who lives barely 100 metres away from the fisherman’s family who tested positive for Covid-19, said he has never seen such a silence envelop Mangor before. “This area was always crowded, even at night. It is a place that never sleeps. But now, it wears a deserted look. Nobody goes out. Everyone is scared,” he said. Marathi’s family is waiting to be tested for the virus. Some residents blame the fallout on the indifference at Mangor Hill towards the nationwide lockdown. “Right from Day 1, this area took neither the lockdown nor the virus seriously. Though Vasco obeyed the restrictions, Mangor did not,” Siddhart Kaskar, an engineer who lives at Bada Mangor, said. “Now, there are mixed reactions here. While many say checking at the borders is not thorough, the negligence on the part of each person can’t be ignored.” Sources said that although chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured that all essential commodities will be made available to people living in the containment zone, no one has approached the people yet. Local MLA Carlos Almeida, meanwhile, insisted that Vasco be shut down entirely. “People from the infected area hold a variety of jobs – they are taxi drivers, bus conductors and drivers, fishermen, labourers, etc. They must have come into contact with people from different parts of the port town. Until we carry out a complete check and identify people infected with the virus, it is important that we seal Vasco, just as Wuhan was sealed. Otherwise, it will be a disaster,” he said. Following the declaration of Mangor Hill as a containment zone, the HR and administration department of GSL issued a note to all officers, supervisors and workmen staying in the containment area to work from home till further orders. The driver of a GSL officer is among those who tested positive for the virus. Chairperson of Mormugao Municipal Council, Nanadadeep Raut, said, “Many from the locality must have visited the municipality to pay taxes and for other works. As a precautionary measure, we will sanitise the entire municipality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-place-that-never-sleeps-is-now-silenced-by-viral-fear/articleshow/76185980.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 4, 2020||Business||Zomato backer Info Edge raising $100 million VC fund||BENGALURU: Info Edge, which was the first backer of unicorns (startups valued at over $1 billion) like online food delivery platform Zomato and financial services portal PolicyBazaar, is raising $100 million, or Rs 750 crore, for a venture capital (VC) fund. The new fund will see Info Edge and its wholly owned subsidiary commit Rs 350 crore, while the remaining amount is expected to be raised from outside investors or limited partners (LPs). This would put Info Edge in competition for deals with early stage funds like Blume Ventures, India Quotient and Stellaris Venture Partners, besides VC firms like Sequoia Capital and Accel India who are active at this stage too. The fund also comes at a time when overall investment activity is slowing down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier this year, Info Edge had got an alternative investment fund (AIF) licence under category II, with initial plans to contribute Rs 100 crore to IE Venture Fund I. But those plans have now been scaled up, according to its latest filing with the exchanges. “We see growth opportunities through investments in technology oriented and innovation oriented startups...we may also explore options to raise equity capital from external investors for our investment activities,” said Info Edge, which owns recruitment portal Naukri and real estate classifieds platform 99acres, while informing the exchanges. The fund has already disbursed Rs 150 crore, including Rs 85 crore worth of investments, which are at term sheet stage, making it one of most active early stage investors in 2020. It has already made four investments — fintech startup DotPe, new media company Qyuki, e-sports platform FanClash and telemedicine platform Truemeds. Info-Edge is best known for its early bet a decade ago on Zomato, now valued at $3.2 billion, where it still owns about a 25% stake in the company after a partial exit of $50 million in 2018. Another one of its successful bets is Policybazaar, where along with Temasek it owns about 16% stake worth over $240 million at the current valuation for an investment of $86 million. While Info Edge’s businesses like Naukri and 99acres have seen the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic with April revenues sliding, the company said adoption of digital services will increase in the long run. It also informed the exchanges that it has zero debt and $200 million in cash, as it is looking for more M&A opportunities. “We believe there would be more opportunities to invest in certain strategic areas of our core operating business and other areas of expansion. This could include M&A activities and strategic stakes in certain areas of interest,” said Info Edge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vc-info-edge-plans-to-raise-100m-fund/articleshow/76185093.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 20,000 cabs, bike taxis make commute better on Wednesday||KOLKATA: With the withdrawal of restrictions, a large number of cabs — both metered and app cabs — hit the road, much to the relief of daily commuters on Wednesday. But the bigger relief came from bike taxis, which are cheaper and faster. According to Bengal Taxi Association (BTA), a cab operators’ group that serves the city area, nearly 5,000 taxis plied on Wednesday. “The restrictions had inhibited operators from hitting the road. Since a taxi is a family vehicle, or is shared by three to four colleagues travelling in the same direction, the two-passenger restriction was not a viable proposition,” said Sanjib Roy of BTA. Resumption of pre-paid and app-cab services from the airport and major railway terminals, like Howrah, Sealdah and Kolkata (Chitpore), also eased the mounting pressure on the bus services. Nearly 1,000 cabs served these terminals throughout Wednesday. “Cabs were available, but metered taxis could not ditch the habit of charging more. I paid almost Rs 50 more than what the meter showed for my trip to Raja Bazar from Bhowanipore,” said Shankha Ghosh, a teacher. Even the 15,000 app cabs that operated in the city on Wednesday were quite expensive. The high fare continued almost throughout the day. “Since modes of transport were less than the demand during the peak hours, surge fare persisted in the morning and evening,” said Arup Ghosh, an app-cab operator. “I think full-fledged app-cab services will resume from Monday,” said Indranil Banerjee, secretary, Online Cab-Operators’ Guild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/20k-cabs-bike-taxis-make-commute-better-on-wed/articleshow/76184963.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police go back to normal truck-movement curbs||KOLKATA: Truck movement in Kolkata has returned to the 10pm-8am routine. During lockdown, Kolkata traffic police had allowed the entry of trucks throughout the day to ease movement of essential supplies. But with a number of traffic signals and CCTV cameras not working on the roads, manually managing the large number of trucks had become impossible. Cops reached the decision of going back to the 10pm-8am rule after near-normal traffic hit the road over the past few days. The move, however, will not impact small trucks critical to the last-mile connectivity from wholesale hubs to local markets. “With nearly 200 of the 550-odd traffic signals and over 500 CCTV cameras on major roads still not functioning even two weeks after Cyclone Amphan, we could not have manually managed the trucks. There were already reports from BT Road, Strand Bank Road and CR Avenue. The number of trucks entering the city, too, had increased with the opening of businesses and easing of truck movement,” said an officer. However, the police said they have also decided to step up checks at the city borders against speeding trucks. According to major transport operators in Bengal, between two lakh and three lakh trucks ply on the highways on any given day. However, since the lockdown, not more than 20,000-25,000 trucks had been plying daily. “The number has now reached close to 2 lakh,” said a Bengal police officer. “Wholesale markets will not have any problem. They typically functions from 10pm till the morning and trucks had been coming all these days. They were loaded and unloaded during the day. We have no problem in going back to our old routine,” said Kamal Dey, president of West Bengal Vendors’ Association at Koley Market. “Trucks come to Posta Market during the night and loading-unloading happened till morning. During the lockdown, vehicles used to come in throughout the day. We did not feel any difference apart from the steady availability of essential items. I don’t think there will be any problem if trucks come only during the night,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of Posta Merchants’ Welfare Association. “When the lockdown was imposed, relaxation was allowed to trucks given that several markets were following strict sanitization rules and unloading took a lot more time — close to 13 hours. But now with truck movement restricted to 10 hours, both unloading and general safety of the market against Covid may take a beating,” said Pradip Jhunjhunwala, a Posta trader. With deveral bridges out of bounds for trucks, truckers said they will have to depend on BT Road and Santragachhi for entry into Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-go-back-to-normal-truck-movement-curbs/articleshow/76184930.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 4, 2020||Patna||Policemen’s training to resume soon: Bihar ADG||PATNA: The state police headquarters is working on modalities to resume training of its officers and constables. Hundreds of new recruits were undergoing training at Bihar Police Academy (BPA) in Rajgir, Constable Training School (CTS) at Nathnagar, Military Police Training School (MPTC) at Dumraon and police lines in Katihar, Lakhisarai, Jamui, Arwal and BMP battalion headquarters before the centres were shut due to Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown in March. The disruption had directly hampered the absorption of around 1800 newly appointed officers, including DSPs and sub-inspectors into the department. The departmental promotion of several hundred constables and havildars to the rank of assistant sub-inspector was also delayed. Training wing of police headquarters has written to all centre heads to assess their infrastructure and give opinion on resuming training of constables and havildars by June 18 while maintaining social distancing. “The training process cannot be kept on hold for long,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told TOI over phone. He said more than 150 DSPs and 1600 SIs at BPA and 550 driver constables at CTS Nathnagar had been under basic training. “Promotional and other kinds of training were going on at other centres. Efforts are on to resume them while keeping social distancing in mind,” he added. Meanwhile, BPA authorities are presently conducting online classes for at least 30 DSPs and 1600 SIs. One of the officers said 36 virtual classes were being conducted between 8.45am and 12.30pm every day. “As soon as training resumes, we will hand over 170 SIs to the department after conducting their passing-out parade. We will send our opinion to the headquarters for resuming training soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/policemens-training-to-resume-soon-adg/articleshow/76183488.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 4, 2020||Surat||Surat ‘unlocks’ 85 Covid cases, highest 1-day spike||Surat: The ‘unlocking’ seems to have opened doors to many ills too with Covid-19 registering the highest-ever single day spike with 85 positive cases on Wednesday. This pushed the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,781 in the city. “The daily surge in number of cases is thanks to people not maintaining social distancing, not wearing masks nor maintaining proper hand hygiene — which are the basic necessities to contain the virus. If we don’t change our lives, cases are bound to escalate further in the city,” warned Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. Of the fresh cases, 17 each were reported from Limbayat and Katargam zones, while Udhna zone recorded 16 cases, said Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials. On the same day, however, 48 patients were discharged in Surat city. Of them, 16 were discharged from Covid Care Centre at Samras hostel and 32 from New Civil Hospital. Meanwhile, two more patients succumbed to the virus on Wednesday taking the death toll to 76 in the city. The deceased include 40-year-old resident of Kosad, Biju Parmar, who was also suffering from anemia, while the other, Aruna Bhootwala, 61, was a resident of Udhna, who too suffered from co-morbid conditions like blood pressure and thyroid. While the civic body chief warned tea stalls owners to maintain social distancing at their shops, SMC shut 23 paan parlours and seven salons in city for violating rules. “We have been enforcing Covid-19 norms on paan parlours and salons and now we will enforce the same norms on tea stalls too as we have come across cases where rules are being flagrantly violated,” Pani said. SMC slapped a fine of Rs 7,000 on a quarantined person in South West zone for not updating his details on SMC Covid-19 tracker app. It also slapped a fine of Rs 35,000 on a gaming zone office which opened shop in South West zone under the Epidemic Disease Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-unlocks-85-covid-cases-highest-1-day-spike/articleshow/76184085.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Business||Cholamandalam Q4 net profit down by 85%||Chennai: Private lender Cholamandalam Investment and Finance reported Q4 net profit of Rs 43 crore, down by 85% YoY, due to higher provisioning to cover stressed assets and new loss estimates from Covid-19 pandemic. The company has created a one-time provision of Rs 504 crore to cover Covid-19 related contingencies. Its CFO Arulselvan D said, “This includes a one-time contingency provision of Rs 284 crore towards probable losses against loans for which moratorium was extended, and macro provision of Rs 250 crore to meet contingencies that may arise post moratorium due to the global recession and economic slow-down.” Also a macro provision of Rs 30 crore was created in FY19, and will together incrementally provide for an expected credit loss of Rs 593 crore this year. “We do see pick-up in demand for vehicle loans from tractor and used-car segments in May,” Arulselvan said. With cautious lending in the fourth quarter, new loan disbursements were reduced by 36% at Rs 5,663 crore compared to FY19. As on March 31, 2020, the Capital Adequacy Ratio of the company stands at 20.68%, as against the regulatory requirement of 15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cholamandalam-q4-net-profit-down-by-85/articleshow/76184842.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Local workers not matching up to guest workers, claim contractors||Madurai:With more than 80% guest workers having left the city, various projects including those of smart city carried out by Madurai corporation have been dragging on. Officials say they have deployed local workers to manage the situation, but that the new recruits are struggling to match up to the guest workers in terms of output. Corporation officials said around 350 guest workers were involved in various smart city projects such as Periyar bus terminal reconstruction, multi-level car parking and Vaigai river front development. A large number of guest workers were employed in Vaigai river bed road widening project and elevated corridor project on New Natham Road. Since most of them have left the city on trains arranged by the district administration, contractors are now clueless as to when they will return. “Apart from being amenable to flexible timings, guest workers work harder than locals. Their workmanship cannot also be matched by local workers,” said a higher official. A contractor said that apart from their skills and speed, guest workers were flexible in terms of payment as well. While they have to make payment every week for local workers, they could pay monthly wages to guest workers. It was a cushion enjoyed by contractors since there may be delay in government agencies releasing funds, he said. However, managing trustee of Society for Community Organisation Trust, Madurai, Mahaboob Batcha said that if guest workers are made to work extra hours compared to local workers without extra pay, it is clearly injustice done to them. People often say that guest workers get better paid compared to their native place, but that is a lame excuse. There should be equality in pay and working hours, he stressed. A Rajendran, president of CITU’s district construction labourers wing, said local workers were far better skilled than guest workers. “However, when a worker is asked to do the work of two people, quality is obviously compromised,” he said. A corporation official said the civic body is way ahead of other cities when it comes to progress of smart city projects. Projects like Kunnathur Chatram, Mahal Beautification, multi-level car parking, tourism plaza and one side of Periyar bus terminal works will be completed in three to four months from now with the local workers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/local-workers-not-matching-up-to-guest-workers-claim-contractors/articleshow/76185398.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Meerut||Main accused in hosp, media reports of death incorrect: UP Police||Meerut: UP Police on Wednesday dismissed media reports that Mohammad Saqib, the main accused in the murder of a 19-year-old girl from Ludhiana, had died from injuries he suffered when he was shot in the leg while reportedly trying to flee from police custody a day before. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani told TOI that media reports quoting him as saying that Saqib had died were baseless. “The man is admitted to a hospital and recuperating,” he said.SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh also added that news of the accused’s death was incorrect. “Saqib is alive. We have moved documents to secure police remand,” he said.Dheeraj Balyan, chief medical superintendent at LLRM Medical College where Saqib is admitted, told TOI, "Saqib was shot in the left thigh and shoulder. He is in a stable condition and was presented before the magistrate for police remand on Wednesday."Saqib was arrested earlier this week along with five family members for allegedly killing his lover Ekta Jaswal, dismembering her body and burying her in a field in UP last June. He has been booked under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/main-accused-in-hosp-media-reports-of-death-incorrect-up-police/articleshow/76183548.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Killed in Meerut, alive on FB, tale of a woman who eloped with imposter||LUDHIANA: For an entire year, family of Ekta, 19, had been thinking that she was as happily married as she looked in her Facebook pictures. However, they had little idea that she had been murdered and her killer was uploading pictures on her social media account to avoid suspicion. Ekta, a resident of Anand Nagar, Haibowal, was the daughter of Sanjeev Kumar, a driver, and Seema. She was doing BCom from a college in Ghumar Mandi and a part-time job with an event management company when she met a man who introduced himself as Aman. In June 2019, Ekta eloped with Aman and on reaching his house in Meerut, she found that his real name was Saqib. The duo had a fight, after which Ekta was murdered. The Meerut police had arrested Saqib and his family on June 2. Speaking with the TOI, Pawan Kumar, Ekta’s maternal uncle from Jamalpur, said, “She was a nice girl who was good in studies and wanted to help her family, for which she started working with an event management company. She was keen on a government job to support her family. In May-end last year, she left the house for her aunt’s place in Himachal and stayed there for a few days. From there, she went to Delhi on June 2, 2019, saying she had to attend an event and would return in two days. When she left her aunt’s house, she also stole some gold jewellery. Thereafter, my sister (Ekta’s mother) realised that gold jewellery was missing from her house too. The penny dropped. We called her up and asked her to return home immediately. But she said she was with Aman and they would marry soon.” Her mother, Seema, said, “For two-three days, we all tried to convince her to return. Thereafter, she stopped taking our calls. But when we saw her pictures and posts on Facebook, we thought she was happy in her marriage. On her birthday in December, we all wished her on Facebook, but she did not reply. I thought she might still be sore with us. I did not know that she had been murdered until 15 days ago when the Meerut police contacted us.” Pawan Kumar said according to the Meerut police, on June 6, 2019, Ekta was given sedatives, killed, and her body dumped at an isolated place. “On Tuesday, I was in Meerut. The police said after reaching Meerut, Ekta asked Saqib to marry her, but he refused and killed her. We want quick and strict punishment for the accused,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/killed-in-meerut-alive-on-fb-tale-of-a-woman-who-eloped-with-imposter/articleshow/76183554.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 4, 2020||Patna||Seven Shramik special trains bring back 9,800 stranded people||PATNA: Seven Shramik special trains carrying about 9,800 migrant workers and others stranded in Kerala and four other states reached different places in Bihar on Wednesday. Altogether 1,520 Shramik special trains have so far ferried about 20 lakh migrant workers and others to Bihar since May 2 after the ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed these trains. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said two Shramik special trains from Trippur and one from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu carried about 4,200 migrant workers and others to Hajipur and Motihari on Wednesday. Besides, one train each from Kalka in Haryana, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Kolkata in West Bengal and Calicut in Kerala reached Kiul, Patna, Siwan and Bhagalpur. “Railways has been running Shramik special trains from other parts of the country on the demand of Bihar government. Railways has so far ferried stranded migrant workers and other people to 48 different places in Bihar either by special trains or by buses on their arrival by Shramik special trains,” he said. Shramik special trains apart, 11 mail and express special trains from different places under the ECR jurisdiction, left for their destinations with 97% occupancy on Wednesday. “The Patna-New Delhi, Patna-Mumbai, Patna-Bengaluru, Patna-Chennai, Patna-Pune and Patna-Secunderabad trains continued to be crowded. Confirmed tickets were hardly available in these trains,” he said. With relaxations and opening of various private sector companies under Unlock 1.0 from June 1, many people, who used to commute daily from places like Buxar, Ara, Bihta, Gaya, Jehanabad, Biharsharif, Barh and Mokama to Patna, have urged the Danapur railway administration to partially restore MEMU and DEMU trains on the Jhajha-Patna, Patna-Buxar and Patna- Gaya routes, so that they could join their duties in Patna. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said railways would review the feasibility to run a few pairs of local trains on different routes after June 8 for commuters. The Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association also urged the ECR GM and Danapur DRM to reconsider the genuine demands of the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-shramik-spl-trains-bring-back-9800-stranded-people/articleshow/76183544.cms||Kumod Verma
June 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: BJP plans publicity binge for Amit Shah’s event on June 7||PATNA: The state BJP has decided to go for a ‘huge’ publicity binge to make the virtual rally of party leaders and workers to be addressed by Union home minister Amit Shah on June 7 a big success. It would be the first of its kind rally in the country, state BJP incharge for the rally and party general secretary Rajendra Singh said on Wednesday. Although Singh described Shah’s virtual rally a celebration of the achievements made by PM Narendra Modi in the first year of his second term in office, political circles feel it is pegged to gearing up the BJP for the October-November assembly elections in the state. Singh said the ‘virtual rally’ has been christened as ‘Bihar Jan Samvad’ (mass communication in Bihar). While Shah would address from Delhi, the unit based at the party’s state headquarters here would conduct the operations on the Facebook platform to link it with the smartphones at identified places in the field, Singh said. Shah would address the party leaders and workers in 45 districts, 243 assembly constituencies, 1,099 mandals, 9547 shakti kendras and 72,723 polling booths. He would exhort them to take the achievements of the PM to the people of the state. “On June 4 and 5, our party leaders would launch the massive publicity exercise,” Singh said. Singh heads the committee constituted specially to supervise the operations of the IT-enabled mechanism for the virtual rallies. Election will be in time: ChiragAt the videoconferencing event of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), its national president and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan asked the party seniors and functionaries to assume that the assembly elections would be held as per the schedule (October-November), unless any authoritative information came to the contrary. Accordingly, LJP general secretary Abdul Khalik said the party’s prospective candidates would be selected in time and, therefore, they should start making preparations for the election. Chirag had videoconferencing with national executive committee and parliamentary board members as well as with other functionaries, besides sitting MPs Mehboob Ali Kaiser, Pashupati Kumar Paras and former MPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-plans-publicity-binge-for-shahs-event-on-june-7/articleshow/76183567.cms||Abhay Singh
June 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Will take time for things to improve, feel realtors||PATNA: The prolonged lockdown has taken a huge toll on real estate sector in state. While construction activities came to a standstill, realtors found it difficult to get buyers. Now, they hope for some improvement in the market sentiment, but they are still unsure how long it will take. Bihar Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) member RB Sinha said the real estate sector will certainly pick up in the coming months, but it will take time. “Construction work at most sites came to a standstill in the last two months. Now that certain activities have been permitted, monsoon will again hit the construction work. The situation will only normalize after the end of monsoon season,” he said. Few realtors are, however, confident that the easing of many restrictions will certainly improve the market sentiment. President of Bihar chapter of Builders’ Association of India, Sachin Chandra, said availability of public transport will help workers from other districts return to the construction site. “For instance, a team of workers from Bhagalpur desperately wanted to return to work. However, due to hassles in travelling, they couldn’t,” he said. Though, the lockdown disrupted construction works, it didn’t affect the market much as the buyers in the city are mostly those from the government sector,” he added. Talking about the reduction in demand of flats, state vice-president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Sudip Kumar, said the demand has gone down up to 25% of what it used to be earlier. “Not only has the pandemic disrupted the productivity, it has also wasted our two months. Keeping in mind the current situation, I don’t feel things will be normal in the coming one month,” he said. Builders also say they are hardly receiving enquires and bookings. One Gyan Mani said he hasn’t received any enquiry about the flats in the last two months. “The sector will take at least six months to normalize. Most of the workers have gone back home and are in no mood to return due to fear of being quarantined. As a builder, I can just hope that things improve,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-take-time-for-things-to-improve-feel-realtors/articleshow/76182946.cms||Archi Rani
June 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Medico dies in Kyrgyzstan, parents want her body back||PATNA: When she waved goodbye to her family members on her last visit to Nawada six months back before flying back to Kyrgyzstan, they did not know that it was her last meeting with them. The 24-year-old Puja Kumari, a medical student, died in Kyrgyzstan on June 1 due to chronic cardiovascular failure, as per her medical report sent to the family at Navin Nagar in Nawada on Tuesday. The family members are desperate to get her body back to perform the last rites. Puja had been in Bishkek for higher studies at KRGYX State Medical Academy since 2017. Puja’s father Krishna Kumar, a farmer, says he contacted several officials at the Indian embassy in Kyrgyzstan and also appealed to the ministry of external affairs (MEA) through phone calls and emails for evacuation of his daughter’s body, but to no avail. Her mother Ruma Devi’s only wish is to hug her daughter for one last time. The family received the death certificate of Puja on Wednesday. Her parents have lost hope to get Puja’s mortal remains or travel to Kyrgyzstan to bring back her body due to the ongoing travel ban owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Puja’s brother Gautam Kumar told TOI on Wednesday that they wrote several mails to the Indian embassy in Kyrgyzstan and even contacted the MEA for evacuation of the body to perform the last rites. “No one has responded to our mails and calls,” he rued. The family said Puja had no health issue. She complained about abdomen pain on May 22. Later, on May 30, she was admitted to a private hospital in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, when her condition deteriorated. She died on June 1. Gautam alleged that his sister died due to medical negligence at the hospital in Bishkek. “She was fine when I talked to her a day before her death. We tried hard to bring her back when she first complained about the pain in abdomen,” he said. “I contacted the private airlines on May 26 for the evacuation of my sister, who could not fly due to ban on international flights. She might have got better treatment here if the officials had paid head to their pleading,” Gautam added.” Puja’s younger brother Pankaj Kumar said they were still trying hard to see her the last time. “She had last visited Nawada almost six months back,” he said. Meanwhile, LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Wednesday wrote separate letters to external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, requesting them to help bring the body of Puja. Chirag urged the CM to talk to the MEA to make special arrangements to bring the body. In the letter, he has also mentioned the details about the girl and her passport number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medico-dies-in-kyrgyzstan-parents-want-her-body-back/articleshow/76182911.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 4, 2020||Patna||Left to stage protests on Amit Shah’s rally day||PATNA: The Left parties in Bihar would hold demonstrations while observing social distancing norms from district to the polling booth levels on June 7 against the scheduled address of Union home minister Amit Shah to the state BJP’s ‘virtual rally’. The leaders of the Left parties said they would observe June 7 as ‘vishwasghat/dhikkar diwas’ to underscore the role of PM Modi’s policies that caused economic disaster as well as mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic while ignoring the plight of migrant workers and the poor in the state. They demanded payment of Rs7,500 per month to each migrant worker and the poor for six months, besides ration cards, food, job under MNREGA to the needy, creation of work opportunities and Rs20 lakh compensation to the migrant workers who died due to neglect and mismanagement during return to the state. The leaders who jointly announced the protest programme included Dhirendra K Jha and K D Yadav from the CPI(ML), CPI state secretary Satya Narayan Singh and secretariat member Vijay Narayan Mishra, as well as CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar and the party’s senior functionary Arun Kumar Mishra, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-to-stage-protestson-shahs-rally-day/articleshow/76183606.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Surat||Bihar migrant’s lynching: Surat cops claim he was not killed over theft suspicion||SURAT: In a new twist to the murder of a 30-year-old Bihar migrant last week, investigators now say that the victim was not lynched over suspicion of theft, as alleged by his friend, but the duo became a victim of animosity between two warring groups in Pandesara. On Wednesday, Pandesara police on Wednesday arrested five persons who were named the deceased Sangam Pandit’s friend Sujit Singh in the complaint. Those arrested were Pratik Patel, Mehul Lad, Vishal Singh, Dipesh Patel and Yogesh Patel, all residents of Bhairavnagar. Pratik is the driver of Congress councillor from Vadod, Satish Patel, who, as alleged by Singh, was also present at the spot when the incident happened during early hours of May 31 night. However, police said that Satish’s role was not found during investigation, but few more persons, including four, who have been identified, will be arrested soon. Assistant commissioner of police, Jay Pandya, told TOI, “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that Pandit and Sujit were associates of a man named Chanchal, who was the aide of Vikas alias Vicky. There was a bitter fight between Vicky and Pratik on May 29 and May 30.” Pandit and Sujit were reportedly among some persons, who were planning to attack Pratik and his group. On May 31 at around 2am, the duo’s bike slipped near Bhairavnagar and they fell down after which Pratik and others attacked and thrashed them. Pandit died in SMIMER hospital at around 4:30am. On Wednesday, police also booked Vicky, Chanchal and few other unidentified persons for rioting and unlawful assembly following a separate complaint lodged by Dharmesh Parekh, the personal assistant to the Congress councillor. “We are yet to find out the exact reason behind the fight between the groups,” said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, zone III.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-lynching-cops-claim-he-was-not-killed-over-theft-suspicion/articleshow/76184052.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Surat||Valsad civic body staffer caught taking bribe||SURAT: Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths nabbed a computer operator in Valsad municipality on Wednesday taking a bribe of Rs 1,000 in his office at civic centre of Valsad municipality. Accused Manish Solanki, a resident of Mograwadi, is a contractual employee and had demanded the money for issuing marriage certificate to the complainant. ACB did not reveal identity of the complainant, a lawyer by profession. The complainant had applied for two marriage registration certificates in May and had received an intimation through SMS that the copy of the registration certificates were ready to be collected from the office. However, when he went there, the accused demanded Rs 500 each for the two certificates. The complainant decided to approach the ACB and lodged a complaint. Under the supervision of N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB, a trap was laid by police inspectors in Valsad-Dang ACB police station, D M Vasava, and P D Barot. “It is yet not clear if the accused shared the money with any other officer. He was a contractual employee and it was a temporary appointment for him,” said an ACB officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-civic-body-staffer-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/76184175.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Most auto operators stick to two-passenger protocol in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A majority of auto operators across the city continued to ply with two passengers on Wednesday, even though the transport department had allowed autos to ply with 3+1 seating on Tuesday. “Both drivers and passengers have got used to travelling with two passengers and pay extra. It’s a win-win situation for us too,” said Noor Hossein, an auto driver who plies between Chandni Chowk and Lohapool. He has been charging Rs 35 for the full journey, which used to be Rs 22. In Baguiati, the auto union leaders said they will stick to the two-passengers strategy at least throughout the fifth phase of lockdown. “An auto operator on the Baguiati-Ultadanga route is hospitalized with Covid symptoms. If his case gets confirmed, then a majority of drivers on this route will have to go into quarantine,” a union member said. “It’s not safe to carry four passengers at present. We made passengers understand this and asked drivers to ferry two passengers,” said Somenath Dutta, assistant secretary of Baguiati auto union. Operators in Hazra and Ultadanga complained that cops had refused to allow four passengers per auto in the morning. However, later in the day, the instructions arrived from the traffic department and cops started asking operators to ply with four passengers. But most of them declined. “We cannot force drivers to take more passengers and most people are unwilling to travel in packed autos,” a sergeant said. According to the auto operators’ union, on Wednesday, more than 20,000 autos hit the road in the city on more than 250 routes. “I am ready to pay extra and travel with one more passenger,” said Lake Town resident Chandrani Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-auto-operators-stick-to-two-passenger-protocol/articleshow/76184944.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: River bank police stations to be set up||GUNTUR: Guntur rural police is preparing to set up police stations close to Krishna river to protect cargo taking the inland waterways. The river bank police stations will work on the lines of existing marine police stations located on the sea shores. Officials of Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) met Guntur rural SP Ch Vijaya Rao on Wednesday and gave a presentation on the proposed inland waterway project. They explained that two routes were being readied for cargo transport. The main corridor would be from Kakinada (East Godavari) to Tada (Nellore). The inland water corridor would enter the district at Harischandrapuram village and cross the state border at Madipadu village to enter Telangana. IWAI state project director Srinivasa Rao requested the SP to provide security to the cargo movement, which is likely to commence after completion of the national waterways-IV project. He said they have already started operations in Assam, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. Vijaya Rao said they would ready an action plan for setting up the new river police stations. Police personnel posted at river stations would also be moving in the waters to monitor illegal boating and cargo smuggling. They would also help prevent accidents in the river. Sources said that inland waterways authority would extend financial support for procurement of boats and other safety equipment for the police stations. Hydrological engineer Prasad, river conservator Swaroop Kumar, Sattenapalle DSP Vijayabhaskara Reddy and other officials attended the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/river-bank-police-stations-to-be-set-up/articleshow/76183558.cms||Samdani MN
June 4, 2020||Chennai||For Tamil Nadu’s 90-year olds, Covid is just another battle they have won||MADURAI/CHENNAI: They have seen it all, World War-II, the floods and the freedom struggle, and hence it is no wonder that nonagenarians in Tamil Nadu have been demonstrating remarkable resilience in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Read the entire story on TOI+  For these 90-year olds, Covid is just another battle they've won||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-tns-nonagenarians-covid-19-is-just-another-battle/articleshow/76187963.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Feroze Gandhi mkt assn demands waiver of property tax for 1 year||Ludhiana: The Feroze Gandhi Market Association has requested the chief minister (CM) Amarinder Singh and the civic body for waiving off the property tax for current year, as the lockdown has brought businesses to almost a halt. The members of the association said it will take almost a year to revive things. The footfall in the market has also reduced and tenants are unable to pay rent and are seeking landlords to forgo rent for over three months. Heavy reduction in rent has been sought for year or so. They demanded that parking in the market should be managed on no profit, no loss basis for a year so that number of visitors will increase. The association members also demanded action against illegal dhabas in market while saying that these can be supper spreader of Covid-19, as they follow no hygiene and no preventative measures. They cause blockages of sewerages in the market as they throw everything in sewerage, alleged the members. The dhabas also cause fire threat due to illegal use of cylinders and tandoors, they said. The president of association, P S Gill, has also sent a reminder to the CM office for implementation of the high court orders for provision of fire-fighting measures on the ground and then go for auction of parking lots. He said the high court had mandated that a monitoring committee be formed – zonal commissioner of zone D, station house officer of division No 5 police station and three members from this market to deal with encroachments and other issues of the market, but no committee has been formed. He said they had suggested several steps like hourly parking, fire hydrants in parking lots, clearing of encroachments etc but not even single recommendation has been fulfilled. He requested the CM to direct officials for taking steps to decongest the market as in next few days number of visitors will increase in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/feroze-gandhi-mkt-assn-demands-waiver-of-property-tax-for-1-year/articleshow/76185408.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Bank cashier gambles away Rs 1.5 crore online||VIJAYAWADA: The head cashier of a nationalised bank was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly misappropriating bank funds to the tune of Rs 1.5 crore. The incident happened at Punjab National Bank’s Nuzvid town branch in Krishna district. According to Nuzvid town police, the accused, identified as Gundra Ravi Teja, has been working with the bank’s Nuzvid branch since 2017. During this time, he somehow got addicted to online gambling and lost huge amounts. When the debts started mounting, he allegedly started transferring bank funds to his own account to fuel his gambling addiction. The bank’s Vijayawada circle chief manager, during an audit of the branch on Wednesday, discovered that was substantial shortage of cash. Further investigation led the audit team to head cashier Teja. The total amount misappropriated by Teja was found to be Rs 1,56,56,897, all of which had been transferred to a gambling website. Police arrested him based on the chief bank manager’s complaint. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bank-cashier-gambles-away-rs-1-5-crore-online/articleshow/76183575.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||With migrants dropping out, running trains gets tough||CHANDIGARH: With migrants choosing to stay back following resumption of commercial activities, the last-minute struggle to pack the Shramik Special trains plying to various states continues. Now, the Chandigarh administration officials are taking help of beat box staff to fill the vacant seats. In the latest instance, a message sent by the officials concerned to the beat box staff at 12 noon on Wednesday read, “If you have any stranded migrant in your area and wants to go to Hardoi, Lucknow and Faizabad by train, then ask him to rush to CCET, Sector 26 for medical screening to board Shramik train as 600 seats are still vacant.” However, despite so much of effort, only 1,300 passengers — 300 short of the total capacity — boarded the train from Chandigarh to Mau in Uttar Pradesh. The train departing at 2pm had scheduled stoppages at Hardoi, Lucknow, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar and Azamgarh. On Tuesday about 10,000 persons were informed through telephone calls and SMSs about this train. Yashpal Garg, the social welfare secretary, said another Shramik Special train has been scheduled for June 5, which would go to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, with stoppages at Nazibabad, Sitapour, Shravasti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Devaria, Maharajganj and Gonda. The registered persons are being contacted on the given mobile numbers with a request to reach the holding centre at CCET, Sector-26, he said. Ladies with small kids, pregnant ladies, handicapped persons and senior citizens are accommodated on priority. The migrants from other districts have been advised not to come to board trains at Chandigarh, because their journey is supposed to be arranged by the authorities of that district only. To date, total 39,731 stranded migrant persons have been sent to their home destinations through Shramik Special trains and special buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-migrants-dropping-out-running-trains-gets-tough/articleshow/76185407.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 4, 2020||Varanasi||KVT suffered over Rs 5L loss per day due to lockdown||Varanasi: Kashi Vishwanath temple, main earnings of which depend on donations in ‘hundis’ (donation boxes) and sale of tickets through helpdesk counters, has witnessed zero collections from these two sources during the lockdown period. The temple could receive only around Rs 30 lakh as donations for its Annkshetra while it spent over Rs 15 lakh for distribution of food among needy and migrants by operating two kitchens. At a time when the temple administration is gearing up to reopen the temple doors for devotees from June 8 with a new crowd regulation plan, TOI tried to take account of the temple’s exchequer on Thursday. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “Through various means of donations, KVT receives over Rs 20 crore in it’s exchequer per year.” Providing further details, chief executive officer of KVT Vishal Singh said, “The temple receives major collections through hundis and helpdesk counters selling tickets for various rituals, aartis and other activities manually or online. Since the closure of temple in March the collection from both these sources remained zero.” According to the temple authorities, the average footfall of devotees and pilgrims remains 10,000 per day while in festive period it goes above 20,000 a day. Singh said that, “On an average, the temple gets Rs 70 lakh from hundis and Rs one crore from helpdesk per month.” The temple meets all expenses including performing of regular rituals, internal maintenance, salaries of the priests, temple staff, Annakshetra and others, which ranges around Rs 15 lakh per month, with the same collection,” During lockdown the KVT’s exchequer suffered a loss of around Rs 5.50 lakh per day, however it continued to get donations to keep Annakshetra operational, said the authorities. Rs 30 lakh were received for Annakshetra operations from devotees, said Singh. “Apart from the kitchen of Annakshetra, which was started to feed the needy, one more kitchen was started at migrants dispatch centre created near Rajatalab. Around 8,000 food packets were prepared at these kitchens per day for distribution. Temple has spent over Rs 15 lakh on operating these two kitchens so far.” Singh said that while the lockdown has hit the temple’s income, but it has no financial problems in continuing its regular activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvt-suffered-over-rs-5l-loss-per-day-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76204821.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||With no PWD supply, Dabel locals turn to dried Talpona river||Poinguinim: Residents of Poinguinim’s Dabel ward have taken to digging the dried bed of the Talpona river in search of water. Ever since this main source of water dried up two months ago, the 200 villagers of this ward have been battling a severe water crisis in the absence of PWD supply. The villagers do not have direct tap connections in their houses. The PWD has provided three public taps around 300m from their houses, and water is supplied only during the summer months. However, these too have run dry say the villagers, all of whom belong to the Dhangar and Velip communities. “The PWD supplies water sometimes after four days. This is not sufficient to meet our needs. Our children dig small pits in the river bed and bring home the little water that they mange to get,” Dhavo Zhoro, 90, from the Dhangar community, told TOI, adding that this is an annual situation faced by them. “Despite several requests to the authorities and promises by politicians before elections, the water problem has remained unresolved,” Zhoro said. Denying the allegation of poor water supply, PWD assistant engineer, Lester D’Souza said that water was being supplied to Dabel on alternate days. “We urge the government to have pity on us and at least solve the water problem before the next summer,” said Bhikaro Varak. The villagers hope that the authorities will make some provision for them once the under-construction Gaunem irrigation dam is complete. Panch member Filip Monteiro blamed former tribal welfare minster and Canacona MLA Ramesh Tawadkar. When contacted, Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes said that water is supplied to the villagers every alternate day through tankers, and since the houses are scattered all over the area, it was not possible to give them pipeline connections. However, Fernandes said that before the next summer a “positive plan” will be put in place to distribute water to them regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-pwd-supply-dabel-locals-turn-to-dried-talpona-river/articleshow/76185982.cms||Albert Fernandes
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||City to get botanical bouquet with 3 biodiversity parks||Ludhiana: In a first, the MC will develop three biodiversity parks in the city from this month. The parks will have rare plants and old species of trees. History and benefits of these trees will be written on blocks placed underneath them. The parks will be developed in the next few months. The civic body started identifying locations for development of these parks after receiving directions from the National Green Tribunal. Plantation was supposed to start in March but the process was delayed by the Covid-19 lockdown. The parks will be developed in Leisure Valley, vacant land in Phase 5, Focal point and sewerage treatment plant of Balloke. Junior engineer, horticulture branch Kripal Singh said, “We are ready to start developing these parks at identified locations. From June 15, we will start digging pits for plantation, which will be carried out from July onwards.” He said the plants will be procured from the district forest department and nursery of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA).MC commissioner K P Brar said, “Due to lockdown, we had to delay the process but we have now arranged everything. Usually, birds and animals are kept in biodiversity parks but this is difficult in the city, so we will be doing plantation only.”Residents appreciated the move but pointed out that while Leisure Valley is located in the interior areas, the other two areas are far away. Pawan Gupta, a resident of Civil Lines said, “It is good that the civic body is planning something on these lines but they should select sites within the city, especially in areas where there are fewer public parks. Residents would like to take their children to such parks to gain knowledge about the medical value of trees and plants.” 114 types of plants in offingHorticulture branch officials said they will plant saplings of 114 types of plants and trees in these biodiversity parks. Medicinal plants, shrubs and varieties of ficus and palm trees will be given preference. While Leisure Valley already has plantation, Focal Point and Balloke will undergo complete transformation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-to-get-botanical-bouquet-with-3-biodiversity-parks/articleshow/76183560.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Centre working with states to ID critical patients’||NEW DELHI: Health services cannot be denied to anyone based on geographical considerations and the top class facilities of centrally-run hospitals in Delhi cannot be set aside on a selective basis, officials in the Union health ministry said. The comments came in the wake of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal proposing to restrict Delhi’s health services for residents alone. Earlier this week, Kejriwal also ordered closing of the city’s borders for a week. Officials said the Centre had been working with states, including Delhi, to improve hospitalisation and discharge policies and turnaround times while working to identify patients who needed critical care in hospitals. “The current situation (increasing infections and patients not getting beds) in Delhi points towards the need for better management. We are updating them, just like other states, with projections on a regular basis so that capacities and bed strengths are catered to,” a senior official said. “The utilisation is merely 6-7% for ICU and oxygen beds in Delhi. The occupation of ICUs in most private hospitals is more than that of government ones,” said another official. On Tuesday, responding to a question on borders being sealed, joint secretary (health) Lav Agarwal had said, “Under the guidelines issued by the home ministry for National Disaster Management Act, every state has been given the freedom to take action. While there are normative guidelines issued by the Centre, every state can analyse and take adequate additional action.” On the availability of beds in the capital, Agarwal said, “We are discussing this issue with states on a continuous basis. They can analyse case trajectory, focus on surveillance, keep doing contact tracing and, along with that, whatever positive cases come, identify them and organise their treatment. As part of this, whenever the transmission of a virus increases and the spread reaches the community, then every state has to plan hospital infrastructure accordingly. So, it is left to the states to upgrade hospital infrastructure as per their understanding of the case trajectory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-working-with-states-to-id-critical-patients/articleshow/76185431.cms||Sushmi Dey
June 4, 2020||Meerut||Over 3 lakh unemployed migrant workers apply for OTP-based temporary ration cards in UP||BIJNOR: Lakhs of migrant labourers who have returned home to UP empty-handed, without jobs or sources of income, are turning up in droves to get temporary ration cards. In the past two months, over three lakh people have applied for the cards which are being issued by the state government to returning migrant workers and entitle them to free ration every month. The government has set up special teams comprising civic body officers and block development officers in districts to facilitate the process as it expects at least three lakh more to apply for the benefits in the coming months. According to UP food commissioner Manish Chauhan, the ration cards are valid for three months and are issued only to those who don’t have permanent ration cards and might otherwise be deprived of food. “Since April, 3.34 lakh migrant workers have applied for temporary ration cards and we have issued them to 2.34 lakh people. We estimate the total number of beneficiaries to top six lakh as migrant workers are still arriving from other states.” Migrant workers TOI spoke to said the scheme was keeping them fed, but the wait to get the card could be excruciating for some. Ashwani Kumar in Bijnor’s Gopalpur, who lost his job at a factory in Haryana, has been waiting five days to get the card. “I keep waiting for the SMS from officials that my card has been approved,” he told TOI. According to officials, it takes about seven days to issue the card which allows the owner to get 2kg of rice, 3kg of wheat and 1kg of chana every month. The entire system is OTP-based — the beneficiary gets a one-time password on his registered mobile number which he can show the shopkeeper at the time of ration collection. Officials said the OTP-based distribution system is meant to ensure the ration goes to the actual beneficiary and ration shop owners do not siphon off the ration articles. Manish Kumar, district supply officer (Bijnor), said no restrictions have been introduced in the temporary ration card scheme to make it accessible to all returning migrant workers. According to Kumar, while permanent ration card holders have to fulfil many conditions — they need to show an income below Rs 3 lakh in urban areas and below Rs 2 lakh in rural areas, possess no vehicle or a pukka house among others — any unemployed migrant worker can apply for the temporary card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-3-lakh-unemployed-migrant-workers-apply-for-otp-based-temporary-ration-cards-in-up/articleshow/76184680.cms||Harveer Dabas
June 4, 2020||Hubballi||Evaluation of II PUC science answer scripts begin today||The evaluation of answer papers of II PUC science stream (physics, chemistry, maths and biology) will commence at Bengaluru from Thursday. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said here on Tuesday that the deputy chief examiners will report for evaluation work on Wednesday and assistant examiners will report on Thursday. “Since many evaluators from other districts have not reported for work due to inconvenience caused by Covid-19 lockdown, evaluation will take a little more time to be completed,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/evaluation-of-ii-puc-science-answer-scripts-begin-today/articleshow/76183570.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||HC closes petition for medical teams at all international airports||Madurai: Observing that the central government has a mechanism in place to bring back Indians from abroad by subjecting them to medical examination and compulsory quarantine, the Madras high court has closed a petition which sought medical teams at all airports.The public interest litigation (PIL) was filed by K K Ramesh, a litigant from Madurai, who appeared as party-in-person. In his petition, he sought to depute permanent medical teams at all international airports to screen passengers arriving in India, to prevent outbreaks such as Covid-19. The petition also sought a direction to Indian embassies in others countries to ensure that health check-up certificate is mandatory for people to get visa to visit India. Ramesh said that Covid-19 outbreak which originated from China had spread to various countries, including India. The reason for the spread is because of people who travelled to India from other countries and not subjected to screening at the airports. The pandemic had affected the livelihood of lakhs of people including migrant labourers and has also affected the economy of the country.Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi observed that the prayer sought in the petition was omnibus in nature, and closed it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-closes-petition-for-medical-teams-at-all-international-airports/articleshow/76185405.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Jalandhar man, 64, dies of Covid-19 in DMCH||LUDHIANA: A 64-year-old Jalandhar man died of Covid-19 in the city on Wednesday. With this, the toll tally of the district has gone up to 16, including seven from outside Ludhiana. The resident of Avtar Nagar, Jalandhar, was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on June 1. DMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said, “He had come with complaints of breathlessness, dry cough and sore throat from the past three days. He had type 2 diabetes for a year.” Earlier, the patient was evaluated at a private hospital in Jalandhar, from where he was referred to DMCH.  “The patient’s chest X-ray and ECG were taken. He tested positive for Covid-19 on June 2. His health soon started deteriorating and he succumbed on Wednesday morning,” Dr Chaudhary added. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The man has died of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jalandhar-man-64-dies-of-covid-19-in-dmch/articleshow/76183579.cms||Mehak Jain
June 4, 2020||Meerut||Owner of well-known restaurant in Meerut kills self; friends blame lockdown, kin not convinced||MEERUT: The owner of a prominent restaurant in Meerut allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday. Sanjay Bansal, 51, owned Rajbhog Restaurant in the city and was also a financier. People close to him told TOI that a large amount of Bansal was stuck in the market and debtors were not returning the money, obviously due to the prevailing “uncertainty under lockdown”. Bansal’s restaurant was also shut for the last two months. On Wednesday morning, the businessman went to Garh Mukteshwar with his driver. Prima Facie, after asking the driver to wait in the car for some time, Bansal went away and jumped before a train. Station house officer (SHO) of Nauchandi police station, Ashutosh Kumar, said, “Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide. The driver, Sunil, who took Bansal to Garh Mukteshwar was questioned. Sunil said that Bansal had left after telling him that he was going to a holy dip in the Ganga River. But he never returned. Later, when Sunil began to search for him, he found the body on the railway track. He informed the local authorities about it and returned.” Bansal’s close friend Vipul Singhal told TOI, “He was financially sound. But a large amount of his money was stuck with some debtors, and due to the ongoing lockdown no one was willing to return the money at this time of uncertainty. This probably disturbed him a lot. But no one thought that he will take such a drastic step.” But the Bansal’s family was not convinced that he has committed suicide. “Why would he commit suicide? He was well-off. This is just an absurd theory. It could have been an accident. Post-mortem report has not arrived. No FIR has been filed yet. The driver’s statement has also not been recorded. But the verdict has already come that he committed suicide,” said Rajesh Bansal, the businessman’s brother. While his son Rachit Bansal said that his father may have been robbed and killed. "We have not received some of his belongings also," Rachit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/owner-of-well-known-restaurant-in-meerut-kills-self-friends-blame-lockdown-kin-not-convinced/articleshow/76184687.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 4, 2020||Madurai||For Tamil Nadu’s 90-year olds, Covid is just another battle they have won||MADURAI/CHENNAI: They have seen it all, World War-II, the floods and the freedom struggle, and hence it is no wonder that nonagenarians in Tamil Nadu have been demonstrating remarkable resilience in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Read the entire story on TOI+  For these 90-year olds, Covid is just another battle they've won||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/for-tns-nonagenarians-covid-19-is-just-another-battle/articleshow/76185409.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Suvidha centres now open to pay bills, dues||Ludhiana: As soon as the municipal corporation offered payment of bills and issuance of TS-1 certificates at MC offices, people have started going to suvidha centres with their documents. The officials claimed that they will allow people to visit these centres for paying property tax, water supply and sewerage dues and now from June 1, issuance of TS -1 (no dues certificate) has also been started. However, it has created fear among the officials and other employees who are working in these centres with increasing footfall for work. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that at an Amritsar suvidha centre one employee has been tested positive and now all employees are getting tested. He said with files and papers virus can travel from one person to other, so with the increasing number of people at suvidha centres there are chances of more people getting infected with this virus. Zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, “People can get TS-1 certificate from 9.30am to 1.30pm from the suvidha centres of four zones. It is for public convenience we have started this service, but they are advised to maintain social distancing and wear mask while they enter these centres.” He said those who want to pay taxes should come between 9am to 3pm as on property tax, water supply and sewerage dues there is rebate of 10% up to June 30. He said they had offered the civic employees to get their Covid 19 tests done at the civil hospitals in case they have any doubt or see any symptom. He claimed that employees had also been told to take all preventive measures while working in offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/suvidha-centres-now-open-to-pay-bills-dues/articleshow/76185404.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||This summer, Tamil Nadu teachers schooled to take digital leap||CHENNAI: Kindergarten teacher Shereen Solomon spent the summer turning her guest bedroom into an underwater world, then learning how to take a virtual class. And now, says Solomon, who teaches at Hindustan International School (HIS), she’s ready for her first day of school... at home. “For some students, this is their first taste of school life. They’ve never had classes before. I’m a stranger on a screen to them. As a teacher you have to change the way you think or have been teaching all these years,” says Shereen. While children have been chilling all summer, May has been a virtual whirlwind of online upskilling for teachers who had to learn their lessons before schools reopened. Classle, a digital learning platform, for instance, began offering free online tutorials to teachers during the lockdown. It began as a WhatsApp message to a few teachers to test waters, says V Vaidyanathan, founder and CEO, but within days, Classle had more than 8,000 teachers from 24 states and 21 countries signing up. “It is clear teachers are finding it difficult to navigate this new world, where the concept of teaching has to be turned on its head. Teachers were taught how to break classes down into 15-minute modules with quizzes to keep a student’s attention, how to use screen-sharing and pdf versions of textbooks, and so on,” he says. Chennai-based CBSE school Vedanta Academy signed all its teachers up for the Classle because as Divya Satish, member, governing council of the institution says, they wanted to orient the teachers with active learning. “We are not using conferencing platforms anymore,” says Divya, who adds teachers have been schooled on how to conduct online quizzes and polls as well as discussions. K R Malathi, founder of Auuro Educational Services, has been conducting classes for teachers on how to interact with students and parents. “For a younger child, the whole family will be sitting around to observe the session and then start interfering as well. Teachers find it awkward to sing and dance in front of adults peering at the screen. We’re helping teachers on how to navigate such situations,” she says. Teachers, she adds, are also being given lessons on innovative ways to begin a class, especially when dealing with younger children. “Corporate trainers too have been brought in to conduct online sessions with teachers on how to present lessons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-summer-teachers-schooled-to-take-digital-leap/articleshow/76185406.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Cows, buffaloes get unique number as part of national prog||Madurai: The animal husbandry department has collected details of more than 28,000 cows, bulls and buffaloes under the Information Network of Animal Production and Health (INAPH), a national-wide data collection and animals tagging programme. A unique 12-digit number is being generated for each animal and tagged on the ear using a plastic tag. Officials said the data will help devise programmes and welfare measures to identify animals, their health condition and to maintain number of calves given birth by each animal. All animals, including jallikattu bulls have been brought under the programme. Joint director of animal husbandry department, Madurai district Dr D Suresh Christopher said the enumeration began in March and they planned to cover 2.10 lakh animals. However, it was cut short due to lockdown. Now, they have resumed from Monday onwards. “Full details of animal owners, animal’s age, sex, breed, physical characteristics and number of offspring by each animal, are collected,” he said. Earlier, the department took up an initiative to collect details of jallikattu bulls, but it had to be stopped due to protest by the bull owners. Officials said that farmers are cooperating with the new programme since they collect details of all sorts of cattle, except for those under three months old. Since it is a time consuming process as they go door-to-door, it will take a few months to complete the 2.10 lakh target, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cows-buffaloes-get-unique-number-as-part-of-national-prog/articleshow/76185412.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Education department mulls home visits by teachers to start academic year||PANAJI: With reopening of schools for the academic year 2020-21, scheduled to start from June 4, getting deferred, the state education department is exploring possibilities of teachers visiting students’ homes for teaching. While virtual classes are on the cards, education director Vandana Rao has also told the schools to consider sending their teachers to the students’ homes to check on their progress and help them if required. “We can’t expect the entire school curriculum to be carried out in the same fashion online, as it can be done in face-to-face mode. Schools can explore the possibility of teachers making visits to students’ homes with social distancing, so as to follow up on any reading they might have given them, or to solve their queries etc by maintaining ‘2 gaj doori’,” Rao said in a note to the Goa Headmasters’ Association. She said it should be planned in such a way that the students are not unduly burdened. Rao has also said teachers could be asked to come to schools after taking into consideration constraints such as limited public transport. Most government-run and aided institutions have preferred to call their teachers to work on Thursday, when they are set to hold meetings to strategise on the conduct of online classes. The move comes after the home ministry, in its May 30 guidelines, said a decision on reopening of schools would be taken in July and no students will be permitted to attend any classes. “Fresh dates for reopening of schools will be communicated shortly after consultation with the stakeholders as per the guidelines issued by ministry of health and family welfare and ministry of human resource development,” the education department circular said. The circular also said until the time schools reopen, the schools must support their students “in every possible way, making the best use of technology”. Training is being carried out in phases by the directorate and the SCERT on resources that can be used to conduct online classes. Schools that haven’t planned their teaching schedule can call their teachers in after considering the constraints of lack of public transport, Rao has told school heads. She has said that teachers should be permitted to use school resources, if they wish to, until schools reopen. “Whenever the employees (both teaching and non-teaching) are called to schools, they should strictly observe social distancing and other precautions. Further, the methods taught in the teacher training by DoE should be used for synchronous and asynchronous learning,” Rao has said. As the third phase of online training is still on for teachers, Rao has asked schools to relieve computer teachers and others involved, early from school so they can attend training sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-dept-mulls-home-visits-by-teachers-to-start-academic-year/articleshow/76185981.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Send your kids to govt schools, says APSERC chair to parents||VIJAYAWADA: Justice Kantha Rao, chairman of Andhra Pradesh School Education Reforms Commission (APSERC) said on Wednesday that parents should consider sending their children to government schools as the government is committed to reforming the public schooling system. “The government is giving a facelift to schools and providing top-class infrastructure. Parents of students studying till the ninth standard, who are having trouble paying exorbitant fees, should send their children to government schools,” Kantha Rao said. Aluri Samba Siva Reddy, APSERC secretary, said government school teachers are qualified and moreover the schools are providing nutritious mid-day meals. Kantha Rao further said while the high court scrapped the GO on introducing English as medium of instruction, around 97% of parents preferred English medium for their children. A few politically-motivated people are spreading baseless rumours on the issue, he added. During a media interaction, the APSERC chairman said the commission has asked schools to provide data about their work and has every right to do so. “A few school managements and corporates are making baseless allegations against the reforms commission. We have issued a notification seeking details of schools and education departments as part of the reforms process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/send-your-kids-to-govt-schools-says-apserc-chair-to-parents/articleshow/76183602.cms||Venu Lanka
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Why home isolation is a challenge for doctors||CHENNAI: After the state and the Centre introduced home isolation, more than 1,000 Covid-19 patients who are either pre-symptomatic or have mild symptoms are recuperating at home. Medical experts say that while for the patient it is the best and a low cost way of recovering, for hospitals it saves manpower and resources that can focus on severely ill patients needing emergency care. After private hospitals began recommending patients on home isolation, government hospitals followed suit as the cases surged in the state. With a majority of cases being asymptomatic or involving people with mild infections, it is also throwing a challenge on the medical system for effective remote tracking and monitoring their health status. With more than 10,600 active cases in the state as on Tuesday, public health officials said nearly 10% of them are now isolated at home, a majority of whom are from Chennai. “With asymptomatic people included, we know 90% of the people do not require hospitalisation. It’s only a small percentage that require hospitalisation and even smaller percentage that require ICU. So if we start loading hospital system with low risk patients then where will high risk patients go? So it makes sense for us to start putting in a triage so only those who really require medical help will stay in a medical facility and other can be handled at home or in a quarantine system,” said Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, infectious diseases expert. Besides following other guidelines issued by the state government and ICMR, experts said one of the ways to self-monitor health status would be to use a pulse oximeter than can check the levels of oxygen saturation in the body. However, remote monitoring of these patients is becoming difficult, particularly in a private hospital setup, given the rising number of cases. “After we recommend a patient for home isolation, we coordinate with the city corporation who sends health workers every day to track the health status. We also contact them from our control room. It is a big challenge and a tedious process,” said Dr Vasanthmani P, dean, KMC hospital. “Earlier all medical colleges were admitting all symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. As the government of India and WHO guidelines changed, we started identifying people for home isolation,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-home-isolation-is-a-challenge-for-docs/articleshow/76185413.cms||U Tejonmayam
June 4, 2020||Trichy||School quarterly exams unlikely, say teachers||Trichy: With the uncertainty created by Covid-19 making it impossible to reopen schools at least in the next few weeks, the academic year is expected to witness unprecedented changes if the situation continues for a couple of months. Several teachers and headmasters said in such a situation the school education department may have to reduce the number of working days leading even to cancellation of quarterly examination. State board schools reopen on the first working day of June after summer vacation, but this year, children are sitting at home expecting Covid-19 cases to come down for any announcement on reopening of schools. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to seek suggestions from parents on the reopening of schools. “Ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has decided to open colleges by August-September, schools are unlikely to open any time before August,” said the headmaster of a government school in Trichy. Students up to class IX had to skip their annual examination and they have been given all-pass. They may not appear for their quarterly examination either, said a teacher from government aided school. Since the exams are scheduled for September, if there are no substantial classes before that, it may not be possible to conduct quarterly examinations, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-quarterly-exams-unlikely-say-teachers/articleshow/76185414.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Elderly couple ends life over suspected domestic row||MADURAI: A 63-year-old man and his wife from Singampunari village in Sivaganga district committed suicide reportedly over a domestic dispute.They were identified as K Pandiarajan and P Kamalam, 55. The couple had a son, working as lecturer in a polytechnic college and a daughter, who is married and settled in Thiruppuvanam. According to police sources, the couple left their house on May 29 on a bicycle after handing over Kamalam’s jewellery and some cash they had, to one of the families in their neighbourhood, asking them to hand them over to their children. After visiting a few places, they reached a secluded place near Kottampatti in Madurai district on Tuesday evening. Pandiarajan slit his throat using a sharp object, while Kamalam cut her wrist. Pandiarajan died on the spot, while Kamalam, who was found battling for her life was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where she died on Wednesday morning. A case was registered under CrPc section – 174 (suspicious death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/elderly-couple-ends-life-over-suspected-domestic-row/articleshow/76185417.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We can no longer paddle our own canoe, Centre must help’||LUDHIANA: On the occasion of World Bicycle Day on Wednesday, the industry asked the Union government to announce a special package to save them. The businessmen gathered at New Cycle Market, Gill Road, on Wednesday and expressed concern over Atlas Cycles (Haryana), Sahibabad, one of the biggest bicycle manufacturers of India, closing its production indefinitely. Bicycle industrialists, led by Achhru Ram Gupta, senior vice-president of Wholesale Bicycle Dealers’ Association, Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, general secretary of United Cycle and Parts’ Manufacturers’ Association (UCPMA), Rajinder Singh Sarhali, publicity secretary of UCPMA, and secretary Valaiti Das Durga, jointly said, “On the occasion of World Bicycle Day, nothing can be worse than to know that Atlas Cycles Limited, Sahibabad, which is one of the oldest bicycle factories of India, is no longer in a position to run its operations due to financial constraints. This has happened due to the step-motherly treatment meted out to the industry by successive governments. No timely steps were taken to improve the situation. If the Sahibabad unit shuts down permanently, not only thousands of jobs will be lost, but hundreds of other small factories in Ludhiana and other parts of the country that have been supplying parts and other components to this company will also suffer. It is our appeal to the Central government to take notice of the matter and save the bicycle industry, which is under immense pressure due to rising losses in the wake of Covid-19 crisis.” The businessmen said, “The current situation is very critical for the industry as a large number of micro and small bicycle units are on the brink of closure due to rising expenditure and no income. We are further burdened due to the interest charged by banks on big loans taken by us. Moreover, due to the wrong policies under GST, crores of rupees are still blocked with the government as getting refund is very tough. GST council should make tax rate on sale of bicycles and purchase of raw material equal. The state government too should step in and take corrective measures to support our industry, like encouraging use of bicycles in the cities by building separate lanes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-can-no-longer-paddle-our-own-canoe-centre-must-help/articleshow/76183585.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||ICAR-CIPHET grants license to two women entrepreneurs||LUDHIANA: ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET), Ludhiana has licensed the recently developed Ozone based fruits and vegetable washer-cum-purifier (Ozo-C) and portable smart UV-C disinfection system (UViC) to two firms, both run by women entrepreneurs. Snehal Dudhe owns CRD Invotech in Yavatmal (Maharashtra) got the license for both the technology. A Sirisha, proprietor of Siri Labs in Ongole (Andhra Pradesh), got the license for Ozo-C. Both the entreprenuers have got the certificate and license of these technologies through digital means due to ongoing nationwide lockdown. The women entrepreneurs expressed their confidence in capturing the market. Dr R K Singh, director of ICAR-CIPHET, lead the team of innovating scientists and facilitated the event along with Dr K Narsaiah, Dr Ranjeet Singh, Surya, Er Yogesh Kalnar, and D. Bhupendra M Ghodki. The research team assured further technical help for mass production of the technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/icar-ciphet-grants-license-to-2-women-entrepreneurs/articleshow/76185411.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Meerut||UP minister comes in contact with 3 Covid-19 patients, CMO says he ‘can’t get infection' as exposure was very brief||MEERUT: Uttar Pradesh’s finance and medical education minister Suresh Khanna unknowingly came in contact with three Covid-19 patients during his visit to Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College on Monday, the district health authorities said on Wednesday. The three patients’ Covid-19 report arrived on Wednesday, after which the health authority went into fire-fighting mode. The chief medical officer (CMO) of Meerut, Dr Raj Kumar, said that the minister stayed in the ward for just few minutes and it was unlikely that he may have caught the infection. “The time period for which the minister and the BJP leaders were in proximity to the said patients was not much. For transmission of infection, at least 15 minutes of exposure is needed,” the CMO said. Apart from Khanna, some local BJP workers including Vineet Sharda and Sunil Bharala also visited the ward. Tailing them was a battery of media persons who also entered the ward where the three patients were admitted. Meanwhile, the health department officials assured that the symptoms of the all the people, who came in contact with the three infected patients, will be checked for the next five days. “If they show any symptoms in the next five days, they will be sent for testing and treated according to the standard operating procedures,” said CMO Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-minister-comes-in-contact-with-3-covid-19-patients-cmo-says-he-cant-get-infection-as-exposure-was-very-brief/articleshow/76184696.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 4, 2020||Meerut||Rapid Rail: L&T bags contract to build 33km stretch between Duhai & Meerut’s Shatabdi Nagar||MEERUT: With the awarding of civil construction contract for the construction of massive infrastructure containing seven stations of Delhi-Meerut Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) to Larsen & Toubro (L&T), the work is all set to begin on the 33-km stretch between Duhai in Ghazibad to Shatabdi Nagar in Meerut. According to sources in National Capital Regional Transport Corporation (NCRTC), the nodal agency for the facilitation of the Rs 30,270crore rail corridor project, the seven stations in this phase will be located in Muradnagar, Modinagar South, Modinagar North, Meerut South, Partapur, Rithani and Shatabdi Nagar. “Now that the contract has been awarded, the construction work will speed up. Some pre-construction activities like broadening of road, relocation of overhead high-tension power lines, foot-over-bridges are already in various stages of completion,” said an official. The RRTS which will reduce travel time between Delhi and Meerut to mere 50-minute is set to be operational by 2025. 82-km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor has 24 stations including two depots at Duhai and Modipuram. According to Sudhir Sharma, PRO at NCRTC, “NCRTC is committed to complete the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor within the stipulated time and sanctioned cost. While construction work on the priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai is in full swing, the work for the civil construction on the remaining stretch of the corridor has also gained momentum. Now, the civil construction contract for Duhai to Shatabdi Nagar (about 33 km) has been awarded to L&T. Construction on the stretch will commence soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rapid-rail-lt-bags-contract-to-build-33-km-stretch-between-duhai-meeruts-shatabdi-nagar/articleshow/76184695.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 4, 2020||Trichy||Fire destroys thatched roof in Gandhi market||Trichy: Fire destroyed the thatched roof between shops near Gate Number 6 of Gandhi market in the city on Wednesday. The fire broke out around 10.30 pm. Fire and rescue service personnel led by Trichy station officer Melchioraja who arrived at the scene doused the fire. Fire service personnel said that shops were not damaged. The Gandhi market police took up an investigation to ascertain the cause of the fire. It may be noted that it was a second accident in the market in a month. Gandhi market has been closed due to Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fire-destroys-thatched-roof-in-gandhi-market/articleshow/76185421.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Trichy||Chefs, workers hit as lockdown cripples functions||Trichy: Culinary experts and their workers, who prepare feasts for functions including weddings, in Trichy, have been waiting for normalcy to return as they have had no income for the past two and a half months due to the lockdown to curb Covid-19. A Ghouse Mohammed, a chef from Inamkulathur in Trichy, said that around 15 orders were cancelled during the lockdown as the government denied permission to conduct functions in marriage halls with more than 30 people. The cap on the number of people was increased to 50 on May 31. “Since there were many restrictions in place, people had no other option than reducing the food to only fora maximum 50 people,” said Mohammed. A chef with at least 60 of his workers could manage the food preparation for 1,000 people for two days. They would charge around Rs 50,000 as their charge. Just 50 people does not give much returns. A vegetarian culinary expert, S Ramesh Kumar, expressed his anguish over the suffering of the helpers attached to him and other senior chefs. “It is bit unusual in Tamil culture to conduct auspicious functions without feast. That, too, happened now. While it affected the people a lot, the pandemic left the chefs and workers penniless as we had no orders in two and half months,” said Kumar. Kumar went on to explain in detail about the ordeal being faced by the workers in the catering business. “One can see people waiting on the platform of Cauvery Bridge, Amma Mandapam and near Rajagopuram of Srirangam temple for food served by donors every day. Most of them in the group are jobless workers with the chefs,” said Kumar. The chefs lamented that some of the functions were even postponed due to the lockdown. “We had a booking for today but it was postponed,” a chef R Manikandan in Lalgudi in Trichy. They also expect the state government to consider their plight and provide them with financial assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/chefs-workers-hit-as-lockdown-cripples-functions/articleshow/76185424.cms||R Gokul
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Include small and marginal farmers for DBT||The direct benefit transfer (DBT), which is being introduced in lieu of free power for agriculture sector is a prudent fiscal step. Unfortunately, it is natural for opposition parties to try and gain political mileage out of this. Akalis have already called for a core committee meeting because they consider it as a matter of right to fight for the rights of the farmers because of the reason that they claim represent the interests of majority of the agrarian class of the state and they take credit that they were the ones who introduced free power. Actually, opposition should come out with alternative plans better than one brought forward by the government and ask for a debate. Some noise will be made by other opposition parties too. It will also give a handle to some three or four major kisan unions of the state to stir up their cadres despite corona. Let’s analyse the benefits of free power. The total number of the agricultural electric pumps that receive free power is roughly estimated at about 14.6 lakh, whose estimated cost is around Rs 8,275 crore — in 1996, it was Rs 695 crore but with addition of more agriculture power connections, the amount increased. Now, the question is, should the DBT be passed on to present owners of the electric pumps only? Eminent economist Dr S S Johal, who has recommended the DBT, says the irony while writing the finer details of any scheme the executives or bureaucrats never refer back to the originators of the ideas or schemes. He wished that they do better this time and include all small and marginal farmers who do not own any electric pump set and make every farmer an equitable partner. It is well known in the initial years only the rich got connections due to political affiliations, others got when their parties came into power, some got connections under the pay for your out of turn connections under tatkal scheme or some even borrowed from arhtiyas to have their own transformers installed, pole and wires paid when such schemes were introduced by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) from time to time to provide connections on payment basis. So, as one can imagine those who got left out they were the poorest of the poor among the marginal and small farmers and, statistically, 45% or 69,485 out of 1.54 lakh of marginal farmers and 17% or 35,284 out of 2.07 lakh of small farmers still do not have an electric power connection. You can now imagine who will be the left out if you pay DBT to the present electricity pump owners only. These will be farmers who are very very poor, marginal and under privileged who are still spending on fuel,maintenance and spare parts so as to still grow crops on diesel pump sets. So, the next best option is to distribute DBT on the basis of the agricultural land holdings, which are said to be around 10.92 lakh holdings. The subsidy amount if distributed according to gross cropped area which is 78.25 lakh hectares will get each Rs 10,575 per hectare. If the net sown area is accounted then 41.25 lakh hectares are sown which will have Rs 20,061 per hectares as DBT. I will prefer gross area as it covers the twice cropped land in a yearly cycle. This talk about difficulties in finding the actual owners, dead electric pump owners or land on lease for DBT is just humbug, talking of oral agreements is just a mere digression because land holders when there was no free power subsidy before 1996 used to pay the electricity bill and in case when paid on their behalf by the tenant tiller it was adjusted in the payments received by the landowner. There is unnecessary fear being propounded that farmers will not pay their bills and to twist it to their nefarious agenda some political parties might later use it as election manifesto to restore free power just to appease a section to the detriment of the states future overall economy. And, above all, we must know that a farmers is diligent in paying bills for his irrigation source because all his whole production is dependent on that irrigation source. Another fear is how will the farmers pay the metered bill if the DBT funds are not sent in their accounts as the government is defaulting on social pensions like old-age, shagun schemes etc. It should be made clear in the rules of coordination of finance department with PSPCL that PSPCL will issue bill in the next month to the month in which the DBT takes place. To further clarify there will be no disconnection by the PSPCL as bill's part payment as it is it will be done according to the consumption from the DBT amount, which can be insure so that a particular amount equal to DBT as the payment from the DBT account will be linked to PSPCL bill payment. For farmers without an electric pump connection the DBT will go as direct subsidy. A true meaning of any subsidy distribution is achieved only when the last man deserving and standing in the line gets it. (Writer is an environmentalist and a social activist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/include-small-and-marginal-farmers-for-dbt/articleshow/76185425.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||CPM members allege misappropriation in PDS shops in Madurai||Madurai: Members of the CPM protested in front of 70 PDS shops in Madurai city alleging large scale misappropriations in the system, depriving people of their rightful rations. CPM Madurai urban district secretary R Vijayarajan, district executive committee members, P Ratha, M Ganeshan, R Deivaraj, A Ramesh, I Narasimman, M Balasubramanian among others participated. The state and central government had announced that essential commodities such as rice, sugar, wheat, dal and oil would be distributed to the people during the crisis period. However, they said that there were complaints that the rice being distributed through the shops was of inferior quality and that the mass of all the other commodities was less than the prescribed amount The government should ensure that people get their rightful rations during this period when their livelihood is affected and many of them had lost their lives. People should not be cheated during this extraordinary situation they said.The protest was staged in front of PDS shops in Sellur, Meenambalpuram, Pudur, Anna Nagar, Jaihindpuram, South Gate among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cpm-members-allege-misappropriation-in-pds-shops-in-madurai/articleshow/76185423.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Govt should not give free run to schools in ‘fees decision’: Titu||Ludhiana: To express ‘resentment’, comedian turned politician from Mullanpur, Titu Bania on Wednesday tonsured his head, alleging that the state government has given free run to the private schools and colleges because of which they are demanding fees from parents of school kids even for online classes. Titu along with a barber and some social activists arrived at in mini secretariat, Ludhiana today morning and all of them first sat on a dharna with placards in their hands and later on Titu got his head shaved. Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Titu said, “It is a big shame that entire the Punjab government, especially the education minister, have failed to hear the voices of the people and are doing nothing to stop this open loot by the schools and colleges. The private schools and colleges are having free run at a time when there is a huge monetary crisis everywhere — whether it is self employed or employed, everyone has suffered a big blow. Savings of people have vanished overnight and the incomes have fallen to zero. Some people do not even have money to manage their day-to-day expenses and how can one expect parents of school kids or college students to pay their fee? The present situation clearly indicates that there is a nexus between these schools, colleges and politicians. That is why none of the politician in Punjab has come forward to raise voice against these schools and colleges or even file a petition against them in supreme court.” Titu also added, “Today I have got my head tonsured as a mark of protest against this nexus being run by the schools and colleges. This is just the beginning of my campaign and in case the state government still fails to address this issue and waive off the fess of school and college students in Punjab, I will stage a series of dharna outside the houses of ministers, including the chief minister. I am already getting huge support from people of Punjab, who have made it clear that they are with me and will join all my future campaigns for this noble cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-should-not-give-free-run-to-schools-in-fees-decision-titu/articleshow/76185420.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Nisarga leaves a trail of destruction across Goa||PANAJI: Cyclone Nisarga, when made landfall in northern Maharashtra on Wednesday afternoon, left a trail of destruction in faraway Goa after gusty winds and heavy rain damaged trees and homes across the state. In Panaji alone, the department of fire services received 12 distress calls owing to tree falls. In nearby Merces, a massive tree came crashing down on a house, but no casualties were reported. Some gauges across the state crossed the 100mm mark. The highest rainfall on Wednesday was recorded in Mormugao, which measured 132mm, while Panaji and Quepem recorded 127.9mm and 115mm respectively. In Mapusa, Bosco Ferrao, in-charge of the fire station there, said that his department received 17 calls pertaining to trees getting uprooted in Mapusa, Anjuna, Aldona, Vagator and Colvale. The downpour also resulted in waterlogging along the Saligao-Parra road. Canacona saw a fair bit of damage, as the fire station there told TOI that trees fells on roads at Poinguinim, Agonda, Karmalghat and Karai Mashem, and one coconut tree fell on a house in Shirewada. Thankfully, the house was unoccupied as the owners live in Margao. Sarpanch of the Loliem-Polem panchayat Shailesh Pagi said that an old retaining wall along the road at Kazalker in Loliem gave way and blocked a rivulet. He said an earthmover was used to clear the debris from the rivulet. Bicholim taluka saw losses of around Rs 2 lakh. Mamlatdar Pravinvijay Pandit directed talathis to monitor the situation round the clock, and also directed firemen to prune dangerous trees on top priority. A Valpoi fire station official said that three trees were uprooted at various places in Sattari taluka. One tree fell on the road near Ajoba temple in Keri, due to which traffic was blocked. One house each in Padeli and Massordem was left partially damaged due to tree crashes. In Curchorem, two houses were damaged late on Tuesday night after the newly-constructed retaining wall of Guardian Angel high school collapsed on the kitchens of both the houses. No injuries were reported. Quepem mamlatdar Rosario Carvalho inspected the site along with the talathi on Wednesday morning. In another incident, a huge tree fell on a house at Gaddiwada, Curchorem. The regional fire station received several calls about trees fallen on electricity wires. Vehicular movement was also brought to a standstill near the Opa road junction at Khandepar, where a tree collapsed. Even at Chorla Ghat, traffic was affected due to the strong winds. The water resources department (WRD) removed the plates of the vasant bandharas across the Valvonti river, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nisarga-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-across-goa/articleshow/76185988.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Trichy||Astrologer held for killing monitor lizard for black magic||Trichy: A 29-year-old astrologer was arrested by the forest department in Trichy for poaching monitor lizard to use it for black magic. Monitor Lizards are protected under Schedule -1 of the Wildlife Protection Act. The accused has been identified as V Periyasamy, 29, from Maniyankurichy village near Thuvarankurichi.According to Thuvarankurichi forest range officer V Subramanian, the accused was traced as per the information received from the higher officials. Periyasamy shared a video in social media saying that he had prepared Kohl (Kajal) by processing meat of monitor lizard, which can be used for doing black magic and effective in mesmerising people.He marketed Kohl saying that businessmen can neutralize their enemies and develop their business. He was also suggesting people to use it to control their family members.Periyasamy confessed to have killed the monitor lizard near the forest in his village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/astrologer-held-for-killing-monitor-lizard-for-black-magic/articleshow/76185427.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Trichy||Fix MSP for paddy at Rs 3000 a quintal at least: Farmers||Trichy: The Union government announced a hike of only Rs 53 per quintal in the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy which is very less and not acceptable, farmers from delta region lamented on Wednesday. They urged the government to withdraw the announcement and said that the MSP should be fixed at least as Rs 3,000 per quintal against the present announcement of Rs 1,868 for common variety and Rs 1,888 for a fine variety of paddy.Earlier, the MSP for common variety was Rs 1,818 per quintal and Rs 1,835 per quintal for the fine variety of paddy.After the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar announced the MSP for 14 kharif crops on Tuesday, farmers were disappointed as it did not fulfill their expectations and long-pending demands, the state organizer of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress, Puliyur A Nagarajan said.“When farmers are spending Rs 3,000 for cultivating paddy per quintal, the government should have announced MSP as 50% more than the actual cost of production of the grains. Therefore, the MSP should be Rs 4,500 (Rs 3,000 + Rs 1,500). But, the government has announced just a hike of Rs 53 per quintal on the existing MSP, which is not fair,” he added. The farmers demanded that if not Rs 4,500, the MSP should be set at Rs 3,000 per quintal at least.National commission of farmers headed by M S Swaminathan recommended a 50% margin over the cost of production of grains. As per the MS Swaminathan committee recommendations, the MSP for grains should be the total cost of production plus 50% in order to safeguard the interest of small farmers and curb the increasing risk of taking up agriculture as a profession due to adverse incidents caused by climate change, he added. Farmers were hoping that the committee recommendations would be accepted at least in part if not in full. However, farmers' expectations were not fulfilled by the announcement, N Veerasekaran, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Sangam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fix-msp-for-paddy-at-rs-3000-a-quintal-at-least-farmers/articleshow/76185434.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Security beefed up for last jumbo herd of north Andhra Pradesh||VIZIANAGARAM: Security has been beefed up for the herd of six elephants — the last elephant herd of North Andhra —currently living at the Kurupam range of Vizianagaram district after news of a pregnant elephant being killed in Kerala spread like wildfire. Officials have begun talking to villagers living closeby about the measures to take to stay safe and to encourage them to not harm them. “A strong force of 50 forest officials has been deployed at the bordering area of Viziangram and Srikakulam districts to ensure that these elephants are safe. We are on our toes round-the-clock to ensure their safety,” M Murali Krishna, the range officer of Kurupam range told TOI. The herd, which includes a calf, migrated from the Lakheri Valley Wildlife Sanctuary located in the Ganjam district of Odisha in 2018. They usually kept travelling, however, for the last one year the elephants have been unable to cross Srikakulam after locals from the border areas of Odisha reportedly blocked their way and drove them back into Andhra. G Lakshman, DFO Vizianagram, told TOI, that in Andhra the threat to elephants are less than in Kerala because there are several private forests in Kerala and elephants regularly enter them in search of food. “We do have problems of crops damage. We try to compensate the villagers as much as we can,” Lakhsman added. Officials said, the elephants are always at a risk of accidents and electrocution,“but the most dangerous threat to them are the residents of the villages adjacent to the forest. Hence, besides 50 forest officials, we have a group of trackers who will monitor the movement of these elephants day and night. These trackers form a team of 12 and begin their day at 0300 am and move with the elephants till 0900 am, when they feed. Later, they split into two groups and both the groups alternatively keep a watch on the elephants till late night,” added M Murali Krishna. Only three days ago officials had tried to drive these elephant into Barnakonda Reserve Forest located between Vizianagram and Srikakulam. But they returned to the villages. “We do understand the situation. But these elephants destroy our crops and gardens. Often we don’t get the adequate compensation,” said Shankar Rao, resident of Bhattabhadra village, located adjacent to the forest, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/security-beefed-up-for-last-jumbo-herd-of-north-ap/articleshow/76183622.cms||Arpit Basu
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown violation arrests cross 25k||Madurai: Number of people arrested for violating lockdown restrictions has crossed 25,000 in Madurai district rural police limit. So far, 25,138 people have been arrested, while 18,857 cases have been registered from last week of March till Tuesday. Arrested people were released on bail soon after registering a case. According to Madurai district police around 8,330 vehicles have been seized in connection with the violations. On Tuesday alone 288 cases were registered. Totally 330 people were arrested and 38 vehicles have been seized. An official from rural police unit said that around 10 vehicles of the total seized vehicles were found out to be stolen vehicles. Most of the crime incidents like hurt cases, murders, thefts, burglary and snatchings were far lesser when Madurai district was under complete lockdown. With restrictions eased, crime incidents have started increasing. Though precautionary measures are in place, at least five murder incidents have taken place in the recent days alone, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-violation-arrests-cross-25k/articleshow/76185426.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Pune flight returns to city due to cyclone||Nagpur: Indigo Airlines Nagpur-Pune flight came back to the city after the plane could not land due to bad weather in Pune. The flight took off from Nagpur at around 1:45pm as against its scheduled time of 11:55am. Pranav Deshmukh, who was on board, said an announcement was made before taking off that the weather conditions may not be favourable in Pune. “They said that the weather is expected to improve by the time the flight reaches Pune, in which case landing may happen. However, when we were close to landing there was another announcement that the visibility was low and the plane was turning back towards Nagpur,” said Deshmukh. This was also confirmed by officials at Mihan India Limited (MIL) — the current airport operator. Flights to Mumbai were already cancelled due to the cyclone warning. Deshmukh said the Pune flight was almost full. He had come to Nagpur in the last flight before commercial operation of planes was stopped due to the lockdown. At Nagpur, he was continuing to work from home and had to go back since the lockdown has been eased and his office had reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pune-flight-returns-to-city-due-to-cyclone/articleshow/76184749.cms||Shishir Arya
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Man stuck in Kuwait appeals for repatriation to attend father’s rites||Madurai: A 36-year-old Melur man, stuck in Kuwait, has urged the state and central governments to take steps to bring him to attend the 16th day ritual of his father, who was hacked to death on Monday. The man, A Raj Kumar, who works as a driver with a private transport company in Kuwait, watched his father’s final rites over phone.Kumar along with a few hundred employees are staying in a facility provided by the company. Employer has stopped salary due to lockdown and only a part is being paid to take care of their expenses. There are at least 400 Tamils working in the company and are staying in various locations. While a section of them wants to return home, others want to stay there.“Although Indian embassy officials from Kuwait talk to me regulalrly over phone, I have not been informed about evacuation so far. Officials from state and central governments should initiate action to enable me to reach my native place,” Kumar said.Kumar’s father, N Alagappan, 55, from Thumbaipatti near Melur, was hacked to death by a fellow villager Annadurai, when he tried to save his neighbour Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-stuck-in-kuwait-appeals-for-repatriation-to-attend-fathers-rites/articleshow/76185436.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Trichy||AIE flight with 178 Tamils arrive from Dubai in Trichy||TRICHY: Yet another Air India Express flight under Vande Bharat Mission arrived at Trichy on Wednesday night carrying 178 natives of Tamil Nadu who were stranded in Dubai. This was the second rescue flight under the mission to arrive at Trichy after 178 Tamils from Kuala Lumpur landed on May 9. Hundreds of Tamils are stranded in various foreign cities including Dubai, Kuwait, Kuala Lumpur and Singapore as well as some South Asian countries for the last two months following the Covid-19 lockdown. Meanwhile, Kuwait government will operate three flights on June 4, 6 and 8 to Trichy to ferry Tamils stuck in the country. The first Kuwait Airways flight will arrive at Trichy at 4.40 pm on Thursday.  Malindo Air is also scheduled to operate two rescue services on Friday from Kula Lumpur with stranded Tamils. The first will arrive at 9.45 am and the second at 10.40 am. Air Asia and Malindo Air have also airlifted 1,179 Malaysian nationals from Trichy international airport by operating seven services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aie-flight-with-178-tamils-arrive-from-dubai-in-trichy/articleshow/76185445.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Skill dvpt classes for corpn school students||Madurai: Madurai Corporation is planning to start online skill development courses for students studying in Classes VIII and IX. The 11-day skill development programme is likely to start from Thursday, for which a trial was conducted on Wednesday. Officials said that spoken English class, art from waste, learning through music, puzzle solving and play with words are among the 10 proposed courses to be introduced. The courses will not only help the students develop their skill, but also help them pick up a useful hobby. It will also imbibe the discipline of attending online classes, which could be the future of education. Corporation educational officer P Vijaya said the idea to conduct such courses for students whiling away their time at home due to the lockdown, was put forth by corporation commissioner S Visakan. “We conducted a test using limited number of students and teachers and it was successful. There are 3,000 students in Classes VIII and IX in corporation-run schools. Those who have smart phones with internet connection at home can take part,” Vijaya said. Officials said the students will take part in batches as they cannot accommodate everyone at the same time. Teams comprising teachers teams have been formed in each school to coordinate between students and technical people, who will run the show from ground floor of the corporation main building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/skill-dvpt-classes-for-corpn-school-students/articleshow/76185441.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 4, 2020||Mangaluru||U T Khader demands reopening of old block of Wenlock Hospital||MANGALURU: Former health minister U T Khader demanded that the department of health and family welfare take immediate steps to restart the OPD as well as clinical and pharmacy services at the 160-year-old Wenlock Hospital. A tertiary care health facility for not just Dakshina Kannada, but other adjoining districts as well, Khader said its closure has left the poor and marginalised sections without access to healthcare. The hospital with 1,000 beds was the sole lifeline for weaker sections of society and even APL sections could get treatment at affordable rates, Khader told reporters on Wednesday. “Closing the entire hospital and asking people to avail treatment at private medical colleges and private hospitals dotting the city has put the poor to undue hardship,” he said, adding private health facilities are reluctant to treat these patients over past uncleared dues. People wanting urgent treatment, and who are eligible for it under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme, too will have to bear the costs, till such time they are enrolled under the scheme, in emergencies, if they have registered previously, he said. Besides, there is no code for all ailments under the scheme, which again leaves the poor vulnerable to the whims of these private institutions, he said. In addition, patients must bear the cost of medicines prescribed, he said. The Arogya Raksha Samiti fund at the disposal of Wenlock Hospital, now the designated Covid-19 facility for the district, is barely adequate to meet the bare maintenance cost of the hospital. The authorities are not in a position to dip into this fund to meet the health expenses of BPL patients seeking treatment in a private facility, he said, adding doctors and staff of private hospitals are also not willing to treat patients without PPE kits, that are in short supply. Saying that following the Bengaluru model of designating Victoria Hospital as the designated Covid-19 hospital will not work here, Khader reminded the department that unlike the state capital, Dakshina Kannada has just one government hospital. “The authorities must take immediate steps to shift ventilators from the old block and shift it to the new ICU set up in the multi-purpose block built on the same campus, sanitise the old block and open it for the public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/khader-demands-reopening-of-old-block-of-wenlock-hospital/articleshow/76183634.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||State rushes to test Mangor Hill-like areas after 42 test positive in a dy||Panaji: Goa’s active coronavirus tally saw its biggest single-day spike with 47 new cases, 42 of which were reported in the Mangor Hill containment zone. After 50 of the state’s 69 active cases came from the densely-populated area, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that the health department has been asked to conduct a screening survey in slums and low-cost housing clusters across the state. He also said that those displaying symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) would be tested. Sawant called the sharp spike in numbers a case of “local tranmission” and, after a meeting with senior health and administrative officials on Wednesday evening, ruled out the possibility of placing the whole of Vasco under lockdown. shooting down demands from many, including Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida. “We haven’t found a single case outside Mangor Hill,” he said. “It is a local transmission. If the infection was detected in various wards of the city, we could call it community transmission.” The CM said that 75 persons from outside Mangor Hill, all contacts of people from the containment zone, tested negative for the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, the state administration has started tracing the contacts of all those who tested positive on Wednesday. “Our focus is on testing all the people of Mangor Hill,” he said, adding that people in Vasco who have fever and other Covid-19 symptoms should come forward to be tested. A testing facility has been made available free of cost at the Chicalim cottage hospital, he said, and it can conduct 2,000 tests a day. Sawant also said that the health department was yet to trace the source of the infection, which afflicted six members of one family. “After discussion, we feel that perhaps the head of the family — the fisherman — came in contact with drivers of fish vehicles from Andhra Pradesh. The symptoms were first seen in the parents,” he said. Among those who tested positive on Wednesday was a welder working at Kadamba Transport Corporation’s (KTC) mechanical unit in Margao. South Goa collector Ajit Roy then ordered staff of the unit to undergo Covid-19 tests. He said the welder wasn’t a KTC staffer. “We have asked all those working in the unit to go for the tests,” he said. Meanwhile, all three entrance points to the Mangor Hill area have been blocked, and locals have been supplied with essential commodities. The other five Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday include two who travelled by road from Maharashtra. Two passengers who arrived in Goa by air from Dubai have also tested positive, as has one person who came to Goa from Hyderabad. One of the cases, a two-year-old child, will be accompanied by her mother in the Covid-19 hospital. Sawant, referring to reports of two Dubai travellers testing positive, said that if they were allowed to go home instead of being placed in facility quarantine, they would have spread the infections to others. He was referring to a commotion at the Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Tuesday, when some passengers on the flight quarelled with authorities and demanded to be sent home instead of quarantined. Sawant said that the government would take action against them at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-rushes-to-test-mangor-hill-like-areas-after-42-test-positive-in-a-dy/articleshow/76185999.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Restart physical functioning of courts: State bar council||Chandigarh: The state bar council of Punjab and Haryana, which is the apex body of lawyers in the region, passed a resolution on Wednesday to restart physical functioning of the high court as well as subordinate courts of both states and Chandigarh from June 8 onwards. The lawyers body, however, has made it clear that in case the physical functioning is not restored in view of the opening of other sectors by the Union as well as state governments from first week of June, the lawyers may resort to agitation. All bar associations in the states of Punjab and Haryana have also been asked to be prepared for any such eventuality. Their plea is that restrictive hearing of cases in the HC as well as subordinate courts for the past more than two months has led to financial hardship to majority of lawyers in the region. The functioning of courts in the region is almost at a stand-still since March 25 on account of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. The general house of the council has requested the HC administration to review the current functioning of the courts in view of the recent guidelines issued by the Union and state governments. The council has also sought that in the first phase from June 8, besides virtual courts, at least 20 more courts be also started with normal functioning as the summer vacations had already been cancelled. It would help in taking up almost all It was further resolved that all the advocates should comply with the guidelines and the directions issued by the government and the high court for the proper maintenance of norms of social distancing use of face mask and sanitization. Justifying the opening of physical courts, the bar council has resolved that the virtual courts have given an added advantage to selective advocates who are conversant with this system and can afford to have infrastructure needed for the virtual courts. A majority of lawyers in the region who were entirely depend on this profession and cannot afford equipment/facilities for video conferencing are facing huge financial hardship. Karanjit Singh, chairman, state bar council of Punjab and Haryana, said majority of lawyers in the region were entirely dependent on the legal profession for their livelihood and further delay in restarting the physical hearing would worsen their condition. According to chairman, the HC administration should review the decision because already most of the sectors have been ordered to be opened from June 8.  “The general house has resolved that actual working of court must be started at the earliest since the present working system is not only insufficient but at the same it is not providing proper delivery of justice,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restart-physical-functioning-of-courts-state-bar-council/articleshow/76185435.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath asks govt to provide grants to places of worship||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday wrote to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and demanded grants for religious places of worship for the next three months. “People of all religion – Hindus, Muslims, Sikh, Christians – reside in this state. And every religion has its places of worship situated here and are looked after according to the tenets of every religion,” Nath wrote. “However, because of the financial difficulties arising out of the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, these places of worship are not being maintained. Since devotees are not visiting the shrines due to the lockdown, donations have also been dwindled,” the senior Congress leader said. “Priests and maulvis are finding it hard to make ends meet. This is a matter of faith,” Nath reasoned. He urged CM Chouhan to grant Rs5,000 for the upkeep of places of worship and Rs7,500 per month to priests for the next three months. Digvijaya Singh also wrote a letter to CM Chouhan. “This year there has been a bumper corn crop in the state,” he wrote. He alleged that the Centre imported corn to the benefit some select traders and farmers are left to be destroyed. “Last kharif season, the Centre fixed MSP for maize at Rs1,760 per quintal and farmers were hopeful of getting a fair price grew the crop in increased quantities. The government raised MSP for corn from Rs1,760 per quintal to Rs1,850 per quintal but unfortunately farmers of Madhya Pradesh are compelled to sell their produce at Rs900 to Rs1,000 per quintal. The government is no longer purchasing corn at MSP and farmers of Seoni district are already protesting”, Digvijaya wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-asks-govt-to-provide-grants-to-places-of-worship/articleshow/76185447.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||Agra gurdwara feeds over a million during lockdown||Agra: Several gurdwaras in the country received high praise for their dedicated community service during the Covid-19 lockdown. And one such popular gurdwara in Agra stood out for feeding over a million people and distributing nearly 5,000 footwears to the distressed migrants who have been braving the blistering heat and walking hundreds of kms to reach home. Guru ka Tal gurdwara in Agra continued with its ‘langar sewa’ or community kitchen and provided food for all the people, including migrants and the city's needy, in the past two months - even as its doors remained completely shut for devotees due to the lockdown. The community kitchen, in fact, has been operational round the clock, serving hot food to those coming at its doorstep. Besides, the gurdwara distributed 5,000 rubber slippers and shoes to migrant workers. Notably, the food preparations here start at five in the morning and continue till late at night. "We have set up a tent outside and are serving meals on paper plates with all precautions, while maintaining social distance," said Baba Pritam Singh of the management committee. Singh added that fruits are also provided with the meal. Though, earlier, on any given day around 12,000-13,000 people visited the gurdwara for "langar", according to him, their numbers increased during the lockdown and now they are feeding around 18,000 people a day. He pointed out that they don’t keep any record of the quantity of food prepared per day, but assured that "no one will ever go hungry from here". The kitchen has adequate stocks of food grains for at least six months to a year - largely from donations by farmers of Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Sitarganj of Uttarakhand. "According to Guru’s directions, these farmers donate 'dasvandh’ [10 per cent] of their total produce to the gurdwara annually," he added. "Our 500 staff usually stay inside for routine work along with preparing food and organising everything," said Gurnam Singh from the committee, adding that all the people involved in the kitchen work are strictly advised to sanitise their hands before entering the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-gurdwara-feeds-over-a-million-during-lockdown/articleshow/76185443.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||Burglars steal cash, jewellery worth Rs 2.6 lakh from two houses||Vadodara: Burglars targeted two houses on Dabhoi Road and Karelibaug on Tuesday and Wednesday and stole cash and ornaments worth Rs 2.6 lakh. On Tuesday, house of a sanitary worker working with Vadodara Municipal Corporation on Dabhoi Road was broken into. The civic body employee Dharmesh Solanki told police that burglars entered his house when he and his wife had gone to the latter’s parents’ house on Vasna Road and his mother was away at work. When Solanki returned on Tuesday afternoon, he found that the thieves had stolen Rs 40,000 cash and silver and gold ornaments worth Rs 1.5 lakh. In another incident, thieves broke into the house of Mahendra Raj, who lives on VIP Road in Karelibaug, in the wee hours of Wednesday. Police said that Raj had locked his house from inside and went to sleep on the terrace along with his family members. On Wednesday early morning, the lock was broken and gold ornaments worth Rs 72,000 were missing. Offences were registered at Panigate and Harni police stations by Solanki and Raj respectively on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-steal-cash-jewellery-worth-rs-2-6-lakh-from-two-houses/articleshow/76182282.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt to launch second phase of Vahana Mitra today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government is set to launch the second phase of Vahana Mitra scheme on Thursday. Nearly 2.62 lakh beneficiaries in the state, including 36,000 people in Visakhapatnam will get Rs 10,000 each. A total 4,697 new beneficiaries from Visakhapatnam have applied for the scheme this year. Speaking to TOI, GC Raja Ratnam, deputy transport commissioner, Road Transport Authority (RTA), Visakhapatnam, said, “The government credited the first instalment in October last year. But this time, it decided to give the amount on June 4 to help the beneficiaries given the financial crisis faced by many,” Raja Ratnam said. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy will launch the scheme on video-conference. “We will identify 10 beneficiaries who will attend the programme in Visakhapatnam district on June 4. All Covid-19 protocols will be followed,” Raja Ratnam added. The owners and drivers of autorickshaw, maxi cab, taxies etc are eligible to apply for the scheme. The government checks for the eligibility based on the details such as white ration card and financial background of the applicant. The main objective of the Vahana Mitra Yojana is to provide money to self-employed auto and taxi cab drivers that can be used by them for repair work, vehicle fitness and cover additional expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-launch-second-phase-of-vahana-mitra-today/articleshow/76183632.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD won’t be part of move to dilute state powers: MP||Patiala: Senior leader of Shiromani Akali Dal and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra on Wednesday said his party would not be part of any legislation to be adopted by the Union government that might erode the powers of the state. He said Akali Dal was the only party in the country that had consistently fought for state’s autonomy and made sacrifices and every action of the party on this sensitive issue would be dictated by that glorious history. Referring to the Centre’s recent announcement to virtually do away with the state agricultural marketing produce legislation, he said any such intervention would tantamount to encroachment on the rights of the states. The move was skewed against the farmers in general and Punjab in particular whose contribution to the country’s food security continues to be the highest. Chandumajra said of late, the governance model being implemented by the Centre was exhibiting tendency towards centralisation and weakening the powers of the states vis-a-vis the Centre and the move to amend the marketing produce act was its latest manifestation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-wont-be-part-of-move-to-dilute-state-powers-mp/articleshow/76185450.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: With season’s first showers come 30-hour power failures||PANAJI: The first rainfall of the season knocked out power supply in many parts of the state, some going dark for over 24 hours. Residents, especially senior citizens and those working from home in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, were left in the lurch as mobile phones, laptops and invertors ran out of charge within hours. In Verem, the Pai Dhungat family said that they didn’t have power supply for more than 24 hours, with only a one-hour respite in between. The unplanned disruptions were especially tough for children and elderly family members, they say. “We completely understand when there’s maintenance work to be done, or when there’s an emergency and a tree has fallen,” said Deepa Pai Dungat. “But close to 30 hours with no power supply with no intimation about the reason is a little too much.” The family’s attempts to connect to the department’s toll-free 1912 helpline resulted in them being kept on hold for a long time, as executives were busy answering other calls. The power outage was especially hard in Porvorim, Goa’s de facto capital which houses the Legislative Assembly, several government offices and soon, the high court of Bombay at Goa. In places like Alto-Betim, residents had to endure a power failure for over 24 hours, with only a couple of hours of respite. “I had to wait for almost 20 minutes to get through the helpline number, and even when I did connect, they were unable to give me an estimate of when power would be restored,” said a resident. Even Ribandar, part of Panaji constituency, went without power for several hours. Along the Calangute-Candolim belt too was in darkness on Tuesday night, with power only being restored at around 4.30am. However, even on Wednesday, the area witnessed constant power failures as tree branches kept snapping due to the strong winds and heavy rains. In San Andre, families have been experiencing power outages throughout the month of May, and are now worryied about how they will get through the monsoon. Small and medium businesses in the constituency too are struggling, as the frequent power cuts are affecting establishments. “We haven’t slept well for two days. These are recurring problems and need to be sorted out once and for all,” said a resident. “The 1912 call centre does a good job, but there needs to be corrective action so that this doesn’t continue on a regular basis. The power problem in our constituency is a huge concern, especially for our businesses. Our business has been down in the dumps after the lockdown. It’s our fundamental right to have basic electricity. No valid reasons are given to us for the frequent power outages. The government cannot be talking about encouraging industrialisation and IT with such poor quality power. We are helpless.” Engineers told TOI that they and linesmen have been working round the clock and that the outages are beyond their control as all lines are overhead lines. “These problems occur with the initial rains, and will soon be sorted out. Many feeders tripped, insulators got punctured, and poles fell,” an engineer said, adding that the only solution would be underground cabling, which is expensive. Meanwhile, chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni told TOI that pre-monsoon maintenance work and the rain-related disruption of power supply are not related. “More than 90% of the power outage has already been resolved,” Keni said. “Many insulators got punctured with the first rains, and caused faults with the tower. It’s difficult to predict during the dry season which insulators will get punctured, as they get ruptured on the top. Once this happens, our linesmen check the entire line to find the fault. There were continuous rains and heavy winds. Some feeders were down because of faults in overhead lines. Maintenance work is carried out regularly, but when insulators develop a fine crack on the top, the problem comes to light only when rain water goes in. Branches falling on power lines and poles getting uprooted also contributed to power failure in some areas.” he said. Call helpline, not engineers: Power headPanaji: Chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni on Wednesday appealed to consumers to register their complaints on the department’s toll-free number, 1912, instead of calling linesmen and engineers already overwhelmed with work. “A control room monitored by two officials has been set up at the call centre, and will be functional right through the monsoon,” Keni said. “Individual complaints will get rectified once they are registered on 1912. There are ten executives on each shift who attend to calls. The complaint once registered on the helpline escalates, and executives even get back to the complainant.” “The officials monitor the complaints received and pending,” he added. “Linesmen and department engineers are busy, and need to use their phones for their own communication. Their work gets hampered while attending to calls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-seasons-first-showers-come-30-hr-power-failures/articleshow/76186006.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pamba being dredged to ensure smooth flow: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday clarified that the Pamba riverbed is being dredged to cleanse it of debris to ensure smooth flow of water. He hinted that the forest department had no business stalling the project, initiated by invoking the disaster management act. He was answering queries on the forest secretary’s order to terminate the work by public-sector Kerala Clays and Ceramics Products Ltd. Vijayan said sand that is separated from the silt belongs to the government and cannot be sold to any private company. “Dirt settling in the rivers is a serious issue which has adversely affected the natural flow of water. It is important to clean all the major rivers. The state government has asked all district collectors to initiate measures,” he said. He said collectors are vested with the authority under the disaster management act. “The forest department cannot stop it. Some people may be under the false impression that since rivers pass through forests, they belong to the forest department,” he said. The CM also justified the trip undertaken by former chief secretary Tom Jose, current chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and state police chief Loknath Behera by a chopper to Pamba. “It was meant to study the progress and expedite the work,” he said. ‘Forest dept order proves graft’Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the forest department’s order proves the opposition charges that there is corruption in the allotment of sand at Triveni in Pamba to a PSU. Chennithala said that additional chief secretary (forests and wildlife) Asha Thomas has asked department officials to block the transfer as clearance from the department is mandatory under the forests conservation act. He said that Kerala Clays and Ceramics, which was allotted the work, had been defunct for years. When the company had tried to mine sand from five rivers in Kannur, it was met with huge public protests. It is a high-level conspiracy involving the former chief secretary, present chief secretary and state police chief that has now been exposed with the decision of the forest department to prevent the removal of sand, Chennithala said. The decision to mine the sand with the forest department remaining a mute spectator involves large-scale corruption under the cover of floods and Covid-19, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said. He said this is an attempt by the chief minister and industries minister E P Jayarajan to revive the sand mafia in the state. The haste on the part of the government adds to the suspicion, he added. The KPCC president said the decision to transfer the sand to a PSU, which is chaired by CPM leader C K Govindan, was taken by overriding objections of the forest department. Former BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan said that the mining of the Pamba riverbed will lead to the destruction of the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pamba-being-dredged-to-ensure-smooth-flow-cm/articleshow/76183640.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Meerut||Covid warriors on wheels: Thousands of ambulance drivers in UP haven’t been home for months||MEERUT: For over 19,000 ambulance drivers and emergency medical technician (EMT) staff on the frontlines of Covid-19 fight in UP, it’s a tough life on the road. If it’s not gruelling shifts keeping them up at night, nostalgia for home is. Many have not visited their families for months and are forced to survive on food from roadside eateries or those distributed by local organisations as the tiny hospital quarters they are housed in do not have space to cook. Otherwise momentous occasions — births and deaths in families — have passed without time for either celebration or mourning. Vipin Adhana, in charge of the ambulance service in Meerut district, was blessed with a boy on April 18, but 45 days passed before he could see him. “I wish I had been present during the birth of my first child but I was on duty here. I could not ask for leave,” he told TOI. When Adhana did manage to go to his hometown in Gajraula on May 31 to finally hold his newborn, it was only for a day. In Lucknow, a pair of brothers are still mourning their father’s demise and the fact that they could not be with their family in tough times. “The brothers, Ramesh and Ram, managed to reach their hometown of Basti just in time for their father’s last rites. After that, they had to immediately return,” said Brijesh Kumar, general secretary of Jeevandayni Swasthya Vibhag, UP ambulance workers’ union. Abhishek Mishra in Sitapur is quietly waiting for the situation to ease so he can take his ailing mother back home in Sant Kabir Nagar, 400 km away, to a doctor. “I spend all day ferrying patients to hospitals but I have been unable to take my own mother to one,” said the 25-year-old ambulance driver. UP has a fleet of 4,720 ambulances with each driver working a12-hour shift. But drivers said that during the pandemic they have to be available 24 x 7. Others admitted they were often worried about where the next meal would come from. The living quarters at hospitals and primary health centres provided by the health department are too tiny to cook, they said. Brij Mohan, a resident of Bareilly posted as an EMT in Ghaziabad, said 10 of them were living in two rooms at the Ghaziabad district hospital. “A person who runs a roadside eatery provides us with food when we return from duty late at night,” he said. Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey said they have provided personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, sanitisers to the staff in the district and have also made arrangements for restrooms and food near hospitals where ambulance staff was housed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-warriors-on-wheels-thousands-of-ambulance-drivers-in-up-havent-been-home-for-months/articleshow/76184783.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizianagaram cops booked over 78,000 cases during lockdown||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Vizianagaram police have registered over 78,000 cases of traffic violations in the past two months. A majority of the violations comprise bikes with pillion riders and lockdown violations. The police have issued 78,002 traffic challanas, imposed fine worth over Rs 4.09 crore from March 23 to May 31 and seized over 1,008 vehicles. They also booked cases against 939 shops and a few individuals under 188 of IPC (disobeying order promulgated by a government servant). DSP (traffic) L Mohan Rao said despite their repeated appeals and warnings people continued to ignore the norms and rode with pillion riders and travelled with more than three people in cars during the lockdown. “We booked over 78,000 vehicles under Motor Vehicle Act-1988,” he said. Apart from the traffic violation, Vizianagaram police busted gambling rings during the lockdown and registered 121 cases and seized Rs 9.54 lakh in cash and four fighting roosters. “We appeal to motorists to use face masks and helmet while travelling and maintain social distancing while making a purchase. In the coming weeks, we would be prioritising action against improper parking and over-speeding, Mohan Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizianagaram-cops-booked-over-78000-cases-during-lockdown/articleshow/76183644.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Southern districts report 48 new Covid-19 cases, central region 10||Madurai/Trichy: With 48 new cases, the southern districts’ Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,632 on Wednesday. Among them, 40 are local cases. Meanwhile, the central region of the state reported ten more Covid-19 positive cases taking the tally to 932. In Madurai, seven local cases were reported on Wednesday. Among them, five cases are within the corporation limits. The other cases are from Alathur near Oomatchikulam. There are no new cases in Dindigul and Sivaganga districts. Kanyakumari, Theni and Virudhunagar reported one case each. Tuticorin reported 17 cases, the highest number in south TN, on Wednesday. On Tuesday too, the district reported the most number of cases. Speaking to TOI, Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri said that a majority of the local cases in the district were related to two funerals held in the district. The collector said that as many as 35 Covid-19 cases have been related to the two funerals and that all measures have been taken to contain the spread. Ramanathapuram reported five new local cases taking the district total to 90. Tenkasi has three new local cases and one imported case. With 12 new cases, Tirunelveli has the highest number of active cases at 378. The number of positive cases in Thanjavur district has crossed 100 after six more people tested positive on Wednesday. Among them, three had been residing in Chennai. All of them have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. Besides, two more people with Chennai contact also tested positive. In Nagapattinam, the number of cases rose to 64 with one more new positive case. In Tiruvarur, the total number of cases has climbed to 51 with two more new positive cases on Wednesday, all returned from Chennai. A 51-year-old man from Karur tested positive for Covid-19 in Chennai today. He was tested positive at a private hospital and is undergoing treatment there. While there were no positive cases reported in Pudukottai, three people have been admitted to the isolation ward with Covid-19 symptoms. Among them a 64-year-old comorbid patient is in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-districts-report-48-new-covid-19-cases-central-region-10/articleshow/76185454.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||School student, 16, found strangled to death in graveyard||Madurai: A 16-year-old school student was found strangled to death in a graveyard near Melur in Madurai district on Wednesday. The boy hailing from a village near Melur, and tudying in a private school had left the house in the morning but did not return home. His family members, who went in search of him, found him dead in Selvi Nagar graveyard in the afternoon. Police inquiry revealed that it was suspected case of strangulation. The body was sent to a government hospital for postmortem. A case was registered under 302 IPC (punishment for murder). Inquiry is on to find out the motive behind the murder. In another incident, a 27-year-old man was hacked to death by an armed gang. The deceased, Madhanraj was consuming liquor along with his friends in a secluded place near Viraganoor when an six-member gang, which came on two-wheelers, hacked him to death. His friends escaped from the spot fearing for their lives. A case was registered with the Silaiman police who are investigating the motive behind the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/school-student-16-found-strangled-to-death-in-graveyard/articleshow/76185448.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Allahabad||Man kills his 14-year-old son, arrested||PRAYAGRAJ: A 14-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by his father in Sonvarsha village under Baharia police station on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Faizan. The accused father identified as Ubaid Hussain was arrested. As per family members, Faizan did not fare well in his studies and kept a bad company. He used to steal money from the house and escape, and whenever he returned, quarreled with the family, especially with his father. Prayagraj SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj told TOI, “On Tuesday night, during altercation between the father and son, Ubaid, in a fit of rage, tied Faizan with a wooden log attached to ceiling of the room and thrashed him with a stick. Ubaid apparently hit his son’s head with the stick due to which he (Faizan) fainted. Thereafter, Ubaid left him unattended. Faizan was found dead on Wednesday morning” The body of minor boy had injury marks, added the SSP. Police said they received news of the boy’s death by neighbours on Wednesday . “Ubaid has been arrested,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-kills-his-14-year-old-son-arrested/articleshow/76185527.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Interdistrict boat services to resume today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Inter-district boat services will resume in the state on Thursday, ferrying between 5am and 9pm. There are 54 boats and five rescue boats with water transport department. The department operated 748 services daily before lockdown. Except the boats ferrying in Vaikom-Ernakulam route, all other services will be operated from Thursday. “As the operation timing has been reduced, less number of boats will be operated than before lockdown period. No person will be allowed to board or deboard boats at containment zones. State water transport director has been directed to ensure all safety measures during transportation,” said transport minister A K Saseendran. Four boats will operate inter-district services from Vaikom, three each in Muhamma-Kumarakom and Kottayam-Alappuzha routes and one between Kannur and Kasaragod. Passengers can occupy all seats in a boat, but can’t stand and travel. The passengers should wear masks and use sanitiser before entering the boat. KSRTC has issued a directive which states that the passenger seat near conductor seat will remain vacant in the KSRTC buses as a safety precaution. KSRTC suffers Rs 6.3 crore loss during lockdown KSRTC incurred a loss of Rs 6.28 crore through the services operated during lockdown from May 20 to June 2. Despite the hike in ticket fare, the transport corporation could not collect the minimum collection required for a profit. KSRTC had resumed its inter-district services on Wednesday and operated around 1,800 bus services on the day. “There are less than 25% passengers travelling in these buses. There are not many passengers in bus stands even during peak hours. Despite this, KSRTC is operating services as per social commitment. KSRTC is operating less than 2,000 services daily; earlier it used to have over 4,000 services,” Saseendran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/interdistrict-boat-services-to-resume-today/articleshow/76183656.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Seven arrested for pelting stones at excise staff||VIJAYAWADA: Arrack brewers attacked excise officials with stones at Hasnabad hamlet, Guntur district, on Tuesday night after they arrested one for selling arrack. Macherla excise inspector Konda Reddy and three others in his team were injured in the incident. A team of seven excise officials raided the hamlet after they received a tip-off over sale of illicit liquor. Upon searching the house of one Raghu Naik, they found 20 litres of arrack. The excise officials seized the arrack and took Naik into custody. While they were taking the accused with them they were pelted with stones. Konda Reddy and other officials sustained injuries. The windshield of their vehicle was broken. Sensing the danger they were in, the excise officials retreated from there in the vehicle and informed the police. Police took up the investigation and identified seven persons, including Raghu Naik, who were involved in the attack. All of them were arrested under sections 353, 332, 427 and 324 of IPC. A separate case was booked under Excise Act for possessing and selling illicit liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/7-arrested-for-pelting-stones-at-excise-staff/articleshow/76183659.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||BJP MLA seeks Sood’s help to bring MP migrants home||BHOPAL: BJP MLA Rajendra Shukla, a former minister, triggered a controversy on Wednesday by seeking help from actor Sonu Sood to bring MP’s migrant labourers back from Maharashtra. Congress flayed BJP, saying Shukla’s tweet proves that the BJP government has failed to help labourers. “Sonu Sood ji, residents of Rewa-Satna in Madhya Pradesh are trapped in Mumbai and haven’t been able to return. Please help us bring them back,” tweeted Shukla on Wednesday, attaching a list of migrant labourers from Rewa and Satna who are stuck in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane. Sood replied promptly, “Sir, no brother will be trapped anywhere. Your migrant brothers will be sent back to you. If I ever come to MP, make sure to serve poha.” Shukla retweeted this and added: “There are about 113 people yet to return safely. I thank you in advance.” Congress immediately unleashed a barrage at BJP, with MLA Kunal Chaudhary tweeting that Shukla’s statement proves the BJP government isn’t interested in bringing migrants back home. “The tweets by former BJP minister from Rewa, Rajendra Shukla, have exposed the tall claims and figures bandied about by the BJP government. Instead of approaching the state government for help, Shukla chose to request Bollywood actor Sonu Sood to bring the labourers back to MP. Imagine the condition of labourers from other districts,” said Chaudhary. Former Union minister Arun Yadav hit out at CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, tweeting: “The CM should take note of the tweets by his own leader Rajendra Shukla, who has no faith in his party’s government and is seeking help from actor Sonu Sood.” Caught on the wrong foot, BJP tried to say the tweet was an error by Shukla’s team. “Shukla never had any such intention. There seem to be some mishandling by the social media team. Only he will be able to give a clarification on this,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal. Shukla deleted the tweet and told reporters that he has family relations with Sood who is helping migrant labourers. “Congress leaders hiding in their homed do not know that lakhs of Vindhyavasi (residents of Vindhya region) have reached home with the help of BJP governments in the state and at the Centre,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-mla-seeks-soods-help-to-bring-mp-migrants-home/articleshow/76185461.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Allahabad||Man running nursing home among 5 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 105||PRAYAGRAJ: A 66-year-old man running a nursing home in Old City area was among the five persons who tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Wednesday in Prayagraj district. With the five new cases, Prayagraj’s tally reached 105. Two of the new cases reported on Wednesday did not have any travel history. While two of the patients had returned from Mumbai and New Delhi on separate dates. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said,“A 66-year old man, who had been running a private nursing home in Patthar Gali in Old City area, tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Wednesday. Health department officials have also collected the details of six of his family members, along with the domestic help and her daughter who used to visit his house.” Police have sealed Pathaar Gali in Nakhas Kohna for sanitisation purposes. Besides, a 28-year-old woman also tested positive for the virus on Wednesday and she did not have any travel history. The Minhaajpur resident’s sample was collected on June 1 and she did not have any travel history. Health department officials said that she worked as an ‘aaya’ (maid) in a hospital ward. The new cases also included a 26-year-old man, who is a resident of Koraon. He came to Luckow from Mumbai on May 28 via a train and then arrived in Prayagraj. He later quarantined himself at home. His sample was collected on May 30 and he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Besides, a 21-year-old man, who had returned from New Delhi on May 26, was also diagnosed with the infection. After his return from New Delhi, he was asked to quarantine himself at home. Health department officials collected his sample on May 31 and he tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-running-nursing-home-among-5-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-105/articleshow/76185539.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Allahabad||No demand for Shramik Special trains||PRAYAGRAJ: After operating 132 Shramik specials trains and catering to 1,77,371 migrants and other stranded people, there was no demand of originating Shramik train from any station served by North Central Railway (NCR) territory, on Tuesday and Wednesday. This demand of originating Shramik train had reduced to average of two trains for the past five days and no originating train was demanded at any station of NCR from June 02 and up till 4:00pm on Wednesday. “Though demand for these trains have reduced substantially, NCR is committed to run these special train on top priority whenever any demand from respective state government comes and will continue to run till last demand is fulfilled”,said chief public relation officer (CPRO) of NCR, Ajeet Kumar Singh. These special trains have ferried migrants from stations like Sabarmati , Surat , Ahemdabad ,Palanpur , Godhra ,Viramgam ,Mehsana , Morabi , Anjar ,Navsari ,Dahod, Vadodara , Surendranagar , Kanhangad , Junagarh , Kurnool , Ankleshwar ,Bengaluru , Pune ,New Delhi , Rewadi , Rohtak , Gurgaon etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-demand-for-shramik-special-trains/articleshow/76185581.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||CAT dismisses plea of visually-impaired IAS officer against transfer||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Wednesday dismissed a petition moved by Haryana’s first 100% visually-impaired IAS officer Ravi Prakash Gupta, who had challenged his transfer as director general, Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute of Fiscal Management, from the post of Fatehabad deputy commissioner, citing lack of merit in his plea. A CAT bench, comprising judicial member Sanjeev Kaushik and administrative member Ajanta Dayalan, dismissed the petition, observing that the court cannot interfere in a transfer order unless it is shown that the same has been passed in violation of statutory rules and is tainted with mala fide intention. The order reads, “To tackle the problem arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, a conscious decision was taken to transfer certain DCs/DMs and in that process, the applicant was transferred... Action of the respondents does not indicate any kind of mala fide intention or punitive in nature.” Gupta had challenged the order, claiming it to be in violation of the Cadre Rules, as it had been passed before completion of two years in the office and the state of Haryana had not given any reasons for passing the impugned order. The bench said, “During the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown undergoing in the country, the issue of transfer should be left to the discretion of competent authorities, as it is for them to consider as to who should be posted at which assignment and it is not the job of the courts or tribunals to sit in appeal over the wisdom of the administrative functionaries, who are in better hold of the factual position on the field.” In its reply, Haryana had stated that the Union government had on March 24 imposed the lockdown in the country and asked the state governments to take effective steps to check the spread of pandemic. In this context, the role of DCs/DMs was considered to be crucial and accordingly, after discussions, the department of personnel thought it fit to transfer some incumbents of such posts from their districts. It was submitted that the impugned order had been passed in consonance with Cadre Rules, on the recommendations of the Civil Services Board (CSB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cat-dismisses-plea-of-visually-impaired-ias-officer-against-transfer/articleshow/76185455.cms||Neha Sharma
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Local workers not matching up to guest workers, say contractors||Madurai: With more than 80% guest workers having left the city, various projects including those of smart city carried out by Madurai corporation have been dragging on. Officials say they have deployed local workers to manage the situation, but that the new recruits are struggling to match up to the guest workers in terms of output. Corporation officials said around 350 guest workers were involved in various smart city projects such as Periyar bus terminal reconstruction, multi-level car parking and Vaigai river front development. A large number of guest workers were employed in Vaigai river bed road widening project and elevated corridor project on New Natham Road. Since most of them have left the city on trains arranged by the district administration, contractors are now clueless as to when they will return. “Apart from being amenable to flexible timings, guest workers work harder than locals. Their workmanship cannot also be matched by local workers,” said a higher official. A contractor said that apart from their skills and speed, guest workers were flexible in terms of payment as well. While they have to make payment every week for local workers, they could pay monthly wages to guest workers. It was a cushion enjoyed by contractors since there may be delay in government agencies releasing funds, he said. However, managing trustee of Society for Community Organisation Trust, Madurai, Mahaboob Batcha said that if guest workers are made to work extra hours compared to local workers without extra pay, it is clearly injustice done to them. People often say that guest workers get better paid compared to their native place, but that is a lame excuse. There should be equality in pay and working hours, he stressed. A Rajendran, president of CITU’s district construction labourers wing, said local workers were far better skilled than guest workers. “However, when a worker is asked to do the work of two people, quality is obviously compromised,” he said. A corporation official said the civic body is way ahead of other cities when it comes to progress of smart city projects. Projects like Kunnathur Chatram, Mahal Beautification, multi-level car parking, tourism plaza and one side of Periyar bus terminal works will be completed in three to four months from now with the local workers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/local-workers-not-matching-up-to-guest-workers-say-contractors/articleshow/76185464.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Exams must for all medicos, say central councils; MUHS to decide now||Nagpur: At a time when state government proposed to cancel all examinations, including final year examination of conventional universities in Maharashtra due to Covid-19 pandemic situation, the issue of health science courses exams remains unanswered. After medical education minister Amit Deshmukh asked Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to seek guidelines from central councils of medical education, the state varsity has started receiving the same from respective councils. Almost all the councils — right from Ayush, dental and nursing — have advocated to conduct all examinations of all students of health sciences, irrespective of the year of semester. The Medical Council of India board of governors (MCI-BOG), which is the most important council in the present situation, is yet to issue guidelines for examinations of modern medical science courses (MBBS/MD). However, MCI is also set to follow the trend of other central councils, with some more relaxations to modern medical science students as they are working as front-line Covid warriors. TOI has in its possession the examination-related guidelines issued by the Central Councils of Indian Medicine (CCIM), Dental Council of India and Nursing Council and all of them have recommended that examinations are must for all students of health sciences. Guidelines clearly state that examinations should be conducted and university should take a call on how to conduct them ensuring proper safety of students. Deshmukh said the health university will only take final call. “I have discussed this issue with MUHS vice-chancellor . The university is working on the details, but awaiting clarity from central councils so that they can act swiftly,” he said. Sources at MUHS informed that the university has made two or three different plans to conduct examinations following the central council guidelines. But, all examinations of health science courses are most likely to be conducted in Maharashtra. What councils have suggested to MUHS - It is must to conduct proper examination of all UG and PG students - Universities should inform students about exam schedule at least 2-4 weeks before - If college hospital is Covid-19 hospital, clinical exams may be conducted in nearby college hospital - Pre-clinical subject’s examination (practical) may be taken online - It is mandatory for university to issue mark sheets to each student - Mark sheets must have mention of marks secured in each subject Relaxation for students - Student to be allowed to select nearby college as examination centre - Norm of mandatory attendance (75%) may be relaxed - Lockdown period may be treated as ‘deemed to be attended’ by all students - No additional cost to students as a result of disruption in teaching, evaluation process - Strategies like online submission of dissertation for PG students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exams-must-for-all-medicos-say-central-councils-muhs-to-decide-now/articleshow/76184802.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Pregnant woman ends life over harassment||Hyderabad: A pregnant woman committed suicide in her Malkajgiri home on Tuesday vexed over harassment by her husband. A case was registered by police, who said the accused, Sai Charan, would be taken into custody soon. Malkajgiri police said M Bhanu (28) hanged herself using a chunni. Neighbours alerted her family about Bhanu’s extreme step. In their complaint, family members said Charan had been harassing their daughter to get money to meet his daily needs. Police said Charan is unemployed. The couple got married a few months ago. She was in early stages of pregnancy. A case was registered under sections 498-A and 306 of IPC. In another case, a woman hanged herself in KPHB. She also allegedly faced harassment from husband and in-laws. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-woman-ends-life-over-harassment/articleshow/76185482.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Allahabad||2 held in Kanpur for allegedly killing couple in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Two men were arrested in Kanpur on Wednesday who had allegedly killed a couple in Prayragraj and escaped to Mahrajpur in Kanpur. The arrested duo, identified as Meraz and Siraz and residents of New Mehdauri colony, confessed to have killed the couple on June 1 and dumped their bodies near Sangam area. Both of them are known to be the nephews of the slain couple. Prayagraj SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj told TOI that blood stains were spotted in the house of the slain couple who were missing for the past three days. The SSP added, “On Wednesday, one Rizwan approached Shivkuti police to inform that his elder brother Irfan and his wife had been missing since June 1.” The couple was living in Mehdauri colony under Shivkuti police station of Prayagraj for the past several years. Acting upon the complaint, local police reached the residence of the couple named Mohd Irfan (47) and Husna Begum (44). Although the couple could not be found, police blood stains inside the house. The police immediately called forensic experts and sniffer dog squad. During investigations, police came to know that the couple were quite well off. They had recently sold out a piece of land worth Rs 28 lakh in Puramufti area in Kaushambi district. Locals told police that they had last seen the couple on May 31, and since then, their whereabouts were not knowm. SSP, however, said, “Things will be clearer once both the accused men arrested in Kanpur, who are also nephews of the couple, are brought back to Prayagraj.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-held-in-kanpur-for-allegedly-killing-couple-in-prayagraj/articleshow/76185568.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Walking without masks at Sukhna Lake can be risky, say doctors||CHANDIGARH: Wearing masks in public places is a prescription for prevention against Covid-19, along with hand hygiene. However, when it comes to walking or jogging, should masks be still worn? Doctors say that masks are advised only in crowded and public places. But for those who jog or walk briskly in places where less people visit and can stay cautious not to touch their face often, can do away with the mask. However, there is no clear guideline on this from any scientific or health agency. “Masks are meant for public places. One can feel breathless while running as the fresh air is blocked when the mask is worn. So if you walk alone, there is no need to wear a mask during strenuous workout,” said Dr S K Jindal, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine, PGI. Moreover, respiratory masks like N95 are meant only for wearing at contaminated or infected places like hospitals. “Otherwise, a cotton fabric three ply mask is suitable for people. However, not wearing the mask properly and not covering it till the nose and touching the same again and again makes the safety guard worthless,” said a doctor in PGI. He said, “If one has to walk in public places like Sukhna Lake, not wearing a mask will be risky. We expect cases to rise as the same is happening in other parts of the country. So, it is time to stay protected.” When asked why is a mask considered as protection against the spread? A PGI doctor said, “The virus can be spread with droplets of cough, sneeze or even while talking with an infected person. As there can be a carrier without symptoms, it is recommended to cover mouth to avoid the droplets from transmission.” He said, “A cotton fabric-based mask can be used by people. But for those who are residing in the risk areas, respiratory masks are required which are meant for one-time usage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/walking-without-masks-at-sukhna-can-be-risky-docs/articleshow/76185459.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Shop timings extended by one-hour in Panchkula, to open 6 days in week||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula administration has extended one-hour time for the shops to remain opened and the main market will be allowed to open six days in a week. Haryana assembly speaker-cum-Panchkula city MLA held a special meeting with the Panchkula administration and asked them to prepare a plan to open shops till 8 pm. The officials stated that following the 1.0 lockdown guidelines, essential shops which used to open from 8 am to 6 pm, have now been asked to open between 7 am and 7 pm. Chemist shops can be opened for 24 hours on all seven days in a week. All the other non-essential shops can open from 9 am to 7 pm for six days in a week. These shops will remain closed on Sundays. The rehri market in Sectors 7, 9, 11, 17, Rally, Abheypur, Haripur Maheshpur, Buddanpur, Jaisinghpura, Bhainsa Tibba have also been allowed to open by following social distancing norms. Deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja said, “More relaxations in timings have been given. The rehri markets have also been allowed to open by following the 1.0 lockdown guidelines. Residents are requested to come out only when it is required and also to strictly follow all the guidelines.” Apart from this, MLA Gian Chand Gupta asked the officials to prepare a plan to open shops till 8 pm in Panchkula on a par with Chandigarh and Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shop-timings-extended-by-1-hr-in-pkl-to-open-6-days-in-week/articleshow/76185488.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur reports 29 Covid-19 cases, tally goes up to 417 with steep rise in single day||KANPUR: There seems to be no end to the troubles of the health department as just a day after the city recorded 16 Covid-19 positive cases, 29 fresh coronavirus cases were detected on Wednesday, recording one of the biggest spike in a single day. The rise in the Corona cases is being witnessed after unlocking of the shutdown. With 29 fresh cases, the total tally of the district has reached to 417 of which 310 persons have been discharged and sent home after being cured. So far, the city has witnessed 13 deaths due to Covid-19 and total active Corona cases are 94. According to the health department, the new cases have come up from areas including Meharban Singh Ka Purwa, Swaroop Nagar, Shiv Nagar Vidyut Colony, Barra-3, Sujatganj, Mannipurwa. The most cases have been found in Shivnagar in Govind Nagar area following which the area has been declared hotspot and is being sealed. The health department is now busy tracing the contact history of the Covid affected people. Meanwhile, five people, who were earlier diagnosed Covid-19 positive, have been discharged after their two test reports came out to be negative. These five patients were admitted in Rama medical college in the city. Also 20 persons who were quarantined at KDA quarantine house have been discharged and were sent home. Around 78 teams of the health department visited the containment zones imcluding JK Colony, Harjinder Nagar, Baba Ghat, Munnapurwa and Shivrajpur where they made people aware about precautions to be taken from Covid-19. The teams visited over 5,000 houses and answered to the queries of the people. The health department also collected 460 new samples for Covid testing, the results of which would come soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-reports-29-covid-cases-tally-goes-up-to-417-with-steep-rise-in-single-day/articleshow/76185588.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Two medicos stranded in US since December, wait for ministry response||CHANDIGARH: Two MBBS medical students doing internship from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, have been stranded in the US due to the coronavirus pandemic, since December. The doctors, with the help of the college officials, apprised the ministry of external affairs last month, but they are still waiting for a response. The two doctors had gone to the US for clinical clerkship (a voluntary training during internship) on tourist visa and because of which they cannot work there to sustain. Dr B S Chavan, director principal at GMCH-32, in his letter to the MEA, had mentioned urgency in bringing back these students as they have to complete their compulsory rotating internship at GMCH-32, which has already started, and any further delay, would adversely affect the two students academic career. Disturbed and anxious, Dr Akash Kartik, who had come for clinical clerkship to the US along with his friend Dr Gagan Kalra, has run out of money. “I was contacted by the Cleveland clinic and Mayo clinic during my internship to come and learn their way of working. I arrived at Cleveland in December until March 22. However, when the pandemic struck here, all the flights to India were cancelled immediately. It has been more than two months and I am still waiting to go back. I am out of funds and I can’t sustain here anymore as I am on a tourist visa which will expire on June 23,” said Dr Akash. He said as he could not pay the rent for his accommodation, after a few days of concession, he was asked to leave. “I had borrowed cash and had no electronic money. So I asked for help from my family. But things are too expensive here without a job,” he added. He said, “All of this is having an impact on my mental health and I am severely depressed. I tried contacting the MEA, the embassy, but nothing has worked out so far. There are only a few evacuation flights and a lot of other people are stranded like me. I am still waiting for my turn.” Acknowledging that a letter has been received from the medical college, Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher said, “I am forwarding the letter to the MEA. There are many people who are stranded and we are trying to get them back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-medicos-stranded-in-us-since-dec-wait-for-ministry-response/articleshow/76185480.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||THE Asia rankings: Panjab University slips from 136 to 149, tied with IIT, Hyderabad||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has slipped down from 136th rank in 2019 to 149 this year in Times Higher Education Asia University Ranking 2020. This also calls for some cheer as the university shares the rank with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad. In THE Asia ranking, Panjab University topped as traditional university in north India, while Amrita University stood second as private university south India, and Savitribai Phule Pune University stood third in India. If compared IIT Hyderabad scores with PU in six parameters for ranking, it is interesting to know that in the overall category, both the institutions bagged 34.2 score, while later scored higher in citation which is 56.6 as compared to IIT Hyderabad which scored 52.4. Even in teaching category, the score of PU is 32.1 and IIT got 29.8. In three parameters, IIT gave a tough competition to PU which is industry income, international outlook and research. IIT got 39.4 in industry income, while PU got 34.9. In international outlook, IIT got 17.7, while PU scored 16.5. In research, IIT got 22.3 and PU scored 17.6. Professor Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor, said over the last few years, the university made a substantial progress in research scores, which is reflective of increased research output of faculty, both in terms of published work and research income. Incubator and start-up projects were launched on the campus last year, which has shown the results in the rankings. Professor Ashish Jain, internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) director, said the university has much to celebrate after the ranking in which we have not slipped even an inch in any of the scores. He said, “The only criteria where we had no control, was faculty-student ratio. If we were able to recruit faculty, we would have scored a lot better and would have certainly led the punch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/the-asia-rankings-pu-slips-from-136-to-149-tied-with-iit-hyderabad/articleshow/76185469.cms||Aarti Kapur
June 4, 2020||India||254 deaths in a day take India toll past 6k||India registered a record single-day rise in Covid-19 cases with 8,723 patients testing positive on Wednesday, the third day of the unlocking of the country, even as 254 more people died, taking the cumulative toll beyond the 6,000-mark to 6,079. With 254 casualties – India’s second highest single-day toll (the highest was 270 on May 29)– the country continued to breach the 200-mark for the sixth consecutive day even as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases reached a new high in Delhi (1,513), Tamil Nadu (1,286), Gujarat (485) and Andhra Pradesh (180). With a record 122 deaths, Maharashtra alone accounted for 48% of the country’s casualties on Wednesday, followed by Delhi (50 deaths), Gujarat (30), Tamil Nadu (11) and Bengal (10). Maharashtra’s toll surpassed the 2,500 mark to reach 2,587. The state government claimed that the rate of increase of cases has nearly halved from 7.76% on May 1 to 4.15% on June 1 even as 2,560 new cases were added on Wednesday, taking the overall case count to 74,860. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the rate of increase in cases has come down to less than the national average of 4.74%. “This proves that the rate of spread of Covid-19 is slowing down in the state,” the public health department said in its statement. While the number of total cases in the country rose to 2,09,468, on the positive side, 1,03,984 of them or 49.6% have recovered. Gujarat registered a record 485 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 18,117 even as 30 more patients died, bringing the state toll to 1,122. However, on the positive side, Ahmedabad pipped Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai by registering a recovery rate of 71%. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said out of 12,525 Covid-19 positive patients recorded till Tuesday, 8,889 or 71% have got discharged. “The recovery rate has improved from 17% in the first week of May to 71% in the first week of June,” said an official. The surge in Tamil Nadu figures continued with 1,286 fresh cases, taking the state’s tally to 25,872. With 11 more deaths, the toll crossed the 200 mark and reached 208. Delhi also reached a grim record by crossing the 600 mark by registering 50 more deaths, taking the state’s toll to 606. Rajasthan reported six more deaths, taking the state toll to 209, even as 279 fresh cases were recorded on Wednesday. With 100 deaths, state capital Jaipur alone accounts for 48% of the casualties. In a worrying development, eight more employees of the state’s biggest government medical facility, SMS Hospital, tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of employees infected with the virus in the last 48 hours to 21. Not only the staff of SMS hospital, but such cases were also reported from Kanwatia hospital, JK Lon hospital and Mahila Chikitsalaya. Madhya Pradesh recorded seven more deaths, taking the toll to 371. Andhra reported four more deaths, taking the toll to 68, even as the state recorded 180 fresh cases, highest in a day. A majority of those who tested positive were linked to people who returned from other states. Seven foreign returnees also tested positive. The neighbouring Telugu state of Telangana reported seven more deaths, the highest single-day casualty even as 129 more persons tested positive for the deadly virus. Health authorities said they are worried as many hospitals have reported serious cases. “The number of patients in the ICU has been on the rise. Currently, over 170 patients are in ICU in various designated Covid-19 hospitals,” said a senior official from the state health department. In Uttar Pradesh, after recording two biggest spikes of 300-plus cases in less than a week, the state’s tally nosedived on Wednesday with just 141 new cases in the last 24 hours. Only one casualty was reported on Wednesday. Even as Assam recorded 111 fresh cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 1672, the state’s recovery rate improved from 14% to 24% in just three days. As many as 76 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the recovery count to 413.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/254-deaths-in-a-day-take-india-toll-past-6k/articleshow/76186417.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kanpur||Coronavirus creeps into rural pockets as migrants return home||KANPUR: The novel coronavirus is creeping to the rural belt, with an increasing number of cases being reported from neighbouring districts of Kanpur that were until recently untouched by Covid-19. On Wednesday, three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Farrukhabad, while 12 positive cases were reported in Kannauj on Tuesday. Besides, six positive patients were detected in Auraiya, five in Unnao and four in Etawah. In Kannauj, the pandemic has started turning green zones into orange zones. “A mother-daughter duo who had returned from Gurugram, infected ten members of their family in Galla Mandi area of Chhibramau, which has turned from green to orange zone. “The Covid tally of the district jumped to 72 from 60 in the past 72 hours,” informed district health department sources. “With this large-scale influx of migrants from urban cities to villages, the rural areas cannot be ignored and need special attention as far as monitoring is concerned. Infected people are being home quarantined or admitted to hospitals with the help of community management,” said CMO Dr Krishna Swaroop. District authorities have roped in block development officers besides village heads and Civil defence volunteers to take due care to avoid spread. “At present, we are in the process of contact tracing of infected persons. A Rapid Response team which includes Dr Atif Hasan and Dr Brijesh Shukla have been sent to Chhibramau’s Galla Mandi area where ten members of a family tested positive on Tuesday, leading to the district’s highest single-day spike in tally,” added the CMO. An awareness and preventive measures programme is also being organised by the health teams to fight the pandemic. A senior health official preferring anonymity, meanwhile, told TOI that the situation is alarming in rural pockets. “Migrants coming back to the villages are violating the protocol. They are escaping quarantine centres, besides using the same water resources,” he said. The official further said that social distancing is a new concept for rural folks.. “If there is a marriage or mundan ceremony in the vicinity, everyone around gathers to celebrate,” he added. Auraiya, Etawah, Farrukhabad and Unnao have also witnessed a similar trend. Farrukhabad has 36 positive cases, Unnao has 40, Etawah has 50 and Auraiya has 32.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/coronavirus-creeps-into-rural-pockets-as-migrants-return-home/articleshow/76185623.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
June 4, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 cases cross 200 mark in Kashi, Jaunpur||VARANASI: With the detection of 13 new Covid-19 positive cases, including a fellow doctor of Homi Bhabha Cancer Institute and a new channel staff of Delhi on Wednesday, the total tally of Varanasi touched the mark of 203 while Jaunpur left it behind after 25 new cases took the total number of infected persons there to 208. In Mau, a community health centre was sealed after its in-charge was found Covid-19 positive. A total of 10 new cases including the CHC in-charge were found in Mau while seven new case in Ghazipur and one in Chandauli district also came to light. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said four members of the family of the landlord of an infected health employee from Tarna hotspot area had been tested positive. Apart from them, a fellow doctor of Homi Bhabha Cancer Institute was also found infected. Among eight migrants found infected, one is an employee of a new channel in Delhi, who had returned home by flight on May 27. Sharma said with newly detected 13 infected persons, total number of cases in district has reached to 203. Of it 123 have become cured while four had died. Now, active cases in Varanasi is 76 while number of hotspots reached to 104. Regarding Jaunpur, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said that total number of Covid-19 positive cases in this district has reached to 208 following detection of 25 new cases on Wednesday. Most of them are migrants, said officials. Detection of one infected person in Olandganj area led to panic in this busy markets as with the spread of new of such confirmation the shop owners started pulling down the shutters in afternoon. In Mau, DM Gyan Prakash Tripathi confirmed that 10 new cases came to light on Wednesday after which total tally of district reached to 49. On them one had died while 10 became cured. Now active cases in the district is 39. The in-charge of Mohammadabad Gohana CHC was also among these 10 infected persons. Tripathi said that with the confirmation of infection in this CHC in-charge the centre was sealed for 24 hours for proper sanitisation while contact tracing of other staff had also been started. A woman of Mahatwana locality in Chiraiyyakot area and her two daughters were also tested positive. In Ghazipur, the detection of seven new cases mostly from Kasimabad and Karanda area, took the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the district up to 135, said DM Omprakash Arya. In Chandauli district, DM Navneet Singh Chala said that one native of Majhgava village in Naugarh area, who had returned from Maharashtra, had been tested positive. His sample was sent for laboratory test on May 25. Now, total positive cases in Chandauli has become 27 of which 11 are in active category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-19-cases-cross-200-mark-in-kashi-jaunpur/articleshow/76184849.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sanjay Singh uses official tickets to fly 33 migrants home||NEW DELHI: Using the 34 flight tickets that he is entitled to as a Member of Parliament, Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh helped 33 stranded migrant labourers reach Patna from Delhi. The workers, who had been in the capital for years, wanted to go back to their hometowns as they were worried about their families during the extended lockdown. The migrants reached out to Singh through different sources, including social media, and narrated their woes. Moved by their plight, the Rajya Sabha member then decided to use his air tickets. He took them along on a flight to Patna on Wednesday evening. “They badly wanted to go back home, so I decided to help them in this time of crisis and gave up my tickets,” Singh said. The 33 migrants are natives of Darbhanga, Patna, Siwan, Chhapra, Nawada and other districts of Bihar. They worked in various factories and business establishments in different parts of the city. “Some of them reached out to us via Twitter, calls or through someone they knew,” said an official, adding that the workers were desperate to unite with their family members hit hard by the lockdown. The workers gathered at the MP’s residence in the afternoon where they had lunch and left for the airport on a bus. All social distancing norms were followed by making them sit at a distance in the bus and they were given masks to wear. At the airport, they went through thermal scanning before boarding the flight. An MP is entitled to 34 business class tickets in domestic flights every year. If another person has to travel, the MP has to accompany them. Later, Singh flew back to Delhi from Patna. The migrants flew for first time in their life and described their experience as an amazing and unforgettable moment. Appreciating the move, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “The move by Sanjay ji, will inspire all. Those blessed with resources should use them in the service of others.” The AAP MP will be helping more migrant workers fly to their hometowns. With the help of social organisations, Singh has arranged a chartered flight to ferry 180 people from Delhi to Patna on Thursday. Another dozen migrants will be taken in a second flight. Recently, Singh had also started arranging food and buses for stranded migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/singh-uses-official-tickets-to-fly-33-migrants-home/articleshow/76185509.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 4, 2020||Kanpur||UPMRC completes work of first pile cap in just 18 days||KANPUR: After resuming civil construction of viaduct and stations on May 15, the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation completed the first pile cap on Tuesday. UPMRC MD Kumar Keshav congratulated the metro engineers on this development. UPMRC had received approval to resume the civil construction work of viaduct and stations by the Kanpur district adminiastration on May 15. As the civil work of of the Priority Corridor being built between IIT to Motijheel was resumed with the available labourers, the UPMRC team completed the construction of the first pile cap on Tuesday in just 18 days. Besides, UPMRC has also mobilized six rig machines for piling work and roped in available workers in the process. The corporation has constructed 64 piles so far amid the lockdown. Congratulating the team of UPMRC engineers on resuming the work with full spirit, MD Keshav said, “Unavoidable circumstances can slow down the pace of our work for some time, but can’t stop us. UPMRC engineers and contractors are working with great zeal to regain the time lost and the more and more labour force are returning to the construction site in Kanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/upmrc-completes-work-of-first-pile-cap-in-just-18-days/articleshow/76185605.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Extortionist and aides slapped with MCOCA||Nagpur: City police have invoked stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) against Roshan Sheikh and his gang members on Wednesday in an offence in which they had targeted a former Bollywood production manager for extorting Rs20 lakh. The victim Vaibhav Dani and his son were allegedly kidnapped from Sadar by the gang and later let off after extorting Rs2.80 lakh from him. Sources said it was a long-drawn property dispute between Dani and one of the accused which led to the kidnapping and extortion. Legal battle is gong on for several years for the property in question. The case was being probed by the crime branch which later had registered an offence at Sadar police station. After Dani’s case, two more offences were registered against Roshan Sheikh and others at Ambazari police station following complaints by one radio jockey and one Ashutosh Mundhada. Sheikh and Mundhada were co-accused in a case of arson in 2018 after they were accused of setting an under-construction hotel on fire. Police said Sheikh has around nine offences against him. Last week, crime branch had recovered fixed deposits receipts worth around Rs1.63 crore during a search at his residence. A few videos of Sheikh brandishing fire arms and thrashing a man had also surfaced on the social media. Apart from Sheikh, his accomplices Irfan Khan, Saleem Qazi and Sohel Khan too have been booked under MCOCA and are behind bars now. Ankit Pali and Ashutosh Singh have received ad interim bail in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/extortionist-and-aides-slapped-with-mcoca/articleshow/76184861.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Visiting Mata Mansa Devi temple? Book slot online||PANCHKULA: Residents who wish to offer prayers at Mata Mansa Devi temple will have to take an appointment before entering the premises. Temples in the Tricity will open from June 8. Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board has prepared a mobile application on its official website mansadevi.org.in, where one can register for an appointment. The person will have to choose the temple, Mata Mansa Devi temple or Kali Mata temple, provide details like mobile number, address and number of family members coming along. M S Yadav, chief executive officer (CEO), Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said, “People usually come with their families to offer prayers at the temple. So, we have given the option of including the number of members accompanying a person”. A person needs to apply for appointment three to four days before he/she plans to visit the temple. The person is required to reach the entry gate of the temple five minutes before his appointment time. Appointments will be given on first-come, firstserved basis. A single person will be given 15 seconds to pray in front of the idol and if the person is coming with the members of his/her family, the time will be multiplied with the number of family members. The entry to devotees will be given in 15 minutes slot basis and 60 persons will be allowed in one slot. There will be special timings for ‘aarti’ and ‘bhog’ and a similar procedure will be followed to take part in them, the CEO said. Yadav said four sanitisers have been kept inside the temple and guards will make sure that people follow social distancing norms. Thermal scanning will be done at all entry points. “No one will be allowed to bring ‘prasad’. However, the priest will give packed ‘prasad’ to devotees. If anyone brings flowers to offer, they will be returned after paying respects to the idols of gods and goddesses.” “The temple will be sanitised from time-totime and we plan to give appointment to 5,000 to 6,000 devotees in a day,” the CEO said. All devotees will have to wear masks and follow social distancing and other guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/visiting-mansa-devi-temple-book-slot-online/articleshow/76185513.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||Man siphons money of GACL MD, held||Vadodara: A 26-year-old man living in Jamnagar was arrested for allegedly siphoning Rs 95,000 from the online payment wallet of PK Gera, senior IAS officer and managing director of Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Ltd (GACL) last year. The cybercrime cell arrested Amitsingh Maan who originally belongs to Haryana but stays in Jamnagar. Sleuths had been investigating the case over last few months and tracked Maan through the bank accounts he operated. “The money he siphoned was deposited in a bank account. We tracked him down through his bank transactions. We will question him to ascertain if any other person was also involved in the crime,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police (crime). Mann is HSC pass and has a case of cheating registered against him in Rajkot too. He used to dupe people to earn some quick money. Gera, who lives in Akota, had approached the police in November last year after Rs 94,999 were siphoned off from his account. The officer told the police that had been receiving smses asking him to complete his KYC procedures for his PayTM wallet. The message said that if he didn’t complete the procedure, the wallet services would be suspended. Gera then called on the mobile number to complete the procedure and Maan received the call. He took all KYC details of Gera and asked him to download Team Viewer Quick Support application on his smartphone. He then asked Gera to open PayTM savings bank account and do a transaction of Rs 10. Gera used his credit card to make the transaction but within few minutes two alerts on his phone that Rs 45,000 and Rs 49,999 were spent through his credit card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-siphons-money-of-gacl-md-held/articleshow/76182313.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||Monsoon to hit Bhopal by June 20||BHOPAL: The less harsh hot weather and early pre-monsoon expected this year are some of the few bright sides of the coronavirus pandemic. Hot weather, usually, remains on peak in May in Bhopal, but due to western disturbances and moisture incursion, the mean maximum temperature of city this time was less than previous years. The temperature on only three days breached the 44 degrees mark, but did not cross the 44.5. Highest maximum temperature in Bhopal this year was recorded on May 25, the first day of Nau Tapa, when the day temperature was recorded at 44.5 degrees Celsius. In total 19 days of May, the day temperature was above the 41 degrees mark, while on remaining days it used to be 40 degrees of less. It led to the average mean temperature of Bhopal this year at around 40 degrees Celsius, which was less from past many years. However, the highest temperature this year recorded on May 25, at 44.5 degrees Celsius, was slightly more than last year’s, when the maximum temperature was 44.2 degrees Celsius. Though the maximum mean temperature in May, previous years, was more due to temperature prominently hovering over 43 degrees mark in the month. Maximum mean temperature of year 2019 was 41.5; 2018 was 42.9; 2017 was 41.9; 2016 was 41.8; 2015 was 42.1 and 2014 was 40.4 degrees Celsius. Besides, in Madhya Pradesh, the monsoon is expected to hit by June 15, and in Bhopal by June 20. If the monsoon hits on expected dates, it would be earliest in the city in past five years. The meteorological officials said the monsoon is not only expected to hit on time in city and state this year, but is also appears to be normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/monsoon-to-hit-bhopal-by-june-20/articleshow/76185551.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Pesticide-spraying drones arrive but locusts stay away||Nagpur: Two drones to be deployed for spraying pesticide on locust swarms reached Nagpur on Wednesday. However, the equipment was not put to use as no locust swarm was spotted. On Tuesday, state agriculture minister Dadaji Bhuse had announced that drones may be used to tackle the locust menace. However, he had clarified that the use would be done considering the probable side-effects. The drones supplied by M/s Aeronic, a private company, have the capacity to carry 10 litres of pesticides and can fly up to a height of 10 meters. Spraying can be done for 15 minutes at a stretch covering an area of 10 acres, said a press release issued by the state’s information department. Bhuse, who was present during the trials, said that drones should be used on need basis. At present, spraying is done through fire tenders and tractor mounted pumps. However, these vehicles cannot access forest areas, hilly pockets or difficult terrain along riversides. Drones may be used in such areas, said the press release. The locust has so far damaged vegetable crops and horticulture plantations, the release said. Sources said there was no estimate of the harm done to the locust swarms by the widespread rains in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pesticide-spraying-drones-arrive-but-locusts-stay-away/articleshow/76184878.cms||Shishir Arya
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Saurashtra: Lions rule 30k sq km, territory grew by 400%||AHMEDABAD: The Poonam Avlokan which has been announced for the first time by the forest department will cover an area of 30,000 sq km, the biggest surveyed so far in terms of lion footfall.  The lion kingdom in Saurashtra has registered an increase of 400% in the past 19 years. The territory which was near 6,000 sq km in 2001, now stretches across 30,000 sq km. Announcing the lion census, the forest department said that the 300 forest beat guards will fan out across the 30,000 sq km to count the rulers of the forest. “Each beat guard will have to cover an area of about 100 sq km, which is a huge challenge,” said a forest official. The population of Gir lions has grown from 327 in 2001 to nearly 750 as at the last Poonam Avalokan in May this year, registering a growth of 114%. The latest figure, however, does not include lionesses with cubs, who usually go into hiding to save cubs from other lions. “Usually, once the cubs are born, the mother goes in hiding to save the young ones from other lions. They hide in areas which are difficult to reach. Hence the count of 750 does not include such females and the newborn cubs.” A senior forest official said, “The department has asked the field staff to upload photos along with the locations and time of lion sightings so that the count is more accurate.” H S Singh, a lion expert and a member of the National Board for Wildlife said, “The number of lions is increasing due to conservation efforts by the state government and the people of Saurashtra. There has been no killing or poaching of lions in the region except some sporadic incident of electrocution or falling in wells.” He said that the lions are pushing the boundaries of their kingdom and reaching out to new places. But I feel that the core lion kingdom is in an area of 13,000 sq km where they are regularly sighted. Areas like Surendranagar cannot be said to be in their regular territory.” A senior officer refusing to be identified said that the department now has to put in place better disease surveillance and form a task force to meet regularly and talk on disease management. The department has to accept that with the growth population lions are now staying close to humans and domestic cattle infections are going to happen. “All we need is a nearly 1,000 sq km of national park which will help us to keep the animals at least in that area safe from any kind of outbreak,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lions-rule-30k-sq-km-territory-grew-by-400/articleshow/76184895.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Mystery death of jail warder’s son in Sector 22||Chandigarh: A 22-year-old man died under mysterious circumstances after he fell from the third floor of his friend’s house in Sector 22 on Tuesday. The victim is Vishal Rana, a resident of Modern Jail Complex, Burail, Sector 51. His father is deployed as a jail warder. Family members suspect foul play. They lodged a complaint with the UT SSP. Naresh Rana, father of the victim, said his son had left home on Tuesday to stay at the room of his friend Anmol. Anmol was living with a woman friend. Rana said he received a call from Sector 17 police around 8 pm on Wednesday to reach Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. He said cops told him his son had died around 1pm on Tuesday. Rana said Anmol told him that Vishal was sitting with them in the room when someone knocked on the door. “Vishal presumed his father had come. He went to the balcony and accidentally fell while trying to climb the roof to hide himself,” Anmol claimed. Police said Anmol fled but was traced in the evening. Police claimed the victim was a drug addict. Family maintained he had not taken any mood enhancing substances in eight months. They demanded a fair probe into the role of his friends. Police claimed they have taken evidence for examination. Police on Wednesday constituted a board of doctors and conducted the post-mortem. Sector 17 police registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC and initiated inquest proceedings. The exact cause of the death would only be known after the post-mortem report and action would be taken against the erring person, cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mystery-death-of-jail-warders-son-in-sector-22/articleshow/76185529.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 33 firing accused associates of Lawrence Bishnoi||CHANDIGARH: The five men who had fired 17 bullets at the house of liquor baron’s brother in Sector 33 on May 31 were associates of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi who had arranged the car for them that was used in the crime, police investigation has revealed. Cops said the five accused reached Zirakpur on Sunday morning and took a Ford Ikon car from Sewak alias Guri, an associate of Bishnoi. A crime branch team arrested Guri from near the light point of DT Mall of IT Park on Wednesday evening. Police claimed to have recovered a country-made pistol and eight live cartridges from his possession of Guri. Police also recovered his Hyundai Creta SUV. Sources said Guri had received a WhatsApp call from Bishnoi lodged in a jail in Bharatpur in Rajasthan a few days back, asking him to arrange a car for his men as they wanted to drive around the city. Guri borrowed the vehicle from his friend Gurdeep Singh of Banur, not handing over his Hyundai Creta SUV as he suspected the five could carry out some crime, police said. However, Guri, sources said, had no clue about the firing plans of the accused. Guri had come into contact with Bishnoi through his aide Deepu, who is lodged in Ambala jail. After the firing, the accused returned the car to Guri at Zirakpur. Guri gave the vehicle back to his friend the same day. The next day, the operation cell recovered the car from the outside of the house of Gurdeep Singh in Banur. Police have detained Gurdeep Singh. Police recorded his statement before a magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC. Sources said members of the Bishnoi gang had fired bullets at the Playground discotheque in Sector 26 on the night of December 1, 2019, and Guri had provided assistance to the shooters. Police are investigating that case too. Sec 9 firing: Cops cluelessIn the Sector 9 liquor store shooting case, police have failed to make any headway. Police have gathered mobile dump data of the site near the crime scene and are scrutinising phone numbers. Meanwhile, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore chaired a crime review meeting at Raj Bhawan on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by UT adviser Manoj Parida , DGP Sanjay Baniwal, SSP Nilambari Jagadale and others However, DGP UT highlighted that crime like Burglary, auto thefts , snatchings, and robberies have decreased by 67 percent to 33 percent in the this year in comparison to last year in same time period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-33-firing-accused-associates-of-bishnoi/articleshow/76185535.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘College exam fees to be adjusted’||Ahmedabad: After directing varsities to conduct college level exams for terminal semester students in undergraduate courses, the state education department today issued a notification that the exam fees paid by candidates of intermediate semesters will be adjusted for the next semester. According to the government’s guidelines issued on May 24, the academic performance of students in intermediate semesters for UG courses will be weighed by ‘Merit Based Progression’ system. In the fresh directives on Wednesday, the government said that for courses including BEd, LLB and BLib, exams will be conducted in lines with PG exams. “This means that exams will be held for semesters 2,4 and 6 in case of LLB students while for BEd candidates, exams will be held for 2nd and 4th semesters,” said a source. Also, special exams will be held in the month of August-September for students who reside in containment zones or who are infected with Covid-19 and cannot take the exams. For overseas students and for students residing in other states, varsities can conduct online exams, according to the new guidelines. “Also, for varsities like Gujarat Technological University and Gujarat University, exam centres can be set up in different districts,” it said. In another notification, the department said that candidates can avail exam hall tickets online. All colleges in the state are currently closed due to Covid-19 pandemic hence classes should be conducted online from June 21 for 3rd, 5th and 7th semester students. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/college-exam-fees-to-be-adjusted/articleshow/76184902.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||AMU to conduct final sem, backlog exams online||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University has decided to conduct online open-book examination for all final semester undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Backlog exams for the previous semester, term or year will also be held through this alternative mode, according to notification issued by the registrar Mr Abdul Hamid (IPS) and the controller of examination, Mr Mujib Ullah Zuberi. This was decided in an online consultative meeting of deans of faculties, principals of colleges and polytechnics and other functionaries of the university, in view of the Covid-19 situation and potential threat to health and safety of students, especially those coming from other states and union territories. According to the AMU administration, the online open-book examination for the final semester will be held after July 10, 2020, while backlog exams via this mode will be held from July 5 to July 10, 2020. Further details of the online exams, including dates, will be communicated by the office of the controller of examination, later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-to-conduct-final-sem-backlog-exams-online/articleshow/76182691.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to get new panel by June-end||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will get a new standing committee by the end of this month as the term of the existing ones end on June 6. It is the apex body of the civic body and takes important policy decisions, including according sanction for all works above Rs 2 crore. “A notification to elect new members will be released this week,” a GHMC official said. The committee consists of 15 corporators. Like the earlier committee, the new committee too would have nine members from Telangana Rashtra Samithi and six from All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen as Bharatiya Janata Party and Indian National Congress lack quorum in the GHMC council. The standing committee members are elected by the 150 GHMC corporators. The committee plays a vital role in giving sanctions. Any work exceeding Rs 2 crore would have to be approved by the committee headed by Greater Hyderabad mayor B Rammohan. As per norms, works below Rs 2crore could be approved by the GHMC commissioner and zonal commissioners. The term of the newly-elected committee might be for just six months as the corporation is likely to go for polls in January or February. Generally, the standing committee members get a chance to serve GHMC for a year. The standing committee meeting would be held on Thursday, the first during the lockdown. The last standing committee meeting was held on March 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-get-new-panel-by-june-end/articleshow/76185560.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 4, 2020||Agra||Battered by lockdown, petha industry seeks relief from government||AGRA: The traditional petha industry of Agra has joined the list of worst-affected sectors, whose functioning has been severely crippled due to lockdown. With lockdown restrictions easing, the petha makers in Agra said they have started operations, but added that it will take them at least a year to recover their losses incurred during the three-month lockdown. According to the industry estimates, there are around 600 cottage units in Agra. The makers claimed that their business will continue to suffer until the tourists start visiting the city. They want the government to help them to tide over their losses. Presently, the central government and the state government has not made any announcement regarding the opening of Taj Mahal and other archaeologicalsites in the district. “At least 50,000 people are associated with the petha industry in Agra. On an average, 800 metric tonne of petha is produced in the district on a daily basis. Following the sudden announcement of the lockdown, manufacturers and retailers had to distribute hundreds of tonnes of petha free of cost. It will take at least one year to overcome the impact of lockdown. The government should come forward to help the industry recover,” Rajesh Agarwal, secretary, Noori Darwaza Petha Union, said. According to the petha association leaders, manufacturing and sale of petha generates a business of Rs 500 crore annually. From Agra, tonnes of petha is supplied to Haryana, Delhi, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Jaipur, Indore and Mumbai. A few of the makers also have tie-ups with e-commerce platforms to supply the sweet to other states. “The entire industry is badly hit by the lockdown. Even after opening the markets in Agra, our business will largely remain affected. There are no orders for us to supply. Tourists are our major consumers. The business will start recovering only after the tourists start visiting the city,” said Amit Goyal, managing director of Panchhi food private limited, one of the largest petha brands of Agra. “The government has so far not taken cognizance of the challenges being faced by the petha industry. For now, the government should at least declare the petha industry tax-free,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/battered-by-lockdown-petha-industry-seeks-relief-from-government/articleshow/76182699.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Highest single-day jump at 1,513 cases||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, with 1,513 more persons testing positive for the virus. The previous highest single-day spike of 1,298 cases was recorded on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases of Covid-19 in the state has crossed 23,000 mark to reach 23,645 – third highest after Maharashtra (74,860) and Tamil Nadu (25,782). Delhi’s death toll has reached 606. State health officials said 50 fresh deaths were confirmed by the death audit committee on Wednesday, of which 41 fatalities took place between April 15 and May 30 and nine deaths were reported from May 31 to June 1. “The number of new cases are likely to go up further in the coming days. We estimate up to 2,000 cases daily by next week,” said a health official. Delhi’s daily count of Covid-19 crossed the 1,000 mark for the first time on May 28, when 1,024 new cases were reported. Since then, the numbers have been going up daily – except on June 1, when 990 new cases were reported. According to government data, Delhi has 13,497 active cases of Covid-19. Of this, 3,446 are admitted in various hospitals. “We have 8,386 beds. Of this, 4,940 are vacant,” a government official claimed. Officials also said that more than 100 ventilator beds are available across hospitals. Total 8,405 Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, as per government records. Many private hospitals and healthcare firms have come up with facility for remote-monitoring of patients recuperating at home. “We are mostly enrolling Covid-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild illness. Our staff speaks to them on regular basis to know about their vitals such as oxygen saturation, fever and cough,” Gaurav Thukral, chief operating officer of Healthcare at Home, said. He added that this helps in reducing the anxiety of patients staying in isolation and also reduces the burden on hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 management. “The biggest challenge in home isolation is that many people do not have separate room with attached toilet. They want to get admitted to a hospital or Covid care centre to ensure that their family members don’t get the infection from them,” said a senior doctor at Apollo Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/highest-single-day-jump-at-1513-cases/articleshow/76185563.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||Agra gurdwara feeds over a million during lockdown||Agra: Several gurdwaras in the country received high praise for their dedicated community service during the Covid-19 lockdown. And one such popular gurdwara in Agra stood out for feeding over a million people and distributing nearly 5,000 footwears to the distressed migrants who have been braving the blistering heat and walking hundreds of kms to reach home. Guru ka Tal gurdwara in Agra continued with its ‘langar sewa’ or community kitchen and provided food for all the people, including migrants and the city's needy, in the past two months - even as its doors remained completely shut for devotees due to the lockdown. The community kitchen, in fact, has been operational round the clock, serving hot food to those coming at its doorstep. Besides, the gurdwara distributed 5,000 rubber slippers and shoes to migrant workers. Notably, the food preparations here start at five in the morning and continue till late at night. "We have set up a tent outside and are serving meals on paper plates with all precautions, while maintaining social distance," said Baba Pritam Singh of the management committee. Singh added that fruits are also provided with the meal. Though, earlier, on any given day around 12,000-13,000 people visited the gurdwara for "langar", but, according to him, their numbers increased during the lockdown and now they are feeding around 18,000 people a day. He pointed out that they don’t keep any record of the quantity of food prepared per day, but assured that "no one will ever go hungry from here". The kitchen has adequate stocks of food grains for at least six months to a year - largely from donations by farmers of Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and Sitarganj of Uttarakhand. "According to Guru’s directions, these farmers donate 'dasvandh’ [10 per cent] of their total produce to the gurdwara annually," he added. "Our 500 staff usually stay inside for routine work along with preparing food and organising everything," said Gurnam Singh from the committee, adding that all the people involved in the kitchen work are strictly advised to sanitise their hands before entering the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-gurdwara-feeds-over-a-million-during-lockdown/articleshow/76182684.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||UT steps in, says school fee cannot be increased||CHANDIGARH: There will be no hike in school fee for the academic session of 2020-21. Tuition fee will be charged at the same rate of 2019-20. Private schools will have to display fee structure on their websites and inform the UT administration on or before June 15. These details were a part of a fresh order UT administrator V P Singh Badnore issued under Disaster Management Act 2005 in “public interest” on Wednesday. The order comes after the education department received complaints from parents that schools were collecting extra charges besides tuition fee. On May 18, the department had asked all schools to charge only tuition fee per monthly from parents and deposit the amount by 15th of every month from June. Many schools have already hiked the fee, while some were to charge the increased fee from June. The department had also directed the schools to upload income and expenditure account and balance sheets according to provisions of Section 5 of Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to Chandigarh. Most of the private schools have not complied with the provisions of the Act. Most of the schools have also not uploaded the complete fee structure on their websites. Affiliation bye-laws of CBSE, 2018 (7.3) stipulate that all affiliated schools shall charge fee under the heads prescribed and approved by the state government. The new order stated, “There will be no increase in school fee for the year 2020-21 without specific approval from the administration. Tuition fee will be charged at same rates, as was charged in 2019-20. No hidden/additional charges will be included. All private schools shall display the details of fee structure (specifically tuition fee), as per the provisions of section 5(c) of Fee Regulation Act, 2016 on their website and will also intimate the same to administration on or before June 15, 2020.” The administration noted that neighbouring states have given directions not to increase the fee owing to the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-steps-in-says-school-fee-cannot-be-increased/articleshow/76185549.cms||Kamini Mehta
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Chandigarh fifth in Covid-19 deaths per million’||CHANDIGARH: The city is fifth in the country for Covid-19 deaths per million till June 1, according to calculations by Dr Rijo M John, a consultant economist and public health policy analyst based in Kerala. The analyst has considered the projected population for 2019. The deaths per million for Delhi are the highest at 26.27 followed by Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The deaths per million for the country stood at 4.14, while Chandigarh’s was 3.51. Now, with five deaths, the city figure is 4.73. "I have considered the Covid tracker as the source and the government’s portal for population projection until 2020." said Dr John. The population data was taken from GOI's UIDAI projections for 2020. The analyst did these calculations after the cases started increasing daily. “As the number of Covid-19 cases near 2 lakh and growth rate is around 4.6%, it is important to see how stressed healthcare infrastructure is in each state in terms of number of hospitals and beds.” For the hospital bed strength, Chandigarh ranks at the top in the country. There are 4,939 beds per million in the city, while the national average is 1,403. U’khand man tests +ve in cityA 25-year-old resident of Uttarakhand who visited his mother in Sector 21, Chandigarh, tested positive on Wednesday. The patient worked in Patel Nagar, Delhi. He came from Delhi on May 22 to visit his mother working in a house. He developed fever and sore throat on June 1 and visited Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, the next day for check-up. He has two family contacts living in domestic help quarters of the house in Sector 21 and three other contacts (the owner’s family). All of them were quarantined and sampled on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-5th-in-covid-deaths-per-million/articleshow/76185566.cms||Shimona Kanwar
June 4, 2020||Agra||Cong workers held for demanding release of party’s state chief Lallu||Agra: Mathura police on Wednesday arrested Congress workers who were staging a protest, demanding the release of party’s Uttar Pradesh chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who was booked and lodged in the jail on the charges of forging documents of buses arranged by his party for ferrying stranded migrant labourers during the coronavirus lockdown. Nearly 30 workers led by Congress' district unit president Deepak Chaudhary gathered on the collector’s office premises and staged a protest. Circle officer (city) Alok Dubey said nine Congress workers, including two women, were arrested for flouting prohibitory orders imposed in the district. Later, they were remanded to police in 14 days of judicial custody. Talking to the media, Chaudhary said that they were staging a peaceful protest, demanding the release of their party president who was wrongly booked by police. “If required, we will stage protests on the roads,” warned Chaudhary, alleging that “the government is making laws only for us (opposition) and not for their own people”. The bail plea of Lallu, who has been in judicial custody since May 21, was rejected by a special MP-MLA court on Monday. After a standoff between the state government and the Congress over the grand old party’s offer to run 1,000 buses for migrants, Lallu was arrested twice in Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cong-workers-held-for-demanding-release-of-partys-state-chief-lallu/articleshow/76182710.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||FMSCI recommends Agra karting champ’s name for Arjuna award||Agra: The governing body of the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI) has recommended the name of 15-year-old kart racer Shahan Ali Mohsin for Arjuna award. The Agra teenager had in the past four years won several karting titles, including Asian Championship and Asia Max Karting Championship (Malaysia). In 2019, Mohsin became the first Indian to qualify in the top ten at Italy Rotex Grand Final, which is recognised as "karting Olympics".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fmsci-recommends-agra-karting-champs-name-for-arjuna-award/articleshow/76182716.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Doctor suicide: AAP MLA’s brother gets bail||NEW DELHI: Brother of arrested AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal, whose bail was rejected in an alleged extortion and abetment to suicide case of a doctor, has been granted anticipatory bail as “no specific criminal act” could be attributed to him. Special CBI judge Virender Bhat noted that Anil was not named in the FIR. “It is also not disputed that there is no specific act attributed to him in the entire suicide note left behind by the deceased, Dr Ranjender Singh,” the court said. The court highlighted that Anil’s name was mentioned at the bottom of the last page of the alleged suicide note and appeared to have been added later. “It is a matter of investigation as to whether or not this portion also is in the handwriting of the deceased,” it said. Anil’s counsel Ravi Drall argued that his client wasn’t named in the FIR and had been cooperating with the police investigation. He also questioned the authenticity of the portion of the alleged suicide note where Anil’s name was mentioned. The prosecutor, on the contrary, alleged conspiracy on the part of Jarwal brothers. Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in south Delhi’s Durga Vihar on April 18. The doctor’s alleged suicide note held Jarwal responsible for his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-suicide-aap-mlas-brother-gets-bail/articleshow/76185582.cms||Aamir Khan
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Administration using ‘Jatkhedi model’ to stem Covid-19 spread||BHOPAL: Jatkhedi which was emerging as a Covid hotspot is now only reporting isolated cases. For now, it seems as the coronavirus crisis has been averted in the area. What was the difference in the approach adopted by the district administration to stem the spread of coronavirus in the locality? In battle mode, the administration adopted the ‘Jehangirabad strategy’ but with some upgrades. Explaining the approach, collector Tarun Pithode said, “Under this strategy, the entire family of a person found coronavirus-positive is shifted to a Covid-care centre, drastically reducing the chances of infection spreading among other residents of the area. After being shifted to Covid-care centre, all of them are tested for coronavirus and those found positive are shifted to Covid hospitals.” In addition to this, intensive contact tracing of the person found positive is carried out. Not only are the ‘first contact’ persons identified and quarantined, but even the ‘first contacts’ of those in quarantine identified and kept under surveillance by health teams. “The strategy is to get the ‘epicentre’ (house of the first infected person) vacated and also get his acquaintances in the colony or elsewhere quarantined before the infection spreads,” said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore. A health survey is conducted among persons with whom the positive person came in contact with and their status is monitored, in addition to strict surveillance in the containment area. “This is how we contained the spread of infection in Jatkhedi, which was emerging as a hotspot but of late only isolated positive cases are coming from the area,” Rathore said. Meanwhile, the district administration, which received a lot of flak for not being able to effectively stop exit and entry into containment areas and not making provision of essential goods for the residents seems to have learnt its lessons as the coronavirus infection continues to grow and is spreading to new areas of the city. “Now we are appointing a volunteer in each area under containment’ restrictions, who provides BMC officials a list of essentials required at each household in the area and only the BMC makes the supply. Entry and exit points are closed and nobody is being allowed to go out of the barricaded area. A publicity campaign is being carried out in all such areas and people are being requested to observe physical distancing norms. We are also distributing masks and sanitisers in those localities,” said Rathore. The same strategy is being replicated in other containment areas and ‘emerging hotspots’ — Mangalwara, Hanumanganj, Qazi Camp and Banganga — to check the spread of the deadly virus.  “We have turned 60 red aeas into green, which is no.mean feat going by the fact that new positive cases are still coming and nowhere else in the state more than 15,000 tests for coronavirus are being conducted anywhere in Madhya Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/admn-using-jatkhedi-model-to-stem-covid-spread/articleshow/76185571.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 4, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Goa rushes to test Mangor Hill-like areas after 47 test positive in a day||PANAJI: Goa’s active coronavirus tally saw its biggest single-day spike with 47 new cases, 42 of which were reported in the Mangor Hill containment zone. After 50 of the state’s 69 active cases came from the densely-populated area, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that the health department has been asked to conduct a screening survey in slums and low-cost housing clusters across the state. He also said that those displaying symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) would be tested. Sawant called the sharp spike in numbers a case of “local tranmission” and, after a meeting with senior health and administrative officials on Wednesday evening, ruled out the possibility of placing the whole of Vasco under lockdown. shooting down demands from many, including Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida. “We haven’t found a single case outside Mangor Hill,” he said. “It is a local transmission. If the infection was detected in various wards of the city, we could call it community transmission.” The CM said that 75 persons from outside Mangor Hill, all contacts of people from the containment zone, tested negative for the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, the state administration has started tracing the contacts of all those who tested positive on Wednesday. “Our focus is on testing all the people of Mangor Hill,” he said, adding that people in Vasco who have fever and other Covid-19 symptoms should come forward to be tested. A testing facility has been made available free of cost at the Chicalim cottage hospital, he said, and it can conduct 2,000 tests a day. Sawant also said that the health department was yet to trace the source of the infection, which afflicted six members of one family. “After discussion, we feel that perhaps the head of the family — the fisherman — came in contact with drivers of fish vehicles from Andhra Pradesh. The symptoms were first seen in the parents,” he said. Among those who tested positive on Wednesday was a welder working at Kadamba Transport Corporation’s (KTC) mechanical unit in Margao. South Goa collector Ajit Roy then ordered staff of the unit to undergo Covid-19 tests. He said the welder wasn’t a KTC staffer. “We have asked all those working in the unit to go for the tests,” he said. Meanwhile, all three entrance points to the Mangor Hill area have been blocked, and locals have been supplied with essential commodities. The other five Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday include two who travelled by road from Maharashtra. Two passengers who arrived in Goa by air from Dubai have also tested positive, as has one person who came to Goa from Hyderabad. One of the cases, a two-year-old child, will be accompanied by her mother in the Covid-19 hospital. Sawant, referring to reports of two Dubai travellers testing positive, said that if they were allowed to go home instead of being placed in facility quarantine, they would have spread the infections to others. He was referring to a commotion at the Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Tuesday, when some passengers on the flight quarelled with authorities and demanded to be sent home instead of quarantined. Sawant said that the government would take action against them at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-goa-rushes-to-test-mangor-hill-like-areas-after-47-test-positive-in-a-day/articleshow/76186046.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 4, 2020||Agra||Can’t open portals without police deployment: Temple managements in Mathura & Vrindavan to admin||Agra: Prominent temples in Mathura and Vrindavan on Wednesday expressed reluctance to open their portals from June 8 without an adequate police deployment to enforce physical distancing, in the absence of which they said over 80% pilgrims will get infected with Covid-19. Hundreds of temples of the twin towns of Mathura-Vrindavan were shut on March 22 to check the spread of novel coronavirus. After the Centre’s nod to reopen religious institutions across the country from June 8, the temples' managements held a meeting with the district administration on Wednesday. Representatives of several famous temples, including Banke Bihari, Dwarkadhish, ISCKON and Radha Raman demanded police force deployment to maintain the social distancing. Mammu Goswami from Banke Bihari temple said, “If temples open without police deployment, it will be difficult to follow social distancing norms due to the crowds in the narrow lanes that lead to most of the shrines. 80% pilgrims will get infected and temples will have to be shut again, if proper care is not taken.” While chief executive officer of Rangnath temple, Angha Shri Niwasan demanded that the administration should restrict the movement with passes and allow only a limited number of people to visit temples. “The main problem is crowd management outside the premises andtemple managements are not equipped to handle this," he said. Sri Ram Prabhu from International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) said, “Managing crowd in temples across Vrindavan and Mathura is a big task. If the administration doesn’t agree with our demand then we will allow only our members to enter the temple.” When contacted, city magistrate Manoj Kumar said, “We have discussed all issues and asked them (the temple managements) to put their suggestions/objections in writing. The report will be submitted to the district magistrate who will take the final decision." During the meeting, the temple committee members were in favour of not allowing offering of flowers and prasad to deities by devotees as a precautionary measure. Besides, sanitizer dispensers will be installed at the temple’s entry gate and devotees will have to wear masks at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cant-open-portals-without-police-deployment-temple-managements-in-mathura-vrindavan-to-admin/articleshow/76182705.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Worker killed in explosion at fireworks factory||Virudhunagar: A 43-year-old worker was killed in an explosion that took place in a fireworks factory near Amathur in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as P Malliswaran from Maruluthu village. Malliswaran was alone in the chamber when the explosion took place. Police sources said the incident took place in a fancy fireworks nuit in O Kovilpatti village, owned by Rajkumar, 47, from O Sankaralingapuram. The unit had obtained licence from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation in Nagpur. Police sources said the employees started their usual work on Wednesday morning in 30 separate chambers in the factory. Malliswaran was mixing chemicals in one of the chambers, when there was an explosion due to friction. While Malliswaran died in the impact, employees from other chambers ran for their safety. Fire tenders from nearby places rushed to the spot. The body was shifted to the government hospital for postmortem. Based on a complaint a case was registered with the Amathur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/worker-killed-in-explosion-at-fireworks-factory/articleshow/76185579.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fresh lion count could dispel concerns about recent deaths||The full moon count will now be conducted by about 300 forest officials on June 5 and 6Ahmedabad: The state forest department is planning to carry out its monthly survey of the Asiatic lion population on June 5 and June 6, which will act as a base for planning of lion-related activities in the state. This comes after the state’s plan to hold a full-fledged five-year official census that was due this year, was deferred due to the Covid-19 outbreak.A large number of lion deaths in the past two months have sparked concerns among wildlife activists, many of whom say that a deadly virus like the canine distemper virus (CDV) could be the reason behind these deaths. The new population estimates are expected to show a considerable rise in lion numbers in Gujarat, and will likely dispel concerns about these deaths.“These deaths seem to be natural. If the lion numbers are far higher than the 2015 numbers that are taken as reference, the recent deaths should not be a major concern. We are waiting for the report of the team which comprised of Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Delhi and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) officials,” said a senior official with the ministry of environment, forests and climate change. He said the report is expected in the next 10 days.The census, which otherwise sees the participation of at 500 volunteers and wildlife enthusiasts, will be done by the state forest officials only this time. While forest officials said that this is being done due to Covid-19, wildlife activists say it raises questions about transparency.MLAs and sarpanches of various villages are likely to be involved in the two-day exercise, sources said. The numbers are estimated to 25% higher than the last count of 523 animals in 2015, sources said. The department has also begun a drive for Covid-19 testing of the foresters who are to participate in the survey. The Asiatic lion population is distributed in nine districts of Saurashtra: Junagadh, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar, Botad, Porbandar, Rajkot, Porbandar and Surendranagar, covering 30,000sq km, called the Asiatic lion landscape. The population estimation conducted every five years, was earlier to take place between June 3 and June 6, said Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment. “This exercise sees a lot of participation from wildlife enthusiasts, NGOs and volunteers in addition to the forest department personnel. However, owing to the Covid-19 situation and advisories of the central and state governments, the Asiatic Lion Population Estimation 2020 shall not be conducted as planned from June 3 and 6. The involvement of locals, NGOs and volunteers unfortunately cannot be allowed in these testing times. The full moon count will now be conducted by about 300 forest officials on June 5 and 6. The count will give us an estimation for the future planning as the official census cannot be held now,” said Gupta.A team from the Centre which was recently in the state following reports of lion deaths, left on Monday, said sources. At least 30 lions have died in the last two months or so while an equal number have been captured. Of the captured lions, five were released in the wild and a few of them that were sent to Sakkarbaug Zoo, are believed to have died, sources said. As many as 15 lions are still in captivity, sources added. The large number of deaths seemed to follow a pattern similar to the canine distemper virus (CDV) outbreak of 2018, which killed 27 lions in a similar span of time, according to a wildlife expert. The state forest department has denied that the deaths were due to CDV and said that a few could be due to babesia, a tick-borne pathogen. The department had captured about 30 lions during the CDV outbreak of 2018. They are yet to be released. Wildlife experts say that symptoms like coughing, fever, salivation followed by death in four to five days along with presence of pus in lungs, would point out to the re-emergence of CDV. Babesia alone cannot cause so many deaths, they say. In the last few days, five lion deaths took place in the Gir forest region, with the department recovering the bones in only one case. This has made some experts speculate that the death toll of the past two months may be much higher than 30, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fresh-lion-count-could-dispel-concerns-about-recent-deaths/articleshow/76180581.cms||Maulik Pathak
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||New ‘1-2-3’ rule for opening of shops in Bhopal||BHOPAL: District collector, Tarun Pithode, on Wednesday amended his order on opening of specific shops in markets two days a week. According to fresh order, BMC will mark shops as ‘1’, ‘2’ and ‘3. The shops marked ‘1’, will open on Monday and Tuesday, shops assigned ‘2’ will open on Wednesday and Thursday and with ‘3’ on Friday and Saturday. Till the process of marking shops is underway, the existing arrangement for opening of shops will continue. This number system will not apply on medical shops, stand-alone shops, shops in residential complexes and shops with license of the state government. The collector further said that apart from medical shops, all shops will close at 8:30pm so that night curfew from 9pm could be enforced. President of Bhopal Vyapari Mahasangh, Anupam Agrawal opposed the new system and said it would only add to confusion among traders and customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-1-2-3-rule-for-opening-of-shops/articleshow/76185577.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Bhim Army chief not allowed to enter Haridwar district||HARIDWAR: The district administration of Haridwar on Wednesday didn’t allow Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad (Ravan) and his supporters to enter the district. The Dalit leader was trying to reach Namami Gange ghat where a statue of saint Ravidas was vandalised last week. He had earlier threatened to place a new statue at the spot but the administration denied permission. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, "Keeping in mind the law and order situation, we did not allow the Bhim Army chief to enter the district. A decision on placing a new statue will be taken by Namami Gange officials. Till then, we have covered the statue and have asked everybody to maintain law and order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bhim-army-chief-not-allowed-to-enter-haridwar-district/articleshow/76183829.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||Neurosurgeon tests +ve after operating on patient||Agra: A reputed neurosurgeon in Agra was reported to have tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The 68-year-old corona warrior, who has been now admitted at an isolation ward in Noida, was providing his services at a private hospital on National Highway-2. Health department officials said the doctor had been reportedly infected after conducting a surgery of a Covid-19 patient from Mathura - who was admitted at the hospital and was in a critical condition. Agra's CMO Dr RC Pandey said, "Our teams are conducting contact tracing of the doctor. The hospital's neurosurgery unit has been sealed. Besides, no new patient will be admitted in the next two days. Samples of hospital staffers will be sent for lab testing."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/neurosurgeon-tests-ve-after-operating-on-patient/articleshow/76182732.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||Markets open after 69 days, customers remain missing||Agra: After 69 days of nationwide lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, shops opened in Agra city on Wednesday but customers remained missing. Very few customers visited major markets. Following strict orders of the district administration, shopkeepers made arrangements of sanitization and followed the social distancing protocol. Govt offices witnessed large number of people waiting in queue to get their pending works done. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Except the 35 areas which fall under the Covid-19 containment zone bracket, all the markets have been opened. Each shop will be allowed to operate at least three days in a week with those on one side of the road allowed to operate on even days while shops on the other side will operate on odd days. All the markets will open on Sunday as government offices remain closed. For proper implementation of the plan, five-member committees have been constituted at the police station level. The committees include businessmen, police, administration and GST officials.” “In case violation of guidelines is reported, the entire market will be closed for at least three days. Market association leaders have been directed to take social distancing protocol seriously and sanitize the shops daily,” the DM said. District administration has allowed opening of city parks too. Children below 10 years of age, people above 60 years, pregnant women and those with pre-existing illnesses will be prohibited from stepping out of their homes except for medical reasons. Private nursing homes and hospitals have been allowed to open from Wednesday to offer medical care to patients after observing all protocols, health officials said. Several teams of the department are continuously monitoring and screening people in the 35 containment zones. Schools and colleges, coaching centres, archaeological sites, religious places, hotels, guesthouses, bars, cinema halls and multiplexes, gymnasiums and fitness centres, swimming pools, etc, will remain closed. Restaurants and sweet shops will be allowed to operate as takeaways. Customers will not be allowed to sit in. The administration will be on its toes monitoring every situation for the next couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/markets-open-after-69-days-customers-remain-missing/articleshow/76182726.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||New hotel launches of 2020 deferred by at least a quarter||Ahmedabad: Of the seven new branded hotel properties slated to come up in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, three were all set to be inaugurated in 2020 itself. However, thanks to the near-zero demand and a bleak outlook in the months to come owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and a two-month lockdown, the launch of new hotels has been deferred by at least a quarter or two.Taj Hotel – a 170-room property was to come up on Sindhu Bhavan Road in Ahmedabad and was set to be inaugurated in April 2020. However, the same has now been postponed. “We are all set because the launch was scheduled in April. However, due to the lockdown and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the business is barely there. We will now be launching the hotel by September this year. It makes sense to launch the hotel at a time when the market is looking up,” said Atul Budhraja, vice-president – operations, for the hotel.Taj Hotel in Ahmedabad is slated to grow into a 320-room hotel and the room capacity will eventually be expanded. While the construction has been done for additional rooms, the interior, furnishing and furbishing will be undertaken in days to come, said Budhraja.Similar is the case with The Leela, which was to be inaugurated in Gandhinagar in December 2020. Well-placed sources confirmed that the property’s inauguration has now been deferred to the first half of 2021, owing to the delay due to the lockdown.The bleak outlook for the coming months has left hoteliers in the lurch over bringing in business. Industry sources said that several group bookings at hotels, for events scheduled in December are also getting cancelled. TOI reported in February that Marriott International was expected to launch its new property under its Courtyard brand, along Sindhu Bhavan Road by June this year. However, the company has made no announcement on the launch of its property as of yet. An email query sent to Marriott International about this did not evoke a response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-hotel-launches-of-2020-deferred-by-at-least-a-quarter/articleshow/76184928.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Wasn’t consulted before removal’||Gandhinagar: NCP national general secretary and former Gujarat chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela said that the party leadership did not consult him before removing him as the state party president. Vaghela categorically stated that he has not had any discussions with the party high command over which way the lone NCP MLA from Gujarat, Kandhal Jadeja, should vote in the Rajya Sabha election on June 19. When contacted, the veteran politician said, “I was not aware of the party decision to remove me from the party’s state responsibility.” He went on to say: “When I came to know of it, I requested the high command to defer the decision until the lockdown is lifted. Then I can travel to Mumbai and meet party supremo Sharad Pawar. However, the party decided to go ahead with its decision.” When asked if he had suggested to the leadership to prevail on Kandhal Jadeja to vote against BJP candidates in the Rajaya Sabha election, Vaghela said, “No such discussion took place as I was supposed to go to Mumbai after the lockdown was lifted.” He parried a question on whether his removal had anything to do with changing political equations in Maharashtra. He said, “Frankly, I am not aware about this but will inquire and inform the media and people about the facts on Thursday.” Other independent sources also said that Jadeja’s vote either in favour of BJP candidates or against them was not the primary reason for Vaghela being removed. Political sources said Jadeja allegedly made it clear to the BJP leadership that Porbander SP Parthrajsinh Gohil will have to be transferred if the BJP wanted his RS election vote. Gohil was recently transferred as Mehsana SP, replacing Manish Singh. Jadeja had voted for BJP candidates in the nail-biting 2017 Rajya Sabha election. Vaghela quit the Congress with 14 of his loyalists who voted against Ahmed Patel in the 2017 RS election. His son Mahendrasinh Vaghela also had briefly joined the BJP after the 2017 assembly election. After the Covid-19 outbreak, there was murmuring about Vaghela’s ineffective leadership, after which he swung into action and started making statements against the BJP and the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wasnt-consulted-before-removal/articleshow/76184949.cms||Kapil Dave
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19-positive man dies, another in Pauri quarantine center||An elderly man, who had recently undergone a heart surgery and had also tested Covid-19-positive, died in a private hospital on Wednesday. His sample had been sent for Covid-19 test after the surgery as per protocol, and he had tested positive on Tuesday. The health department, however, claimed that the man died of "refectory shock with severe metabolic acidosis" and did not attribute the death to Covid-19. Meanwhile, Pauri district reported the sixth death at a quarantine centre late on Tuesday. The patient, a middle-aged woman who had recently returned from Delhi with her family to her village in Thalisain block was said to have died of “unknown causes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-positive-man-dies-another-in-pauri-quarantine-center/articleshow/76183843.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 4, 2020||Agra||Three arrested with Rs 20,000 counterfeit currency in Agra||AGRA: Three men, including two Mathura residents, were arrested by Malpura police with alleged counterfeit Indian currency to the tunes of Rs 20,000, including notes in denominations of Rs 10 and Rs 50, in Agra. The accused were identified as Vipin Kumar Jat and Monu Jat, both hailing from Mathura, and Suraj Singh of Kagraul in Agra. According to Malpura SHO Anurag Sharma, “The fake notes were brought from Haryana for circulation in remote Agra villages adjoining Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan borders. Earlier too, Vipin had managed to circulate fake currency in Agra. However, acting on a tip-off on Tuesday night, police caught the trio and seized a country-made weapon and the counterfeit currency from their possession. We are trying to find out the person behind the supply of fake currency from Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-arrested-with-rs-20k-counterfeit-currency-in-agra/articleshow/76182748.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Five-member panel to boost Covid-19 health infrastructure in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Wednesday formed a five-member committee to assess overall preparedness of health facilities to fight Covid-19 cases and suggest measures to augment the health infrastructure in the capital. The AAP government also said that two senior officers have been tasked to coordinate with state and private-run health facilities to ensure that the new mobile app on the availability of beds and ventilators gives out updated information. The five-member committee appointed by the department of health and family welfare will be headed by IP University’s vice chancellor Dr Mahesh Verma and submit its report by June 6. Other members of the team include Dr Sunil Kumar, medical director of GTB Hospital, Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council, Dr RK Gupta, former president of Delhi Medical Association and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director of Max Hospital. According to officials, the committee will guide the government on overall preparedness of hospitals in Delhi, health infrastructure augmentation and other areas where strengthening of infrastructure of health facilities is required for better management of Covid-19 in the capital. Delhi government had appointed its first committee to analyse the preparedness and augmentation of health facilities in March this year, when Covid-19 cases had just started emerging. However, with 23,645 cases registered in the city so far, including 606 deaths, and over 1,500 new cases emerging on Wednesday, officials said it is important that health facilities are augmented to tackle the surge. Meanwhile, with several reports of discrepancies in the data available on ‘Delhi Corona’ mobile application, the government has deputed two senior officials as nodal officers who will coordinate with the health facilities and ensure that correct data on the availability of beds and other infrastructure is relayed to public. People also complained that hospitals are denying availability of beds while the app shows they have vacant beds. The government also said that the app is updated on the basis of the data provided by individual hospitals and the discrepancies emerge due to inaccurate information being given. Since the app is new, the officials said that teething problems are bound to happen and efforts are being made to streamline the system. “The information about the bed status comes from the hospitals. If any of the hospitals claim otherwise to any patient, we will take action immediately,” a Delhi government functionary said. “Over the next few days, we are aiming to provide real time information to everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-member-panel-to-boost-covid-health-infra/articleshow/76185599.cms||Atul Mathur
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Constable, who was turned away by four hospitals, tests positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: A constable of Chaderghat police station, who tested positive for Covid-19, was sent back from King Koti hospital without collecting samples for testing when he went for a checkup on Monday. Also, another hospital turned him away, saying he did not exhibit symptoms of the infection. After visiting four hospitals on Monday with a request to test him for Covid-19, the constable was finally admitted to a hospital at Nampally after the intervention of senior officials and his samples were sent for testing on Tuesday. At 10.30am on Monday, the 40-year-old constable of Chaderghat police station went to a hospital in Malakpet complaining of breathing trouble and profuse sweating. The constable requested doctors to admit him, but due to non-availability of beds, he was instructed to visit police hospital at Amberpet Police Lines. The doctor there referred the constable to King Koti Government Hospital for Covid-19 test. “Doctors at King Koti Government Hospital examined the constable. Saying that he did not have any Covid-19 symptoms, including fever, cough, they did not recommend him for Covid-19 testing,” Chaderghat inspector P Sateesh said. Not satisfied with the advice of the doctors, the constable went to NIMS. After examining him, the NIMS doctors said that he did not have any Covid-19 symptoms, the inspector said. “Despite doctors saying that he did not have the infection symptoms, as he was feeling unwell, the constable went to another hospital at Nampally. Our additional inspector Nagaraju sent an SI with the constable, they spoke to the doctors at that hospital and got him admitted. On Tuesday, his samples were collected and sent for testing. The result came positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital,” the Chaderghat inspector said. The constable’s wife and their two children have been placed under quarantine and their samples would also be sent for testing. Five cops, including two SIs and three constables who were secondary contacts of the constable, have also been placed under home quarantine. The constable, a resident of Dabeerpura, worked at the picket near a place of worship in Chaderghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-who-was-turned-away-by-4-hosps-tests-ve/articleshow/76185591.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||VMC lab technician among 34 new cases, nCov tally in Vadodara now 1,152||Vadodara: An employee of the health department of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) was amongst the 34 new Covid-19 cases reported in the city since since Tuesday evening. The total number of cases in the city is now 1,152. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 remained at 45 with the civic body not declaring any deaths officially. The health department employee who tested positive was a lab technician at the Navidharti urban health centre. The area under the health centre has been witnessing a large number of new positive cases and even deaths. The employee may have caught the infection on duty. The north, east and south zones continued to reel under the viral infection and reported 13, nine and eight cases. The west zone of the city witnessed only one case even as one case was reported from Savli taluka in the rural areas of the district. The man who tested positive from Savli taluka had come there from Ahmedabad. Two persons from outside the district also tested positive. As many as 34 Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city. These include 11 from private hospitals, 13 from home isolation and 10 from Covid care centres. With this the total number of patients discharged in Vadodara reached 701. At the other end, 406 patients remained hospitalised including 33 on oxygen support and 13 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-lab-technician-among-34-new-cases-ncov-tally-in-vadodara-now-1152/articleshow/76182296.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||Woman councillor dies after testing Covid +ve in Firozabad||AGRA: A woman councillor of Ward 46 in Firozabad, succumbed on Wednesday, after she was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night. The 60-year-old woman, who was unwell for the past few days, had provided her samples on May 30. Firozabad's DM Chandra Vijay Singh said, "She tested positive and died at an isolation ward in Saifai, Etawah." According to health department, her family's samples has tested negative, but they have been asked to remain in quarantine. Earlier, another woman councillor of Ward 2 had died on May 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-councillor-dies-after-testing-covid-ve-in-firozabad/articleshow/76182757.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Agra||SNMC to have 100 level 3 beds||AGRA: The Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) in Agra will now have 100 level 3 (L3) beds for Covid-19 patients suffering from other major health problems. Besides, the number of level 1 (L1) and level 2 (L2) beds will also be increased. According to officials of the health department, sufficient arrangements are being made since there is possibility of a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases due to relaxation in lockdown. District magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh said, “Asymptomatic coronavirus patients below 60 years of age are being kept in the L1 facility. Our teams are working to increase the number of L1 beds from 1,700 to 2,500. In the L2 category, symptomatic patients and those above 60 years of age are being kept. The number of beds in this category will be increased from 420 to 1,000. Besides, the L3 facility in Agra is being developed at the SN Medical College. Here, treatment will be provided to patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 and are also suffering from other heath issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-to-have-100-level-3-beds/articleshow/76182738.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Experts ask users to be careful while uninstalling Chinese mobile apps||MANGALURU: As #BoycottChineseApps began trending on social media and the calls for giving up Chinese products were made by many celebrities, several social media users are now posting screen shots claiming their phones are now free of Chinese applications. This online campaign gained momentum after Sonam Wangchuk, an engineer turned educator asked people to use wallet power to boycott made in China software in a week and hardware in a year. However, amidst this growing trend, cyber experts warn of greater threats that includes data breach as they claim apps must be uninstalled with caution. Speaking to TOI, Ananth Prabhu G, professor, Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management and cyber security expert, said India reportedly had 1,026.37 million active mobile users — on 2G, 3G and 4G networks – in 2019 and the number would have only increased this year. The budget segment phones are dominated by Chinese smartphone brands. “Even as we have listed alternative non-Chinese apps, data breach is a major concern. For the user, it is important to delete the account first before uninstalling the app. The biggest blunder most people do is to link Facebook and Google accounts to the app to register and login instead of creating a new account. Users must create separate profiles for apps, deactivate/delete it before uninstalling an app. “It is also recommended to download an antivirus and scan the phone after uninstalling the app. There have been several instances of users saying they are no longer on a particular social media platform, but their profile being still active. China is not only earning thousands of dollars per day as revenue through its apps, but has also received all our data,” he said, adding that ‘Remove China Apps’ has been pulled from Google Playstore, but those who have downloaded it are advised to uninstall it as it has many security loopholes. Gagan Jain, CEO, Cybersafe Bangalore said, “Budget range phones are dominated by Chinese phone brands and these phones come with certain inbuilt apps and uninstalling them would have an impact on the functioning of the phone. Privacy invasion has been happening for long. Many Chinese companies are making money by selling cheap phones and getting more personal data. Often mobile users fail to read the agreement in detail before logging on to the phone,” said Jain, adding that data breach risks are high when using electronic gadgets such as security cams connected to the apps. What’s lacking in India In India, most of the app-based startups are service related. The need of the hour is to make investments in R&D and develop groundbreaking apps. New technology and gaming should be taught as part of engineering curriculum so that India develops its own games. India also needs to develop an indigenous operating system, hardware and software, which should be encouraged and promoted by the government under the Make in India initiative, said Ananth Prabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/experts-ask-users-to-be-careful-while-uninstalling-chinese-mobile-apps/articleshow/76184102.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 4, 2020||India||‘Delhi’s Covid positivity rate doubles’||NEW DELHI : The positivity rate for Covid-19 has doubled in Delhi, remains worryingly high in Maharashtra and is nudging downward in Gujarat, an analysis of two 15-day intervals from May 7 to June 1 for the three states that have recorded a high number of coronavirus cases shows. The positivity rate -- confirmed Covid-19 cases per 100 tests – for the country as a whole has increased from 5% to 6.41% and the Covid graph for confirmed cases continues to rise though at an even pace. In Delhi, the positivity rate has doubled from 7% in the May 7-21 fortnight to 14% during May19-June 1. Maharashtra continues to have the highest positivity rate though the rise over the two periods has been modest, from 18% to 18.46% meaning almost one in every five tests is returning a positive result. A large chunk of Maharashtra cases are from Mumbai. Gujarat has seen a marginal decline in the positivity rate from 9% to 8%, pointing to modest success in keeping the disease in check. Among other states, the situation in Bihar is worrisome, with the positivity rate rising from 5% to 9% during this period. Delhi and Bihar now have the fastest growth in confirmed cases after Maharashtra, though the capital has recorded many more cases. The positivity rate over a two-week period is a parameter utilised by governments to assess whether lockdown rules can be eased. High positivity and fatality rates can be indicative that a state may be testing the sickest and not screening enough sections of the population. While contact tracing and testing are key to containment of the pandemic, most states, and India as a whole, have recorded low fatality rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhis-covid-positivity-rate-doubles/articleshow/76186457.cms||Pradeep Thakur
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Prisoner dying in jail due to neglect a serious issue: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court took cognisance of a petition filed by a prisoner who alleged that one of the inmates of Morshi open jail in Amravati died due to neglect of authorities there. According to the petitioner, deceased Pradip Gadekar was suffering from some serious ailment. “This petition is virtually in the nature of Public Interest Litigation (PIL) as it relates to an issue regarding neglect of prisoners by the jail authorities at Morshi. The issue is serious and raises question mark on the attitude and functioning of prison authorities,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor said. Quoting petitioner Ramesh Kisan Rathod, the judges said if this is allowed to be ignored, other prisoners may face similar tragedy in future. The issue, therefore, is required to be dealt with appropriately, they said. While issuing notices to respondents, including DIG (Prisons) in Nagpur and Morshi jail superintendent, the bench directed them to reply within three weeks. Jail’s medical officer Kanchan Sonare, in-charge jail SP Ashok Malvad and guards Manohar Pate and Ankush Tejankar are other respondents. The petitioner through counsel Mir Nagman Ali prayed for registration of offence under Section 304A of IPC for culpable homicide and setting up of a committee headed by officer not below the rank of district and sessions judge for investigating Gadekar’s death. He argued that Gadekar met with tragic death due to respondents’ irresponsible behaviour and sheer negligence. “Gadekar could have been saved had authorities taken him to the nearby government hospital for treatment well in time,” he said. According to him, all the convicts in jail are witnessing the irresponsible and negligent behaviour of respondents. “About 42 of them are ready to depose about the death but deposition should be outside the jail as they face threat from respondents,” he said. The petitioner also contended that whenever any convict complains about health problems, he is prescribed some pills but not taken to the hospital even if critical. What petitioner stated * Prisoner was suffering from ulcer on tongue and was in severe pain * He requested authorities to take him to hospital, but it was neglected * He was given some pill and told that guard was unavailable to take him * He applied for furlough leave for treatment, but wasn’t released * On November 16, 2019, he started severely bleeding from mouth * When he was finally taken to the hospital, doctors declared him critical * 3 days later, he succumbed to his ailment after being shifted to Amravati||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prisoner-dying-in-jail-due-to-neglect-a-serious-issue-hc/articleshow/76185601.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Details of those who have returned during lockdown being prepared; most have left their jobs: CM Trivendra Rawat||DEHRADUN: The state government is preparing a detailed report of the locals who returned to Uttarakhand from various states during the ongoing lockdown, CM Trivendra Rawat said during a digital press conference on Wednesday. He added that te returnees would be offered loans and grants under the Chief Minister Swarozgar Yojana. As many as 125 different sectors have already been identified under the scheme which is meant to boost reverse migration, he added. The CM said that till date, around 2 lakh people have returned to Uttarakhand. “Majority of the returnees had gone out of work in other states. A detailed compilation of their educational qualification, skills, training sessions attended, address, and PAN number is being done,” CM Rawat said adding that self-employment schemes prepared for the returnees will encourage youths, especially in the hills, to start work in the sectors of their choice. “In addition to this, we are soon going to announce a major tourism project soon. We have developed growth centres to train youths in different sectors and are encouraging them to opt for the agriculture and horticulture sector. We are confident of a positive response,” said the CM. As for the Char Dham Yatra, the CM said that it would start for the pilgrims on June 8. “However, the number of tourists would be restricted to ensure that social distancing, sanitisation, and other precautionary norms are maintained. It is too early to take a call on tourists from other states. We will take decisions after considering the developments in the future,” said the CM. He did not fail to mention that in the first year of PM Narendra Modi-led government’s second tenure at the Centre, many key decisions have been taken. “Most of them have directly or indirectly benefited the people of Uttarakhand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/details-of-those-who-have-returned-during-lockdown-being-prepared-most-have-left-their-jobs-cm-rawat/articleshow/76183856.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Goon stoned to death by rivals||Nagpur: Annu Thakur (Baghel), earlier slapped with Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act, was stoned to death by rivals near his residence at Ita Bhatta chowk on Wednesday. It is learnt that Thakur, having several offences against him, had been released from jail about a week ago. He was arrested for robbery. Thakur and his rivals had torched each other’s property in 2018. Names of Sonu Pathan, Usman Ali and others have come to fore as prime suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-stoned-to-death-by-rivals/articleshow/76185622.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Surat||Cyclone Nisarga to dump heavy rain in south Gujarat||SURAT/RAJKOT: South Gujarat districts were bracing for extremely heavy rainfall accompanied by winds gusting up to 70kmph on Thursday as Cyclone Nisarga saw heading towards north-east Maharashtra after making a landfall south of Alibaug. The district administrations of Valsad, Navsari, Surat and Bharuch as well as the union territory of Daman were geared up to tackle possible destruction caused by the inclement weather conditions. “On Thursday, heavy to very heavy rains very likely at isolated places in the districts of South Gujarat region namely Dangs, Navsari, Valsad and in Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Narmada, Bharuch, Surat and Tapi,” stated a bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ahmedabad. Thunderstorms and lightning with light to moderate rainfall is predicted in isolated places in most parts of Gujarat, IMD said. Relief Commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters that over than 63,700 people living close to the sea in eight districts have been moved to safer places. Of these, nearly half (33,680) were in Valsad district, bordering Maharashtra, alone. There was no rainfall or untoward incident reported from any of the vulnerable districts on Wednesday but weather remained squally in most parts under the impact of the cyclone “The wind speed may increase up to 60 to 70 kmph as the cyclone is moves in south Gujarat direction,” said Patel. As many as 18 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and six teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed at different locations. In Surat city, more than 8,000 people living kutchha or precarious houses were shifted to shelter homes and schools building were opened for people wish to move there,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. "Though cyclonic storm has been diverted, we are not out of the woods yet. People are advised to stay indoors,'' Pani said in a message to the citizens. Kutch and Saurashtra’s coastal districts of Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Jamnagar, Porbandar and Kutch also reeled under strong winds and rains in some parts while storm surge was seen in the sea. Kutch witnessed squally and wet weather for nearly three hours beginning 4pm with winds blowing away roofs of at least seven houses in Bhuj and Nakhatrana talukas. Traffic movement was disrupted as trees got uprooted by gale while a signboard on national highway near Khavda collapsed on a chakkda. An old big tree uprooted in Mandvi town due to which an internal road of Bharapar-Baladiya was closed. The dome of mango market in Anjar town was also blown blown away. Porbandar too received around 9mm rainfall on Wednesday while wet weather prevailed in Palitana, Sihor, Gariyadhar and Sihor in Bhavnagar district and Maliya Hatina, Keshod, Manavadar taluka of Junagadh, Bhanvad taluka of Devbhumi Dwarka and Jamjodhpur taluka of Jamnagar district. According to sources, at least 200 electricity poles collapsed in Junagadh, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Botad, Amreli and Surendrangar district, resulting in power outages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nisarga-to-dump-heavy-rain-in-south-guj/articleshow/76183925.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||Cyclone Nisarga to dump heavy rain in south Gujarat||SURAT/RAJKOT: South Gujarat districts were bracing for extremely heavy rainfall accompanied by winds gusting up to 70kmph on Thursday as Cyclone Nisarga saw heading towards north-east Maharashtra after making a landfall south of Alibaug. The district administrations of Valsad, Navsari, Surat and Bharuch as well as the union territory of Daman were geared up to tackle possible destruction caused by the inclement weather conditions. “On Thursday, heavy to very heavy rains very likely at isolated places in the districts of South Gujarat region namely Dangs, Navsari, Valsad and in Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Narmada, Bharuch, Surat and Tapi,” stated a bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ahmedabad. Thunderstorms and lightning with light to moderate rainfall is predicted in isolated places in most parts of Gujarat, IMD said. Relief Commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters that over than 63,700 people living close to the sea in eight districts have been moved to safer places. Of these, nearly half (33,680) were in Valsad district, bordering Maharashtra, alone. There was no rainfall or untoward incident reported from any of the vulnerable districts on Wednesday but weather remained squally in most parts under the impact of the cyclone “The wind speed may increase up to 60 to 70 kmph as the cyclone is moves in south Gujarat direction,” said Patel. As many as 18 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and six teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed at different locations. In Surat city, more than 8,000 people living kutchha or precarious houses were shifted to shelter homes and schools building were opened for people wish to move there,'' said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. "Though cyclonic storm has been diverted, we are not out of the woods yet. People are advised to stay indoors,'' Pani said in a message to the citizens. Kutch and Saurashtra’s coastal districts of Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Jamnagar, Porbandar and Kutch also reeled under strong winds and rains in some parts while storm surge was seen in the sea. Kutch witnessed squally and wet weather for nearly three hours beginning 4pm with winds blowing away roofs of at least seven houses in Bhuj and Nakhatrana talukas. Traffic movement was disrupted as trees got uprooted by gale while a signboard on national highway near Khavda collapsed on a chakkda. An old big tree uprooted in Mandvi town due to which an internal road of Bharapar-Baladiya was closed. The dome of mango market in Anjar town was also blown blown away. Porbandar too received around 9mm rainfall on Wednesday while wet weather prevailed in Palitana, Sihor, Gariyadhar and Sihor in Bhavnagar district and Maliya Hatina, Keshod, Manavadar taluka of Junagadh, Bhanvad taluka of Devbhumi Dwarka and Jamjodhpur taluka of Jamnagar district. According to sources, at least 200 electricity poles collapsed in Junagadh, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Botad, Amreli and Surendrangar district, resulting in power outages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nisarga-to-dump-heavy-rain-in-south-guj/articleshow/76188980.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh’s ‘tall’ idea: Can we get giraffes from Africa?||BHOPAL: While we wait for Gir lions to be shifted to Madhya Pradesh, why not get some giraffes from Africa? The MP forest department has already proposed reintroducing cheetahs from Africa in Kuno-Palpur wildlife sanctuary, which has been prepped for shifting of Asiatic lions from Gujarat. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+Does India really need giraffes?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-tall-idea-can-we-get-giraffes-from-africa/articleshow/76185626.cms||P Naveen
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cases surge to 615; first 300 took 63 days, latest 22 days||Nagpur: The district recorded 30 new positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 615. The latest 105 cases were registered in just five days, the fastest century in last 85 days since the district registered the first case. The figures indicate cases are on the rise, probably due to easing of lockdown norms and entry of persons from other districts and states in last 13 or more days. The district registered first 105 cases in 45 days. The next 510 cases have come in 40 days. There were only two deaths from the district on April 5 and 29. Nine deaths were registered in the last 30 days, between May 5 and 30. Three patients from Chandrapur, Amravati and Sagar in Madhya Pradesh (MP) were admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). All three were brought in serious condition and GMCH doctors say they are critical. They tested positive after being admitted here, so they will be counted in the district’s Covid tally. The central and state government had expected peak of Covid-19 between May 15 and 31, but experts have clarified full lockdown slowed the spread. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “The government had projected cases to prepare facilities, based on trend of cases and experience of epidemic in foreign countries. The peak was prevented due to some strategies of central, and state governments.” The central government’s Rapid Response Team (RRT) has also credited lower mortality and cases to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) innovative measures. On solutions to stop increasing cases here onwards, NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar said, “NMC is ready with its plan and it is being implemented. We have continued tracing contacts of positive persons, testing them and giving treatment to positive cases to prevent mortality and spread. We are ensuring effective containment zone planning to curb spread within zones, and to other areas. But cooperation from people is also very important. Containment zones should not be considered as jail, but is for betterment of people residing in the zone and entire city.” Gantawar also said NMC was testing high-risk persons like pregnant women, SARI, COPD etc. The district had registered 68 and 38 cases on May 6 and 7 respectively, which was due to NMC’s mass quarantine model and testing. After this, the cases fell below 15 per day, except for two days. However, in five of the last six days, over 20 cases have been reported. Alarmingly, cases are coming from different localities of the city. The number of containment zones has increased to 40, of which 29 are still being enforced while 11 were denotified. Five more areas are likely to be notified as containment zones. Another worry is the two congested areas — Naik Talao-Bangladesh in East Nagpur and Gaddigodam in West Nagpur — which have become the hotspots in last 15 days. NMC succeeded in ending chains at Satranjipura by detecting patients and giving treatment, and exempted around 75% area from containment zone. Alarmingly, Shanti Nagar and Bajaj Nagar containment zones were denotified, but again witnessed cases in last two days. Nagpur Rural had registered only two cases, both with Delhi footprints in April. Now, the number of cases from rural areas have increased to 35, most of which have come from other parts of the state. These cases too were detected due to proactive measures of the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-surge-to-615-first-300-took-63-days-latest-22-days/articleshow/76185650.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Moneylender kidnaps Ahmedabad man, demands Rs 3 lakh||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Ghodasar area of the city on Wednesday filed a complaint with Anandnagar police alleging that a moneylender kidnapped him from Prahladnagar and illegally confined him, demanding the Rs 3 lakh he had lent the complainant six months ago. In his FIR, Mitesh Bhavsar, 30, who works for a firm in Satellite and lives at Smruti Darshan Society in Ghodasar, stated that he was introduced to the moneylender, Ishwar Vaghela, a year and a half ago by a common friend named Shekhar Patel. Bhavsar said he had borrowed Rs 3 lakh from Vaghela and had given him signed cheques. After that, Bhavsar lost his job and has been unemployed for six months. On Wednesday afternoon, when Bhavsar was home in Ghodasar, he got a call from Patel who told him that Vaghela wanted to meet him at a hotel in Prahladnagar. When Bhavsar went there, Vaghela demanded his money, to which Bhavsar told him he did not have any. After a few minutes of arguments, Vaghela asked Bhavsar to have tea with him at another place. Unaware of his intentions, Bhavsar sat in his car and Vaghela took him to a vacant flat in the Dudheshwar area. Vaghela then threatened to confine Bhavsar in the flat until he got his money. The then told Bhavsar to call his relatives and arrange for the money. Bhavsar made the first call to his friend R K Patel, asking for money. Bhavsar’s friend acted wisely and called the police control room. After a while a team of Anandnagar police reached the spot and rescued Bhavsar. Anandnagar police later booked Vaghela for kidnapping and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moneylender-kidnaps-man/articleshow/76185023.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Fire breaks out in BSNL’s Almora office, mobile services hit||A fire broke out in the optical fibre cable (OFC) room of BSNL’s Almora Exchange due to short circuit late on Tuesday night. Following the accident, the mobile and internet communication facilities of BSNL got interrupted in four districts — Almora, Pithoragarh, Champawat and Bageshwar— of Kumaon region. Banking facilities, individuals, and other Internet-related businesses suffered due to the disruption in mobile services in these districts. The fire brigade controlled the fire in the night itself but the officials informed that the fibre cables of the OFC room had got burnt to a severe degree. They added that they are still estimating the damage done due to the accident. “To resume services at the earliest possible, new fibre cables are being temporarily laid on every section. Traffic is being transferred from one system to another. Services in Almora town have been restored and it is expected that the issue will be sorted in other districts by Wednesday night,” Kaushal Joshi, Junior Engineer, BSNL Almora, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fire-breaks-out-in-bsnls-almora-office-mobile-services-hit/articleshow/76183902.cms||Rohit Joshi
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tobacco trade: Irregularities of Rs 2cr unearthed||Ahmedabad: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department on Wednesday found tax irregularities of Rs 1.96 crore across tobacco product dealerships in Gujarat. The department officials had raided dealerships of some 37 firms, spread across 57 locations in 16 cities and towns of Gujarat over the past two days; over alleged tax evasion. Unpaid taxes worth Rs 1.7 crore were recovered from various dealers by the SGST department officials. Raids were conducted over the past two days because E-way bills generated during the lockdown period led the deperatment to infer that tobacco and tobacco products were being sold in black. Firms from where unpaid tax dues were collected include Kamlesh Enterprise in Surat (Rs 39.88 lakh), Jai Ambe Sales Agency, Kalol (Rs 15.54 lakh), Gajanand Distributors, Vapi (Rs 15 lakh), Girish Enterprise, Ahmedabad (Rs 14.88 lakh) and Shivshankar Tobacco Pvt Ltd, Ahmedabad (Rs 12.84 lakh), according to state goods and services department. Further investigation including inspection of account books and inventory records is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tobacco-trade-irregularities-of-rs-2cr-unearthed/articleshow/76185020.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyclone Nisarga effect: Ahmedabad likely to get rain today||AHMEDABAD: While the impact of Cyclone Nisarga was felt in southern districts of Gujarat with light showers, thunderstorms, and strong winds, the rest of the state remained dry except for sporadic drizzles at a few places. The city, like several other regions of Gujarat, reported cloudy weather on Wednesday. In a forecast on Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) mentioned that Ahmedabad could receive rainfall/thunderstorm by the late evening or night of Thursday. “Thunderstorm with lightning accompanied by strong winds less than 40kmph very likely at isolated places in all the districts of Gujarat,” the forecast said. “Heavy to very heavy rains very likely at isolated places in Dangs, Navsari and Valsad whereas heavy rains very likely at isolated places in Narmada, Bharuch, Surat and Tapi.” The forecast added that Narmada and Chhota Udepur can get heavy rains on Friday as well. IMD officials said that severe cyclonic storm Nisarga crossed the Maharashtra coast close to south of Alibagh with sustained wind speed of 100-110kmph between 12.30 to 2.30pm, 75 km southeast of Mumbai. IMD officials said that it will weaken further in the next 24 hours. Maximum temperature of 38.6°C in Ahmedabad was 2.4° less than average. Minimum temperature of 27.8°C was 0.1° higher. Maximum temperature on Thursday is likely to be around 39°C, the forecast said. Bhuj with 41.4 degrees Celsius was the hottest city in Gujarat, followed by Rajkot and Surendranagar (41 degrees each), Deesa (40.5 degrees) and Kandla (39.6 degrees).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyclone-nisarga-effect-city-likely-to-get-rain-today/articleshow/76185019.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kozhikode||PFI defend their ‘duty’ to give proper burial||Kozhikode: The move from the part of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to entrust the 'controversial' Popular Front of India (PFI) with the task of the burial of the Muslim patients who died of Covid-19 has become a big controversy there. The BJP in Maharashtra has come up with the allegation that the BMC's act has legitimised an organization with suspicious credentials. Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said he was shocked to see the order. In the order, BMC directed all hospitals to contact the PFI coordinators in the event of the death of Muslim patients contracted with the virus. The phone numbers of the coordinators are also given in the order. But entrusting PFI workers with similar tasks is not new to Kerala. PFI cadres were actively involved in relief work during the time of Nipah, two recent floods, as in the present, during Covid-19. "Fadnavis's statement is the latest example of hate politics pursued by the BJP. The party is trying to divide people even at the time of the pandemic," said Nasarudeen Elamaram, national secretary of the PFI. "We have done similar works even in the BJP-ruled local bodies such as Pune Corporation," he said. The PFI leader said their cadres are instilled confidence through various sessions. "We are involved in rescue and relief activities right from the initial days of the organisation. We were engaged in relief works in states such as Gujarat and Assam," Elamaram said. "Muslims believe that it is their religious duty to give a proper burial to the dead bodies. That is why see you see several Muslim organisations engaged in burial services during calamities," he said. "We were asked to perform the funeral rites by the relatives of the deceased persons. It was the health department that suggested our name to the relatives," said PFI worker Sajeer Mathottaam who led the burial rites of a Covid-suspect at Beypore in April. "Health department gave us the instructions on how to wear PPEs and to proceed with the burial at the time of Nipah virus spread in Kozhikode. Our workers had volunteered to do the burial when no one came forward to do rites," he said. "Muslims are taught in madrassas as to how to prepare the body of a Muslim for burial. At the same time it is heartening to see in many places Muslims coming forward to conduct the last rites of non-Muslims too," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pfi-defend-their-duty-to-give-proper-burial/articleshow/76183929.cms||Prashanth M P
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC Bar prez resignation issue ends||Ahmedabad: The managing committee of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association (GHAA) rejected the resignation of its president Yatin Oza, who resigned on late Tuesday evening and sought fresh mandate citing dispute among Bar leaders over ending the virtual court. Incidentally, advocate Oza also withdrew his resignation letter citing overwhelming response from lawyers. He claimed that 25 lawyers even threatened to go on hunger strike if he did not withdraw his resignation. He is opposed to his colleagues in Bar committee who insist that the court functioning should not take place physically in this Covid-19 pandemic. He claimed that the majority of Bar members are facing finance problems due to restricted functioning of the court because the HC benches hear only urgent matters through video conferencing. He had said that he felt helpless in resolving the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-bar-prez-resignation-issue-ends/articleshow/76185018.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||University of Madras awaits a visionary VC||By K Jothi SivagnanamChennai: Once again the search for a new vice-chancellor for the University of Madras has begun, even as the education system grapples with the changes due to Covid-19. For the 163-year-old institution facing a financial crisis, staff vacancies and an impending National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) assessment, only a vice-chancellor of mettle can lay the foundation for a university to regain its lost position.From inadequate finances to wrong appointments, demoralised faculty, lack of motivation among students and overall inefficiency of the system, a large number of challenges await the VC. Priority needs to be given to recruitment. At present, about 60% of the teaching positions and more than 50% of the non-teaching seats remain vacant. Due to this many departments have lost student enrolment, research funding under programmes such as SAP, CAS and DST. Confusing reservation issues for faculty positions is further complicated by scores of litigations. The process of identifying vacancies is difficult as it is politicised within departments. Further, there is a dearth of quality teachers since central universities with better service conditions, age of retirement and hassle-free flow of funds attract better talent. The problem lies in the lack of recruitment rules, irregular appointments and promotions, which VCs in the past have failed to address.The controversy regarding payment of pension to the university staff has forced many good teachers to leave. Pension arrears and some other payments have accumulated to `55 crore and it is mounting with each new retiree every month. The institution handles pensions through a corpus fund, but spiralling expenses after the amendment to the seventh pay commission has created a crisis. For a permanent solution, a financial system for the universities in Tamil Nadu is needed so that the salary and pension liabilities are borne by the state government, as it is being done for government-aided schools and colleges. The second issue that needs to be addressed is the archaic examination system of the university. Based on the age-old central evaluation system, the university has to spend at least `3 crore each semester to evaluate about 13 lakh answer scripts and revalue 1 lakh more. Since most colleges don’t have teachers with the mandatory three-year service criterion for evaluation, teachers from other non-autonomous affiliated colleges have to be brought in. While these teachers complain of not getting paid after six months, questions are also raised on their quality. It is alleged that the number of applications for revaluation is high is a reflection on the poor quality of evaluation. It results in low credibility and poor delivery of an essential service expected from a university — proper evaluation and timely announcement of results. In the aftermath of the pandemic, when most institutions are shifting to online examination and evaluation systems, University of Madras is yet to take any concrete step. At the school level, the Class X examination taken by more than 12 lakh students is an orderly process through a digitised database. Answer sheets of each candidate has their details printed. In contrast, the university follows the age-old dummy number system that is manual written. This allows scope of corrupt practices. An overhaul is needed to ensure economy, efficiency, and speedy delivery of results with credibility.Addressing these issues paves the way for better scores in the NAAC assessment. The university is due in June 2021 for which preparations have to be completed and the self-study report should be submitted in January 2021. The university is yet to take the first step in this direction. The accreditation may be extended to 2021-22 due to Covid-19, but the self-study report still has to be prepared. The National Institutional Ranking Framework score of the Madras university in recent years leaves much to be desired. There are many instances of underutilisation of allocated research funds. For instance, the money under the Ministry of Human Resource Development Ministry’s RUSA 2.0 scheme has not been fully used. The university has also failed to spend allocations under the University Grants Commission, Department of Science and Technology and state government. Soliciting fresh funds with this dismal track record is impossible.For the university to emerge as an institution of higher learning and research, the leadership of an able academician and visionary administrator is inevitable. It is hoped that assisted by the search committee, the governor, who is also the chancellor of the university, will shoulder the responsibility of selecting a suitable candidate who will live up to challenges. (The author is head of department of economics and member- syndicate, University of Madras)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/university-of-madras-awaits-a-visionary-vc/articleshow/76184981.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||Quarantine for 4 cops as prisoner tests +ve||Rajkot: Four cops from Rajkot police were placed under home quarantine on Wednesday after a prisoner from Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad, whose custody they had secured, tested Covid-19 positive.Police said Bhavesh Dabhi was sent to Sabarmati Central Jail under the Prevention of Anti Social Activities (PASA) Act after being booked in a bootlegging case. According to the police, after Dabhi’s involvement into the seizure of 70 cartons of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in Thebchada came to light, parole furlough squad and M S Ansari, sub-inspector with Rajkot special operation group (SOG) went to Sabarmati Central Jail to secure his custody on a transfer warrant on Tuesday. “Before arresting Dabhi officially, we made him undergo Covid-19 test, the report of which confirmed him as Covid-19 positive. Following this, Ansari, Anilsinh Gohil, writer with Rajkot SOG, and Pradeepsinh Gohil and Krushnasinh Zala of the Rajkot SOG, who had personally come into contact with Dabhi, have been sent to home quarantine,” said an official from Rajkot SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/quarantine-for-4-cops-as-prisoner-tests-ve/articleshow/76183960.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Strictly no practicals or viva in June: Goa University||PANAJI: No practical or viva should be conducted face-to-face in the month of June 2020, either at the university teaching departments or the affiliated colleges, Goa University has said in a circular on Wednesday. “All such academic activities will be conducted online. Heads of the university teaching departments and colleges/institutions are requested to kindly adhere to these instructions strictly,” officiating registrar M Shreedhara said in the circular. Teachers of general stream programmes began reporting to colleges across Goa from June 1. The new academic year 2020-21 is set to begin for general stream colleges in the state from August 1. Goa University now in another circular has also said that the examinations for the postgraduate diploma in medical laboratory techniques (PGDMLT) semester II have been postponed to July 2020. The timetable with the new dates will be notified shortly, GU has said in a circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-strictly-no-practicals-or-viva-in-june/articleshow/76185651.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||Two men held for possessing leopard skin in Chhota Udepur||VADODARA: Two persons were arrested with a leopard skin from Surkheda village of Chhota Udepur district on Wednesday. The forest department officials raided the house of Dahya Vankar and his nephew Jenti Vankar when they received a tip-off from Rajesh Bhavsar of Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty on Animals. “We found Dahya and his wife in possession of the leopard skin. As his wife did not have any role, we let her go. Dahya told us that his nephew was involved with him,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. Later during the interrogation, the duo said that they had kept the leopard skin for tantric activities after which they intended to sell it off. “Our teams are investigating if they had sold leopard skin in the past and where and when did they kill this leopard for its skin,” Pandya added. The police, which have detained the accused duo, said they will be formally arresting them once their test report of Covid-19 comes in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-possessing-leopard-skin/articleshow/76182392.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire breaks out in Navrangpura restaurant||Ahmedabad: A major fire broke out at a restaurant in the Centre Building Complex near Vijay Crossroads in the Navrangpura area of city on Wednesday evening. No injuries or casualties were reported. According to an official of the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), the fire took place on the terrace of the building, just above the restaurant, which was being used by their staff. “The entire terrace was used by the hotel staff and a huge amount of waste and other combustible materials were lying there. A fire broke out there and spread rapidly,” said the official. Even common passages were filled with inflammable materials and the common lift was also hazardous to use, added the official. “LPG cylinders were also stored on the terrace and if the fire brigade did not arrive on time there could have been a tragedy. The gas cylinders were procured illegally,” said the official. Two fire tender vehicles and 25 personnel took around an hour to douse the fire and clear the smoke. Another officer said that the wiring were not proper and had caused the fire. After the fire, the health and estate departments were informed. “The estate and health departments of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) were informed, to check if the hotel owner had permission to use the terrace and whether proper conditions were maintained,” said an official. The lifts department and the electricity company were also asked to check if any illegal practices were employed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-breaks-out-in-navrangpura-restaurant/articleshow/76185028.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Local medical device industry slams delays in getting government approval||MUMBAI: Faced with delays in getting regulatory approvals for Covid diagnostic kits, the domestic medical device industry has said that the government is discriminating, and sought a level playing field with importers, in line with the “Make in India” vision. In the absence of a defined protocol for testing kits, the industry has asked for clear guidelines and performance specifications so that indigenously-developed kits can be developed and taken to the market quickly. Companies, including Chennai-based Trivitron Healthcare, Mumbai-based Transasia Bio-Medicals and Vapi-based Meril Diagnostics, are awaiting regulatory approvals for almost a month now, while some face rejections. Manufacturers of diagnostic test kits — reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR), anti-body and ELISA-based technology — feel there is no sanctity in the ‘Make in India’ programme, as importers apparently get fast-track regulatory approvals, industry experts told TOI. With the surge in Covid cases and restrictions being eased in cities, a massive ramp-up in daily tests is required, they added. The daily testing capacity through 480 government and 208 private laboratories crossed a lakh on June 2. As per guidelines, USFDA (US drug regulatory body) or CE (European Union)-certified, imported kits can be marketed in India without an ICMR evaluation, after approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). Only an intimation to ICMR is required. However, for kits manufactured in India, diagnostic companies need a manufacturing license from DCGI, for which ICMR evaluation and factory audit is mandatory. This is even when those kits are already approved by the USFDA and CE. “It is disheartening to see that CE certificates of Chinese, Korean and other origin companies are accepted by DCGI, thus exempting them from ICMR validation for issuing import licenses, but domestic companies with the same specifications are rejected. Further, manufacturing licenses are kept pending for long, for want of ICMR validation as a prerequisite. This is clearly working against the Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Buy Local and Be Vocal’ policy. All emergency import licenses should be withdrawn and all importers must be asked to go through the new ICMR validation protocols with immediate effect, independent of CE/ USFDA certification, for an unbiased evaluation,” GSK Velu, CMD of Trivitron Healthcare, told TOI. Further, on June 1, DCGI said “parallel testing of kits post approval’’ will be required, but there is no clarity on when importers need to do these tests, an industry player said. “Our request is that the Covid-19 protocol be made available to manufacturers, so that their R&D can design and develop the kit in the first stage itself. Their absence or rejection of kits leads to delay in product development, and patient/consumer testing may suffer. According to a communication, ICMR is licensing technology to manufacturers as a ‘Make in India’ enabler. But on the other hand, manufacturers who hold valid European or US certification are confounded with delays of over three weeks to get ICMR validation, and then a DCGI manufacturing approval. Why is there a red carpet for imports and a regulatory red tape for Indian manufacturers?’’ asked Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry. “Just as the Indian pharma industry has become a global leader in making available affordable drugs, the diagnostic industry can become a global leader too, if only the government extends a helping hand,” says Suresh Vazirani, owner, Transasia Biomedicals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/local-med-device-industry-slams-delays-in-getting-govt-approval/articleshow/76185658.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||Amrapali underpass on track||Rajkot: Though the initial part of lockdown kept work in abeyance, but Rajkot railway division utilized the remaining period of the lockdown to expedite work of Amrapali underpass in the city. Looking at the importance of this underpass, work resumed in the second week, from May 11, which will now continue even during the monsoon season, said railway authorities. The blocks have already been erected before the arrival of monsoon and so work will not be hampered, they added. The underpass, being constructed at a cost of Rs 22 crore is expected to be completed in next two years. Amrapali railway crossing in the heart of the city connecting western part of Rajkot to the central part has remained closed for traffic since November last year. The huge chunk of traffic connecting Raiya road has been diverted to other roads. According Rajkot railway division it was difficult to get permission to resume work because of lockdown. “We had to do a lot of paperwork to convince Rajkot district authority to allow us to complete the project within time and before monsoon arrives,” a senior officer said. After the district authority’s nod, railway authorities also obtained permission from Jamnagar district authority to bring labour and machinery. Senior commercial manager of Rajkot division, Ravindra Srivastav said “We need to dig pits to erect the blocks for the underpass which will have to be completed before monsoon. We also got the benefit of suspension of passenger trains due to lockdown to expedite our work.” The division took two engineering blocks for rail traffic and engaged four pokland machines, two crains, earth movers trailer and other machineries for the mammoth project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amrapali-underpass-on-track/articleshow/76183996.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Wildlife poaching more than doubles amid Covid lockdown||Nagpur: There was significant increase in poaching of wild animals during the lockdown period. Moreover, the incidences were not restricted to any geographical region or state or to any specific wildlife area. An analysis by TRAFFIC, a wildlife trade monitoring network with WWF-India support, finds poaching incidences for consumption and local trade have more than doubled during the lockdown although there was no evidence of stockpiling of wildlife products for future trade. The analysis was carried out based on incidences during a six-week pre-lockdown period (February 10 to March 22) to those from six weeks of lockdown (March 23 to May 3). During the period, reported poaching incidences rose from 35 to 88, although it is unknown how reporting rates have changed because of the lockdown. The findings were released on June 3 in the form of a short report — ‘Indian wildlife amid the Covid-19 crisis: An analysis of poaching and illegal wildlife trade trends’. The study indicates that despite consistent efforts by law enforcement agencies, wild animal populations in India were under additional threat during the lockdown period. The highest increase in poaching was reported to be of ungulates mainly for meat, and the percentage jumped from nearly eight out of 35 (22%) total reported cases during pre-lockdown, to 39 out of 88 (44%) during the lockdown period. The second group which showed a marked increase was poaching of ‘small mammals’ including hares, porcupines, pangolins, giant squirrels, civets, monkeys, smaller wildcats. Although some have always been in high demand in international markets, most hunting during the lockdown period is presumably for meat or for local trade. Cases for these rose from 6 (17%) to 22 (25%) between pre-lockdown and lockdown periods. Among big cats, leopard poaching showed an increase during the lockdown as nine leopards were reported to have been killed compared to four in the pre-lockdown period. A total of 222 persons were arrested in poaching-related cases by various law enforcement agencies during the lockdown period across the country, significantly higher than the 85 suspects reported as arrested during the pre-lockdown phase. Incidences related to wild pet-bird seizures came down significantly from 14% to 7% between the pre-lockdown and lockdown periods, presumably due to a lack of transport and closed markets during the lockdown. Larger birds such as Indian peafowls and game birds such as grey francolins, which are popular for their meat, were reported to be targeted during the lockdown. There was less reporting of poaching and illegal trade in tortoises and freshwater turtles, with almost no seizures of these species during the lockdown period. Dr Saket Badola, head of TRAFFIC’s India office, said, “The more than doubling of reported poaching cases, mainly of ungulates and small wild animals for meat, is doubtless placing additional burden on wildlife law enforcement agencies. Therefore, it is imperative that these agencies are supported adequately and in a timely manner so that they can control the situation.” Ravi Singh, CEO, WWF-India, added, “If poaching of ungulates and small animals remains unchecked it will lead to depletion of prey base for tigers and leopards and depletion of ecosystems. This in turn will lead to higher incidences of human-wildlife conflicts and will undermine the significant successes that India has achieved in the field of wildlife conservation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wildlife-poaching-more-than-doubles-amid-covid-lockdown/articleshow/76185663.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 4, 2020||Kochi||Tension in the air for Vande Bharat members||Kochi: Nine members of the Vande Bharat mission involved in the biggest ever repatriation exercise of Malayalis from UAE have so far tested positive. Of these, seven are active cases, with six in Kannur and one in Ernakulam, all tested positive in the last week. This raises serious concern about the safety of the staff who were part of the mission as well as a worry as to how they got infected. “We were given PPE kits and necessary training by the state government and told that if we adhere to all these, we would be safe. We were not expecting to test Covid positive as we had taken all precautions. Yet we caught the infection and don’t know where we went wrong,” said an Air India Express staff. As per ICMR’s protocol, those who are part of the Vande Bharat mission, have to go for Corvid testing before operating a flight. If tested negative, they can be part of the mission. After the mission is over, the members have to again submit their swab sample for another round of tests. They have to stay at the hotel until the results come. “The moment we give the sample, we have to be in the self-isolation mode till our results come and we can take the flight. Often it takes three days for the results to come here and we have to forcibly be in isolation,” the staff said. Even in the latest case of the Air India Express staffer, a flight captain, from Ernakulam, the same protocol was followed. The flight captain is from the first batch of Airforce women’s pilot and since the Vande Bharat mission started on May 7, she has so far operated three flights. “The captain is our hero and she continues to inspire us. But sometimes we wonder why we should suffer and face social alienation for no fault of ours,” a staff added. When contacted, the Air India Express corporate communication officials refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tension-in-the-air-for-vande-bharat-members/articleshow/76183990.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court lets sadhvis go to Bidadi ashram||Ahmedabad: A sessions court here on Wednesday granted permission to Nithyananda’s two sadhvis to go and stay in an ashram in Karnataka for three months after they complained that they were rendered without shelter in Ahmedabad due to lockdown. The wardens of Nithyanada’s Ahmedabad ashram on Delhi Public School (East) campus, Sriharini Chelappan alias Pranpriya and Riddhi Ravikiran alias Priyatatva, who are accused of illegally confining minor children in the ashram, had sought permission to leave the city and go to the Bidadi ashram. Their advocate Nitin Gandhi had submitted that the hotel the sadhvis had lodged in had been turned into a Covid care centre and both of them were served a notice to vacate their rooms. The sadhvis could not leave Ahmedabad because of a bail condition. While granting them bail on February 7, the court had asked them not to leave Ahmedabad without court’s prior permission. Pranpriya and Priyatatva had sought the court’s permission, but their applications could not be heard due to Covid-19 pandemic situation. They approached the high court last week, which ordered the sessions court at the Mirzapur court campus to hear the applications expeditiously. The sessions court has granted permission to the duo to leave the state for three months, but asked them to mark their presence at the Vivekanand Nagar police station once every month, advocate Gandhi said. In January, the Vivekanad Nagar police filed a chargesheet against these two holding them accused under Section 365, 344, 323, 504, 506(2) and 114 of the IPC as well as Section 14 of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-lets-sadhvis-go-to-bidadi-ashram/articleshow/76185025.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Bridging the gap between employers and workers essential for biz to thrive||Chennai: The distinguishing feature of an industry is that for the production of goods or for the rendering of service, co-operation between capital and labour or between the employer and his employees must be direct and must be essential." The observation of Justice V R Krishna Iyer, judge of the Supreme Court in the case of Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, in 1978 can be a lesson for employers and workers at loggerheads today. The Covid-19 pandemic has thrown a huge challenge at the industry and workforce, reeling under economic slowdown and closure of operations. A few employers have paid full wages to employees during the lockdown period. Some have paid in part and a few not at all. In Tamil Nadu, workers from other states are categorised under contract labour in the eye of law. Their plight is worse as the majority of managements have not paid any amount to contractors who supply manpower as their services were not used. Does this situation inspire confidence? Not at all. Urgent solution is necessary to avoid serious industrial unrest post lockdown. Interpretation of provision of Disaster Management Act, 2005 The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and a host of industrial laws including the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, or decisions of judicial forums would not provide lasting peace. The industry should take its workers into confidence. A workforce with empty stomachs and starved family members cannot render service. Paying the workers their dues will ensure good quality products and satisfactory service to customers, which in turn will allow the economic machinery to keep rolling. The management and trade unions need to arrive at a settlement in the interest of both. Part IV A of the Constitution speaks of fundamental duties and Article 51A (j) states it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activity so that the nation constantly rises to higher levels of endeavour and achievement.Going further, to make up for the losses incurred in these two months, drastic amendments in labour laws at the expense of labour is ill advised. Such measures will be counterproductive as long hours of work will lead to exhaustion, errors and even accidents. Re-induction of workmen after lockdown and their working conditions can be satisfactorily arranged within the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and Factories Act,1948 with minor amendments and necessary notifications without causing prejudice to the workmen.This is also a crucial time for the workmen to show their solidarity with the management. Settlements can be reached with the management on issues regarding change of service conditions. This will establish a transparent dynamics post lockdown. Layoffs, till normalcy is restored, can be mutually agreed upon to reduce the wage bill of the management.In this hour of crisis when businesses need to resume swiftly, the industry and workforce should show maturity and responsibility so that it is well poised to reap the benefits together.(S Ravindran is a senior advocate at Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bridging-the-gap-between-employers-and-workers-essential-for-biz-to-thrive/articleshow/76185014.cms||Karishma Ravindran
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Covid proves fatal to very elderly in state, mortality rate above 18%||Jaipur: The highest mortality rate in the state has been reported among the very elderly above 76 years of age, which stood at 18.6%. Senior citizens in the age group of 61-75 years too have a high mortality rate of 11.7%. Age has emerged as a major factor in Covid-19 deaths in the state. The data of 203 deaths till Wednesday morning shows that the highest mortality rate has been reported among the most elderly and the lowest in the age group of 5-15 years. Even among children, the mortality rate is slightly higher at 1.6% in comparison to the young population, which is below 1%. The health department is monitoring deaths by dividing the population into seven different age groups of 0-5 years, 6-15 years, 16-30 years, 31-45 years, 46-60 years, 61-75 years and 76-plus. The data of deaths indicate that the elderly population is the most vulnerable group and needs to be protected against Covid. “We have found that the 76-plus age group has the highest mortality rate,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary. Officials pointed out that co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and other chronic diseases are linked with age. So, an elderly person is at higher risk of death due to co-morbidities. An SMS Hospital official said that a majority of the people who died in the hospital had co-morbidities. A health department report showed that 70% of the people who died had suffered from other diseases. According to the report issued by the Centre on Tuesday, the mortality rate in the state is 2.2%. “Identifying potential high risk and vulnerable persons is key to saving lives in the Covid-19 pandemic. Mission Life Saving (LISA) is helping us in early and timely detection of cases and helping us to prevent mortality. This is how the state has managed to keep the case fatality rate low compared to the national average,” said Singh. Under LISA, the health department is monitoring health of elderly population and vulnerable group to detect Covid early for timely treatment. People in the age group of 6-45 years are the safest lot with a mortality rate of below 1%. “In elderly patients, immunity is compromised. It affects oxy-haemoglobin curve of body system. So, less oxygenated blood is delivered to cell of multiple organs of body. This indirectly impacts body metabolism, resulting in decreased or no activity of body cell. This will affect body functions to combat diseases, particularly viruses,” said Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, SMS Medical College. Doctors suggest elderly population to take precautions. “The elderly population should keep monitoring their sugar level. They should not go out of their houses and isolate themselves in houses. Mild exercises should be done regularly. They should take protein-rich diet for developing antibodies. Also, they should increase Vitamin C intake. There are more chances of severe infection in elderly population in comparison to younger population. After a certain age, the immunity to fight against diseases starts reducing,” said Prakash Keswani, senior professor (medicine), SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-proves-fatal-to-very-elderlyin-state-mortality-rate-above-18/articleshow/76185679.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Liquor stores can remain open till 8pm||PANAJI: With the Centre reducing the restrictions on non-essential movement at night, the state excise department on Wednesday allowed alcohol retailers and wholesalers to keep their stores open till 8pm. Excise commissioner Amit Satija issued the order extending the timing of liquor shops till 8pm, and said that all the other conditions remain the same and have not been modified. “Liquor shops closure timing extended by two hours as per latest direction from the government. Now, packed bottle retail shops can remain open till 8pm in Goa. Bar and tavernas will remain closed,” said Satija. Prior to July 1, liquor outlets were allowed to operate till 6pm as travel movement was restricted from 7pm onwards. Now, the MHA has reduced the duration of the travel restriction and has barred non-essential movement between 9pm and 5am. In the order, Satija said that outlets need to shut by 8pm so that employees can reach home before 9pm. On July 1, the state executive committee had directed the commissioner of excise to issue necessary instructions for timely closure of liquor shops, latest by 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/liquor-stores-can-remain-open-till-8pm/articleshow/76185664.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Env group opposes digital public hearings for sand ghat auction||Nagpur: In a move that has not gone down well with environmentalists, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has started conducting public hearing regarding auctioning of sand ghats across Vidarbha on digital platforms. According to experts, such hearings are not just against the norms but also deprive participation of crucial stakeholders. As per the given information, the board carried out a public hearing of 34 sand ghats in Chandrapur district on Wednesday at Niyojan Bhawan through a mobile application. Members of city’s Vidarbha Environmental Action Group raised strong objections against the procedure, stating it was in violation of law. “Conducting public hearing on digital platforms is not laid down in the notification issued by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change. A majority of citizens, especially important stakeholders and affected people like fishermen, are not techno savvy and do not have competence and facility to use digital platform. They are being deprived of their legitimate and fundamental right of freedom of expression by not being able to participate in the hearing,” the group stated in a complaint written to the board and Chandrapur’s mining officer. Convener of the group and environment activist Sudhir Paliwal informed that in the coming week, similar public hearings for sand ghats in Gadchiroli, Nagpur, Osmanabad, Yavatmal, Wardha and Gondia are to be conducted. “What is the point in holding virtual meetings when the most affected people can’t participate? MPCB is making complete mockery of laws by showing an urgency in giving clearances to projects which are detrimental for the environment,” said Paliwal. TOI could not contact the concerned MPCB officials. In the complaint, the organization further highlighted other objections to the proposed project. “Sand and gravel together known as aggregate, represent the highest volume of raw material used on earth after water. At present, the mining of sand has reached a level which is threatening the environment and ecosystem. It is recommended that sand mining should be done only after sound scientific assessment and adopting best practices to limit the impact on the environment. However such guidelines are rarely followed,” the group stated. Stating that the sand mining in Chandrapur district is unsustainable and will severely impact the flow of rivers across the district, the group stated, “Removal of sand would also lead to an increase in water pollution and impact biodiversity. Sand mining will alter the river bed, force the river to change course, erode banks and lead to flooding.” It added that rivers are a major source of drinking water in Chandrapur and sand mining will pollute the river water leading to water quality deterioration thereby depriving large population from safe drinking water. For the hearing in Chandrapur, only a handful of people could reach the venue due to the lockdown and register their protest. “Many who wanted to participate could not log in due to technical defect in acceptance of pass word, their complaint was also ignored by additional collector who chaired the public hearing panel. It was also pointed out to him that the password printed on the flex board displayed at the venue was also wrong which resulted in non participation by many persons. In short the public hearing was grossly mismanaged and was conducted just to complete the formalities,” said Paliwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/env-group-opposes-digital-public-hearings-for-sand-ghat-auction/articleshow/76185672.cms||Manka Behl
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held in Anand for spreading martial law rumours on Facebook||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crime police station held one Ovesh Vora of Changa village in Anand for posting a false message on his Facebook account. He had allegedly said on May 30 that Ahmedabad and Surat are going to be be locked down completely for the next 14 days. An investigation into the Facebook account by the name Gulam Husen Kaldar revealed it had also on May 28 posted in Hindi: “According to information just coming it is possible that Ahmedabad and Surat could be handed over to the Army. Please stock essential items like, vegetables and groceries. If the city is handed over to the Army it is possible that CM Vijay Rupani may allow only milk and medical services in both cities.” “The account also said that a meeting was under way and it was possible Ahmedabad could be locked down completely,” said DCP cyber police station Rajdeepsinh Jhala. “We registered a case under Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act and got the IP log of the account from the service provider. We then went to Changa and after proper questioning detained Ovesh on Tuesday. He has been sent for a Covid-19 test after which, if he is negative, he will be arrested,” added S R Muchal, inspector, cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-spreading-martial-law-rumours-on-fb/articleshow/76185024.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Visitors cheer as central library opens its doors||Panaji: Anivesh Mandrekar, a resident of Porvorim who is aspiring to become a chartered accountant, used to visit the Goa State Central Library almost every day prior to the lockdown. He says he had been able to focus better while studying in the library’s study room ever since he started coming there in December 2019. “The past two months during the lockdown were not easy. I had to remove all the gadgets that would serve as distractions at home so that I could focus, yet it was not the same since I was used to a routine at the library,” he said. After the library opened from Monday onwards, he has been able to resume his erstwhile routine. The study rooms which have also opened up permit only two students per desk Yutika Pilankar, a student of Mushtifund Higher Secondary School and Tanvi Velingker from Dempo Higher Secondary School, who have been studying for their NEET entrance test, scheduled in July, have also resumed their routine. “Everything we studied before the lockdown will have to be revised all over again. It was not possible to concentrate at home, at all. After the study rooms reopened, we can follow a proper timetable to complete our revision,” they said. The library has resumed its services by implementing social distancing measures and sanitation practices. Visitors will have to take the stairs to access the floors. Only two people at a time will be permitted to access the lifts only if they have difficulty in taking the stairs. Ever since the lending section opened up couple of weeks ago, the footfalls fell from five hundred per day to about ten per day. However, the library is anticipating an increase in the number of visitors in the coming days. “People will not be allowed inside all at once. There will be a cut off on the number of persons permitted at a time and no one will be turned back. Visitors must wear masks and use the sanitisers placed at each entrance. Only two people per desk will be allowed to sit and read to ensure social distancing norms are being followed,” library officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/visitors-cheer-as-central-library-opens-its-doors/articleshow/76185667.cms||Nida Sayed
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Fix unfit roads before monsoon, locals urge officials||DEHRADUN: Residents have asked the civic officials to fix the several “unfit” city roads before the monsoon sets in. They allege that roads in areas like Rajendra Nagar, Saharanpur Chowk, Subhash Road, and Behl Chowk are in poor condition. Some of these roads were dug up for Smart City projects and locals fear that these stretches will get inundated if not fixed before monsoon. The residents of Rajendra Nagar’s Street Number 4 complain that the road in their area was built at least 10 years ago and since then, only minor patch work has been done. Dwarka Arora, RWA president, said “We have over 250 families using the road filled with potholes. The road gravels have loosened and the stretch urgently needs re-carpeting. We had also met Ganesh Joshi, MLA, who promised us to get the road repaired after the lockdown is lifted.” A TOI inspection revealed a similar situation of Rajpur Road at Behl Chowk where water gets collected inside the potholes posing threat to commuters. However, officials claim that proper measures are being taken and repair works will pick up pace when availability of workers gets better. “The work under the Smart City project is being conducted in a planned manner. Necessary precautions are being taken for ensuring safety of commuters,” said Surya Kotnala, AGM of Dehradun Smart City Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fix-unfit-roads-before-monsoon-locals-urge-officials/articleshow/76184013.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Experts want plan to check pressure on ecosystems due to Covid-19||Nagpur: Some of the country’s key environmentalists from Maharashtra have called for an action plan in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, which has put tremendous pressure on terrestrial ecosystems. The forced reverse migration of people and unprecedented rise in unemployment rate has increased dependence of people on forests and wildlife. “It is high time government phases out coal-based power projects. Our development model is energy intensive. You cannot think of agriculture, industry, irrigation and transportation without energy. However, if the same energy is generated by polluting the environment, how can you expect sustainable clean development?” asked Kishor Rithe, ex-member National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). “In 2012, the energy demand was more than the installed capacity in India and many parts of the country faced load-shedding. Many players were applying for coal mining leases and thermal power plants. However, the energy sector has changed in last eight years and power demand is 40% of total installed capacity today. Hence, pollution level needs to be reduced by phasing out coal-based power plants,” said Rithe. Bittu Sahgal, founder, Sanctuary Nature Foundation (SNF), said, “The government and policymakers need to recognize that forests, wetlands, grasslands and mangroves are infrastructure, not impediments to infrastructure. Maharashtra is India’s largest large dam builder, but every large dam catchment is in tatters.” “We need effective soil and moisture conservation works, coupled with natural regeneration. This will create millions of jobs by putting our people to work, using nature based solutions to reduce floods, droughts and recharge aquifers. Our climate crisis can also be mitigated this way,” Sahgal said. Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust (CAT), Mumbai, called to save mangroves that are one of the most important gifts of nature to mankind. In addition to producing oxygen, they also clean polluted waters. Mangroves can sequester huge quantities of carbon. They provide a natural defence to extreme climatic events such as cyclones and tsunamis. Yet, they are destroyed for development. “We will also have to stop investing in projects along our coastline that are vulnerable to sea level rise. Projects such as Mumbai’s coastal road project, Navi Mumbai international airport, underground metro III project in Mumbai have been planned without considering impacts of sea level rise,” Goenka said. Covid-19 outbreak has put tremendous pressure on terrestrial ecosystems and consequently, poaching incidents have escalated. Hence, large development projects that are likely to be detrimental to environment will have to be viewed with extreme caution, cautioned Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT). “Covid-19, apart from killing nearly four lakh people since February 2020, has broken the back of the global economy. It will take many years for life to return to normal. This is too stiff a price to pay for allowing activities and traditions that have a negative impact on forests, wildlife and environment on the whole,” said Andheria. “With less than 150 Great Indian Bustards (GIBs) and around 700 lesser floricans left in the wild, India certainly needs to take urgent measures to prevent extinction of these two resident and endemic bustard species. MoEFCC must ensure that India has safe and secured habitat for future reintroduction of bustards from conservation breeding programme,” said Kedar Gore, director, Corbett Foundation. Deepak Apte, director of BNHS, said, “Sea level rise is not only threatening coastal areas with inundation, but also loss of productive agriculture lands, freshwater sources getting saline etc and causing newer areas of conflict.” Apte called for a separate marine policy since the issues of these ecosystems are vastly different than terrestrial. It also requires a dedicated and highly trained cadre of enforcement agencies who understand the subject. “We need a separate ocean climate policy, stronger CRZ, and enhanced enforcement to contain illegal trade.” “Our current focus of Blue Economy only looks at harvesting regimes with little or no focus on resource conservation. We require a fundamental shift in the Blue Economy model that is being pursued currently. Sustainability word is merely used to make policy papers nice but it is purely cosmetic. But one thing is certain, our climate solutions rests on the health of our oceans,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experts-want-plan-to-check-pressure-on-ecosystems-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/76202878.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA to hold architecture contest||DEHRADUN: The Mussoorie and Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) has introduced the MDDA FAÇADE CONTEST 2020. The contest is open for students of architecture, practicing architects and civil engineers from Dehradun-based universities and colleges who have an interest in the local Uttarakhand architecture. The idea is to seek different architectural designs from youngsters. The designs can be submitted on the link available at the MDDA’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-to-hold-architecture-contest/articleshow/76184023.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Garment and footwear traders cry foul||Ranchi/Dumka/Dhanbad: Garment and footwear traders in several districts, including chief minister Hemant Soren’s constituency in Dumka, staged massive protests on Tuesday and shouted slogans against the state government for not permitting them to open their shops even though many other sectors were allowed. On Monday, the government gave the nod to open shops across different sectors ranging from consumer durables to IT, electronics and telecom as part of Unlock 1.0. Garments, footwear, salons and beauty parlours are a few which are still under lockdown, causing resentment among the traders. Opposition BJP, too, has ridiculed the government’s decision and former chief minister Raghubar Das demanded that Soren should immediately allow opening of garment and footwear shops. Talking to TOI, Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh president Anil Jalan said, “We don’t understand the logic of not allowing garment shops to open when a host of other trades are allowed to resume. Is clothing not essential for the public?” Around 3,500 wholesale and retail garment traders operate in Ranchi alone. Giving rough estimates of the losses they were incurring since the lockdown, Jalan said, “The annual garment trade volume is about Rs 2,000 crore in Ranchi. This sector considers March to May is its crucial and peak months as 40% trading is done because of the marriage season and the festivals. This time, the transaction is completely zero.” Stressing that all stocks procured for the March to May season will go waste, he added, “Garments get outdated soon. For instance, the stocks which we bought in advance for sale during Eid will no longer be purchased by anyone.” In Soren’s Dumka constituency, traders rued of the “discriminatory” norms. Police tried to persuade the protesters to remove blockades but to no avail. A protesting trader, Pradip Gupta, said, “We feel discriminated as most of the shops of non-essential items have opened. Garment, shoe and slipper shops are still under lock and key. Soon, they will be forced to permanently shut their business.” Protests were also held in Chaibasa (West Singbhum) and coal capital, Dhanbad, too. President of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, Sanjeev Chaurasia, “We have spent all our capitals during the lockdown as the minimum maintenance cost of even a medium-size shop per day is around Rs 3,000. We have to pay staff salaries, besides shop and warehouse rents even during the closure. Calculating these expenses for the 72 days of lockdown period gives a fair amount of the losses we incurred.” Umesh Heliwal, a garment trader of Kendua in Dhanbad who is also the secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade, said, “We have been demanding permission for reopening for more than one month and felt let down after Monday’s orders. We are even ready to follow strictest guidelines and ready to operate shops for one or two hours a day or on alternate days.” Former CM Das said, “I had written to the state government on May 18 itself, requesting for permission to allow garment and footwear shops in green zones. Now, the government must immediately open them in the interest of many small and medium traders. Neighbouring states like Bengal and Odisha have already permitted the opening of these shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/garment-and-footwear-traders-cry-foul/articleshow/76163608.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 4, 2020||Goa||Cyclone Nisarga to start dissipating, says met office||Panaji: The cyclone Nisarga passed Goa and made its landfall near Alibaug, Maharashtra on Wednesday. The India meteorological department (IMD) said that the cyclone is slowly dissipating while simultaneously moving Northeastwards over the Arabian Sea. The system is now being continuously tracked by the doppler weather radars at Mumbai, Maharashtra and Goa. The weather system will further weaken into a deep depression, IMD said. In Goa, the windspeed is expected to gradually reduce. However, there are chances of a few spells of rain in isolated parts of the state. “The winds are southwesterly due to the system and this will bring clouds towards the Goa coast. Rainfall may therefore continue on June 4 as well though the intensity will be much lesser compared to previous days,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. He further said that the system will be completely away from the western coast on June 4. Goa was on orange alert from June 1 to 3 owing to this system. The orange alert has been lifted by the IMD and only a yellow warning has been issued for June 4. Only heavy rainfall has been forecast in isolated places in Goa, today. The heavy rainfall and squally weather that prevailed over the last couple days due to the cyclonic system led to a drop in maximum temperature. On June 2, it went down by minus 5.1 from normal value reading at 27.6 degrees C. On June 3, this further dropped to 26.4 degrees C. The highest amount of rain recorded on June 3 up to 8.30am was in Mormugao with a total of 132mm. This is compared to 55mm of rain recorded the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyclone-nisarga-to-start-dissipating-says-met-office/articleshow/76185682.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Aurangabad||47 new Covid cases in Aurangabad as death toll reaches 85||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district has reported 47 new Covid-19 cases, including 26 males and 21 females, on Wednesday, taking the total number of patients to 1,696. Of the total number of patients suffering from the contagion, 1,085 have recovered and discharged from hospitals while 526 are being treated. A 74-year-old man passed away on Wednesday morning at a private hospital due to Covid-19. With this, the total number of death rose to 85. Of these, 68 deaths were recorded at Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad while 16 died in private hospitals and one succumbed at the civic hospital. .One each case was reported in Jaswantoura, Sanjaynagar Mukundwadi, Ajinkeyanagar, Samruddhinagar N4, Jaibhavaninagar, Hamalwada Railway Station, Pisadevi Road, Katkat Gate, Sillehkhana Nutan Colony, Bari Colony, Ulkanagri, N-6 Sambhaji Colony, Sharif Colony, Swapnanagri Garkheda, Bhavaninagar Old Mondha, Pundliknagar Road Garkheda,Vidyaniketan Colony, and in Abdulshahnagar of Sillod taluka. Two cases each were reported from Khokadpura, Samtanagar, Labour Colony, Bhavsingpura and Surananaga; three patients in Yashwantnagar Paithan taluka while three were reported from the city. Four patients each were recorded in the city’s Kailasnagar and Mill corner areas, and five patients were reported in Shivshankar Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/47-new-covid-cases-in-aurangabad-as-death-toll-reaches-85/articleshow/76182923.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Interference by kin to cost woman sarpanch her job||JAIPUR: The panchayati raj department in Rajasthan has issued an order stating that if any interference by a husband or relatives is noticed in the functioning of a woman public representative (sarpanch) or is seen to be performing her duties, without objection from her, then strict action would be taken against her under Section 38 of the Panchayati Raj Act, leading to her suspension or removal. Action will be taken against the husband/relatives also. The order states that government officials found encouraging such interference too shall be punished. “It has been brought to the notice of the state government that in a few cases in panchayati raj bodies, instead of the elected woman representative (sarpanch), her husband, relatives, someone closely related or any other person is performing her office duties or participating in a meeting directly/indirectly or interfering in her work,” read a letter written to the collectors, chief executive officers of zila parishads and block development officers (BDOs) by Rajeshwar Singh, ACS, rural development and panchayati raj department. “Such an act falls in the category of misconduct in discharging one’s duty and incapability by the elected member/office-bearer. If such a case is found in any of the panchayati raj institutions, action will be taken against the woman member/office-bearer concerned under Section 38 of the Panchayati Raj Act, (leading to her suspension or removal),” it added. It also asked district-level officers to take action against the elected member and the employees/officials as per directions and inform the department. Meanwhile, a panchayati raj official said, “If she doesn’t resist or objects to such an action by her husband or relatives, only then will action be taken against her. However, if she is under pressure from the husband/relatives, she can lodge a written complaint with the police or the higher authorities of the department.” “This order is very biased. With the kind of male dominance that we have, to punish and criminalise an act for which the woman doesn’t have complete agency, is horrifying. We all know violence is used against women many a time to get things done. So, instead of counselling her, taking action against the woman is ridiculous. The government should end patriarchy before doing this,” said Kavita Srivastava of People’s Union for Civil Liberties. “Also, men are all the time taking all kinds of support. Why no action against them? Public consultation should have happened. What warranted such an order should have been shared. Instead of promoting and nurturing women’s autonomy, they are using punishment. This is harsh and an attempt to weaken women within the institution by putting the entire onus on her. This will be misused and the stick will be used to manipulate her,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/interference-by-kin-to-cost-sarpanch-her-job/articleshow/76185702.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Traders urge landlords to lower rent in Jaipur||Jaipur: Due to lockdown, traders in the city had to shut their establishments for over two months. This has crippled their business. Therefore, they have urged the landlords to reduce rent in order to get much-needed relief. Ravi Nayyar, president of Raja Park Vyapaar Mandal, said, “We made it clear to the landlords in our market that all of us have suffered losses. After the relaxations, shops have opened but customers are not coming. Hence, we won’t be able to sustain while giving such hefty amount of rent. So, they should either lower the rent or we will vacate the premise. Landlords know that no one would take the property on rent soon, so they have lowered the rent by 15-20% in the market for next six months.” Most of the shops in the Walled City are on rent. There are many areas where the rent starts from Rs 20,000 and goes up to Rs 1 lakh. In MI Road, rent goes up to Rs 5 lakh as well. Subhash Goyal, president of Jaipur Vyapaar Mandal Mahasangh said, “Nahargarh Road in Walled City have many shops paying hefty rent. We have received many calls as people are demanding to reduce rent at the time of crisis. No one has earned a single penny in these months, so people are negotiating with their landlords.” Some landlords in the city have come forward to reduce the rent. Govardhan Singh has 10 shops at Khatipura Road where he has waived off two months’ rent. “It is the time of crisis. We have waived off two months’ rent and for next six months only 50% will be charged. If this won’t be done, then people will not be able to sustain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/traders-urge-landlords-to-lower-rent-in-city/articleshow/76185693.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Firemen on toes as rain lashes S Goa||Margao: Heavy rains and gusty winds that lashed many parts of South Goa kept the fire brigade personnel on their toes attending to calls of tree falls. Sources in the fire brigades said that several trees were uprooted in many parts of Salcete. At several places trees had fallen across the roads thereby blocking traffic, but those were soon cleared by the fire personnel. Incidents of trees crashing on houses were also reported from several parts though casualties were reported, sources in the fire and emergency services said. However, the non-functioning of a landline phone of the Margao fire station caused hardships to the public to report incidents or call for assistance. Nitin Raikar, divisional fire officer, said that though a complaint had been lodged with BSNL, they had failed to fix the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/firemen-on-toes-as-rain-lashes-s-goa/articleshow/76185688.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Study predicts 27,000 Covid-19 cases in Gujarat in June||AHMEDABAD: A predictive computational time series model for Covid-19 epidemic has forecast that by the end of June this year Gujarat will see 27,120 cases and 15,137 active cases. Researchers from the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai claim that the projections were made using the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) time-series model from data obtained till May 3. Their ARIMA model had claimed that by May 31 Gujarat may see 15,900 cases. The actual figure released by the Gujarat government on that day was 16,343 cases. The IIPS researchers selected 17 states that had least 100 confirmed cases till May 3. The study has suggested that the number of Covid-19 patients will be high in June; and hence the number of beds required in June will be high. The research says that by June end, India has to prepare 1.06 lakh isolation beds to accommodate patients. Gujarat will require 12,867 isolation beds, Maharashtra will require 40,128 isolation beds, Punjab will require 31,186 isolation beds and Delhi will require 16,418 isolation beds, the study states. The IIPS researchers, Rishabh Tyagi, Mahadev Bramhankar, Mohit Pandey, M Kishore claim that by the end of June, Kerala and Odisha will be having less than 1,000 confirmed cases based on projections from data till May 3. However, Maharashtra will have 58,330 cases, Punjab 42,041 cases and Delhi 24,372 cases,while Gujarat will have 27,120 cases at the end of June. By the end of June, the study estimates, that there will be 1.24 lakh active cases. While states like Maharashtra will have 47,209 active cases, Punjab will have 36,690 active cases, Delhi will have 19,315 active cases and Gujarat will have 15,137 active cases. The states will face a high burden of active cases in June end , the study estimates. But the study warns that the forecast of cases was done based on the data received during the countrywide lockdown. “The forecast assumes cases in future will be showing the same trend if India observes complete lockdown. But since May 4, India is observing partial lockdown, and which might be removed in the coming time so that actual cases will be more than the forecast cases,” the study claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/study-predicts-27k-cases-in-state-in-june/articleshow/76185075.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha Police least infected by Covid-19 in country||Bhubaneswar: Odisha Police have fared well in protecting its force from the wave of Covid-19 pandemic, according to a finding by the Indian Police Foundation (IPF), a key independent think tank on policing and law enforcement in the country. The IPF has released a comprehensive data on the nationwide impact of the novel coronavirus on police forces, including the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). While most of the states have Covid-19 positive cases in double digits in their police forces, Odisha has only one positive case in the police department, the data revealed. Significantly, the lone positive cop, who is a constable with commissionerate police in Bhubaneswar, has recovered and been discharged from hospital. The IPF data said 31 police personnel in the state have so far been quarantined following their deployment in containment zones and for coming in direct or indirect contact with positive and suspected positive patients. Four cops in the state were injured after being attacked by miscreants during the enforcement of the Covid-19 regulations. The IPF said altogether 5,791 personnel from the police forces and CAPF in the country have so far been infected with Covid-19. Maharashtra topped with 2,509 positive cases and 27 deaths in their police force. So far, Chhattisgarh has reported 549 positive cases, Delhi 520 positive cases, Tamil Nadu 320 positive cases and West Bengal 164 positive cases in their police forces. “The rising numbers of Covid-19 infections and related deaths in police/CAPF is deeply worrying. While social distancing is not always possible, the personnel should be alert to the dangers of proximate interactions & should ensure strict hand hygiene & wearing of masks,” tweeted the IPF. The Odisha Police officials said they took a slew of measures to keep the force free from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-police-least-infected-by-covid-19-in-country/articleshow/76184044.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 4, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi murder: Assailants snatched bike at gunpoint to flee||NEW DELHI: Investigation in the murder case of Rahul Nagar who was shot dead in East Delhi’s Mandawali has revealed that the assailants had snatched a motorcycle at gunpoint while fleeing. The motorcycle was later recovered from the Noida Link road where it was lying abandoned. Nagar, a resident of West Vinod Nagar, had in the past contested the municipal elections on a Nationalist Congress Party ticket. “Around 7.30am on Wednesday, a call was received that a man was shot near a park in Mandawali. The victim identified as Rahul Nagar was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Nagar had sustained four bullet wounds,” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP, East. Earlier, 40-year-old Nagar ran for his life and even entered an apartment complex, but four of the assailants followed him and pumped bullets in him. Their associates, meanwhile, fled on seeing a police van. The four assailants then pointed a pistol at a passerby and fled on his motorcycle. Police suspect that the associates of the accused were either waiting in a car at a distance or two motorcycles were stationed away. However, their plan was foiled as a PCR call was made and a police patrolling vehicle reached the spot. The CCTV camera installed in the society were not working, the cops said. “The name of Nagar’s associate, Deepak, has surfaced and we are verifying the same. The victim was also a history-sheeter and had cases registered against him. Locals had given complaints to police about the victim trying to grab their land. We are probing if the murder was a fallout of that. In one of the CCTV footages received from a nearby location, the criminals can be seen escaping. They appear to be lean and first-timers. We are also checking if Bhati gang was involved in the crime,” an officer privy to the investigation said. In November 2019 too, Nagar was attacked by some men outside his house. Even though the assailants on scooter had fired several rounds, the bullets only grazed past him. Four people identified as Rajiv Kumar Singhal, Rajender, Ashok Kumar and Kartar Bhati were arrested in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/east-delhi-murder-assailants-snatched-bike-at-gunpoint-to-flee/articleshow/76203959.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Death toll in M’wada reaches 104, Aurangabad on top||Aurangabad: With every district in Marathwada, except Hingoli, reporting deaths due to Covid-19, the death toll in the region has reached 104 until Wednesday. As per official data, Aurangabad district has reported 85 deaths (highest in the region) followed by Nanded (8), Latur and Osmanabad (3 each), Parbhani and Jalna (two each) and Beed (1). The region has reported a total of 2,581 confirmed cases of Covid-19 of which 1,526 patients have been discharged from the hospitals after getting cured. The recovery rate in Marathwada stands over 59%. Aurangabad district accounts for highest (1,696) confirmed cases of Covid 19 whereas Hingoli and Nanded have reproted 184 and 175 cases, respectively. Osmanabad has reproted 88 positive cases till Wednesday evening. Among other districts, Jalna has reported 153 cases, Latur 136, Parbhani 86 and Beed 63. The tally of confirmed cases is likely to increase further with reports of throat swab samples taken from 1,018 suspected patients from Marathwada still awaited. Marathwada still has around 37,419 suspected patients of Covid-19 of which 24,372 are quarantined. Another 15,153 individuals from eight districts of the region have completed their 14-day home quarantine period whereas 18,388 have been discharged after completing institutional quarantine. Authorities in Nanded district, which reported a record 23 fresh cases of Covid 19 on Wednesday, have appealed to the citizens to follow social distancing norms and maintain personal hygiene to contain the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/death-toll-in-mwada-reaches-104-aurangabad-on-top/articleshow/76182931.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to soon start Swachh Survey 2021||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) is soon going to start with Swachh Survey 2021 in the capital city. The survey will comprise of different parameters and scores will be based upon the feedback of locals and evaluation of the surveying team. Different categories have already been created for citizen feedback, including NGOs, hospitals, RWAs, trade unions, among others. According to the norm, one needs to be above 14 years of age in order to be considered for the citizen feedback process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-soon-start-swachh-survey-2021/articleshow/76184055.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Quarantined migrant workers prepare over 20,000 seed bombs for World Environment Day||DEHRADUN: Migrant workers, who have been put up at quarantine centres in the hill regions of Uttarakhand to prevent transmission of Covid-19, have taken up the task of preparing seed bombs that would be used for afforestation drives on June 5, World Environment Day. Seed bombs are used to cultivate plants and the method is generally adopted before the monsoon season as rain spells provide water, humid soil, and an adequate temperature for the seeds inside the bombs to germinate. Made with compost, clay and seeds, these bombs can be dropped, tossed or shot from sling shots. More than 20,000 seed bombs have so far been prepared by quarantined migrant workers who have returned to the state from various places, including big cities like Delhi, Mumbai, and Bengaluru. At Government Primary School in Uttarkashi’s Dugdu, quarantined migrant workers are preparing these bombs with pumpkin seeds so that they instantly germinate and provide food for animals. “Our efforts will help in afforestation and in combating wild animal menace in hills. Rather than going into depression over job losses, we are spending our time constructively in the quarantine centre. We see hope here,” said Tika Ram, who recently returned to the state from Bengaluru. Seed bombs also help in keeping wild animals inside forests as the seeds germinate into creepers and trees after some time and provide food to monkeys, elephants, wild boars, and others. “We are doing our bit for afforestation and helping in controlling crop damage by wild animals. We had abandoned our villages in search of jobs but now we are realising the importance of our native land and we want to improve conditions here,” said Gajendera Rana Bhardar, a local, who returned to the state after recently losing his job in Chandigarh. Jayendera Singh, another migrant who returned to the state from Mumbai and is quarantined at Dikholi Primary School, said he is hopeful of getting good results from seed bombing.“This move will help us in saving our villages from human-wildlife conflict.” A social organisation “Himalayan Paryavaran Jadibooti Agro Sansthan” (JADI) had started the seed bomb initiative back in 2018 from Kamad village of Dunda block in Uttarkashi. Now, the organisation is motivating migrant workers. Dwarika Prasad Semwal, secretary of JADI, told TOI, “The returnees need jobs so that they can stay back in their own villages. This is certainly the first step towards it. We want youths to engage in such activities so that they see a positive outcome and opt to stay back in the hills.The seed bombs will be used on the upcoming World Environment Day on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/quarantined-migrant-workers-prepare-over-20k-seed-bombs-for-world-environment-day/articleshow/76184045.cms||Shivani Azad
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||Mother-son duo held for gold chain theft||Rajkot: A man and his mother were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly stealing a gold chain from a jewellery shop on Palace Road in Rajkot.Police said the accused, identified as Yashvantsinh Raver (21) and his mother Induba Rever (48), had allegedly committed the crime.“The accused had entered into a jewelley showroom owned by Bakul Dhorada on May 31 along with a woman and two children. While one of the women asked Dhorada to show her a gold chain and bought it, Yashvantsinh and Induba allegedly stole another gold chain worth Rs 42,650,” said an official from Rajkot A division police station. When Dhorada found one gold chain missing from the lot, he checked the CCTV footage and found that it was Yashvantsinh and his mother who had committed the theft. Following this, he lodged a complaint, leading to the arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mother-son-duo-held-for-gold-chain-theft/articleshow/76184068.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC reserves special hours for senior citizens in parks||BHUBANESWAR: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will keep all parks closed during the complete shutdown on weekends in 11 districts all through June. The weekend shutdown (Saturday and Sunday) in Bhubaneswar is part of the government’s measures to tackle the coronavirus pandemic in the wake of the return of thousands of Odia migrant labourers. The 11 districts include Khurda under which falls the capital city. Meanwhile, the civic body has decided to reserve visiting hours exclusively for senior citizens in the parks. BMC officials said they have kept 5am to 7am exclusively for the elderly, who won’t be allowed inside the parks beyond the stipulated time. “The others can visit the parks, which will remain open five days a week, from 7am to 10am and 4pm to 6pm,” BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said. Chaudhury said the separate slot for the elderly (above 60 years) has been kept for two purposes. “Firstly, the footfall in the park at any given time will be less. Second, the elderly, who are considered vulnerable to the virus, won’t be in proximity to others,” he explained. On May 24, the Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA) and BMC opened the city parks after getting the approval from the government. The parks had been closed since the lockdown on March 24. Senior citizen groups of the city, however, are apprehensive about the enforcement of the rule. “Who will prevent the people of other age groups if they want to enter the parks during the time designated for the elderly? It can also be difficult to identify senior citizens from their look,” Krupasindhu Sahu, president of the federation of senior citizens association (Odisha), said. Officials said social distancing norms would be ensured during the opening hours of the parks. “Those without a mask will be taken to task. The open air gym and other exercise equipment will remain out of bound for the people,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-reserves-special-hours-for-senior-citizens-in-parks/articleshow/76184053.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC issues show-cause notice to private hospital||Hansa ParmarAhmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation issued a show-cause notice to Bodyline Hospital, Paldi for charging a patient referred by SVP Hospital Rs 4,500 as a Covid test fee. The patient, Hansa Parmar, had to run form one hospital to another before she was admitted.Mitesh Parmar, her son, said, “At around 4pm we took my mother to SVP Hospital as she was having trouble breathing. As we reached the the hospital, the staff refused to admit her and said she can only be admitted if they get call from the hospital superintendent. After waiting for two hours we were referred to Noble Hospital which also did not admit her.”He said that SVP officials later referred her to Bodyline Hospital. She was admitted as she was suspected to have Covid.“Early in the morning my mother called me and asked me to come and deposit Rs 4,500 for a Covid test. As I reached there I argued with the staff why they were asking the patient for money. Later, following the intervention of AMC officials and deputy municipal commissioner D Sangwan, the hospital did not press for the money.” He said that they spent five hours in ambulances on Tuesday.The AMC issued a notice to Bodyline Hospital asking them as to why their registration should not be cancelled and why actions should not be taken against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act.AMC officials said the hospital had demanded the Covid-19 test charges from another patient as well. “The notice was issued on Wednesday and the authorities were asked to reply within one day,” said AMC officials.AMC officials said that hospitals are not supposed to charge patients referred by the AMC or other authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-private-hospital/articleshow/76185073.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||OF corporatisation plan forces unions to go on strike||Nagpur: At a time when tensions have escalated along the line of actual control (LAC) with China, the unions of the ordnance factories are bracing for an indefinite strike.The strike was given after the government once again came up with a proposal to corporatize the ordnance factory board (OFB). The move is a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat programme to revive the economy post Covid.The lockdown has already taken a major toll on supply of defence items from the ordnance factories.The unions have jointly moved a strike ballot from June 8 to 17. If 75% of the employees vote in favour, the three unions, including the RSS-leaning Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), plan to go on an indefinite strike. Last year, the unions had held a month-long strike in August when the corporatisation was first mooted. After that, a high level official committee (HLOC) was set up. The unions were assured that any step on corporatisation will be taken after hearing their say.Mukesh Tiwari, general secretary of BMPS, said the plan to corporatize the OFB at a time when the country is grappling with the pandemic comes as a betrayal from the government.The HLOC will be holding a video conference on this matter on Thursday. The unions have refused to take part in it. “We have conveyed that the unions would only prefer a face-to-face meeting which may be held on June 26, “ said Tiwari.Sources in the ordnance factory management said during the three months of lockdown the supply of defence items had come down to nearly 5% of the normal proportion. A number of factories have only restarted on June 1 while some had begun a month ago. A major gap still remains.There is a concern over supplies of ammunition of all calibres ranging from small arms to artillery to the Army. The ammunition is made in ordnance factories at Kirkee (Pune), Chandrapur, Warangaon, Khamaria.Sources said supplies to Army are yet to begin in most of the factories. A source at Khamaria, where a wide range of large calibre ammunition is made, said the factory had started only on Monday. Till then, it was engaged in making sanitisers as part of Covid prevention mandate. In Chandrapur, a source said the production has been not much in last one month. There were similar confirmations from other factories too.Even as the factories may have begun, the entire supply chain, which includes private sector, has also been affected due to the lockdown, said a source. Apart from in-house production factories also depend on more than 4000 ancillary units that have not started fully as the industry is grappling with labour shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-corporatisation-plan-forces-unions-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/76184078.cms||Shishir Arya
June 4, 2020||Aurangabad||40 pregnant women tested positive at GMCH so far||Aurangabad: Of all the pregnant women who came to the Government Medical College and Hospital for deliveries since the Covid-19 outbreak, 40 have tested positive. With recent cases of a resident doctor and a Class-IV employee of the gynaecology department testing positive, medicos are now concerned. Those working in the gynaecology department said that all the women, whether they show symptoms or not, should be tested for Covid-19 at the time of admission. This would allow the doctors to effectively plan the deliveries by taking appropriate precaution. “Due to the high percentage of asymptomatic patients, nobody can identify a silent carrier. Also, 100% backwards contact tracing becomes difficult,” said a medical professional. She also cited the difficulties the health department and the civic body’s task force have been facing in tracing the patients and other people who came in contact with both the staffers of the gynaecology department. GMCH, which is the region’s largest state-run hospital, carries out 35 to 40 deliveries per day on average. Since the outbreak, there have been about 1,000 deliveries here. So far, the doctors at the department have been testing only the women showing Covid-19 symptoms and those coming from containment areas. These tests are usually carried out at least three to four days ahead of the scheduled delivery, so that if the woman is found positive, appropriate measures and precautions can be taken. A senior doctor cited limitations in testing all the women who come to the GMCH’s gynaecology department and said, “It is not possible to carry out 1,000 swab tests at the gynaecology department alone.” The doctor also pointed out the trust deficit the administration and the health department are facing. “People are not ready to accept that they have tested positive and it is creating a lot of problems,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/40-pregnant-women-tested-positive-at-gmch-so-far/articleshow/76182943.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||DMC makes arrangements for house tax payment||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has arranged facilities for residents who wish to submit house tax pertaining to 2019-20. The residents can pay in the Town Hall building of the municipal corporation but no more than 25 people will be allowed to pay house tax on a single day. The residents can also pay house tax from their homes by contacting the DMC’s tax officers. A discount of 20% on house tax is available until July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-makes-arrangements-for-house-tax-payment/articleshow/76184065.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Need time to study monsoon impact on Covid: Health experts||Bhubaneswar: Amid fears the monsoon could lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, many health experts felt they would need time to study its impact given that this is the first monsoon since the virus outbreak. Ajay Parida, director of Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) Bhubaneswar, said, “Based on studies conducted on other viruses, many experts have suggested a predictive model where the incident may increase during monsoon. But nobody is sure about this because much is unknown about the behaviour of novel coronavirus.” Parida’s institute, in association with ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), have launched a study on Covid-19 genome sequencing of viral strains obtained from reported cases in Odisha. He said nothing much is known about the theory that monsoon may increase Covid-19 cases. “We cannot predict anything right now. Let’s wait for the monsoon to arrive,” Parida added. An epidemiologist said influenza like illness (ILI) cases may rise due to the wet weather. “It is very common to get cough, cold and viral fever during monsoon season. But we cannot say these people are Covid-19 infected,” the epidemiologist said. He said the suspected cases of Covid-19 may go up, but in the absence of scientific data, it is not possible to say that Covid-19 cases will increase during monsoon. “We do not have any scientific data or study to prove it, because this monsoon will be the first one since the virus hit the world,” the epidemiologist added. AIIMS Bhubaneswar director Gitanjali Batmanabane said she cannot presume anything about the theory at this point of time. “This is an unprecedented thing which is happening right now. We find that this is not fitting into many of the models. Some of our predictions have gone wrong. At this point of time we cannot tell whether Covid-19 cases will rise during monsoon,” Batmanabane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/need-time-to-study-monsoon-impact-on-covid-health-experts/articleshow/76184061.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
June 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stranded Odias from Mum, Ghy & Imphal flown back home||Bhubaneswar: Three special flights by Air Asia brought back loads of stranded Odia migrants from Mumbai, Imphal and Guwahati on Wednesday. The Odisha government facilitated the return of the migrants from Imphal and Guwahati, while the flight from Mumbai was sponsored by a group of parents of schoolchildren. The Mumbai-Bhubaneswar flight arrived here at 8.25am with 180 passengers, while the second flight from Imphal, which mostly carried plumbers and construction workers, arrived at 2.40pm with 124 passengers. The Bhubaneswar-Guwahati flight will arrive at 11.30pm. The migrant workers were taken to their respective districts on separate buses from the airport. Officials of the state government and Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) have been deployed at the airport for stamping and registering each returnee. The government has decided that the people stranded in the remote areas, where train services are not available and travelling by road is not feasible, would be flown by back, a government communication said. Officials said the migrants were stranded in Tinsukia, Silchar, Dimapur, Kamarup and Siva Sagar districts of Assam and some in Meghalaya. There were also migrants working in Manipur, Tripura and Nagaland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/stranded-odias-from-mum-ghy-imphal-flown-back-home/articleshow/76184080.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Shopkeepers open outlets but customers scared||JAIPUR: Overcoming the coronavirus scare, markets here have reopened, but owners are faced with the difficult task of repairing the broken demand-supply chain. Most of the shopkeepers were sitting idle in Walled City and areas outside at their shops after the lock-down restrictions were eased out. According to the shopkeepers, the business of those selling non-essential products had dipped up to 85%. Vickey Jhajlani , who owns a bangle shop in Johari Bazaar said, “Trading in the Walled City, which was considered as a shopping hub, has been badly hit after the more than two-month lockdown. Though shops are open, residents are scared to come out. It will take time to revive.” The Walled City, which attracts tourists and locals for various items including handicraft, clothing and other items, is now being avoided by people as they are still living in fear. Ajay Rao, a jeweller in Walled City said, “In last two months, we did not have any orders due to the pandemic.” Traders believe it will take atleast three months for the market to recover. Tripolia Baazar Vyapar Mandal president Rajendra Gupta said, “Although the lockdown has been eased, the market will gain momentum once all activities are back on track and spending power is regained by the customer.” However, shopowners providing services including plumbers, electricians, mechanics and ironsmiths and others appeared to be thriving as they are in high demand after 72 days of lockdown. With shortage of skilled labourers, these services have now been taken over by the locals. Raman Saini, who owns an iron workshop near Ramganj said, “We have sufficient number of orders to sustain. A lot of our workers have returned to their native places leaving us with no option but to hire locals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shopkeepers-open-outlets-but-customers-scared/articleshow/76185698.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||PSI suspended for negligence||Palanpur: A female police sub-inspector (PSI) Shilpa Parmar was suspended on Wednesday for allegedly showing negligence in her work by Aravalli district superintended of police Mayur Patil. Parmar was posted with Shyamlaji police station in Aravalli district. Sub inspector K S Sishodiy has been given Parmar’s charge.According to Deputy superindent of police Bharat Basiya of Modasa, who conducted inquiry against Parmar, Parmar was lax in getting remand of bootlegger Suka alias Bhawarlal Dod arrested for smuggling of liquor. Because of Parmar’s negligence, the bootlegger had managed to get bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/psi-suspended-for-negligence/articleshow/76184097.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand likely to receive heavy rainfall on June 5, red alert issued||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre on Wednesday forecast heavy-to-very heavy rainfall in parts of Uttarakhand on June 5 and issued a red alert. According to officials, intense showers will likely be witnessed at isolated places in the Kumaon and Garhwal regions on June 5. Besides, the hill areas of the state may also receive hail between June 4 and June 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-likely-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-on-june-5-red-alert-issued/articleshow/76184088.cms||Gaurav Talwar
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||22 new cases, 2 deaths in rural A’bad||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad district exluding the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction reported 22 fresh cases and two deaths, both of which were in Daskroi taluka. Of the 22 persons who tested positive in the last 24 hours, six tested negative soon after. This is not the first time that such thing has happened in the district. A similar thing had happened with a woman and her two children earlier. The three, residents of Bopal, tested positive and were even shifted to a hospital where they were declared negative after a confirmatory test. On Wednesday, the six persons who tested positive and negative on the same day included a 27-year-old man from Hansalpur, a 10-year-old girl from Kumarkhan, two persons from Laxmi Flats, a 65-year-old male from Gohel Vans and a 48-year-old man from Moti Vyas. The two deaths reported were a 72-year-old woman from Bhuvaldi and a 51-year-old man from Govardhan Mandir in Bareja, who died on the day of his admission. Taluka-wise, of the 273 cases in the district excluding the city, 91 are from Daskroi taluka, 90 from Dholka, 39 from Sanand, 22 from Viramgam, 13 from Bavla, 10 from Dhandhuka, three from Mandal, four from Detroj and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/22-new-cases-2-deaths-in-rural-abad/articleshow/76185070.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||14-day quarantine for common man, one-day for NMC staff||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) seems to be following two sets of guidelines as far as institutional quarantine is concerned. The civic body has been proactively picking up close contacts of Covid positive patients from across the city and compulsorily placing them in institutional quarantine for 14 days. But, it has not followed this norm in case of 45 of its own employees who came in contact with three other positive workers between May 29 and June 2 and but have tested negative.Only two top officers out of the 45 went into institutional quarantine for a day last week at Ravi Bhavan. All of them are reportedly in home quarantine, a facility most of those testing negative had been demanding in the last two months.Addtitional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said the first lot of 10 employees was in institutional quarantine but he was not sure about the 35. “It was for one day. They were not in direct contact. We just had to confirm their health status as they are working with us. Pending test results, we didn’t want them to go home so we asked them to halt at one of the quarantine centres. They are not in high risk group. They were tested assuming they may have come in contact with a positive person. The employees had been visiting government hospitals, they are meeting us, or sometimes we meet them. Several of us have been tested and this testing was on same lines,” he said..He added that those at high risk have been quarantined. “They have still been advised home quarantine and they are managing work from home,” he said.After the state government had notified the 10-day discharge policy for Covid patients, then too the NMC had asserted that it would continue with 14-day institutional quarantine for close contacts of patients.In contrast, 14 family members of a medical officer and paramedical worker, who tested positive last week, are in institutional quarantine. Government Medical College and Hospital’s chief medical officer too had followed the same quarantine norm after he touched the body of Parvati Nagar Covid victim last month.On June 1, a 21-year-old sanitary worker had tested positive. Consequently, 37 doctors and staff of civic body from Satranjipura zone were tested. Two tested positive while 35 were advised home quarantine on Tuesday.Before this, 10 officials, including deputy municipal commissioner and veterinary officer and eight more staffers from the NMC Civil Lines head office had to be tested after an attendant there tested positive on May 29. TOI has learnt that while top officials are home quarantined, doctors and other employees are allegedly reporting for work. During the last two month, NMC had faced flak from people who had already spent 14-day home quarantine or spent more than 14 days at institutional quarantine centres despite testing negative. Most complaints came from Mominpura and Satranjipura beside the Delhi returned citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/14-day-quarantine-for-common-man-one-day-for-nmc-staff/articleshow/76184107.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
June 4, 2020||Kolhapur||72 new cases, one death due to Covid-19 in region||Kolhapur: Four districts of western Maharashtra recorded 72 new cases and one death on Wednesday with officials from Kolhapur expressing confidence that the number of cases will gradually reduce. Maximum cases of the day were reported from Solapur. Kolhapur district recorded 15 new Covid-19 cases by 8pm on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 645 cases. Kolhapur district civil surgeon B C Kempi Patil said 282 patients have been cured and discharged. The highest number of Covid-19 cases are from Shahuwadi tehsil, which has many migrant workers from Mumbai. Solapur has recorded 40 new patients of Covid-19 till noon. Official communication said that 36 men and four women were found positive on Wednesday. Solapur currently has 1,080 patients and around 40 of them are from rural parts. Solapur has recorded 90 deaths so far. Satara district on Wednesday recorded 15 new patients of Covid-19 and one death. A two-year-old boy from Jambhekarwadi in Patan tehsil was among the positive patients. The boy is in high risk category. District civil surgeon Dr Amol Gadikar said a 54-year old man from Khatav tehsildar died in the morning. He had come from Mumbai. Satara district has 312 active patients currently and had registered 24 deaths so far. As many as 898 patients are being treated currently. In Sangli, a 58-year-old woman who returned from Mumbai and a 60-year-old man, who travelled from Kolkata and Nagpur to Pune and then to his home town in Jat tehsil were detected with the infection on Wednesday. The total number of covid19 cases in Sangli district has reached 124 out of which 70 are cured, four died and the rest 50 are undergoing treatment. By Tuesday, four patients were critical but stable. Only one patient is in ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/72-new-cases-one-death-due-to-covid-19-in-region/articleshow/76182959.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nizamuddin Basti wants to break free after two months||NEW DELHI: Residents of Nizamuddin Basti — once in the eye of controversy following the Tablighi Jamaat convention in the area and sealed after that — are now demanding that the neighbourhood be opened up because there has been no new Covid-19 for a long time now. This demand has been endorsed by the local municipal councillor and the head of the Nizamuddin shrine. According to guidelines, an area can be de-contained if there are no new corona cases after 28 days. Yasmin Kidwai, who represents the area in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, claimed to have been trying to get an appointment with Delhi government functionaries for weeks, having also sent numerous emails requesting Delhi government to de-seal Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti without getting a response. “There have been no new positive Covid cases in the Basti for more than a month, and while all of Delhi is opening up, our area gets special treatment,” she said. “I checked even on Wednesday morning, and learnt that there is no active case there. The main road to Nizamuddin branching off from Mathura Road has been locked from the police station till the Basti.” She said ideally the area needs to be opened now. Syed Kashif Ali Nizami, head of the Hazarat Nizamuddin dargah, supported the demand for the decontainment, saying that the sealing no longer makes any sense now. “There are no cases in the locality or even around the shrine area. Whatever had to happen in the Alami Banglewali Markaz Masjid has happened. It has been more than 70 days since we were locked in and everything has remained shut since,” he added. Nizami disclosed that he was regularly getting calls from people wanting to come and worship at the Sufi shrine for succour at a time of crisis like this. “If the area opens, we will ensure there is no crowding at the dargah. We have also made sanitising arrangements. A plan has also been made to regulate the entry and allow a limited number of people into the complex,” he said. “Everyone is aware about the disease and no one wants to willingly getting infected.” He pointed out that places of worship are scheduled to be opened from next week. A Delhi government functionary said the area district magistrate has to take the final call. “There is a standard operating procedure for de-containment. If there are no cases for 15 days, then the status of the area changes from red to orange and then finally green. Only after an area status is changed to green, it can be de-notified,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nizamuddin-basti-wants-to-break-free-after-two-months/articleshow/76185715.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Differently abled sew 700 masks for migrants, railway staff||Udaipur: In the campaign by the state government to send migrant workers home, differently abled inmates of Narayana Seva Sansthan (NSS) are extending their support by providing masks and sanitisers in Udaipur city. NSS offered 700 masks and 5-litre hand sanitizer to the railway station for protection of passengers, migrant workers and employees to deal with the corona epidemic. The masks made by the differently abled are being distributed among the poor and needy along with food and sanitisers. For the prevention of Covid-19, NSS has provided more than 76,000 food packets, 40,000 masks, 525 PPE kits and ration to 1,850 families. Prashant Agarwal of NSS said, “The corona relief wing is engaged in providing free food, masks and ration kits to the needy.” Differently abled individuals from the NGO are manufacturing PPE kits by following all guidelines laid out by the state and central governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/differently-abled-sew-700-masks-for-migrants-railway-staff/articleshow/76185709.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||In unlock phase, you are your own saviour, say doctors||Nagpur: With several relaxations in the offing in the current lockdown from June 5 onwards, doctors have advised people to be their own saviours by following Covid distancing, using face masks, and eye protective gears to prevent person-to-person transmission of the virus. Indian Medical Association (IMA) Nagpur has released a six-minute video in which prominent doctors of the city have appealed people to follow the rules as we have to learn living with the novel coronavirus. “Our purpose behind releasing this video is to tell everyone that unlocking does not mean life should be back to normal immediately,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA. “This will help all of us to take precautions. We need to minimize the risk of contracting the virus and maximize the effects and benefits of Covid distancing,” she added. “In fact, we have to take additional care during this period. With lockdown over, we are our own saviours,” said Dr Rajesh Sawarbandhe, honorary secretary of IMA Nagpur. Prominent doctors and former presidents of IMA Nagpur have shared valuable tips with common people in this video. “We have to follow a set of new rules. If two people are travelling in a car, the other person must avoid seating in the passenger seat. It is better to occupy the rear seat,” said Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala. Senior ophthalmologist Dr Rafat Khan said that touching eyes with hands should be avoided. “Face cover should be used as much as possible. It will keep you away from touching your face too often. Those working on computers must take a 20-second break from screen after 20 minutes of work to avoid rubbing their eyes,” he said.“We spend 8 to 9 hours at work and will spend even more post lockdown. We must maintain a proper distance from everyone during this time even if all of us look fine. Having meals together, sharing water bottles should be strictly avoided,” said Dr YS Deshpande. “Following distancing at market places, shopping malls is a personal responsibility,” he added. Pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnakar shared a result of a most recent international review and meta-analysis of physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent Covid-19. “Transmission of viruses was lower with physical distancing of 1 metre or more, compared with a distance of less than 1 meter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-unlock-phase-you-are-your-own-saviour-say-doctors/articleshow/76184092.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Crisis looms over Telangana weavers as work, pay remain scarce||HYDERABAD: One of the worst hit by the economic slump aggravated due to the lockdown, weavers and handloom community are struggling to tide over the crisis. With the loom still shut, many are getting sucked into debt. “We depend on Chinese silk for our work, but that has stopped coming. Even thread is tough to come by,” said Thathi Yelliah, who lives and works in Hayathnagar. The weaver, who works in the Pochampalli and Ikat tradition, says he took a loan of Rs 50,000 in January and the lenders are after him. “I have two children to feed and am depending on handouts. I used to earn Rs 15,000 a month which has stopped from the past three months,” he says. Speaking about their pitiable condition, Yelliah says that they do not even have basic insurance in case of a death in the family. Like his, many families depend on both husband-wife duo working at the loom. The families have no other source of income with the industry taking a severe hit now. Soma Narayana Nereda, who makes half-sarees in Vanasthalipuram, says his seth has refused to pay him his monthly income of Rs 14,000. “The seth says unless there is an order he has no work for us. I have begged and borrowed small sums from friends. I have no idea how I will pay them back,” he said. There are around 22,000 looms in the state, say experts, with at least two people working per loom. Venkat Narsiah, an activist and member of a weavers’ society in Yadadari district, said the situation is similar across the state. “With no material coming in from outside, production has come to a standstill. People don’t even have proper food to eat for three months,” he said. Not just weavers, barbers, those involved in pottery, blacksmiths and other artisans from the backward classes (BC) community are suffering without work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crisis-looms-over-t-weavers-as-work-pay-remain-scarce/articleshow/76185078.cms||Uttara Varma
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cept University finishes its first online PG entrances||AHMEDABAD: Cept University officials on June 3 said that in a first, the university concluded the online entrance for all PG courses. The interviews were taken using online platforms where about 900 candidates participated on May 18, 19 and 20. “The entrance process included verification of all the candidates and appearing for an interview with the admissions panel. The candidates had appeared for a mock test on May 12. They selected 700 candidates who appeared for online admission tests on June 1 and 2. Final results will be announced on June 8,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cept-finishes-its-first-online-pg-entrances/articleshow/76185089.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Mayor seeks action against officials for irregular water supply||Kolhapur: Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar has sought action against officials belonging to the water supply department of the civic body owing to irregular supply in many areas. Residents of wards A, B and D, depending on Balinga pumping station, have not received water for the past few days. At few places water supply lasted for only 10-15 minutes. This uninformed water cuts have now led to anger among the citizens. “We have learnt that there are some technical issues at the pumping station. We have found that pumping of water is not being carried to the full capacity since last few days as two of the four pumps are out of order. The officials never approached us to resolve the problem. We would have managed to get the installations done and repairs done. However, they remained ignorant. I have asked municipal commissioner to initiate an inquiry into this matter and bring the officers to task so that citizens do not have to face water cuts in future,” Ajrekar said. Not raising the heights of the platforms on which the water pumps have been installed — as requested by the corporators — has also upset the mayor. Last year, during floods, the pumping stations were submerged under water and supply to the entire city was hampered for more than a week. Meanwhile, the officials claimed that owing to sudden increase in demand the water pumps have to run throughout the day that led to the snag. A senior hydraulic department official said a request for buying stand-by pumps was made some weeks ago, but the administration has not yet processed the request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mayor-seeks-action-against-officials-for-irregular-water-supply/articleshow/76182965.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Mixed response as RSRTC begins ops on 200 routes||Jaipur: Of the six luxury buses that were scheduled to depart for various routes from Jaipur’s Sindhi Camp on Wednesday, two got cancelled because of a smaller number of passengers. Only one bus, of the three which were scheduled to leave for Gurugram, could depart with 13 passengers. Since there were no buses scheduled for Delhi as the border was sealed, a few passengers who wanted to go to Delhi left for Gurugram by the noon Volvo bus. The buses for Gurugram, which were scheduled to leave at 6 am and 9 am, got cancelled. The other three luxury buses left for Bikaner with 11 passengers, Jodhpur with 10 and Udaipur with 35 passengers. On Wednesday, 515 roadways buses were scheduled to run on 200 routes within the state and outside. The Sindhi Camp bus stand wore a deserted look in the afternoon as the last bus left at noon. “In some districts, the buses ran with full capacity, while in others there were either 50% or very few passengers. Bharatpur and Udaipur saw very few passengers. However, good number of passengers was seen in Kota, Ganganagar, Bikaner, Sikar, Jodhpur, Jaipur and Ajmer. While a few luxury buses were cancelled, express buses were not cancelled on any of the routes,” said a roadways official. Inter-state bus services for Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will start from next week. Buses from Jaipur were available from five bus stands including Sindhi Camp, Durgapura bus stand, 200 feet bypass (Ajmer Road), Transport Nagar and Chomu Pulia for main towns and district headquarters of Rajasthan. Meanwhile, a few passengers were waiting at the Sindhi camp bus stand for the scheduled free bus service to Haridwar, started by the state government, for the purpose of Ashthi visarjan (immersion of ashes). They were told the bus was scheduled to leave at 5.30 pm. “I am going to Haridwar for my mother’s Ashthi Visarjan. She passed away a couple of days back. So, accordingly, we registered ourselves for this service. I have come from Tonk this morning,” Prahlad Mali, who is a farmer in Tonk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mixed-response-as-rsrtc-begins-ops-on-200-routes/articleshow/76185716.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||Pharmacist booked for embezzling Rs 5L||Rajkot: An pharmacist working at Gokul Hospital on Kuvadva road of Rajkot was booked on Wednesday for allegedly embezzling Rs 5 lakh from the hospital in last one year. Police said that the accused Rajdeep Joshi used to make bogus receipt showing payment made towards return of medicines by patients. In fact Joshi used to keep the money with himself.The FIR against Joshi was lodged by Dr Sanat Chariya, working with Gokul hospital, with B division police station.According to complaint, Joshi had started working as senior pharmacist at the hospital in March 2019 and was heading the medical store. There were five other people working under him. The hospital management had allotted all employees user ID to keep track of sale by each executive. It was during audit in March this year, the hospital management came to know of certain dubious bill entries of medicine returned by patients. The hospital administration launched an inquiry and found that the forged entries were made by Joshi. When Joshi was interrogated by the hospital management he admitted to making bogus receipts showing payment made to patients returning medicine and siphoning off Rs 4.82 lakh. He urged hospital authorities not to lodge police complaint and promised to return the money. But when Joshi, after being sacked, did not pay the money, the hospital authorities filed FIR against him Joshi has been charged under IPC sections 408, 420, 465, 468 and 471.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pharmacist-booked-for-embezzling-rs-5l/articleshow/76184115.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Govt teachers asked to monitor illegal bajri mining||JAIPUR: A day after a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Bhilwara district issued an order directing government teachers in Jahajpura block to be posted at check-posts to keep a tab on illegal bajri mining in the area, school education minister Govind Singh Dostara announced its revocation on Twitter late on Wednesday, stating that an explanation has been sought from the SDM who issued it. Tuesday’s order directed teachers to assist police officials at the check-posts from 10pm to 6am every day, inspect trucks passing by and, if any illegal activity is found going on in the area, then immediately inform the district collector. The teachers appointed on the duty started their work on Wednesday. The order was issued a day after Dotasra clarified on Twitter that government teachers cannot be appointed for absurd tasks or ‘begaars’. Slamming the order, vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Association Vipin Sharma has demanded that teachers should be equipped with AK-47 for their security. “Many IAS officers and police officials have lost their lives to control illegal bajri mining. There have been incidents when drivers have crushed people under trucks if they were stopped for interrogation. If officials want teachers to be posted on such dangerous duty, then they should be given AK-47 for their security. We need final orders from the government to put an end to such orders,” said Sharma. This is not the first time when such an illogical order has been issued for government teachers. Two days ago, the Karauli district education officer issued orders to appoint teachers to entertain people in quarantine centres. Similarly, Kishanpura block panchayat elementary education officer, Baran district, directed teachers to keep a watch on social distancing in a wedding. All the orders were later cancelled. A government teacher said, “It has become a trend to appoint government teachers for any kind of work. When the minister has already made it clear that government teachers cannot be appointed for such absurd work, then why are these orders being issued? If such orders are issued, then our association will have to write to the government to cancel them. Directions should be issued to all district collectors and district education officers to prevent them from issuing these orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-teachers-asked-to-monitor-illegal-bajri-mining/articleshow/76185714.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court refuses bail to Asaram on Covid-19 grounds||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday denied temporary bail once again to Ashumal Harpalani alias Asaram on the ground of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The court said that since Asaram has a huge following, his release may bring thousands of his followers to meet him and it will aggravate the distressing situation. Asaram is lodged in a prison in Jodhpur in Rajasthan as a convict in a case of sexual assault on a minor. He has been facing a trial in a rape case in Gandhinagar court. Therefore, he approached the HC for bail for four months stating that he being 84 years old with various ailments, he has all probability of getting infected with Covid-19 in Rajasthan jail. The HC had denied him temporary bail on March 30 when he sought release on a similar ground. This time, Asaram’s lawyer argued that some of the prisoners in Jodhpur jail are affected with coronavirus and this puts Asaram at a greater risk. Since various guidelines also advised to protect elderly from the virus, Asarm should be released temporarily from jail. However, Gujarat government vehemently opposed Asaram’s bail plea and argued that the jail authorities in Rajasthan, in fact, are taking ample precautions so that there is no spread of Covid-19 amongst inmates. While the HC said that Asaram did not raise any new ground for his release, it noticed the averment in petition that Asaram has a big number of followers all over the world and in India. Justice A S Supehia observed in this regard, “Considering the said averment, it would not be apposite to release the applicant on bail in light of the prevailing situation of Covid 2019, since there is a strong possibility that on release of the applicant, his thousands of followers will congregate to meet him, which will aggravate the distressing situation.” Last month, Asaram’s son, Narayan Sai, also sought bail to provide assistance to his family, which he said was in need of help due to lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. The HC had refused him temporary bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-refuses-bail-to-asaram-on-covid-19-grounds/articleshow/76185117.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists urge govt to give aid to artisans||Hyderabad: With weavers and artisans across the state struggling to make ends meet, activist have raised the demand for government to come to their rescue and establish a ‘Corona Relief Fund’. Under the fund, every artisan should be provided Rs 5,000 every month for four months, in addition to an insurance and health card. Government should also facilitate exports of handicrafts abroad, demanded the activists. “Majority of these workers are from the backward classes (BC) community. They have no money, insurance or benefits to lean back on,” said Suresh Dasu, the chairman of National Weavers’ United JAC. He said that close to 6 lakh people from the BC community had applied for BC loans, but to no avail. Activist Venkat Narsiah said the government must provide loans of at least Rs 10,000 to each weaver. “It must also purchase unsold stock,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-urge-govt-to-give-aid-to-artisans/articleshow/76185094.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man loses Rs 17 lakh to masks fraud||AHMEDABAD: The city crime branch sleuths on Tuesday rounded up Atul Bhatt, 63, of Ghatlodia for cheating a man on the pretext of supplying 2 lakh masks for Rs 25 lakh. Bhatt, through an associate, allegedly took Rs 17,50,000 as security deposit. However, they did not deliver the masks and switched off their mobile phones and closed their office at BG Tower, Delhi Darwaza. According to the complaint, Dipen Patel of JJ Enterprise had taken the order of 2 lakh masks from the complainant. ACP, B V Gohil, said that during interrogation it came to light that Bhatt’s associate Satish, who lives in Vapi, had contacted the complainant using Dipen Patel as an alias. Gohil said Bhatt has a criminal record. “In 2001, he caught by Navrangpura, Ghatlodia, Ellisbridge police and the CBI in a bank housing loan fraud case,” Gohil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-loses-rs-17l-to-masks-fraud/articleshow/76185088.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Ahmedabad, cheat held for offering to sell health cards to vendors||AHMEDABAD: Narol Police on Tuesday detained one Vimal Thakar, 47, a resident of Shrinath Flats in Narol for cheating handcart vendors with the promise of getting them ‘health cards’ for Rs 250 apiece. Narol police sources said Thakar was earlier arrested by Kagdapith police for the same offence and the numbers of his victims may now be higher. Some 15 have complained about being cheated by Thakar. Narol police inspector S A Gohil said they have rounded up Thakar and sent him for a Covid-19 test before they arrest him. According to a complaint lodged by a 20-year-old clothes vendor from Narol, Aarti Parmar, on May 30 she went outside her house and saw around 40 persons in a queue. “Out of curiosity she asked one of them why they were standing there. She was told that one Vimalbhai was providing AMC health cards for vendors to do business,” said a Narol police source. The complainant stated that she also needed a health card to do business and got in line. When her turn came she gave Thakar Rs 250 for a health card. He told her the health card would arrive at the address on her Aadhaar card. She stated that on May 2, inspector Chandrakant Shah came to her society with Vimal Thakar and told them that he is a fraud and has cheated many people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cheat-held-for-offering-to-sell-health-cards-to-vendors/articleshow/76185092.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Free Kashmir’ placard creates stir||BENGALURU: Student protesters were back on the streets on Wednesday, armed with face masks and shields, holding placards and demanding the release of student-activists arrested in the middle of a pandemic. Continuing with their stir against the Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens, 30-odd students gathered at Maurya Circle, while maintaining socialdistancing norms. They said the protest is part of a nationwide call demanding the release of political prisoners like Safoora Zargar and Amulya Leona Noronha. Zargar is an MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia. She was arrested on April 13 for participating in CAA protest. She is pregnant and is in Tihar Jail. Controversial wordingsWhile there were many placards on display with messages like ‘#BlackLivesMatter’ ‘#SafoorasBabyMatters’ and ‘#KashmiriLives Matter’, a ‘Free Kashmir’ poster at the protest site courted controversy. When TOI spoke to the students about the controversial placard, they said an issue was being unnecessarily created to deflect attention from the real purpose behind the protest. Shalom, 22, a Bengalurean who studies in Delhi, said the ‘Free Kashmir’ placard was to ask for Kashmiris to be freed from all kinds of oppression. “A lot of prisoners were let off when the lockdown was announced but a 19-year-old student wasn’t allowed to leave jail. We are here to seek justice for student-activists like Amulya. We are here to ask about migrant relief work by the government and the transparency of the PM CARES Fund,” she said. Chetan Singh Rathore, DCP central, said they will book the protesters and organisers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “Staging protest during the lockdown is a gross violation of the Act. We will take legal opinion on display of the ‘Free Kashmir’ poster,” said Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-protest-free-kashmir-placard-creates-stir/articleshow/76184866.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hubballi||All-Dalit woman collective helps those affected by Covid-19 crisis get jobs||RAICHUR: That the Covid-19 crisis has rained hardship even on those dwelling in places far from the breath of the pandemic is an accepted fact, and yet the efforts of those who have gone beyond the call of duty to ease the suffering of the people, the livelihood of whom has been rendered uncertain by the lockdown, have not been sufficiently highlighted. The all-Dalit woman collective Jagrata Mahila Sanghatana (JMS) is one such organisation that has helped the underprivileged put food on the plates of their family members in these distressing times. Spearheaded by Narasamma and Chinnamma, the organisation has helped more than 2,000 households spread across 50 remote villages in Raichur district make ends meet. Working out of a small hut-like structure in Manvi village that serves as their office, the two women spend most of the day dialling various panchayat development officers (PDOs) seeking jobs for the impoverished families under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Starting from getting those approaching them for help getting job cards to ensuring timely payment of wages, members of the sanghatana are handling all processes end-to-end. Leelavati Janekal, one of those who has benefitted from the timely aid of the organisation, said, “The government offers us rice and tur dal, but where are we to go for other essential items? But for the sanghatana, many of us would have faced a very uncertain future.” Narasamma, a core committee member of the outfit, said, “In the past year, we helped around 1,000 families get the necessary cards and documents. We helped 1,000 more households during the lockdown. Our efforts helped members in families of around 150 migrant workers from neighbouring states get work.” Shruthi, who has worked with Amnesty International in the past and is coordinating with the sanghatana, said that the primary objective of the collective was the emancipation of Dalits. “In addition to helping members of the Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) communities get jobs, the collective is working in the healthcare sector, particularly antenatal and postnatal care. The sanghatana has realised the value of employment during the lockdown and is working proactively to help the poor secure jobs,” she added. Sharanamma Jultapur, another woman who has the sanghatana to thank for getting her a job, said that nearly 30 households in her village were now sustaining themselves owing to the timely aid of the collective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/all-dalit-woman-collective-helps-those-affected-by-covid-19-crisis-get-jobs/articleshow/76178346.cms||Shreyas HS
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops hint at negligence in SCCL blast||HYDERABAD: A day after an explosion ripped through Singareni Collieries killing four coal miners, ballistics and explosives experts took up a probe on Wednesday along with an investigation team of Ramagundam police. The experts would determine as to how and why the explosives had gone off though they had not been detonated in the first place. Ramagundam commissioner of police V Satyanarayana did not rule out negligence. “Such a mishap cannot occur without negligence somewhere. The responsibility will be pinned on individuals after the explosives’ team files a report. We will not spare anybody — from the private contractor to those who are directly or indirectly responsible for enforcing regulations in Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL),” Satyanarayana told TOI. While cases under various IPC sections have been booked, relevant sections under the Explosives Act have also been included. A private company that was given the contract was carrying out clearing of mud in the open cast mine-1 at Ramagiri mandal in Ramagundam where the blast occurred. Four workers died when the explosive slurry was poured for blasting boulders. According to sources, the private firm is said to be placing an argument that there could be some fault with the detonators. The detonators were said to have been bought from IDL Explosives Ltd at Sanathnagar, Hyderabad. However, police, during a preliminary enquiry, found that detonators are checked at every stage before they are supplied to buyers. Since explosions are carried out meticulously, a technical team will have to monitor everything at the site until the execution. Meanwhile, SCCL has informed former Nizamabad MP K Kavitha that an enquiry had been initiated by the director general of mines safety and also the internal safety organisation of SCCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-hint-at-negligence-in-sccl-blast/articleshow/76185101.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Rohini district court judge tests positive||NEW DELHI: A judge at a Rohini district court has tested positive for Covid-19. The court administration on Tuesday advised all the officers and staff who were working in close contact with him to isolate themselves at home and monitor their health for 14 days. On June 2, the district judge of the Rohini court (north district) passed an order stressing it was necessary to take precautionary measures after the fellow judge had tested positive. “Keeping in view the present situation, caretaker, Rohini courts is directed to seal and deep sanitise the area of the district judges’ secretariat as well as the courts and chambers...” Rohini court bar association president Mahavir Sharma told TOI that the situation had prompted complete adoption of virtual hearings to negate any contact. “Lawyers aren’t familiar with this new norm, which involves several technical and logistical issues given we are used to physically arguing our cases. However, we have to strictly follow precautionary measures,” he said. In May, a Saket court judge, who is the wife of the central district judge, had gone in a self-imposed home isolation. She had stated that her husband who is also a judge at Tis Hazari courts had come in contact with a Covid positive patient on May 6. Following the central government’s guidelines, she isolated herself for 14 days at her home. Besides, a junior judicial assistant working at the Saket court complex had tested positive on May 9. Owing to judicial work, the staffer came in contact with another employee, a stenographer, on May 4. The stenographer was subsequently directed to remain in self-quarantine for 14 days. Earlier in April, a court staffer had died of the virus. Even a district court judge had then tested positive and was undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rohini-district-court-judge-tests-positive/articleshow/76185737.cms||Aamir Khan
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Not wearing mask properly as good as not having one||HYDERABAD: Even as lockdown rules are relaxed amid a surge in coronavirus cases, public health experts have cautioned that wearing a mask does not insulate people from contracting the coronavirus if social distancing norms are not followed. Lack of awareness about face masks, handling masks while stepping out and not maintaining physical distancing contribute to catching the virus, they warn. According to Dr Ramana Dhara, professor at the Public Health Institute of India (PHII), Hyderabad, many people in public life as well as ordinary citizens do not cover their nose and mouth properly while wearing a mask. “Not wearing a mask properly is as good as having no mask on your face. People should maintain strict physical distancing from those who do not wear the mask properly,” he told TOI. Dr Dhara, who had worked with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), US, reasoned that those who do not use the mask can be asymptomatic carriers also. Health experts said not maintaining physical distance despite wearing a mask is another contributor for the virus to spread. “Many people keep adjusting the mask with their hands and go on with their work. They do not sanitise their hands. It is very important that before touching a mask one has to sanitise the hands and do it after wearing it also,” Dr P Deepak of Gandhi Hospital told TOI. People also should maintain a maximum of 6 ft distance from others despite wearing the mask, he added. Experts point out that no mask gives complete protection from the virus. “The masks give maximum protection but they do not totally shield from the virus. N95 masks give complete protection, but they are expensive in comparison to other masks,” Dr Ramana said. The government has produced 12 lakh N95 masks. “We have distributed about two lakh N95 masks to frontline doctors...Around one lakh regular masks were given to medical and health staff,” said Telangana State Medical & Infrastructure Development Corporation MD, Dr Chandrasekhar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-wearing-mask-properly-as-good-as-not-having-one/articleshow/76184745.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private schools struggling with fee collection||HYDERABAD: It is not just the budget schools but even the top schools in the city are struggling with fee collection during the lockdown with only few parents clearing the dues. The managements of such schools said they are either using their personal funds or taking loans to keep the schools running since they could collect only about 40% of the first term fee. They say that it is not even sufficient to pay salaries to teachers. “Right now, the situation is quite pathetic,” said Minu Salooja, assistant director, Glendale Group of Schools, adding that so far they have received only 42-45% of the fee. She said that despite revoking the fee hike and introducing an option to pay the fee monthly as per the government orders, parents are seeking more time and discounts. “We are being empathetic and are giving them as much time as possible to clear fees. We have been using a lot of personal funds to procure hardware to run virtual classes, sanitise the campus and pay our teachers,” said Salooja. The same is the case with Pallavi Model School in Alwal which has over 2000 students. “Before the lockdown started, a good number of parents paid for the first term fee. However, since March 24, only 18 parents have paid,” said Simi Nagi, principal of the school, adding that they could survive until August with the fee collected. The Independent Schools Managements Association (ISMA), comprising managements of the top schools in the city, said that almost all schools are struggling when it comes to fee collection. Few schools claim to have dues to the tune of crores carried over from the previous academic year. Managements said that the only way to survive this crisis is if they can raise funds from outside. “Fixed cost of schools is very high and the only source of income is fee. So, as the fee collection has taken a hit we have to raise money by taking private loans to sustain until economy turns around,” said K Sunil Kumar, director of Unicent Schools. The budget private schools, meanwhile, are staring at closures. “Unless the government comes forward and lends a helping hand or parents clear the fee dues, all 10,000 private budget schools in the state will have no option but to close their institutes,” said Telangana Recognised Schools Managements Association (TRSMA) president, Shekar Rao Y.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-schools-struggling-with-fee-collection/articleshow/76184815.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||With academics stalled, TOI poll finds over 80% students want exams cancelled & promotion for all||HYDERABAD: Conducting university examinations in July — as proposed by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) — might not be the best idea, said students responding to an independent poll conducted by TOI. Citing multiple reasons, including the rising count of Covid-19 cases, problem of social distancing at exams centres and even financial crisis due to the lockdown, they suggested that students be promoted without any tests — as is the case in states such as Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh among others. The TOI poll seeking students’ opinion on plan for pending university exams in Telangana received over 23,000 votes with over 80% respondents voting in favour of cancelling examinations and promoting all, in view of the pandemic. Some students also participated in an online protest and floated their own petition seeking cancellation of exams. An online petition titled ‘JNTUH & OU must promote all the students to save the future’ received more than 25,000 signatures over the last one week. Officials said they are waiting for SSC exams to conclude to take a call on university exams. “If the SSC exams are conducted smoothly, we will go ahead to conduct the university exams by June end or July first week,” said Sriram Venkatesh, controller of examination, Osmania University adding that a decision in this regard will also be taken at a standing committee meeting scheduled on June second week. “The university should evolve a concrete plan of action and take policy decisions to conduct online exams... To start with, internal assessments could be conducted online so that it would serve as a practice session to students,” said Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-academics-stalled-toi-poll-finds-over-80-students-want-exams-cancelled-promotion-for-all/articleshow/76184793.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Arrange own transport for work, managements tell faculty||HYDERABAD: Following their struggle to make ends meet due to salary cuts, faculties of technical institutions across the state were given another blow by managements. Staffers have now been told to arrange their own transport to report to work from June 8. With most institutions located in the outskirts, lecturers said that arranging their own commute, either by their own vehicle or other means, was not a feasible option owing to their financial constraints. They demanded that institutes provide a pick-up and drop service. “Every staff member uses college transport as most (institutes) of them are in rural areas or outskirts. We strongly object the managements’ decision as faculties are not in a position to bear additional expenditure,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, Telangana Technical Institutes Employees Association (TTIEA). Lecturers also added that colleges should provide special sanitised transportation facility with physical distancing to all its staff members. When asked for the rationale behind the decision taken by managements, All India Federation of Self Financing Technical Institutions general secretary KVK Rao said: “Quite a few managements, take buses from private players on yearly contracts and most contracts have already expired. Unless we have a clarity on how transportation facilities need to be, we can’t renew contracts. So, those faculty whose services are needed in the colleges need to make their own arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/arrange-own-transport-for-work-mgmts-tell-faculty/articleshow/76184851.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Rainfall, high speed winds observed in Kolhapur as cyclone hit coasts||Kolhapur: Cyclone Nisarga hit to the coastal areas of Maharashtra on Wednesday causing heavy rainfall in Kseveral parts of Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli. Power supply and cellphone connectivity were was severely affected in several parts. The hilly areas of Kolhapur district received around 80 mm rain, the single-day high since the pre-monsoon showers started on June 1. The wind speed in the Kolhapur district was around 30 to 40 kmph whole day. It led to uprooting of trees at many places, especially in the Western Ghat section. The hill pass of the Amba ghat had to be closed for some time due to uprooting of trees. An advisory was issued earlier asking people not to travel to the coastal districts of Ratnagiri and Raigad. Passes such as Amba, Anuskura and Phonda are used to access the Konkan region. Barring some heavy vehicles, very few private vehicles were seen along these ghat passes. Prasad Sankpal, district disaster management officer, said, “We were concerned about the damage the gusty winds may cause. The trees uprooted at just four localities in the district. No major damage to properties were reported. The IMD has predicted rainfall for Thursday as well." In Kolhapur city, the gusty winds led to uprooting of the trees at Rajarampuri and Line Bazaar areas. The fire department immediately rushed to clear the trees. People were not allowed to go near the Panchaganga river as the water level rose to 15 feet. Water discharge of 1,500 cusec was carried out from Rajaram Barrage to lower the river water level, which increased by 4 feet since Tuesday. The water level in the Radhanagari dam also rose by two metre on Wednesday. Irrigation officials said people should not believe rumours and no water is being discharged from the dam at the moment. Mahabaleshwar recorded 41 mm rainfall till noon, while Satara district recorded average rainfall of 21 mm. The Chandoli dam in Sangli received 84 mm rainfall in the span of eight hours on Wednesday. Sangli district administration also announced that it was not planning to release water from any dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rainfall-high-speed-winds-observed-in-kolhapur-as-cyclone-hit-coasts/articleshow/76183001.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||RU to begin online classes for PG students from June 16||Jaipur: The Rajasthan University (RU) will start online classes from June 16 to complete the syllabus for post-graduation (PG) courses.According to chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s guidelines, PG final year examinations would be conducted in July. The university has planned to complete the syllabus before that.Vice-Chancellor of the university R K Kothari said, “Around 30% courses of PG students are remaining. We have called teachers by June 10 to the university where plan for online teaching will be made. We are hopeful to complete the syllabus by June end. In July examinations will be conducted for both PG finals and UG third year.”However, university has to keep in mind about the mischief any student can commit during online classes. Recently, in five-year law courses online classes were started but some students started putting slanderous content in the comment sections disrupting the teaching.It hasn’t been decided when to conduct examination for UG first and second year. The government has planned to provisionally promote them in further classes and later on when situations will be in control examinations will be conducted.At present, it has been a difficult task for the university to search for examination centres in city keeping in view adhering to social distancing norms. There are 4 lakh students to appear in the examination. The university has made arrangements to accommodate 3 lakh students but 1 lakh students are remaining for whom university is trying to find a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-to-begin-online-classes-for-pg-students-from-june-16/articleshow/76185723.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Underground parking project in Jaipur gathers steam||JAIPUR: The proposed underground parking at Ramniwas Bagh project is steadily inching towards execution. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has started preparing the tender document of the multi-crore project. On Wednesday, the civic body’s executive committee (EC) gave a nod to the tripartite agreement to be executed between Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL), Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and the contractor for the work, Ramniwas Bagh underground parking project, phase-II. A senior engineer at JDA said, “After Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) gave the administrative and financial sanction, the JDA initiated its work to complete the documentation and procure necessary permission. The authority has also applied for environmental clearance and sought permission from the Rajasthan High Court for construction of underground parking.” The JDA has also prepared the parking design. An official said, as per the preliminary design, majority of constructions will be below the Union Football Ground at the park. Its length and width would be 584 metres x 26 metres. Once constructed, the parking space can house 1,615 vehicles. The detailed project report (DPR) of this project is under preparation. Sources said the project was out of the files after five years. The project idea was conceived during the previous Congress government when the JDA had planned to extend the parking. It was also proposed to connect three nearby markets of the city to Ramniwas Bagh parking by constructing subways. An official said, “The exercise started after directions were made by the empowered committee constituted to develop Jaipur as a world class city. However, after change in regime, the project was shelved.” The JDA had earlier proposed to extend the underground parking till Jaipur Traffic Police office towards Ajmeri Gate end. However, the authorities are apprehensive about constructing a parking space beneath Sawan Bhado Park as it might violate high court directives which prohibited construction of any kind in that area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/underground-parking-project-gathers-steam/articleshow/76185720.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 126 accused released from Haj Bhavan||BENGALURU: As many as 126 people who were reportedly involved in the Padarayanapura violence last month, were released from Haj Bhavan on Wednesday morning where they were being quarantined under judicial custody. The accused were involved in the violence that took place on April 19. A case was registered by Raman Gowda, a police sub-inspector.The high court had on May 29 granted bail to them. On Wednesday morning, Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan went to Haj Bhavan and shifted the accused in a bus belonging to his firm. He also provided them ration kits and hand sanitisers. The accused got bail after each furnished a Rs 1 lakh surety amount. However, it is not clear as to who paid their bail amount.  CM BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary MP Renukacharya said the way in which Khan went to receive them shows he was behind the violence. “If Zameer was felicitating or helping corona warriors, I would have appreciated him. But he stood with the people who damaged public property,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/126-accused-released-from-haj-bhavan/articleshow/76184795.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Boyfriend dupes MNC bank executive of Rs 93 lakh||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old employee of a multinational investment banking company filed a complaint against three persons, including one she befriended on LinkedIn, for cheating her of Rs 93 lakh on the pretext of doing business. The victim, Tanya (name changed), told police she got to know Hanumanth Kullur, who claimed to be a businessman, through the job portal in January 2019. She met him later in Indiranagar and Bellandur and they fell in love. In March, Kullur borrowed Rs 7 lakh from her saying he wanted to expand his business and introduced her to his partners, Deepak and Jyotsna. He told her to take loans from eight banks (up to Rs 86 lakh) as she had a better credit score. After she did, Kullur showed no signs of returning the money or paying it in instalments. In November, when Tanya demanded her money back, he misbehaved with her, she told police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/boyfriend-dupes-mnc-bank-executive-of-rs-93l/articleshow/76184761.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Doctor’ drugs woman, kidnaps newborn from BBMP hospital||BENGALURU: Six days after a newborn boy was abducted from a BBMP maternity hospital in Chamarajpet, parents and doctors are casting aspersions on one another. Police, meanwhile, claim they are on the verge of zeroing on a woman suspected to have taken away the child. While the child’s mother, Husna Banu, 28, raised doubts over the location of the bed she had been shifted to in the general ward, doctors in the hospital said there was something fishy in the family as the woman had been left without any attender. Curiously, one doctor in the hospital claimed the woman who fled with the baby had entered the premises claiming to be a doctor herself. “She appears to be know the hospital well and has used a door that is open only on Fridays, to flee with the child,” he added. Autorickshaw driver and JJR Nagar resident Naveed Pasha brought his wife, Husna, to the hospital near Sirsi Circle on Friday morning. “I delivered a healthy boy at 7.51am and by 11.25am, he was kidnapped,” Husna told TOI on Wednesday. Two hours after delivery, Husna and the child were taken to the general ward, which had three beds. The ward, however, was empty. “They shifted me and my child to the last bed. I asked them why they did so but they didn’t have an answer. The ward had a backdoor. I asked the staff where does that door lead to and they told me it was for the cleaning staff. A helper said it was never open.” Husna was resting with her baby next her, when a woman came and stood beside her. “The woman said I had to take two pills and gave them to me. I thought she was a hospital staffer and took the pills. In seconds, I fell asleep. I recall my bed shaking when the child as lifted. When I woke up, neither the woman nor the baby was around,” Husna narrated. “I started screaming and noticed that the backdoor was open. I got off the bed and rushed to the reception,” she said. Pasha immediately lodged a complaint with Chamarajpet police. “Police officials asked me all kinds of dirty questions like if I had sold the child and how much money I had made. Why would I do such a thing,” said Husna. Planned operationDr Nirmala Buggi, BBMP chief health officer (clinical), said it was a well-planned operation and the first such incident in a BBMP maternity hospital. “We have CCTV footage and can see the woman coming and standing next to Husna for nearly 15 minutes, before picking up the child. She fled from the backdoor,” she said. “Usually, when a child is delivered, the father or some attender sits next to the mother, but there was something very suspicious about this family,” another doctor said, adding that there was no attender with the mother for almost an hour. “The woman knows this hospital really well because this backdoor is only open on Fridays for the dhobi to enter,” the doctor said. According to CCTV grabs, the woman entered the hospital in an autorickshaw. “We are looking for the baby and are 70% close to resolving this case,” a police official said. Husna and Pasha have two other children, a boy and a girl, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doc-drugs-woman-kidnaps-newborn-from-bbmp-hosp/articleshow/76184716.cms||Nithya Mandyam
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||Two loan sharks threaten borrower, booked||Rajkot: Two loan sharks have been booked for threatening a borrower with dire consequences in Railnagar area here on Tuesday night. According to the police complaint registered at the Pradhyumannagar police station, Hussain Sham (26) borrowed Rs 50,000 from Tejas Suba. The latter was was charging 10 per cent monthly interest and forcing Sham to pay Rs 5000 per month. Sham, who is unemployed, could not pay the interest since last two months. Suba with his friend Shailesh Vadodariya came to Sham’s residence on May 23 and threatened Sham’s mother that if he won’t pay the interest in 15 days they will break his hands and legs. Suba was working as a senior engineer in a company engaged in fitting CCTV cameras but lost his job in the lockdown. Police have registered an offence under IPC section 387, 506 (2) and 114.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-loan-sharks-threaten-borrower-booked/articleshow/76184132.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Musicians Salim-Sulaiman arrange food packets for Jaisalmer folk artistes||JAISALMER: Bollywood music composers Salim and Sulaiman Merchant have come forward to help local Manganiyar folk artistes who are facing problems due to the corona pandemic. The hotels, restaurants and other tourist places are closed and the artistes are unable to earn their livelihood. Understanding their pain, the Merchant brothers have arranged around 200 food and ration packets for the folk artistes. These were distributed by the Gunasar Lok Sansthan in many villages in the district. The efforts were highly appreciated by the Manganiyar community. Sansthan president Baksh Khan said Salim and Sulaiman have done programmes with Manganiyar folk artistes in India and abroad and have great attachment with them. They often come to Jaisalmer and take part in many programmes of these artistes. When these brothers came to know about the problems being faced by these folk artistes, through Zariya Foundation, they provided 200 ration kits. The Sansthan distributed 87 packets at Lakhe Ki Dhani and 113 kits by going to the villages. The kit contains 7kg rice and wheat flour, 2kg sugar, 1kg pulses, 1litre oil along with chilli powder, salt and turmeric.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/musicians-salim-sulaiman-arrange-food-packets-for-jaisalmer-folk-artistes/articleshow/76185722.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports four deaths, 180 Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday reported four more deaths and 180 Covid-19 positive cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the disease. With this, the Covid-19 tally has increased to 3,971, and the death toll to 68. Of the total cases reported on Wednesday, 94 are linked to returnees from other states and seven to foreign evacuees. Andhra Pradesh has crossed the four lakh sample testing milestone in only 10 days after completing three lakh tests on May 24. AP has recorded nearly 2,388 cases since May 4, when the third phase of the lockdown started. The easing of lockdown curbs, increased public and vehicular movement and the increased influx of foreign returnees and migrants contributed to a major chunk of cases thereafter. Of the 2,388 cases, 573 are linked to returnees from other state, while 118 foreign returnees have so far tested positive. Chennai’s Koyambedu market has also pushed the tally by nearly 230 more cases.The super-spreader related cases in Gollala Mamidada village increased to 116, while nearly 150 infections in the district are traced back to the same patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-four-deaths-180-cases/articleshow/76185125.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt to purchase 100 firefighting machines for anti-locust operation||JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday decided to purchase 100 firefighting vehicles to spray pesticides to fight the locust menace. These vehicles, purchased from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), will be useful in locust control as well as disaster relief. The agriculture department had deployed drones for spraying pesticides on trees where the pests perched at night after getting permission from the DGCA, but due to low capacity it had only limited success. The decision was taken at a review meeting by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday. The state government has allocated Rs 1.47 crore to the district collectors from SDRF which district collectors could use to hire local vehicles and water tankers including tractor-mounted sprayers for locust control and spraying pesticides. The meeting also decided to expedite the recruitment of 290 assistant agricultural officers and 1,900 agricultural supervisors in the agriculture department. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said a large number of locusts are breeding in African countries and West Asian countries and are expected to reach Rajasthan via Pakistan. He said the government had to work on the district-wise strategy. He said along with the efforts of Locust Warning Organization and the state government, cooperation of local farmers is also significant. Deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary said in view of the frequent locust attacks, it has become necessary to strengthen the locust warning organization and the state government should put pressure on the Centre. Chief secretary D B Gupta said that financial and human resources are being made available to the district collectors as per the need for locust control. The department of agriculture is engaged in this challenging work with the Locust Warning Organization day and night. Principal secretary, agriculture, Naresh Pal Gangwar said till now locust control has been done in about 95,000-hectare area. BSF’s help is being taken to get concrete information about the arrival of locusts in border districts. Disaster management and relief secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the Centre has allowed the purchase of vehicles and plant protection chemicals for locust control work from SDRF. He said due to the locust attacks crop damage has been reported in some areas of Ganganagar, Bikaner and Nagaur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-to-purchase-100-firefighting-machines-for-anti-locust-operation/articleshow/76188408.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to purchase 100 firefighting machines for anti-locust operation||JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday decided to purchase 100 firefighting vehicles to spray pesticides to fight the locust menace. These vehicles, purchased from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), will be useful in locust control as well as disaster relief. The agriculture department had deployed drones for spraying pesticides on trees where the pests perched at night after getting permission from the DGCA, but due to low capacity it had only limited success. The decision was taken at a review meeting by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday. The state government has allocated Rs 1.47 crore to the district collectors from SDRF which district collectors could use to hire local vehicles and water tankers including tractor-mounted sprayers for locust control and spraying pesticides. The meeting also decided to expedite the recruitment of 290 assistant agricultural officers and 1,900 agricultural supervisors in the agriculture department. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said a large number of locusts are breeding in African countries and West Asian countries and are expected to reach Rajasthan via Pakistan. He said the government had to work on the district-wise strategy. He said along with the efforts of Locust Warning Organization and the state government, cooperation of local farmers is also significant. Deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary said in view of the frequent locust attacks, it has become necessary to strengthen the locust warning organization and the state government should put pressure on the Centre. Chief secretary D B Gupta said that financial and human resources are being made available to the district collectors as per the need for locust control. The department of agriculture is engaged in this challenging work with the Locust Warning Organization day and night. Principal secretary, agriculture, Naresh Pal Gangwar said till now locust control has been done in about 95,000-hectare area. BSF’s help is being taken to get concrete information about the arrival of locusts in border districts. Disaster management and relief secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the Centre has allowed the purchase of vehicles and plant protection chemicals for locust control work from SDRF. He said due to the locust attacks crop damage has been reported in some areas of Ganganagar, Bikaner and Nagaur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-purchase-100-firefighting-machines-for-anti-locust-operation/articleshow/76185732.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP alleges TRS-contractor nexus||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay demanded a probe into the SCCL blast and said that the director-general of coal mines should submit a report on the mishap.He alleged that private contractors have become money spinners for officials. “There is no monitoring of work given to contractors,” he said. He further alleged that the TRS leaders have a secret understanding with the contractors and added that he will complain to the Centre against the state government’s alleged negligence. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-alleges-trs-contractor-nexus/articleshow/76185106.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Covid toll in Jaipur touches 100, staff of 3 hospitals found +ve||Times News Network JAIPUR: A day after 13 Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital staff found were infected with Covid-19, eight more employees tested positive at the institute on Wednesday. Cases of infections were also reported from Kanwatia Hospital, JK Lon Hospital and Mahila Chikitsalaya. This comes on a day the death toll in Jaipur hit the 100-mark and total infections across the state standing at 9,652. At the SMS Hospital’s microbiology laboratory where Covid tests are conducted, a senior professor has been found infected along with one other staff of the same department. Also, two security guards have also been found infected along with three ward boys and a computer operator. SMS Hospital administration claimed that they were taking precautions to contain the spread of the virus. “All those staff who have tested positive in the hospital are those who had gone on long leave due to lockdown. Since they wanted to join duty, we conducted tests as per our guidelines,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital. From June 1, the SMS Hospital has turned into a non-Covid institute. A resident doctor from Mahila Chikitsalaya has been found infected while a nursing staff and a ward boy of JK Lon Hospital have been diagnosed with Covid-19. A doctor of Kanwatia hospital staying at Zanana hospital also tested positive. With four more deaths in Jaipur, the capital’s toll touched the 100-mark on Wednesday. Across the state, six persons died taking the toll to 209. In all, 279 people tested positive. Districts which reported new cases are Bharatpur (88), Jaipur (55), Jodhpur (20), Nagaur (19), Pali (19), Alwar (13), Jhalawar (10), Sikar (7), Ajmer (6), Dungarpur (5), Kota (4), Rajsamand (3), Sirohi (3), Tonk (3), Baran (3), Dausa (3), Dholpur (3), Sawai Madhopur (2), Udaipur (2), Bhilwara (2), Karauli (2), Churu (2), Chittorgarh (1) and four from other states. As many as 309 more persons have been cured of Covid-19 taking the tally of such persons to 6,744. In Jaipur, 24 different places reported 55 cases. Areas which reported new cases are Ramganj (12), Gulmohar Vatika (8), Chandpole (6), Shastri Nagar (4), Jhalana Doongri (2), Adarsh Nagar (2), Bas Badanpura (2), SMS Hospital (2), while one each case was reported from Sodala, Hatwara, Madhorajapura, Bhrampuri, Khatipura, Ramgarh Road, Mansarovar, Bani Park, Vivek Vihar, Amer Road, Eidgah bypass, Purani Basti, Chitwari, Virat Nagar and address of one case is not clear. Amid the pandemic, camps for filing online forms for two-month free ration for underpriviledged people who are not enrolled in NFSA scheme started. One such camp was organised by Mohammad Sabir Qureshi, youth Congress president of Adarsh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-toll-in-jaipur-touches-100-staff-of-3-hospitals-found-ve/articleshow/76185736.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt to purchase 100 firefighting machines for anti-locust operation||JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday decided to purchase 100 firefighting vehicles to spray pesticides to fight the locust menace. These vehicles, purchased from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), will be useful in locust control as well as disaster relief. The agriculture department had deployed drones for spraying pesticides on trees where the pests perched at night after getting permission from the DGCA, but due to low capacity it had only limited success. The decision was taken at a review meeting by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday. The state government has allocated Rs 1.47 crore to the district collectors from SDRF which district collectors could use to hire local vehicles and water tankers including tractor-mounted sprayers for locust control and spraying pesticides. The meeting also decided to expedite the recruitment of 290 assistant agricultural officers and 1,900 agricultural supervisors in the agriculture department. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said a large number of locusts are breeding in African countries and West Asian countries and are expected to reach Rajasthan via Pakistan. He said the government had to work on the district-wise strategy. He said along with the efforts of Locust Warning Organization and the state government, cooperation of local farmers is also significant. Deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary said in view of the frequent locust attacks, it has become necessary to strengthen the locust warning organization and the state government should put pressure on the Centre. Chief secretary D B Gupta said that financial and human resources are being made available to the district collectors as per the need for locust control. The department of agriculture is engaged in this challenging work with the Locust Warning Organization day and night. Principal secretary, agriculture, Naresh Pal Gangwar said till now locust control has been done in about 95,000-hectare area. BSF’s help is being taken to get concrete information about the arrival of locusts in border districts. Disaster management and relief secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the Centre has allowed the purchase of vehicles and plant protection chemicals for locust control work from SDRF. He said due to the locust attacks crop damage has been reported in some areas of Ganganagar, Bikaner and Nagaur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-to-purchase-100-firefighting-machines-for-anti-locust-operation/articleshow/76188413.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ahead of monsoon, weak embankments add to jitters||Kendrapada: With the monsoon hitting Kerala on its normal day of onset on Monday, panic has gripped riverside villages living with damaged river embankments that may give away in case of floods. Many riverside villages face the onslaught of floodwaters every year during the monsoon. The rivers devour large chunks of agricultural land causing huge losses to farmers. “The irrigation department is yet to repair the river embankments in Aul, Rajkanika, Rajnagar and Mahakalapada areas. The fate of riverside villages is now at stake,” alleged Alekha Jena, a BJP leader and the former MLA of Rajnagar. During the last election, politicians assured to stonepack the river embankments at Gobindapur village. “They have failed to keep their promise. We are now worried,” said Gajendra Parida of Gobindapur under Aul block. Many farmers in the riverside villages have been losing their land, houses and orchards with the river Brahmani marching towards the villages due to non-construction stonepack embankments, said Ratnakar Patra of Manikapatana village. The river Brahmani, Kharosotra and Kani have already devoured large tracts of land and houses of many villagers of Patrapur, Narendrapur, Manikapatana, Badambila, Atala, Kolidiha, Jamudanda, Bijayanagar, Diniari, Ichapur, Taladiha, Badambila, Dasipur, Narendrapur, Padanipala, Gobindapur and other villages and displaced around 400 families. “The Kani consumed my land five years ago. Now I am landless. My two sons are working as plumbers in Hyderabad. They returned last month due to the lockdown. It is high time that the authorities build concrete embankments to check the river during the rainy season,” said Ranjan Samal of Ichapur village. The river has already eroded agriculture land in Narendrapur village. “Many houses and the village temple will be wiped out by the river as they are just 50 metres away from the river,” said Bijay Biswal of Narendrapur. On Monday, the district administration organised a meeting on natural calamity to chalk out plans to repair the river embankments and to protect the riverside villagers during flood. “All the river embankments will be repaired soon,” said collector (Kendrapada) Samarth Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ahead-of-monsoon-weak-embankments-add-to-jitters/articleshow/76184169.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Borderline diabetic doctor frees self from medicines in lockdown||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown was no productivity contest but for many, it was an opportunity to change for the better. While some took the weight loss challenge seriously, some others quit smoking. For Ahmedabad-based opthalmologist, Dr Parag Shah, his health and borderline diabetes was a serious concern and lockdown truly changed his life for the better. A borderline diabetic for over three years and dependent on medication to keep his blood sugar levels under check, Shah has now freed himself from taking any medicines. “I used to go for a walk regularly but I did need to take medicines. When the lockdown was announced, my clinic used to open barely for an hour in a day to attend to emergency patients and I had the rest of the day to myself. So I decided to increase the time I devote towards workout,” said the 52-year-old eye surgeon, who lost 7kg weight during 65 days of lockdown. “Instead of an hourlong walk, I increased the time to four hours. I walked for two hours in the morning and two in the evening,” Shah said. “My son, who is a college student, tends to workout at home which also encouraged me to add other exercises apart from walking. So I used to exercise with him at home every day for an hour,” said Shah. After the lockdown ended, when Shah got his blood sugar levels monitored, it was absolutely normal. “When I consulted the doctor, I was told I don’t need to take any medication any more. I am indeed happy I could reverse this condition,” said Shah, who was preparing to get rid of blood sugar medication since a long time. Being fond of mountaineering, Shah also hiked to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania in October last year and took it as an opportunity to work on his health. “With work resuming in full swing, maintaining the streak of working out for five hours is indeed a challenge. While the workout as now reduced to two-three hours in a day, I compensate for it by controlling my diet so that I maintain good health,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/borderline-diabetic-doctor-frees-self-from-medicines-in-lockdown/articleshow/76185113.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus fright: 31 doctors test positive in Telangana-run hospitals||HYDERABAD: Worried doctors at state-run hospitals on Wednesday demanded Covid-19 tests for all medical staff after 31 doctors and three lab technicians tested positive. With the threat of hospitals turning into transmission hotspots looming large, health authorities are holding an emergency meeting to discuss a plan of action. Healthcare personnel who tested positive were on duty at Gandhi hospital, Osmania General Hospital (OGH), Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) and at the Modern Government Maternity Hospital (MGMH) Petlaburj. On Wednesday, four PG residents of NIMS cardiology department and three cath lab technicians tested positive. Also, a professor and two resident doctors from gynaecology department at the MGMH turned positive. At the OGH, one PG doctor from anaesthesia department, two PG residents from microbiology and four house surgeons tested positive, while samples of 20 doctors from the OMC affiliated hospitals were collected for testing. As fear gripped health workers, junior doctors met health minister Eatala Rajender and director of medical education, demanding re-introduction of quarantine for PG doctors, accommodation for Covid-19 positive PGs and healthcare workers in NIMS, regular swab test for all healthcare workers and postponement of PG final year exams. “Many PG doctors have opted for the testing option provided by Osmania Medical College (OMC) authorities. Most of the PG doctors are reluctant to go home in the current situation as they are worried of spreading the virus to their family members,” said a junior doctor at the OGH. Fear leads to drop in number of attendants with patientsThe fear has led to the number of attendants accompanying patients see a dip, say hospital insiders. “While previously we used to have some patients accompanied by 15-20 villagers, now most patients are coming with just one or no attendant,” said a junior doctor at the OGH, where many PG residents have been tested positive The news of doctors testing positive is giving jitters to patients and their attendants as well. “My brother-in-law was rushed to the hospital last night after he met with a road accident. After coming back, I have been constantly worried that I might have caught the virus,” said R Ali, a patient’s relative, who visited the hospital on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corona-fright-31-doctors-test-positive-in-state-run-hospitals/articleshow/76185733.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 4, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt to purchase 100 firefighting machines for anti-locust operation||JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday decided to purchase 100 firefighting vehicles to spray pesticides to fight the locust menace. These vehicles, purchased from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), will be useful in locust control as well as disaster relief. The agriculture department had deployed drones for spraying pesticides on trees where the pests perched at night after getting permission from the DGCA, but due to low capacity it had only limited success. The decision was taken at a review meeting by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday. The state government has allocated Rs 1.47 crore to the district collectors from SDRF which district collectors could use to hire local vehicles and water tankers including tractor-mounted sprayers for locust control and spraying pesticides. The meeting also decided to expedite the recruitment of 290 assistant agricultural officers and 1,900 agricultural supervisors in the agriculture department. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said a large number of locusts are breeding in African countries and West Asian countries and are expected to reach Rajasthan via Pakistan. He said the government had to work on the district-wise strategy. He said along with the efforts of Locust Warning Organization and the state government, cooperation of local farmers is also significant. Deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary said in view of the frequent locust attacks, it has become necessary to strengthen the locust warning organization and the state government should put pressure on the Centre. Chief secretary D B Gupta said that financial and human resources are being made available to the district collectors as per the need for locust control. The department of agriculture is engaged in this challenging work with the Locust Warning Organization day and night. Principal secretary, agriculture, Naresh Pal Gangwar said till now locust control has been done in about 95,000-hectare area. BSF’s help is being taken to get concrete information about the arrival of locusts in border districts. Disaster management and relief secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the Centre has allowed the purchase of vehicles and plant protection chemicals for locust control work from SDRF. He said due to the locust attacks crop damage has been reported in some areas of Ganganagar, Bikaner and Nagaur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-to-purchase-100-firefighting-machines-for-anti-locust-operation/articleshow/76188414.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports four deaths, 180 Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday reported four more deaths and 180 Covid-19 positive cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the disease. With this, the Covid-19 tally has increased to 3,971, and the death toll to 68. Of the total cases reported on Wednesday, 94 are linked to returnees from other states and seven to foreign evacuees. Andhra Pradesh has crossed the four lakh sample testing milestone in only 10 days after completing three lakh tests on May 24. AP has recorded nearly 2,388 cases since May 4, when the third phase of the lockdown started. The easing of lockdown curbs, increased public and vehicular movement and the increased influx of foreign returnees and migrants contributed to a major chunk of cases thereafter. Of the 2,388 cases, 573 are linked to returnees from other state, while 118 foreign returnees have so far tested positive. Chennai’s Koyambedu market has also pushed the tally by nearly 230 more cases.The super-spreader related cases in Gollala Mamidada village increased to 116, while nearly 150 infections in the district are traced back to the same patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-reports-four-deaths-180-cases/articleshow/76194224.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Woes pile up for Guntur as district sees upswing in Covid-19 numbers||Guntur: Fourteen Covid-19 cases were reported from Guntur district on Wednesday. This includes five students who returned from Indonesia, two from Chennai and one each from Pune and Hyderabad. The district administration has a daunting task on its hands with people returning from other cities and then travelling on to their native villages in green zones after giving samples. Meanwhile, merchants and shop owners are in a dilemma whether to keep their establishments open for additional working hours and receive more customers or continue the lockdown for a few more days. There has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases after the district administration announced several relaxations for merchants and reduced the number of containment zones in line with the Centre’s directives. The administration has also decided to mark off entire areas as containment zones only if the number of cases is more than 10. In other instances, the containment zone will be confined to a circumference of 200 meters from the location of the patient. In the last three days, more than 10 positive cases per day have been reported in the district. A vendor at a wholesale vegetable market located on the outskirts of Guntur city has become a super-spreader with 25 people contracting the virus from him. With these 25 people living in different areas of the city, the administration has a tough job to trace the primary and secondary contacts. According to sources, around 1,200 people were identified as close contacts and have been taken to different quarantine facilities. The officials fear that the district might face more cases if the trend continues at the same pace. Rural reas of the district, which so far had reported few positive cases, may soon no longer enjoy their green zone status following the relaxation of restrictions on travel. Officials said if the number of cases continues to increase, test results of between six to eight per cent of contacts of infected persons are likely to return positive within the next couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woes-pile-up-for-guntur-as-district-sees-upswing-in-covid-19-numbers/articleshow/76184185.cms||Samdani MN
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Woman files molestation case against cop, probe on||JAIPUR: A woman has lodged a molestation case against a cop at the city’s Karni Vihar police station. The accused policeman is currently posted in Jhunjhunu. The two are married to separate persons and were in an extramarital relationship for past two years. “Couple of days back, they had a fight, following which the woman filed a complaint of rape. The accused is posted at a human-trafficking wing in Jhunjhunu,” said an official of Karni Vihar. The investigation in this case has been initiated. Official said, “We are recording the statements of both the parties. Call details are also been examined.” The family member of both will also be quizzed about the allegations levelled against the cop. Action will be taken against the cop on the basis of the investigation report. “As the couple were in a relationship, we will also have to check the cause of the fight due to which the woman filed the complaint. We are checking the veracity of the allegations and will conduct the investigation accordingly.” This is second instance in less than a month when a cop has been accused of sexual assault. Earlier, an assistant sub-inspector of Neemrana police station was arrested for molestation of girls who were 22 years old. The action against the policeman was taken after the victims who were working in a factory at Neermrana industrial area registered an FIR against him at the police station. The girls came to the check-post situated at Neemrana after they had a dispute with their land landlords over rent. Instead of acting on their complaint, the ASI harassed and molested the girls. An FIR was registered by the victim. After investigating the matter, the ASI was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-files-molestation-case-against-cop-probe-on/articleshow/76185743.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||11 patients die, 340 test positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: Eleven more patients succumbed to Covid-19, while 340 tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, taking the case and casualty counts in the area to 8,474 and 378, respectively. Of the fresh cases, 288 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, pushing its total tally to 7,145. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas recorded 30 fresh cases, while rural parts accounted for 22. When it comes to the casualties, all of them were recorded at private hospitals. These included a 70-year-old woman from the Khadki station area, a 60-year-old woman from the Yerawada area, a 44-year-old woman from Ganj Peth, a 49-year-old woman from Mangalwar Peth, a 65-year-old woman from the Parvati area, a 77-year-old man from the Kalyaninagar area. Two patients succumbing to the infection were from outside of PMR, but were admitted in the private hospitals in the Pune region. These included an 80-year-old woman of Mumbai and a 15-year-old boy from Beed district. PMC’s health officials said 2,389 active patients were admitted in various hospitals and quarantine centres for coronavirus treatment. About 165 patients were at the critical stage, of which 43 were on ventilator. They said the screening of people was under way in the containment zones. Over 1,249 swabs samples were collected on Wednesday of symptomatic people, they added. The district health office said 282 patients were discharged on Wednesday after they were declared Covid-free.  PCMC’s additional medical officer of health Pavan Salve has urged people not to venture out unnecessarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11-patients-die-340-test-positive-in-pmr/articleshow/76185741.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Man submits representation requesting permission for euthanasia||Jaipur: A man, believed to be suffering from cancer, on Wednesday submitted a representation to Chomu sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), which was addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and requested permission for euthanasia (ending life to relieve pain and suffering). He alleged that he and his family members were being mentally tortured by his wife.“I received a representation from a man, Vishnu, saying he was being mentally totured by his wife and was very upset. He said ‘he is a cancer patient and was being forced by his wife to stay in a rented house as he has been forced out of his house’. I have forwarded the representation to Chomu SHO,” said Chomu SDM Himmat Singh.  Box Jaipur: District Collector Joga Ram said under the “Kamdhenu Dairy Scheme”, interested livestock producers, cattle bearers and farmers can take loan up to 90 per cent for starting a new dairy plant. Candidates can apply up to 30 June. A 30% subsidy will also be given by the state government on repayment of loan taken under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-submits-representation-requesting-permission-for-euthanasia/articleshow/76185754.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Rajkot||RCC bank waives off 50% interest for 60 days||Rajkot: The Rajkot Commercial Cooperative (RCC) with just five branches has waived off 50% interest amount for it’s borrowers. This is over and above the moratorium scheme announced by the government. Purshottam Pipaliya, general manager of the RCC Bank said, “We have very small operation and most of our borrowers are traders. We calculated what as a bank we can contribute from the profit to the customers. Based on that calculation we have decided to waive off 50% interest for 60 days starting from May 1.” The bank’s advances is Rs 105 crore and while deposits is to the tune of Rs 160 crore. Bank’s profit for 2019-20 was Rs 2.55 crore. The interest waiver will cost the bank Rs 1 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcc-bank-waives-off-50-interest-for-60-days/articleshow/76184181.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government readies plan for those who lost jobs in private sector||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is planning a placement mechanism to help people who have lost job in the private sector during the novel coronavirus lockdown. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has told the authorities to set up the system in a way so that it helps both employers in the private sector, including industries, and job-seekers. The labour department is steering the project and a website is being developed by the information technology department, said an official. The website will be an all-encompassing platform for both employers and job-seekers with various levels of competency, he added. “It will be open for manual labourers such as construction workers and also managerial hands required in the industry,” the official said. Both workers and employers will require to register on the website, which will ask for detailed information about a job-seeker’s qualifications and skills. The employers, on the other hand, will explain the jobs on offer and the eligibility criteria. “The website will match the profiles,” said an official. The lockdown, in force since March 25 with various levels of restrictions to contain the spread of novel coronavirus infection, has especially affected business activities and daily wage earners. The recent opening of most economic activities has thrown up new challenges. Many manufacturing units in Bawana Industrial Area, for example, are unable to restart due to lack of adequate number of hands. Most of their workers were migrants and have gone home. “In the industries, skilled manpower is required. A link between employers and employees will help both sides at this time,” said a trader. Officials are likely to make a presentation about the status of work before labour minister Gopal Rai in a couple of days. Some changes may be made in the blueprint then, the official said. But the work is already at an advanced stage, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-readies-plan-for-those-who-lost-jobs-in-pvt-sector/articleshow/76185759.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pune courts to resume regular work from June 8||PUNE: The district and sessions courts at Shivajinagar and all the subordinate courts in Pune district will resume work from June 8 in two shifts of three hours each with 15% staff on a rotation basis. A major emphasis has been placed on adherence to social distancing and hygiene norms, considering that the district courts are one of the busiest public places in the city with a daily footfall of more than 50,000 in normal times. Since March 25, the courts here were functioning only to hear urgent matters, such as bail pleas, or to issue injunction orders etc. The resumption of work is in line with central and state governments' guidelines for phased opening of lockdown and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by Bombay high court to subordinate courts. Among other things, the SOPs stated that the judicial officers may not pass any adverse order owing to the absence of parties and they should refrain from taking coercive action like pronouncing ex-parte orders or directing warrants in view of the prevailing situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-courts-to-resume-regular-work-from-june-8/articleshow/76185753.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Rework payment for oustees, Telangana told||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday pulled up the state government for acquiring land for Anantasagar reservoir from farmers of four villages in Siddipet and Sircilla districts in the name of mutual agreements at a lesser price. The bench also said that the land was acquired without rehabilitating the villagers or offering them resettlement benefits, and directed the state to rework the compensation plan and pay the same to the farmers under the new Land Acquisition Act, 2013 and the amended Act brought in by Telangana government in 2017. “You need not recover the amount already paid to the farmers under the alleged consent agreements, but adjust them in the new package under the Act,” a bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman told the state while hearing the pleas of nearly 120 farmers. The bench also found fault with the state for taking different stands at different times in respect of urgency in hearing the matter. “At one stage you say these matters deserve to be urgently resolved and at another stage you say that there is no urgency for this bench to resolve them,” the bench said. The bench added that the alleged consent obtained by the state from the farmers has resulted in loss to both farmers and the farm labourers and other artisans who were dependent on the land because there was no rehabilitation package. It directed the state to announce a rehabilitation package for all the affected families. The petitioners’ counsel B Rachna Reddy contended that the farmers were paid Rs 6.5 lakh per acre of land whereas the farmers in the neighbouring villages received Rs 13 lakh per acre. The bench said that the state did not furnish to the court any material on how it fixed these prices. The bench also directed the state to rework the compensation plan for acquiring land, structures and the lump sum towards rehabilitation within 3 months and also to pay legal costs of Rs 2,000 to each of the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rework-payment-for-oustees-t-told/articleshow/76185128.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||SCCL blast: Victims’ kin protest, accept Rs 40 lakh payout||HYDERABAD: After a day-long protest and negotiations, the families of four coal mine contract workers, who had died in an explosives accident in a Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) open cast mine in Peddapalli district, decided to accept the bodies and Rs 40 lakh compensation each.  Though they demanded Rs 1crore compensation, they finally settled for Rs 40 lakh compensation per family. Four contract workers — Rajesh, Arjayya, Rakesh and Praveen — died when boulders fell on them when the explosives meant for blasting went off even before they could be detonated in the open cast mine in Ramagundam. They died on the spot. Three others were injured. After protracted negotiations with the SCCL management, the unions and public representatives agreed for Rs 40 lakh per family of the deceased as against their demand of Rs 1 crore each. “Since they were contract workers, the SCCL management has also refused to provide jobs to the kin of the victims,” Hind Mazdoor Sabha general secretary Riyaz Ahmed told TOI. On Wednesday evening, the offer was conveyed to the families. Riyaz Ahmed said the families have been advised to take the bodies from the hospital to perform the last rites. Police have made elaborate bandodust arragements at the Singareni area hospital at Godavarikani, where the bodies were brought for post-mortem examination, in view of the tense situation prevailing there since Tuesday morning when the accident took place. Though PME was completed on Tuesday itself, the families refused to accept them, demanding compensation. SCCL unions joined the families, boycotting work on Wednesday. They demanded Rs 1 crore compensation to the families and Rs 50 lakh to the injured. It is learnt the private contractor, responsible for clearing mud in the mine-1, had offered Rs 5 lakh each to the kin, but they rejected it. Police stopped the firm from carrying out work at the site as investigation was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/victims-kin-protest-accept-rs-40l-payout/articleshow/76185122.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ganga Ram, Moolchand to be made Covid-19 hospitals||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday declared three private hospitals functioning on concessional land as Covid hospitals. These are Moolchand Hospital, which has 140 beds, Saroj Super Specialty Hospital with 154 beds and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which has 508 beds. According to the order issued by state health secretary Padmini Singla, Moolchand and Saroj Super Specialty hospital will have to give 100% of their beds for Covid-19 patients and SGRH 80%. "SGRH is allowed to keep up to 20% beds for treatment of non-Covid patients," the government order states. 25% of Covid beds in three hospitals free for the poorIt adds that 25% of the total Covid beds in these three hospitals shall be free for EWS patients. The government has said the action follows a surge in the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the last one week in Delhi, resulting in additional demand for beds in hospital isolation wards as well as in the ICU. The government’s new order comes days after another directive to private hospitals and nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve at least 20% of their beds for coronavirus patients. “Delhi government felt an imperative need to increase the number of beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients. Hence, all 117 private hospitals/nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more have been directed to reserve 20% of their total bed strength,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted on May 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ganga-ram-moolchand-to-be-made-covid-19-hospitals/articleshow/76186544.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Ranikhet man enters Guinness World Records for growing tallest coriander tree||DEHRADUN: Gopal Upreti, an organic farmer from Ranikhet town, has found a place in the Guinness World Records for growing the tallest coriander plant (2.16 m) in the world. Upreti has an apple orchard in Ranikhet and has over 200 plants in his farms, which he says are all grown organically||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ranikhet-man-enters-guinness-world-records-for-growing-tallest-coriander-tree/articleshow/76182000.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Crucial KRMB meeting today||Hyderabad: To hear the complaints and resolve issues between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) is holding a crucial meeting with officials of both the states at 11 am on Thursday. The Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) is also holding a similar meeting with officials of the two states on Friday. Thursday’s meeting assumes significance as it is being held in the wake of complaints on the irrigation projects taken up by both governments and enhancing of water drawal from Pothireddypadu by Andhra Pradesh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crucial-krmb-meeting-today/articleshow/76185138.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cancer patient cites torture by wife, seeks euthanasia||JAIPUR: A man, believed to be suffering from cancer, on Wednesday submitted a representation to Chomu sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), which was addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot, and requested permission for euthanasia (ending life to relieve pain and suffering). He alleged that he and his family members were being mentally tortured by his wife. “I received a representation from a man, Vishnu Sharma, saying he was being mentally tortured by his wife (Anju Sharma) and was very upset. He said he is a cancer patient and was being forced by his wife to stay in a rented house as he has been forced out of his house. I have forwarded the representation to Chomu SHO,” said Chomu SDM. It stated the family members were being threatened and no action was taken despite several complaints to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cancer-patient-cites-torture-by-wife-seeks-euthanasia/articleshow/76185757.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Antique items found in farm; case slapped on ryot, two others||HYDERABAD: A criminal case was registered against a farmer and two others in Vikarabad’s Pargi on Wednesday after they tried to hide the antique items which they accidentally stumbled upon on Tuesday. Police seized 80 tolas of silver ornaments, besides eight metal mugs. The officials are yet to ascertain the value of the precious items. Pargi police said during land levelling works in an agriculture field belonging to Siddiqui on Tuesday, three copper and five brass mugs were found. To their astonishment, Siddiqui and two others found ornaments like bangles, anklets, rings and others. Assuming that they hit a jackpot with the discovery of the antique items, the trio then decided to distribute the find among themselves. However, differences cropped up over sharing the booty. “These ancient silver ornaments weigh over 80 tolas which we seized. We called revenue officials and handed over the seized property. The revenue officials, in turn, will hand it over to the archaeology department on Thursday,’’ Pargi inspector Laxmi Reddy told TOI. Since Siddiqui and others had failed to voluntarily disclose the information about the finding of antique items to the government officials, they were booked under the Indian Treasure Trove Act. Officials said in a similar discovery two months ago in Karankote police station limits, locals found silver coins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/antique-items-found-in-farm-case-slapped-on-ryot-2-others/articleshow/76185164.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Surat||Blast at chemical company in Dahej kills 8, injures 52||BHARUCH/SURAT: At least eight persons died and 52 suffered burn injuries in a massive explosion in a chemical company located in Dahej special economic zone (SEZ) in Bharuch district on Wednesday. Preliminary investigation suggested that there was a fire in one of the tanks containing ortho dicholorobenzene (ODCD) at the solvent tank farm of Yashasvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd, which led to the blast. N P Vaghela, deputy director, industrial safety & health department, Bharuch, said, “It looks like the blast happened because of excess pressure in the tank. Some of the plants in the factory were gutted. We have initiated a detailed investigation to identify the exact cause of the accident.” Out of the eight dead, bodies of two workers were charred beyond recognition. The condition of eight is said to be critical, added Vaghela. Nearly 15 fire tenders battled for nearly five hours to douse the flames. Bharuch collector Dr M D Modiya said 4,800 people from two villages - Luwara and Lakhigam - located close to the unit - were shifted to multi-purpose centres as a precautionary measure. Yashasvi Rasayan, which makes herbicides, has been operating in the SEZ for the last nearly six years. Panic gripped the area as the explosion was heard in a vicinity of at least 20 km and thick black plumes of smoke were visible from long distances. In fact, the blast was heard in Kuda and Ghogha villages of Bhavnagar too. Dahej and Ghogha are separated by a distance of just about 30 km by Gulf of Khambhat. Sources said window panes of some factories, private cars and buses were also shattered due to the explosion. GPCB officials said there was a major risk had the fire spread to hydrogen, sulphur dioxide, xylene and ethanol storages in the tank farm. AV Shah, member secretary, GPCB, told TOI: "The emission of volatile organic compounds was much above threshold levels initially, but it was under control by evening. We are constantly in touch with the district authorities and sought a detailed report.” Shah said there was no threat to people but they were evacuated as a precautionary measure. Falgun Modi, regional officer, GPCB, said, " The sheds and structures of neighbouring units were damaged due to the explosion. We have submitted our report to the head office for further action and a closure notice has been issued to the company. Yogesh Patel, a senior executive with a unit adjacent to the company, said, " The blast was deafening. First ,we thought it was the effect of the cyclone as window glasses of buildings, cars and buses got shattered. We saw several workers coming out from the plant in injured condition.” Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said there has been a rise in the number of industrial accidents in Bharuch district which has claimed many lives. “The state government should ensure that factories adhere strictly to safety norms and a regular safety audit is done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/blast-at-chemical-company-in-dahej-kills-8-injures-52/articleshow/76184217.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Crowds gather as residents throw caution to the wind||Vijayawada: Major junctions in the city remained crowded on Wednesday in spite of awareness camps held by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and city police. Shops and other commercial establishments drew buyers in large numbers. Besant Road, Raja Gopalachari Street, Museum Road and other junctions in Governorpet saw a steady stream of people throughout the day. Tea stalls and other small eateries, in particular, had to tackle a rush of customers. “Everyone should strictly follow physical distancing considering their safety. One should avoid visiting markets and shops with a huge crowd. The risk of Covid-19 infection is very high after the government permitted business establishments to operate. One should wash their hands most often and wear good quality masks and gloves while going out,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar P, a city-based pulmonologist. Social distancing norms which were adhered to in the first three phases of the lockdown went for a toss in the city after the Centre permitted relaxations in the fourth and fifth phases. Krishna district continued to report new Covid-19 cases, with eight persons testing positive and one death. The lockdown continues to be implemented in containment zones at Krishna Lanka and other high-risk areas in Vijayawada. - Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crowds-gather-as-residents-throw-caution-to-the-wind/articleshow/76184221.cms||Venu Lanka
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Cong trying to take credit for highway project: MP||Udaipur: Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari on Wednesday expressed dissent over the Congress claims on financial sanction for the Beawar-Gomti four-lane project.The BJP MP said she had been running from pillar-to-post for over a year to get financial sanction for the project. The 100-km road will be constructed at a cost of Rs 722 crore. Expressing gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister of road transport & highways Nitin Gadkari, Diya said people of the constituency were well aware whose efforts brought this project to them.“It is most surprising that on the one hand the Congress keeps saying that the Union government is doing nothing while on the other hand it tries to take away credit for the projects sanctioned by the Centre. By merely issuing press notes one does not get credit. Both inside the Lok Sabha as well as outside, I have lobbied and worked hard with complete earnestness for this 4-lane project,” the MP said. During election last year, Diya had promised the electorate to pitch strongly for the project. The 100-km stretch will be completed in two parts. The first 50-km stretch will be constructed at a cost of Rs 380.29 crore and the final 50-km stretch at a cost of Rs 341.33 crore. As per the plan, along with six flyovers, 40 smaller bridges will be constructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-trying-to-take-credit-for-highway-project-mp/articleshow/76185761.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||7 booked for giving fake details for travel e-pass||PUNE: The city crime branch have filed a cheating case against seven persons for submitting fake details to obtain e-passes from the Pune police.  All the persons involved in the cheating case are from Navi Mumbai and Thane . The Pune city police have created an online platform for people to upload ID proof, photograph and residential address, travel requirement and purpose to avail the pass. A team headed by inspector Shilpa Chavan suspected some “online forms/requests” were fabricated and alerted inspector Mahendra Jagtap. “We verified the Aadhaar numbers and found the suspects uploaded fake Aadhaar cards. The photographs on the Aadhaar cards were different from the photographs uploaded on the website, and the addresses provided were fake,” Jagtap said. Police also verified medical certificates and found them to be fake. It was suspected the seven persons were working as agents and promised to give e-passes to needy people by extorting money. “We shall verify this in due course of investigations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-booked-for-giving-fake-details-for-travel-e-pass/articleshow/76185765.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||4,197 Shramik Specials ferry 58 lakh workers||HYDERABAD: As many as 4,197 Shramik Special trains have been put to duty up until June 2 from May 1, to ferry more than 58 lakh migrant workers to their native cities. Among these, the most number of trains have originated from Gujarat (1026 Trains), Maharashtra (802 Trains), Punjab(416 Trains), Uttar Pradesh (294 Trains) and Bihar (294 Trains), in the last one month. The top five states where maximum trains terminated are Uttar Pradesh(1682 Trains), Bihar(1495 Trains), Jharkhand(197 Trains), Odisha (187 Trains), West Bengal (156 Trains). In addition to Shramik Specials, 15 pairs of special Rajdhani trains have been running from May 12. Hundred pairs of Special Mail/Express from June 1 are also facilitating the movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places. “The trains running now are not facing any congestion,” said South Central Railway in an official statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4197-shramik-specials-ferry-58-lakh-workers/articleshow/76185186.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Green activists oppose use of pesticides near GIB habitat||Jaisalmer: Locust menace continued in Jaisalmer as a huge swarm, about 25-30km long, entered Shahgarh Bulj area of the district and kept flying ahead late on Tuesday night. The swarm has now settled in Pokhran and Lathi areas, after destroying many Khejri and other trees on the way. The locust control department had planned to kill the pests through aerial control and other means, but environmentalists and wildlife enthusiasts have requested the district collector by sending a memorandum not to spray pesticides in the habitat areas of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB). Akhil Bhartiya Jeevraksha Vishnoi Sabha’s tehsil sabha convener and wildlife enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani said that it has been planned to spray pesticides through aerial mode to control locusts, but this will affect the GIBs adversely. He said that the Great Indian Bustards prefer to eat locusts, but eating poisonous locusts can affect them. He said a group of 12-15 GIBs has been seen in Ramdeora, Khetolai and other areas. In this regard, a memorandum has been sent to district collector, requesting him to control locusts through other means and not by spraying pesticides. Pemani has also written a letter to district collector Namit Mehta, in which it has been mentioned that Godawans regularly feed on large insects such as grasshoppers, beetles, lizards, etc. They are also feeding on locusts quite regularly, lately. The pesticide sprayed on the locusts to kill them, may end up killing the birds too, due to biomagnification of poison after the birds feed on the locusts. In the letter, he has requested to stop spraying of pesticides, if not in the whole district then at least in those areas where Godawans are surviving. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/green-activists-oppose-use-of-pesticides-near-gib-habitat/articleshow/76185767.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Most rural kids don’t have smartphones for e-classes||JAISALMER: The state government is stressing on online education but children in rural areas are unable to go for it as majority do not have android phones. It is estimated that only 5-10% children in rural areas are able to study online. In Jaisalmer district, which is considered a backward with regard to education, the situation is worse in rural areas. Although the education department is inspiring children to study online under the Muskan project and sending study materials to children through videos, in villages it not bearing any results. In Dabla, Roopsi, Ludhwa and Amarsagar villages, only a hadful of children have the luxury of studying online using mobile phones. A class 8 student at Dabla village said she was studying online but unable to understand most of the course materials. She added that Internet network is the biggest drawback. Similarly, a student of class 6 said though his teacher sends course materials through Whatsapp, it cannot replace classsroom education. Another student said school has remained shut due to lockdown and online education education cannot replace going to school. He said teachers send course materials through the Internet but on most occasions downloading is very difficult because of network woes. Family members of a student said that their economic situation buying an android phone was not possible. Dabla Senior Higher Secondary School principal Rajesh Vyas said Rajasthan government was the first in the country to start online education through the Muskan project and efforts were being made to make it effective. He said every day he receives chapters and video links from the education department which he sends to teachers which is then sent to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-rural-kids-dont-have-smartphones-for-e-classes/articleshow/76185775.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pvt docs can help patients get timely care: Top expert||Pune: The technical advisor to the state on Covid-19, Subhash Salunkhe, suggested the government involve private doctors treating comorbid patients in the efforts to cut the mortality rate. Salunkhe told TOI that patients with comorbidities, like diabetes and heart ailments, regularly consult their doctors. He said these doctors should now reach out to their patients and alert them if there are symptoms. Nearly 90% of those who have died of Covid-19 in Pune (367 as of June 2) had underlying conditions or were not taken to hospitals on time. “Private physicians can get their patients timely care. If a person is diabetic, his or her diabetologist should reach out, check if all is okay and recommend a Covid test or hospital admission if there are fears,” Salunkhe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-docs-can-help-patients-get-timely-care-top-expert/articleshow/76185774.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC seals 181 illegal plastic units||Hyderabad: GHMC on Wednesday sealed 181 illegal units manufacturing and recycling banned plastic products, such as plastic covers, water bottles, cups, plastic plates etc. The sealed establishments were secretly operating from residential localities in Tata Nagar and Shastripuram, which come under the Rajendra Nagar circle. “Till date, 345 units have been sealed. We had even disconnected power supply after sealing them,” said N Samrat Ashok, GHMC, zonal commissioner (Charminar). The drive was conducted to implement the court orders that imposed a ban on manufacturing plastic products below 50 micron, including plastic carry bags. Civic officials said that they will also inspect the retail stores soon. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-seals-181-illegal-plastic-units/articleshow/76185202.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||Rain spares hosps; nCoV trackers hit||Pune: Heavy rain on Wednesday impacted commutes for frontline Covid staff, but left patients services in hospitals largely untouched. Officials TOI spoke to said besides a noticeable drop in the number of people turning up at OPDs, services were largely normal. “We have a transport service so our staff didn't have a problem reaching the hospital. We also have solid power backup in case of outages," said infectious diseases expert Sudhir Patsute, the medical superintendent of the frontline Naidu hospital.  Harish Tatiya, the administrator of Sassoon hospital, said: “There was a 40% drop in patients seeking OPD medical care in the hospital’s triage area. Barring that, services have been smooth. The rains did not cause problems.” But flu surveillance in containment zones in the Pune metropolitan region, were hit by the rains. “Our door-to-door surveillance for flu-like symptoms was badly affected,” said city surveillance officer Vaishali Jadhav, the assistant medical officer of health in the PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-spares-hosps-ncov-trackers-hit/articleshow/76185778.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Udaipur||Special species of Babool tree found after 68 years||JAIPUR: After 68 years, a species of Babool tree has been found on a hilltop in Dhaar village in Udaipur district. Accacia Eburnea, this tree was last recorded in north-western part of Rajasthan in Botanical Survey of India in 1951. After that no written record of this species was present in Rajasthan until now, when five such trees have been found. Retired forest expert from Rajasthan Forest Service, Satish Sharma while exploring the area claims to have found these trees on a hilltop in Dhaar village situated 15 km away from Udaipur city. While talking to TOI he explained, “In 1951, in first volume of Fauna of Rajasthan in Botanical Survey of India this tree was mentioned by B S Sankhla as he found this tree in north-western region of the state. After that, this tree is not mentioned anywhere. North Western is a dry region but Udaipur is a humid area. In Dhar village I found five trees, three are big and two are small in size.” Former Chief Conservator of Forest and Wildlife Udaipur, Rahul Bhatnagar says that it is positive news for the Marwar region. “Earlier, it was recorded in north-western region but finding it in Udaipur region is a positive sign for the ecology of the area. Its seeds will be preserve in the nursery and trees should be protected.” The speciality of this tree is that its stem is yellow in color while other varieties of Babool tree in Rajasthan are either of white stem or black. Entire tree blossoms with yellow flowers in winter season but the tree sheds its leaves in summer leaving behind only beans i.e. fruits of tree on the branches. Sharma explains, “In other varieties of Babool, fruits fall on the ground and burst open once they dry out. While in this variety, its fruit dries on the branches before bursting open. It seeds fall on the ground enabling more trees to grow. It is a good sign that these trees are still found in Rajasthan.” Now preserving the seeds of the tree and keeping the trees protected have become a priority for the administration. Shashi Supong, Deputy Forest Officer (North) says that department will soon identify the area where the trees are situated and mark them. “We will start the work of preserving the seeds for future and plant them in our nursery. It is also necessary to preserve the trees and they will be marked to prevent villagers from cutting them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/special-species-of-babool-tree-found-after-68-years/articleshow/76188026.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||First cabinet meet in 3 months on June 11||Vijayawada: The state cabinet is scheduled to meet on June 11 at Velagapudi. This would be the first cabinet meeting in the last three months as everything got postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney has sent a circular to all department heads to submit issues to be listed for the meeting by June 9. The state could not hold its budget session in March-April this year due to Covid-19 and an ordinance was issued to pass the budget for the first quarter of the 2020-21 financial year. The cabinet is likely to take a call on the impending budget session to be held sometime in July or in the later part of June. The cabinet is also likely to clear proposals of Naadu-Nedu for schools and hospitals, plans of which were almost finalised. The government is procuring furniture for schools and hospitals which will be cleared by the cabinet. Meanwhile, the government has appointed Dr K Sudhakar, who was acting as the nodal officer of Covid-19 hospital in Vijayawada, as superintendent of government general hospital (GGH) in Guntur. Dr Sudhakar was working as professor of general medicine at GGH before being shifted to the Covid-19 hospital two months ago. He had earlier served as principal of Siddartha medical college in Vijayawada. His father-in-law and noted ophthalmologist Dr Songa Koteswara Rao had also served as superintendent of GGH in the past. “It’s a big privilege for me to head this prestigious institution, even more so as I am also an alumni of this college. I will strive hard for the uplift of GGH,” Dr Sudhakar said after taking charge on Wednesday. Similarly, Dr S Babulal has been appointed as principal of government medical college in Guntur. Dr Babulal was GGH superintendent before he was deputed to head the Covid-19 command control centre in Vijayawada two months ago. He also served as registrar of NTR Health University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/first-cabinet-meet-in-3-months-on-june-11/articleshow/76184263.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Jaipur||Special species of Babool tree found after 68 years||JAIPUR: After 68 years, a species of Babool tree has been found on a hilltop in Dhaar village in Udaipur district. Accacia Eburnea, this tree was last recorded in north-western part of Rajasthan in Botanical Survey of India in 1951. After that no written record of this species was present in Rajasthan until now, when five such trees have been found. Retired forest expert from Rajasthan Forest Service, Satish Sharma while exploring the area claims to have found these trees on a hilltop in Dhaar village situated 15 km away from Udaipur city. While talking to TOI he explained, “In 1951, in first volume of Fauna of Rajasthan in Botanical Survey of India this tree was mentioned by B S Sankhla as he found this tree in north-western region of the state. After that, this tree is not mentioned anywhere. North Western is a dry region but Udaipur is a humid area. In Dhar village I found five trees, three are big and two are small in size.” Former Chief Conservator of Forest and Wildlife Udaipur, Rahul Bhatnagar says that it is positive news for the Marwar region. “Earlier, it was recorded in north-western region but finding it in Udaipur region is a positive sign for the ecology of the area. Its seeds will be preserve in the nursery and trees should be protected.” The speciality of this tree is that its stem is yellow in color while other varieties of Babool tree in Rajasthan are either of white stem or black. Entire tree blossoms with yellow flowers in winter season but the tree sheds its leaves in summer leaving behind only beans i.e. fruits of tree on the branches. Sharma explains, “In other varieties of Babool, fruits fall on the ground and burst open once they dry out. While in this variety, its fruit dries on the branches before bursting open. It seeds fall on the ground enabling more trees to grow. It is a good sign that these trees are still found in Rajasthan.” Now preserving the seeds of the tree and keeping the trees protected have become a priority for the administration. Shashi Supong, Deputy Forest Officer (North) says that department will soon identify the area where the trees are situated and mark them. “We will start the work of preserving the seeds for future and plant them in our nursery. It is also necessary to preserve the trees and they will be marked to prevent villagers from cutting them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-species-of-babool-tree-found-after-68-years/articleshow/76185784.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao Hospital suspends coronavirus sample testing due to backlog at lab||NEW DELHI: Hindu Rao Hospital’s fever clinic has temporarily stopped accepting nasal and oral swab samples for the novel coronavirus testing. As many as 50 people who went to submit their samples had to return disappointed over the past two days, said a senior doctor at the hospital run by North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Explaining the reason behind the decision, a civic official said that National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has asked the hospitals not to send any more samples because of a huge backlog. A communication was received from the NCDC joint director in this regard on Wednesday, added another official. “Consequent upon the increased number of samples sent by various hospitals and surveillance sites from Delhi to Biotechnology Laboratory than the amount which could be handled, to keep the turn around time up to 48 hours, a huge backlog of samples has resulted in the lab. In view of this, it is requested that the samples from all the hospitals and sites from Delhi may kindly be diverted to other Covid testing labs. The status of backlog shall be notified immediately,” read the NCDC’s letter. A north corporation official told TOI that no decision has been taken yet to divert the samples to other laboratories. “On Wednesday, no samples were taken. On Thursday, eight samples of only admitted ward patients were taken. Some doctors from Rajan Babu Hospital had also come for the testing, but we were helpless,” said a doctor on the condition of anonymity. The north DMC is running a fever clinic at Hindu Rao Hospital where patients are screened and samples are taken in the form of nasal and oral swabs. Before the operations were hit, the fever clinic used to take 45-50 samples every day. “Earlier, the samples used to be sent to NIB Noida laboratory as well, but they had refused to take them recently. We don’t have in-house labs like bigger hospitals,” the doctor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-suspends-corona-sample-testing-due-to-backlog-at-lab/articleshow/76204153.cms||Paras Singh
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Chief secy’s term extended||Vijaywada: The central government has extended the term of Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Nilam Sawhney till September-end. The state government had made a representation to the Centre in the last week of May seeking extension of her term. Sawhney, a 1984 batch IAS officer, is the first woman chief secretary of the state. She had assumed charge in November last year and ahead of the extension, was due to retire on June 30. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-secys-term-extended/articleshow/76184276.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four held for extortion of Rs 5.89 lakh from gynaecologist||PUNE: The anti-extortion cell of the city’s crime branch arrested four persons on Wednesday afternoon, including a police constable, for extorting Rs5.89 lakh from a Hadapsar-based medical practitioner. The persons who identified themselves as police personnel, issued threats to file a fabricated complaint against the complainant on Sunday. The 48-year-old gynaecologist approached the Hadapsar police on Tuesday. The arrested persons are Pradeep Dnyandev Phasage (37), Kailash Bhanudas Awachite (38), Sameer Jagannath Thorat and a 29-year-old woman. “Thorat is a constable and is posted with the police headquarters at Shivajinagar,” said crime branch senior inspector Rajendra Mohite. Mohite told TOI, “The four persons sent the woman to the doctor’s clinic where she created a scene. The others then barged in and threatened to file a complaint about the doctor’s involvement in sex determination tests. They then took him to Dive Ghat area. where they demanded Rs10 lakh as extortion but settled for Rs7 lakh.” The four persons then took him to a flat in Hadapsar and kept him there till Sunday evening, Mohite said. “On Monday the man handed over Rs5.89 lakh to them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-held-for-extortion-of-rs-5-89l-from-gynaecologist/articleshow/76185789.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Call to remove Waqf land encroachers||Hyderabad: Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) chairman Mohammed Saleem on Wednesday inspected Guttala Begumpet Waqf land at Madhapur with revenue and police officials. The land, spreading over 90 acres, is sub judice and the board has filed a writ petition, despite which encroachment continues. Mohammed Saleem, chairman TSWB said the land was under the control of anti-social elements and most of the land had been occupied illegally. Officials have been asked to submit a detailed report to the board about the encroachment and take immediate steps to remove illegal occupants from the land. “It is prime land which is being encroached. The board will take all necessary measures to throw out illegal occupants,” the TSWB chairman said. Objecting to a new road being laid on the land without the board’s consent, Mohammed Saleem asked municipal authorities to pay compensation. “Municipal authorities have to pay compensation to the board as they have laid a new road on Waqf land without our knowledge and consent,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/call-to-remove-waqf-land-encroachers/articleshow/76185214.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Risala Bazar is now fourth hotspot in Secunderabad Cantonment Board||SECUNDERABAD: A steep surge in the Covid-19 cases coupled with increasing containment clusters in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) are leaving the officials worried. Two days after four coronavirus positive cases were identified in Karkhana, a housewife in Gummadi Rajareddy Colony of Risala Bazar contracted the virus on Wednesday. The officials swung into action, sanitised the entire area, erected barricades and declared it as a new hotspot in the SCB. Risala Bazar has now joined Laxminagar (Picket), Karkhana and Mahendra Hills as containment areas in the cantonment. SCB officials have shifted the woman to Gandhi Hospital and are busy tracing her contacts. “We have shifted the woman to Gandhi Hospital for quarantine. A detailed survey is being conducted by the District Medical and Health Department at 75 houses in Gummadi Rajareddy Colony to identify the woman’s contacts. Every bylane in the colony is being sanitised and sprinkled with DDT powder. A special team to distribute groceries and medicines to needy people has been deployed in this area,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender told TOI. After positive cases in Karkhana, the residents of the P&T Colony had closed seven of the eight entry points. Even Vikrampuri Colony, which is opposite to P&T Colony, has also shut most of their roads after the fresh scare. Meanwhile, three out of four members of a family were discharged after they were found negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/risala-bazar-is-now-4th-hotspot-in-scb/articleshow/76185230.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 40 cops at PTS test Covid-19 +ve on a day||KOLKATA: Forty personnel at Police Training School (PTS) have tested positive for Covid-19, registering the single-largest spike in cases among Kolkata Police so far. The confirmation came on Monday, following which all were admitted to a private Covid hospital in Jadavpur. The Lake Town police station IC has also been found infected. With 27 cops from PTS testing positive earlier, the total number of Covid cases now stood at 67. This is the single largest infection centre in the force, Garfa police station being a distant second with a little over a dozen cases. Of the 40 infected people, 29 are from the Combat Battalion, entrusted with guarding vital installations, 10 are from the specialized Disaster Management Group that played a crucial role in clearing up the city after Cyclone Amphan and the remaining one is from RAF. Some officers said the reason for the spike could be that the cops had been going out on duty, returning and mixing with others in the mess. But this was contested by others who claimed adequate facilities were not provided at PTS to maintain social distancing. A week ago, about 500-odd Combat Force personnel had staged demonstrations and even manhandled a deputy commissioner over being forced to share the quarters with 20 colleagues who had been advised home quarantine. To boost the force’s morale, senior officers from Lalbazar headquarters have been visiting police stations, guards and barracks to ask after the cops on duty and ensure sanitization of the premises . Among them were Neloo Sherpa, joint CP (administration) and DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad who visited the Maniktala police barracks. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar visited the Jorabagan traffic guard and interacted with officers who were infected but rejoined work. Police sources said an SOP had been adopted to contain the spread. “We have asked seniors to monitor each member’s condition. Anyone complaining of any Covid-like symptom should be tested and quarantined at Dumurjola in Howrah. We are arranging for random tests at police stations,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. Cops have been asked to consult doctors to boost immunity. “Eating healthy is vital. We are distributing hydroxychloroquine tablets,” said an IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/40-cops-at-pts-test-covid-ve-on-a-day/articleshow/76185218.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 4, 2020||Pune||NDRF deploys two more teams in Raigad district||Pune: The 5th battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) moved two more teams from Mumbai and Palghar to Raigad district for relief and rescue operations, in the wake of Cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday. The cyclone had a landfall in Alibaug around 1pm. Anupam Srivastava, commandant of the battalion, said, “Areas around Alibaug in 40km-radius have been hit badly. Thousands of trees have been uprooted and many electric poles have fallen. Communication has been disrupted across Raigad district, so we had to move two teams there.” The NDRF teams are equipped with boats, cutters and suits. “Our teams are working with the district administration in Raigad. Our first priority is to clear the roads. Our technicians will also restore power supply,” he said. A total of 275 NDRF personnel are involved in the relief and rescue operations. “The villages in Raigad, Maangaon, Shriwardhan and Alibaug have been worst affected. At the time of the cyclone’s landfall, the wind speed was over 100km/hour. Our teams have chalked out a detailed plan and will be there for at least six days,” a senior NDRF officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ndrf-deploys-two-more-teams-in-raigad-district/articleshow/76185793.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to form panel on regulatory farming: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: After asking farmers to grow crops as suggested by it, the Telangana government has decided to appoint an agriculture products’ marketing committee to get a good price for the farm produce. The government has also decided to set up a cotton research and development centre. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held a review meeting on Wednesday on the strategies to be adopted on regulatory cultivation and crops which are in demand in the market. The CM said regulatory farming policy, which will begin this monsoon season, should continue in every season and every year. KCR asked the officials to prepare exact estimates on eating habits of people in the country and in the state. “Identify region-wise food habits and requirements. For this, the government will appoint agriculture products marketing committee. Experts and specialists in the field will be part of the committee, which will study the demand of agriculture products worldwide, marketing, pricing and related issues.” The CM said the panel would recommend crops and “cultivation should be done as per the suggestions of the committee.” He said there should be a scientific basis for the use of fertilisers and pesticides. “Quality seeds should be sown and mechanisation should increase in agriculture. The government will appoint an agriculture research committee to study and make suitable recommendations,” he said. On cotton cultivation, KCR said the new R&D centre would support cotton growers and make suggestions on how to increase the output and recommend the types of cotton to meet the market needs. The CM said the panel would recommend crops and “cultivation should be done as per the suggestions of the committee. He emphasised on scientific way of cultivation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-form-panel-on-regulatory-farming-cm/articleshow/76185219.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC plans 100-bed centre in ESI Hospital||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), owing to the rising Covid-19 cases, has planned a 100-bed facility at ESI hospital in Satpur area of the city for treating coronavirus patients. The new facility will be in line with the NMC’s Zakir Hussain Hospital. The total tally of Covid-19 patients in the city has reached 245, including 11 deaths. Of these 85 patients have recovered and got discharged. Also, there were only 88 patients in the city till May 25, but 157 more cases were added in the next eight days. “Considering this rise in number of cases in the city, we have decided to make arrangement of 100-bed ward to treat Covid-19 patients at ESI hospital,” an NMC official said. “Moreover, we are also in the process of making arrangement of another 200-bed facility at New Bytco hospital building of the NMC. All civil and electric works of the building is over. We are expecting the beds to be set up there within a couple of weeks,” he added. The official said that the civic body has already started health survey of city residents in slums and other parts of the city to find out the suspected cases. “Those who are found with the slightest symptoms are to be quarantined. We have made institutional quarantine mandatory for the suspected patients,” the official said. As part of this, the NMC has made a 450-bed quarantine ward at a building belonging to the social welfare department of the state government in Dwarka area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-plans-100-bed-centre-in-esi-hospital/articleshow/76162881.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Man kills father after suspecting affair with wife in Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: A farmer bludgeoned his father to death at Ambem R village in Nizamabad district suspecting that the latter was having an affair with his wife. On Tuesday night, the accused, G Gangadhar (28), killed his father, G Gangaram (58), at their cattle shed near the village with the help of his mother Sayavva. Rudrur inspector Y Ashok Reddy said: “During the preliminary probe, we came to know that 10 days ago, Gangadhar’s wife went to her parent’s house after he accused her of having an affair with Gangaram. We suspect that this may have driven Gangadhar to kill his father,” the inspector said. After killing Gangaram, Gangadhar placed the body on the cot at the shed and left with his mother. “The accused informed the locals about the murder on Wednesday morning and fled,” the inspector said. The body was sent for postmortem and a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-father-after-suspecting-affair-with-wife-in-nizamabad/articleshow/76185240.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cancer doctor donates plasma for trial||KOLKATA: A 28-year-old doctor attached with a cancer hospital donated his plasma on Wednesday, offering a boost to clinical trial of convalescent plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients. Sayantan Chakraborty, resident ICU doctor at Tata Medical Centre, New Town, contracted the virus in the line of duty and was treated at ID Hospital in Beliaghata. “I am proud to have donated my plasma as this clinical trial could open up a new horizon in Covid-19 treatment,” he said. A total of 450ml plasma was taken from him and the procedure lasted about 45 minutes. Last week Monami Biswas (23), a management student had donated her plasma, becoming the first donor at the department of immuno-haematology and blood transfusion at Medical College and Hospital. Chakraborty has been working at the cancer specialty hospital for nearly three years now. The Birati resident found infected in mid-April and he was cured and discharged from hospital on April 29. “I was treated by an excellent team of doctors at ID Hospital. Before my discharge, I was asked whether I would donate my plasma for the clinical trial that would take place in that hospital itself. I agreed as plasma donation would be my small contribution towards the project. That way, I would be able to give back something to the doctors who took care of me,” Chakraborty told TOI. “I would appeal to all discharged Covid patients, who are young and healthy, to donate plasma.” A collaborative project of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research and the state government, plasma donation is being carried out at MCH, while the clinical trial will take place at ID Hospital. “We would have had two young doctors donating plasma on Wednesday. But the other doctor, who is attached to our hospital, had an accidental fall,” said immuno-haematology and blood transfusion head Prasun Bhattacharya. Now, the repository at MCH has got plasma that can be used on two patients for trial as and when the research team gets matching recipients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cancer-doc-donates-plasma-for-trial/articleshow/76185245.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 4, 2020||Pune||Duo steal moped while owner buys snacks||Pune: Leaving the key in a moped’s ignition cost a 36-year-old Chikhali resident dearly as two men drove away with it within the wink of an eye around 4.30pm on Tuesday. The theft happened when the complainant, Satish Ghayal, was buying snacks along the road near Thermax Chowk in Nigdi. “He parked the moped but did not remove the ignition key and turned towards the shop,” an officer from the Nigdi police said. Two men on scooter stopped near the moped. One got down, started Ghayal’s moped and drove away. “We are checking CCTV footage to ascertain their identities,” the officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-steal-moped-while-owner-buys-snacks/articleshow/76185798.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||City school served show cause notice over fee hike||Vadodara: City-based Billabong High International School has come under scanner for charging more fees than the amount decided by the Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC), Vadodara. Based on complaints submitted to the district education officer (DEO), a representative from the office had conducted inspection of the school. After the inspection, the school has been served a showcause notice which it has been asked to reply within two days. Education inspector Shweta Pargi on Wednesday said that it is clear that the school is charging fees more than what has been decided by the FRC. Through the notice, the office has sought explanation from the school on why it is not following orders of the FRC despite the fact that fee revision committee has not issued any order whereby the fees can charge more than what the FRC has decided. The school principal has also been asked to furnish an explanation regarding continuous absence from the school premises during site inspection. Also, it has been asked to explain the reason why it is forcing parents to purchase kits including books, notebooks, bags among others from the school and also it claim that the books referred by the school will not be available at any other place in Gujarat. The fees issue is brewing since last couple of days. “In front of the education inspector, a parent who had shown his readiness to submit fees as decided by FRC was threatened by the school administration. This reflects the high-handed approach of the school managements who are neither ready to adhere to FRC’s decision nor accept the interim order of the Supreme Court,” said Congress leader Rutvij Joshi, who has threatened to launch a stir if the school does not relent despite DEO’s notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-school-served-show-cause-notice-over-fee-hike/articleshow/76182415.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||PSC prepares SOP for conduct of exams||Vijayawada: The governing council of the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has readied a standard operating procedure (SOP) to conduct examinations for government services. A detailed blueprint has been prepared for holding the examinations keeping in mind precautions necessitated by Covid-19. The board will announce the schedule separately as many examinations are lined up over the next months. The APPSC board held a meeting at the commission’s office on Wednesday. Service commission secretary and senior IPS officer PSR Anjaneyulu said they would shortly finalise the examination schedule as the commission is focusing on measures to prevent virus spread during the conduct of the examinations. “Safety of the candidates and invigilators are high on our agenda. We will conduct all the examinations by taking highest level safeguards to prevent Covid-19,” Anjaneyulu told TOI. Dedicated rooms would be marked as isolation wards at the examination centres, Anjaneyulu said. The schedule for Group-I mains would be ready by the month-end, Anjaneyulu said, adding that the commission would conduct the examination after the UPSC civil services preliminary examination and before the UPSC mains. “We will give at least three weeks gap after the UPSC civils prelims before conducting the Group-I mains,” said Anjanayulu. Anjaneyulu said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed all departments to prepare a list of vacancies for chalking out an action plan to fill these posts. The commission, he said, will ready the recruitment exams calendar once it receive sthe vacancies list from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/psc-prepares-sop-for-conduct-of-exams/articleshow/76184295.cms||Samdani MN
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Nabanna to be shut & cleaned after 2 drivers get infected||Two drivers of two senior state officials tested positive for Covid-19 following which the administration decided to shut state secretariat at Nabanna on Thursday and Friday for a sanitization drive. Other drivers, who visit Nabanna regularly, will be tested to ensure they have not contracted the novel coronavirus. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also said Nabanna would be sanitized from Thursday. The administration has also asked officials to get themselves tested, if they want, at School of Tropical Medicines. An official said they followed the standard norm of sanitizing the secretariat with sodium hypochlorite and detergent, mixed in hot water. During the exercise on weekends, every corner of Nabanna is cleaned. Besides, while entering Nabanna, everyone has to wash their hands and also use alcohol-based hand sanitizer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nabanna-to-be-shut-cleaned-after-2-drivers-get-infected/articleshow/76185226.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 122 deaths push Maharashtra toll above 2,500, case count shy of 75,000||MUMBAI: With 122 Covid-19 deaths recorded on Wednesday—the highest in a day since the start of the outbreak—Maharashtra’s toll surpassed the 2,500 mark to reach 2,587. The state claimed that the rate of increase of cases has nearly halved from 7.76% on May 1 to 4.15% on June 1 even as 2,560 new cases were added on Wednesday, taking the overall case count to 74,860. State officials said the rate of increase in cases reduced from nearly 8% in May 1 to 6.23% on May 15 and further to 4.15% on June 1. “It was observed that on June 1, it had come down to less than the national average of 4.74%,” the state update said. Public health minister Rajesh Tope added that doubling time too has increased in the meantime. From 9.27 days on May 1, it rose to 11.56 days on May 15 and subsequently touched 15.26 days on May 30 and 17.35 days on June 1. “This proves that the rate of spread of Covid-19 is slowing down in the state,” the public health department said in its statement. Similarly, in Mumbai, which is the country’s biggest hotspot, the administration said the average daily growth rate of cases reduced to 3.64% between May 27 and June 2. During the same period, the lowest growth rate - 1.9 % - was recorded in E-Ward (Byculla, Mazgaon) which had recorded the second highest number of cases in the city till last week. The highest growth rate of 7.9% was recorded in R-North (Dahisar), which used to be among the second lowest wards in terms of case numbers. The city on Wednesday recorded 1,276 cases, which took the cumulative number of cases to 43,492, of which 24,597 are active cases and 17,472 patients have recovered. It also recorded 49 deaths, equalling the third highest number of deaths seen in Mumbai in a day. The previous highest number of deaths (116) was recorded on May 29. G North ward, which includes Dharavi and Mahim, has recorded 3,196 cases since March, with Dharavi contributing most of these. On a positive note, this ward has also witnessed the highest number of discharged patients at 60%. Civic authorities said that with cyclone Nisarga brining in early rains, the city should now brace for monsoon-related ailments such as dengue, malaria and leptospirosis, among others. “Citizens should watch for any symptoms for the next seven to 10 days. If any symptoms like fever with chills, joint pains, rashes, cough, breathlessness, diarrhoea, vomiting, sore throat, jaundice appear, then they should immediately consult a doctor,” said the civic body in a release. A total of 96 cases were reported from within Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Wednesday, taking the total count there to 2,473. Two deaths were also reported during the day, taking the toll to 80. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation area witnessed 15 cases and recorded one death, while the Panvel taluka (rural) and Uran taluka recorded six and three cases respectively. The number of cases in PCMC area, Panvel taluka rural and Uran taluka are 580, 216 and 164 respectively. Over 300 people tested positive in Pune metropolitan region on Wednesday. The cases in Pune Municipal Corporation limits went over the 7,000 mark, while total cases in Pune metropolitan region reached 8,400. Of the 122 deaths in the state, the health department stated 57 occurred in the last two days while rest 65 are from the period April 30 to May 31 which have been added to the state’s toll now after review. The health department said that of the total deaths, 72% victims had comorbidities. The state has also increased the number of laboratories to 82 across the state for Covid-19 diagnosis, of which 46 are run by the government and 36 by private parties. Till date, the state has tested 4.97 lakh samples, of which 74,860 have tested positive. Currently, almost 5.72 lakh people are in home quarantine and 33,674 in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/122-deaths-push-maha-toll-above-2500-case-count-shy-of-75000/articleshow/76185844.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Fill paramedical vacancies: Congress||HYDERABAD: AICC secretary and ex-MLA Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy on Wednesday demanded that the government fill up thousands of vacant paramedical posts in the medical, health and family welfare department. “The state, which showed interest in issuing recruitment notifications and conducting examinations for the posts has forgot to release the corresponding results. One lakh aspirants have been waiting for the results for two years now ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fill-paramedical-vacancies-cong/articleshow/76185260.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Month-long wait for forensic reports||Visakhapatnam: The deaths of Pala Venkayyamma (73) and Yelamanchili Kanakaraju (45), allegedly due to inhalation of styrene monomer following leakage of the toxic vapour from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram in Vizag city on May 7, are under investigation. It will take a few more weeks for cause of death to be ascertained, said officials of the police and medical departments. Relatives of Venkayyamma and Kanakaraju and the Left, however, claimed that the duo died of complications following the gas leakage. While Venkayyamma died on May 26 while undergoing treatment at KG Hospital (KGH), Kanakaraju passed away on June 1 at Suraksha Hospital in Gopalapatnam. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of KGH, Dr K Arjuna said the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report for Venkayyamma will take a few more weeks while Kanakaraju’s samples will be sent to FSL. “Normally, it will take at least one month to get FSL report of suspicious deaths and we will establish the reasons for the two deaths once the FSL reports are released,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police Dwaraka zone, RVSN Murthy, who is investigating the case, said cases under Section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) have been registered for both deaths. Greater Visakha city committee secretary of CPI(M), B Ganga Rao, said Venkayyamma and Kanajaraju, both residents of Venkatapuram, suffered from respiratory trouble, nausea and bloating in the aftermath of the gas leakage. Styrene leakage from the LG Polymers plant has so far claimed 12 lives, including two children, and hospitalised over 500. All patients hospitalised, however, were discharged on May 13 and 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/month-long-wait-for-forensic-reports/articleshow/76184358.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 4, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Diesel ship crew of 13 rescued||NAVI MUMBAI: A ship docked for unloading of diesel was pushed into deep sea at Bhagwati Port in Ratnagiri after its anchor snapped in the morning on Wednesday, when the wind speed was around 120 kmph. All its 13 crew members, including 10 Indians, were rescued along with the ship by another vessel. Ratnagiri guardian minister Uday Samant said, “The crew was to disembard when the anchor snapped due to gusty wind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/diesel-ship-crew-of-13-rescued/articleshow/76185831.cms||Umesh K Parida
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Amrapali: SBI Cap, UCO Bank agree to infuse funds||NEW DELHI: Amrapali housing projects, taken over by the Supreme Court to protect the interests of 46,000 cheated home-buyers, are all set to get a fresh lease of life with SBI Capital and UCO bank on Wednesday agreeing to invest money to complete the residential schemes. The estimated cost for construction of all projects is Rs 8,500 crore and amount recoverable from home-buyers and buyers of commercial areas is Rs 3,700 crore, 43% of the cost. But construction work is stuck due to fund crunch as NBCC, which has been given the task to complete the construction, refused to invest even as home-buyers have not been able to clear their dues as banks are not releasing instalments of loans which have been declared NPA. Though SC-appointed forensic auditors submitted that around Rs 11,000 crore is the recoverable amount, enough to bear the cost of the construction, the funds are not available as auctioning the Group’s assets has not been successful so far. Prodded by SC to release Rs 500 crore from the Centre's real estate stress fund, SBI Capital, which manages the monies, told a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lallit that the bank was proposing to set up Special Purpose Vehicle for the purpose. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for SBI, submitted he would place a concrete proposal before the bench on the next date of hearing. Senior advocate R Venkataramani, who was appointed by SC as receiver to manage the affairs of Amrapali Group, told the bench that he had discussed with officials of UCO Bank and they agreed to infuse Rs 2000 crore by keeping the unsold inventory of 5221 units in various Amrapali projects as mortgage. The bench also asked forensic auditors to complete auditing of another project Heart Beat City which is alleged to be linked with Amrapali and directed that the report be provided to home-buyers' lawyer M L Lahoty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amrapali-sbi-cap-uco-bank-agree-to-infuse-funds/articleshow/76185299.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||WHO issues norms as places of worship set to reopen||HYDERABAD: As temples, mosques, churches and other places of worship are scheduled to reopen from June 8, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has called for several measures to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Apart from wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, WHO guidelines also suggest keeping a personal record of the devotees for easy contact tracing in case of Covid-19 outbreak from a place of worship. While Muslim religious leaders have called upon the community members to bring their own prayer mats and not use the Quran kept in mosques, Hindu religious leaders are taking steps to minimise human contact during the darshan by suspending distribution of prasadam and teertham (holy water). Chikur Balaji temple, however, will not reopen on June 8. Chief priest CS Rangarajan told TOI that the threat of the pandemic is not still over and it is not the right time to open religious places for public worship. As the transmission of Covid-19 is linked to close contact and respiratory droplets, the WHO guidelines suggest that people who are sick, suffer from chronic ailments related to heart, lungs or kidneys, or have symptoms of Covid-19 should stay away. People above 60 years and children below 10 years should also not visit places of worship where people gather in large numbers. Islamic scholars have appealed to the managements of mosques to keep open the places of worship only for a limited period during the five congregational prayers and shorten the prayers to limit potential exposure. Smaller services with limited number of devotees should be encouraged. MIM president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi has appealed to religious scholars of all schools of thought to issue local guidelines to prevent spread of the pandemic. His suggestions include request to the elderly to stay away till at least June-end, remove carpets in mosques, close toilets and ablution points and maintain social distancing. Rangarajan said temple managements should ensure social distancing during darshan and take precaution on distribution of prasadam and teertham. “The flow and number of devotees should be regulated. Proper handwashing should be ensured and devotees should sanitise themselves while entering the places of worship,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/who-issues-norms-as-places-of-worship-set-to-reopen/articleshow/76185285.cms||Syed Akbar
June 4, 2020||Goa||HC upholds lifer for two in murder case||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa recently upheld the life imprisonment imposed by a trial court against two accused in a case of robbing a woman of her gold ornaments and killing her. The body of the victim was found near the government primary school at Muddir, Kharem Vaddem, near Mapusa in October 2009. The accused, Cyrone Rodrigues from Chimbel, and Chandrakant Talwar from Panaji, had filed an appeal against the Mapusa sessions court order which sentenced them in 2016. They were arrested by Mapusa police on October 30, 2009 during the course of investigation. While narrating the involvement of the accused in other crimes, the prosecution alleged that they were involved in crimes to abduct women and snatch their ornaments after murdering them. During the hearing, public prosecutor S R Rivankar argued that the appellants and two other accused had hatched a criminal conspiracy to abduct and kill the victim. The prosecutor argued out that the accused had stayed at a hotel before committing the offence. They took the deceased in a rented car, robbed her valuables and murdered her. Subsequently, they sold the gold ornaments to a jeweller in Mapusa, the prosecutor argued. The high court observed it was proved that the accused stayed at the hotel and hired a vehicle to commit the crime. While dismissing the appeals, the court noted about the identification of the ornaments by a witness and evidence of the confessional statements made by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-upholds-lifer-for-two-in-murder-case/articleshow/76185882.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: CBI ‘re-registers’ case against doctor||VISAKHAPATNAM: The CBI booked a case against suspended anaesthetist Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday. The central agency, which took up the investigation after AP high court took suo moto the case of Dr Sudhakar’s arrest, ‘re-registered’ the case already booked against him by Visakhapatnam police. Earlier, police had charged Dr Sudhakar, who was suspended after publicly criticising the government over alleged shortage of PPE kits, with assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty, mischief and criminal intimidation. The CBI also uploaded the copy of the FIR registered against the doctor on its website. While the CBI registering a case against Dr Sudhakar has raised many an eyebrow, legal experts and former IPS officers say it’s a routine process of investigation. “CBI has registered a fresh case against the police based on the complaint of the doctor and it has re-registered the FIR against the doctor based on the complaint lodged in IV Town police station. We can say cross complaints were registered. Now, the CBI will investigate into both complaints,” JD Lakshminarayana, former joint director of CBI, told TOI. CBI SP Putta Vimaladitya said CBI has been following the orders of the high court. “We are not supposed to reveal anything about the case,” he said, adding that as per the order of the high court, the information mentioned in the FIR registered by IV Town police was re-registered. CBI inspector N Raghavendra Kumar has been appointed as the investigation officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cbi-re-registers-case-against-doc/articleshow/76184379.cms||Siva G
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Seven deaths in one day, Telangana fatalities now 99||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported seven deaths from novel coronavirus on Wednesday, the highest single-day toll since the outbreak as 129 more persons tested positive for the deadly virus. Total cases in state stand at 3,020 and death toll is 99. Health authorities said they are worried at the rising number of Covid-19 cases with many hospitals reporting serious cases. “The number of deaths is the highest so far and the number of patients on ICU support has been on the rise. Currently, over 170 patients are on ICU support across various designated Covid-19 hospitals. There is a rise in serious cases too,” said a senior official from the state health department. Of the new cases recorded on Wednesday, 108 were from Greater Hyderabad, while the other cases were reported from Ranga Reddy, Asifabad, Medchal, Sircilla, Yadadri, Kamareddy and Mahbubnagar districts. Also, two migrant workers were among the ones tested positive on Wednesday. Five patients given plasma therapy, show improvementGoing by the latest count, 1,556 people have so far recovered from the Covid-19 virus, while 1,365 others are now under treatment across the state. Five critical patients who were taken up for plasma transfusion therapy have shown considerable improvement and one has completely recovered and been discharged. “As part of ICMR clinical trial, five patients from Telangana with patient ID - P1311, P1459, P1647, P2415, and P2639 were given plasma transfusion at Gandhi hospital, Hyderabad. All mandatory protocols set by ICMR were duly followed during the therapy. The therapy was introduced to the patients when their oxygen saturation levels dropped below 84%-90%,” an official statement from the state health department said. Two transfusions were given to each of the five patients. After the completion of therapy, all the five patients reported clinical improvement. “P1311 has already been discharged, 3 are no longer oxygen-dependent and P1647 is under intermittent dependency,” he said. Also 75 dialysis cycles have been provided to Covid-19 positive patients at the exclusive dialysis facility in Gandhi hospital and a separate ward for cancer patients who have tested positive for the virus has been set up at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-deaths-in-one-day-t-fatalities-now-99/articleshow/76185843.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Waive water bill, rent: Telangana MLA Jagga Reddy||HYDERABAD: Congress MLA T Jagga Reddy wrote a letter to CM KCR on Wednesday, demanding that the government waive off the property tax and water bills for the current financial year. He said tenants cannot pay rentals and asked state to pay rents for six months on behalf of poor tenants. “The government wouldn’t have called for Rs 25,000 crore works in Kaleshwaram project if it didn’t have money,” Jagga Reddy said. If there is no response from the government by June 8, he will go on a hunger strike on June 9, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-water-bill-rent-jagga-reddy/articleshow/76185282.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Traffic diverted & people evacuated, but only rain, strong winds hit Mumbai||MUMBAI: Cyclone Nisarga passed over Mumbai on Wednesday with its bark worse than its bite. No loss of life or limb was reported. Although it brought with it gusty winds and showers of rain, the dreaded cyclone did not inflict more harm than a few fallen trees, torn sheds and the occasional power outage. The authorities’ preparedness was visible everywhere. Traffic was diverted from the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. Police, BMC and fire brigade authorities evacuated people from low-lying areas and patrolled the beaches. A cross-section of meteorological experts from government and private agencies remarked how fortunate Mumbai was to have escaped the fury of nature. Around 120 tree and branch falls , nine wall collapses and 39 instances of short-circuit were reported. The BMC had deployed around 40,000 staffers, including labourers and sweepers, to handle the after-effects of Nisarga. BMC commissioner I S Chahal travelled the length of the city from Worli to BKC, then Juhu and Versova, to enquire about arrangements and meet slum evacuees. Railways claimed no major disruption in service, except a solitary tree fall between Vidyavihar and Kurla. CR had to divert a few south India-bound trains. In Navi Mumbai, as many as 135 tree falls were reported. Twenty people were trapped in their houses in Nerul after an old banyan was uprooted. They were rescued by NMMC disaster management personnel. On Tuesday night, Airoli, Ghansoli, Kopar Khairane, Turbhe, Wavanje, Kalamboli and Kamothe plunged into darkness due to power failure. In certain places, power was cut for public safety. Thane witnessed gusty winds reaching the speed of 12-20 kmph causing 46 trees to collapse, and snapping power supply in many parts. Thane city witnessed around 51mm rainfall since Tuesday night but there were no complaints of water-logging. Civic officials of all zones, including Diva, Mumbra and Kalwa, fanned out. In Ambernath's Kuntovali area, two mango trees fell on two chawl rooms damaging the roof. No injuries were reported. Thirty trees fell in Kalyan-Dombivli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/traffic-diverted-people-evacuated-but-only-rain-strong-winds-hit-city/articleshow/76185861.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||As corona cess takes toll on liquor sales, Delhi government urged to lower tax||NEW DELHI: Claiming that the sale of liquor sale had “fallen drastically” due to the levy of 70% special corona fee, Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) on Wednesday demanded the cess be brought down to a “realistic and sustainable” level. The liquor manufacturers’ body claimed that Delhi’s liquor sale in May had dropped by 58% compared with the same period last year, while neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh seemed to be bouncing back in sharp contrast where only 10-15% additional tax was imposed. In a letter to deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who holds charge of excise department, CIABC director general Vinod Giri claimed that Delhi’s business was slowly shifting to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh due to the high difference in retail prices. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news CIABC is an apex body of the alcoholic beverage industry and its members include major companies manufacturing and marketing their products in India and abroad. Delhi government had imposed 70% special corona fee on the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of all the categories of liquor in the first week of May. Till May 30, the excise department saw a total sale of Rs 234 crore, which fetched it about Rs 150 crore as corona fee and almost the same amount as excise duty. Giri said he had raised concerns in the first week of May that the cess on liquor could prove counterproductive. “If imposed for long, it will lead to a fall in sales, and, hence, government revenue. The initial rush at liquor shops was misleading. The pent-up demand due to one and half months of lockdown was too high for 20% of the shops that had opened at that time,” he added. Andhra Pradesh also imposed 75% tax and its sales dropped drastically. “With lockdown restrictions easing up, interstate traffic will become easier, further aiding unlawful smuggling of liquor to Delhi,” Giri said, adding that bringing down the cess to a realistic and sustainable level will benefit all stakeholders, including the government, companies and consumers. A senior government official said the special corona fee was a temporary measure and the tax structure would be reviewed soon. Read AlsoScientists estimate Covid may have entered India in November-DecemberTop scientists in the country have estimated that the ancestor of the novel coronavirus strain from Wuhan was in circulation by Dec 11, 2019. Using a scientific technique called "time to most recent common ancestor", MRCA, scientists estimated the viral strain now circulating in Telangana and other||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-corona-cess-takes-toll-on-liquor-sales-delhi-govt-urged-to-lower-tax/articleshow/76186145.cms||Atul Mathur
June 4, 2020||Kochi||Number of people under quarantine goes up in Ernakulam district||KOCHI: With domestic and international flights resuming operations, Ernakulam is once again becoming topper in the list of those under quarantine. This necessitates the need for more preventive as well as treatment facilities. On May 1, just a week before the first repatriation flight from abroad arrived in Kochi on May 7, there was no Covid-19 patient in the district. On May 7, the total number of those under quarantine in Ernakulam was 489 and the district was in the 12th position among the districts in terms of quarantine cases. “The increasing number of flights, both repatriation and domestic flights, led to the proportionate increase in the number of quarantined persons. This is a big challenge to the district administration, health department, police and other agencies,” said an official, who spearheads Covid-19 control measures in Ernakulam. Authorities in the district anticipate a spike in the number of persons who require quarantine in the coming days as well. “More and more flights and trains will be arriving in Kochi in the coming days. So, the number of those require quarantine will go up significantly. After a fortnight it will peak and then there may be a downward trend,” health department officials said. “However, the total number of Covid-19 patients who are under treatment in various hospitals in the district is 39 as on Wednesday,” he said. The district administration has decided to set up more Covid-19 treatment centres. The district administration has already decided to convert a convention centre at Angamaly into Covid care facility. Those who are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms will be treated at this centre. Similarly, a private medical college in the district also will be roped in for offering Covid-19 treatment if the number of patients goes up all of a sudden. Authorities have also decided to beef up the surveillance system as more and more persons are placed under home quarantine every day. The service of Accredited Social Health Activists, police and volunteers will also be asked for increasing the surveillance. Moreover, local bodies will be asked to arrange more facilities for those under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/number-of-people-under-quarantine-goes-up-in-district/articleshow/76183197.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Citizens of rural Nashik lost over Rs 21L to online fraud during lockdown||Nashik: As many as 57 complaints of online fraud have been registered with cybercrime police (rural) between last week of March and May-end wherein people have been cheated of Rs 21.40 lakh.The amount could have been higher, but prompt action by cybercrime police after getting complaints helped retrieve Rs 4.47 lakh that the complainants had lost to the online fraudsters.“Use of internet and social media has increased tremendously during the lockdown as most of the people are staying indoors. However, the conmen are also taking advantage of the same and have started contacting people via phones and emails, and conning them by some or the other pretext,” a police officer said.“People who approached us immediately after being cheated got their money back as we could immediately execute the stop transaction process after contacting the concerned nodal officers of the banks,” he added.The officer said they have also set up a media cell to maintain vigil on rumours, fake news and messages being spread of various social media platforms that could cause enmity between two communities. A total 18 cases were registered and 32 people were arrested for such offences .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-of-rural-nashik-lost-over-rs-21l-to-online-fraud-during-lockdown/articleshow/76183207.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Cyclone veers, spares Mumbai, Raigad bears brunt; 4 killed||MUMBAI: Cyclone Nisarga made landfall further south from Mumbai than expected on Wednesday afternoon, sparing the city the worst but bringing moderate rain and strong winds that affected flights, trains and power supply in the distant suburbs, and felled dozens of trees. Light to moderate rain is forecast for Thursday. Two people were killed in Raigad district, which bore the brunt of the cyclone— Amar Jawalekar (16) from Shrivardhan in a wall collapse and Dashrath Waghmare (58) after an electric pole toppled on him in Alibaug. Two persons were also killed in wall collapses in Pune district. Crops, ‘kuccha’ homes and electricity poles were destroyed in Alibaug, Shrivardhan, Uran and Murud as the cyclone crossed into the state accompanied by winds gusting at 125kmph. Nisarga, which intensified into a severe storm around 7am on Wednesday, took a northeast tilt in its journey up the coast and made landfall north of Murud-Janjira town, about 85km south of Mumbai, said IMD officials. This was a further 38km south of Alibaug, the expected landfall zone, and the increased distance with Mumbai spared the city. However, the cyclone was now on a track that took it close to Pune and Ahmednagar, bringing intense rain and strong winds. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “The cyclone has damaged cashew, mangoes and betel nut crop.” Raigad SP Anil Paraskar said, “Shrivardhan taluka is cut off owing to massive tree falls and uprooting of electrical poles.” In Mumbai, where a red alert had been sounded and thousands evacuated from the shores and low-lying areas, the wind speed was not as intense as expected. According to IMD, the maximum recorded at Colaba was 76kmph and 22kmph at Santa Cruz. Fortunately, no serious storm surge was also recorded. Private forecasting agency Skymet Weather Services confirmed Mumbai had escaped the fury of the cyclone. “In case of Mumbai, we were expecting wind speeds to touch 100-110kmph, but with the storm having gone further south than Alibaug, the maximum wind speed witnessed was 50-55kmph. For Mumbai, it was like the usual monsoon rains and by evening, the intensity of the cyclone had started reducing,” said Mahesh Palawat, VP, meteorology and climate change. Scientist Shubhangi Bhute from IMD said by Wednesday evening, the storm had travelled northeast towards Madhya Maharashtra and headed for MP. It had lost intensity, turned into a deep depression and lay centred 85 km north of Pune late on Wednesday. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said: “The landfall occurred around noon and at that time, the eye of the cyclone was near Alibaug where the wind speed reported was 125kmph.” The IMD had forecast landfall between Harihareshwar in Raigad, about 200km south of Mumbai, and Daman, around 200km to the north of Maharashtra on Wednesday, but expected it near Alibaug. It took place north of Harihareshwar, but 38km south of Alibaug. “One can definitely see how the impact for Mumbai was less than expected and more so because the cyclone continued to struggle as it could not build up its intensity. It started to weaken before landfall and its eye was also seen to be shrinking. Still, this is a big lesson for Mumbai because had the cyclone moved northwards, it would have affected the city badly,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist who is a PhD student at the Department of Meteorology, University of Reading, in UK. (With inputs from Pune and Clara Lewis in Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cyclone-veers-spares-city-raigad-bears-brunt-4-killed/articleshow/76185903.cms||Richa Pinto
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP chief for greater say to workers from slums||NEW DELHI: To expand the party’s reach in slums and unauthorised colonies and dent Aam Aadmi Party’s vote bank, the Delhi BJP will give larger representation to people coming from the underprivileged areas in its organisational structure. A day after taking over as the president of Delhi BJP, Adesh Kumar Gupta said the new team will have a mix of experience and youth and deserving and hardworking cadre will be given the opportunity to work for the party. “We will promote our workers belonging to slums, JJ clusters and unauthorised colonies. We will give them larger representation in the organisation,” Gupta said while interacting with media on Wednesday. “Changes signify development. I will certainly announce a new team, but in a due course of time. We may not change all office-bearers, but some new faces will definitely be brought in. Deserving hardworking workers will be accommodated,” the former mayor said. Gupta said his top priority was to help out city residents to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak. Once the crisis is over, the party will start expanding its base. “We will add a new dimension to BJP’s expansion in the national capital by reaching out to residents of clusters (slums) and illegal colonies,” he added. “To resolve any issue—‘samvaad’, ‘sampark’, and ‘ashirvaad’ are important. If there is no dialogue and communication among leaders or workers, issues are bound to crop up. I will regularly have dialogue with all senior leaders, including all MPs, to seek their guidance and support for strengthening the organisation,” Gupta said in response to a query.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-bjp-chief-for-greater-say-to-workers-from-slums/articleshow/76185315.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: In East Godavari village, lone man infects 150||KAKINADA: About 20 kilometres from Kakinada, situated between green fields and coconut groves, lies Gollala Mamidada village. The otherwise nondescript hamlet in Pedapudi mandal in East Godavari district is now making headlines for having earned the dubious distinction of being the first village in the country to have 116 confirmed cases of Covid-19 as of Wednesday. Gollala Mamidada is the mandal headquarter with a population of about 16,000. While most of the infected villagers are in home quarantine, a few have been isolated at a local private medical college. On May 20, a 53-year-old Covid-19 infected person from the village succumbed to complications brought on by the virus at the Governmental General Hospital (GGH) in Kakinada within half-an-hour of admission. The deceased, who was employed at a hotel and doubled up as a photographer, is believed to have been a super-spreader because of the nature of his job, as well as the delayed onset of symptoms. The patient directly or indirectly transmitted the virus to at least 150 people in Pedapudi and neighbouring Ramachandrapuram, Anaparti, Bikkavolu and Mandapeta mandals. The deceased was believed to have contracted the virus while photographing an event in Ramachandrapuram. It was also learnt that the deceased participated in a mask distribution programme conducted by a local organisation. Outbreak pushes tally in district above 300However, district officials are yet to establish the origin of the disease in the super-spreader. The son of the deceased was also diagnosed with the disease around the same time as his father, raising doubts over who transmitted the virus to whom. According to officials, the son had thrown a party for his friends at a local bakery before testing positive. The outbreak in these mandals, meanwhile, has pushed the Covid-19 tally in East Godavari above 300 of which super-spreader-related infections alone account for more than 50 per cent of the caseload of the district. District officials have declared G Mamidada village a red zone and set up a special control room by drawing in officials from various departments. East Godavari collector D Muralidhar Reddy said the deceased might have contributed to the outbreak in G Mamidada and neighbouring mandals after easing of lockdown norms after May 17. “Tests are being done on all the primary and secondary contacts of the Covid-19 infected persons,” said Reddy. Medical tests are being conducted on all primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-e-godavari-village-lone-man-infects-150/articleshow/76185875.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Collective farming to benefit 400 more small farmers||Udhagamandalam: The horticulture department is planning to form 20 farmers’ producer groups (FPG) in the Nilgiris district this fiscal to promote collective farming.While the majority of farmers in the Nilgiris cultivate tea, 30% of them are engaged in vegetable cultivation. “Introduced in 2018, the main objective of the scheme is to encourage small farmers cultivate hill-grown vegetables,” said joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj.Each FPG, comprising 100 small farmers, is entitled to a grant of Rs 5 lakh for procurement of agricultural engineering products. This fiscal, 400 more small farmers will be benefited by the scheme. “While the government use to sanction fund for 16 FPGs in the previous years, 20 FPGs will benefit by the scheme this year,” the official said.Under the scheme, clusters of farmers of same interest from same area are grouped together so that their combined effort would make farming much easier. Twenty farmers of same interest from the same area will form farmers interest group (FIG). FIGs will open a bank account by pooling Rs 1,000 from each member. Five FIGs will form an FPG and every FPG will open another a bank account for common fund utilization and receive funds from the government. FPGs will be granted Rs 5 lakh to buy machinery including tractors and tillers. They can also avail subsidy under various schemes of the horticulture department.“It is encouraging to learn that 400 more farmers will benefit this year,” said M Murugan, a farmer in Ooty.As many as 48 FPGs (4,800 farmers) in the Nilgiris were benefited by the scheme in the last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collective-farming-to-benefit-400-more-small-farmers/articleshow/76185293.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Madrassa vandalized near Madukkarai, inquiry on||Coimbatore: Unidentified miscreants vandalized a madrassa at Arivoli Nagar near Madukkarai on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday. Police personnel have been deployed at the madrassa to prevent untoward incidents.The madrassa, which comes under the ambit of Nazrul Islam Sunnath Jamath, has been closed ever since March 24 when the state government enforced lockdown to contain Covid-19 pandemic. The facility was used to teach Arabic to students.According to a police officer, a local resident alerted one of the office-bearers of the mosque around 8pm on Tuesday after he found lights were switched on at the madrassa.“When the office-bearer visited the spot, he found doors were broken open and books and fans were damaged,” the officer said.A Abbas, 40, president of the mosque, lodged a police complaint, following which police protection was provided to the madrassa.Meanwhile, the Popular Front of India (PFI) condemned the incident and demanded police to arrest the person(s) involved in the incident.Mohammed Nowfal, district PRO, PFI, said, “Similar incidents have been taking place in the district. If police officials arrest the preparators, such incidents would not recur.” He said incidents like this would not only disturb the peacefulness of the district, but also affect its economic status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/madrassa-vandalized-near-madukkarai-inquiry-on/articleshow/76185300.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to spend Rs 16,000 crore on govt hospitals||VISAKHAPATNAM: Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas (Nani), who is also the minister for health, said on Wednesday that the state government will develop all government hospitals at par with corporate hospitals. The government will spend around Rs 16,000 crore on the effort, he said. The minister was speaking to the media in Paderu after visiting the area identified for the setting up a medical college. The health minister added that the government has decided to set up medical colleges in every parliamentary constituency and that a nursing college will also come up at Paderu. Further, the government is also planning to set up village clinics and ramping up ambulance services, the minister said. He said that the government will soon fill 6,000 vacancies of doctors and nursing staff. The health minister asked joint collectors to send proposals for the setting up of primary health centres (PHCs) in villages. He said that the village clinics, when set up, will work under the village secretariat and that ST cells will be set up for tribals in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-to-spend-rs-16k-cr-on-govt-hospitals/articleshow/76184407.cms||Siva G
June 4, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Traders at Thevara taken by surprise||KOCHI: The declaration of division 60 Perumanoor-Thevara section as containment zone on Tuesday night came as an unpleasant surprise to the traders in the area. Standing in front of his shop, which is a few meters away from the police barricades, Haridas, a banana wholesaler, said: “I have bought plantain bunches for Rs 50,000 on Monday and Tuesday nights. The declaration of the area as containment zone has dealt a severe blow to my business. I have been visiting each shop from today morning and requesting them to buy as much banana bunches as they can. Though many bought, they have yet to make payment. I cannot keep all products in my shop for the next 14 days. Around 500kg of banana bunches are yet to be sold,” he says while attending a customer. The division has been made a containment zone after an Air India Express crew member was tested Covid positive and many people came in contact with her. Though the containment zone starts around 100m away from Thevara Junction, police block movement of vehicles from the junction itself. No offices or shops inside the containment zone were allowed to function. Police prevent outside vehicles and people from entering the zone. Residents inside the zone were also not allowed to move outside. If anyone wants to go outside on emergency medical condition and return after that, they will have to record it in a book kept by the police at the boundary. “More than 100 shops in division 60 itself have been closed. Though the containment is only in one division, business have been affected outside the zone. The business was about to pick up but the new developments have affected our sector again,” said Abdul Rasak, secretary of Thevara unit of Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/traders-at-thevara-taken-by-surprise/articleshow/76183225.cms||T C Sreemol
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Drunk truck driver goes berserk on highway, held||Nashik: The stretch of the state highway-44 between Nevasa and Shevgaon in Ahmednagar district witnessed high drama on Tuesday night soon after police received a call about a truck moving menacingly and endangering the lives of other motorists. The Ahmednagar police, along with over 100 people astride motorcycles, gave the truck a chase for over 45 minutes for at least 20km. The driver, Balu V Upse (30), who was drunk, was arrested after his truck rammed a ZP school at Shevgaon and halted. Inspector Ranjeet Dere of the Newasa police station told TOI that they received a call around 8.30 pm about the trucker moving at break-neck speed and dodging other vehicles. Police soon followed the truck to stop it but the driver paid little heed and hit a truck at Newas Budruk, injuring its driver. He also hit other vehicles on the road. Inspector Dere said barricades were erected at Bhenda village, Kukana village and Shevgaon bus stand, but the trucker broke them and moved on, despite one of its front tyres bursting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drunk-truck-driver-goes-berserk-on-highway-held/articleshow/76183240.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||15kg ganja seized, four men arrested||Coimbatore: Police seized 15 kilogram of ganja from a car in Tirupur on Tuesday and arrested four people in connection with the incident.They were identified as K Saravanan, 40, of Ramanathapuram, V Chelladurai, 34, of Oddanchatram, M Harish, 34, of Samundipuram in Tirupur and R Raghu, 30, of Gandhi Nagar in Tirupur.Anupparpalayam inspector P N Rajan and team had seized the contraband from a car on Velampalayam Road and detained Saravanan and Chelladurai, who were in the vehicle, for inquiry. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused were smuggling ganja from Andhra Pradesh via Avinashi and were on the way to sell it in Oddanchatram and Ramanathapuram. They confessed to the involvement of Harish and Raghu. They were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15kg-ganja-seized-four-men-arrested/articleshow/76185296.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 20 trees restored at Tolly Club, members use Aila experience||KOLKATA: Tollygunge Club, one of city’s oldest and greenest clubs, has swung into action after Cyclone Amphan had left its grounds battered. Members of the club cashed in on their Aila experience for undertaking a systemic restoration and replantation plan on the 100-acre premises. Twenty trees uprooted by the cyclone have already been transplanted there. Immediately after Amphan had lashed the city, the club’s environment committee members, headed by Nandini Chakravarty, swung into action. A detailed survey was done to assess the loss and the tree-fall count, which was 73. The uprooted trees included several local and exotic breeds like Indian lilac, silver oak, rosy trumpet, Spanish cherry, yellow bel, sausage tree, copper pod, beefwood, gulmohar, wild date palm, purple bauhinia, Mexican mahogany, jacaranda, pride of India, pink cassia, manila tamarind, yellow oleander, African tulip and east-Indian walnut. “During Aila that had hit the city on May 25 in 2009, 62 of our precious trees had been fallen. The grounds had been severely damaged too. But we had managed to restore 20, which was around 25% of the fallen trees. This time, we knew what to do and have already transplanted 20 trees in the last two weeks. Work is on to replant more trees. At least 30 uprooted trees can be saved,” said golf superintendent Gaurav Pundir, who is a qualified forester and has co-authored the book, “Tolly Trees” that illustrates 146 varieties of trees on the club premises.  “No other golf course in India has this kind of rich bio-diversity,” Pundir added. The stumps of eucalyptus, gulmohar, peltophorum, jacaranda and sirish are being cut in a slant, keeping the main root system undisturbed. The trees are then erected with the hired hydraulic back-hoe loaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/20-trees-restored-at-tolly-club-members-use-aila-experience/articleshow/76185298.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||With support from government, farmer unions in Karnataka flourish||BENGALURU: Four years ago, Hanumesh Nayak, a mid-size farmer from Lingsugur, Raichur district, was made chief executive officer (CEO) of Amareshwara Farmer Producer Company Limited, a farmer- producer organisation (FPO) “experiment” aimed at making him and 999 other farmers in the taluk self-reliant. Comprising primarily small and medium farmers, the FPO was established under a society registered with the Union ministry of agriculture, to produce, market and sell red gram. The experiment was largely a success, until the Covid-19 pandemic hit and buyers vanished. “Our bid to set up our own dal mill was hit hard by the pandemic. We decided not to cultivate red gram this year and wait till next season,” said Nayak. Although existing FPOs have been hit hard by the pandemic, ‘unionisation’ appears to be on the rise since it gives farmers more bargaining power. Apart from the existing 377 FPOs and 2 lakh farmers, another 227 FPOs and 68,000 farmers are awaiting various agency clearances. “With an FPO, the entire system of production, right from tilling the land to setting up processing mills for food grains, are all handled by farmers,” said SS Basker, coordinator of Vrutti Livelihood Impact Partners, an NGO which works with 42 FPOs in Karnataka. “We have even seen various brands of these FPOs being procured by institutional and e-commerce buyers.” Rajendra Kumar Kataria, secretary, agriculture and horticulture department, said the government is keen on encouraging FPOs. “It is a new beginning. Thousands of farmers are joining hands to get a better price in the market,” Kataria said. “In the absence of FPOs, middlemen are undercutting farmers and selling their produce at a higher rate. With FPOs, we expect to see local brands emerging and a huge surge in profits for farmers.” Several government institutions, including Nabard, horticulture department, agriculture department and sericulture department, extend licences to FPOs. While the 337 FPOs have generated a turnover of Rs 66.5 crore every year over the last five years on an average, due to Covid-19 pandemic the turnover this year has dropped to Rs 27.5 crore. Another problem which has emerged is that Nabard-approved FPOs are favoured over government approved unions. “About 150 Nabard-approved FPOs are being given revolving funds vis-a-vis our FPO,” lamented Nayak, who is hoping for a turnaround soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-support-from-govt-farmer-producer-organisations-on-the-rise/articleshow/76184872.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
June 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Covid-19 graph in Udupi continues northward surge||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Maharashtra returnees continued to send the Covid-19 graph of the coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada northward, with the two districts accounting for 64 cases among them, on Wednesday. While all 62 cases in Udupi were those who returned from Maharashtra, one of the two cases in Dakshina Kannada was a person who returned from Pune in Maharashtra, and the other a person who returned to the city by train from Delhi. G Jagadeesha, deputy commissioner, Udupi, said out of the 62 positive cases in Udupi, 43 are men, 15 women and four children. All these people have been shifted to TMA Pai Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital in Udupi, for treatment, said the DC. District health authorities are awaiting reports of 4,936 samples, the DC said. As directed by minister for medical education K Sudhakar, Udupi will get a government testing laboratory in addition to the one functioning at KMC, Manipal. Dr Prashanth Bhat, Covid nodal officer, said the district that had quarantined 13,542 people till date, had received 8,624 people in May, including 152 from outside India. Out of these, 7,967 are from Maharashtra. The district has tested 539 people per lakh of the population. Out of 12,504 samples collected, 410 had tested positive, and 98% of those who tested positive were asymptomatic. The district at present has 61 containment zones, and two were de-notified. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, district urban development cell, in-charge of the Dakshina Kannada district bulletin, said the district recorded two positive cases – a 25-year-old man who returned from Delhi, and a 36-year-old man who returned from Pune. Since both of them showed signs of fever, they were tested and the results turned out to be positive for Covid-19 . The latter had completed institutional quarantine and developed fever while at home in Pattejalu in Kateel. Dakshina Kannada presently has 59 active Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-graph-in-udupi-continues-northward-surge/articleshow/76184684.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka to adopt 14-day home quarantine for all barring those returning from Maharashtra||MANGALURU: Karnataka is all set to do away with institutional quarantine and will ask returnees to be in home quarantine with better use of technology, from the village to the city level, to combat the pandemic, said K Sudhakar, minister for medical education. Home quarantine for 14 days will be the new norm, and tests will be carried out only for those who are symptomatic. This is the view of medical experts as well as those who have batted for home quarantine, he said. Those coming into the state from Maharashtra will be an exception to this new SOP, said Sudhakar, who added that they needed to produce a negative Covid report and undergo 14 days of quarantine, including 7 days of institutional quarantine. “Chances of cross-infection in home quarantine is less. If a person turns symptomatic, he will be tested, and those who test positive will be shifted to the designated Covid care centre. In such cases, individual houses will be sealed, against the earlier practice of having a containment zone of 100-metre radius,” he said. The state government will release a detailed SOP in this regard shortly, said Sudhakar, who reviewed the Covid-19 preparedness in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Wednesday. This step has been taken to reduce pressure on hotels, community halls and educational institutions that the state government had requisitioned under the Epidemic Diseases Act, to quarantine people, he said. This is also partly in line with the direction that the Supreme Court has given to states to accommodate its residents without any restriction, the minister said, adding the state government is duty-bound to comply with this directive. To ensure strict compliance with home quarantine, the state government will form a task force, right from the village level to the ward level in cities, and also use technology to the fullest extent, to ensure that people do not flout the same. The minister reiterated the warning that chief minister B S Yediyurappa gave in this regard, stating that FIRs will be registered against those breaking home quarantine norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-to-adopt-14-day-home-quarantine-for-all-barring-those-returning-from-maharashtra/articleshow/76183822.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Actress gets online abuse, rape threats||HYDERABAD: Actor Meera Chopra became the target of trolls on social media after she said she was a fan of actor Mahesh Babu and not Jr NTR, at an interactive session with her fans on Twitter on Tuesday. The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday sought the intervention of Telangana police after the actor reached out to the commission on Twitter. #FIR has been registered by @hydcitypolice through @NCWIndia intervention and a request has also been sent to… https://t.co/CrHqN0vj9P— Rekha Sharma (@sharmarekha) 1591186230000The actor alleged that she was abused and received rape threats on social media from Jr NTR fans. “#FIR has been registered by @hydcitypolice through @NCWIndia intervention and a request has also been sent to @TwitterIndia for deletion of objectionable content,” NCW tweeted. The cybercrime police said there were nearly eight Twitter users trolling her, and that most of the accounts were deactivated soon after the comments were posted. “The messages were highly abusive and obscene. We are still investigating the case. Most of the accounts trolling her were fake,” said KVM Prasad, ACP, cybercrime. Cybercrime police registered a case under sections 509 and 506 of IPC and relevant sections of the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/actress-gets-online-abuse-rape-threats/articleshow/76185310.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Stitching masks, she helped keep fires burning in homes of 45 other women||HUBBALLI: The lockdown came into force across the country in the last week of March, and in the ensuing nine weeks, reports of hordes of people losing jobs have been grabbing headlines. However, Raziya Meeranayak, a tailor in Dharwad has been doing her bit to soften the blow of the crisis by providing jobs to 45 women since the clamping of the lockdown. The lockdown keeping her regular customers away and faced with the prospect of swiftly depleting resources, Raziya decided to put her talents to use by making masks, and purchased a cloth cutting machine worth Rs 6,000 for this purpose. She marketed her product on social media, and she was soon flooded with offers from various organisations, including gram panchayats. The workload she distributed among 45 other women, each of whom was able to earn anywhere between Rs 200 to Rs 300 a day – a princely sum at a time when all hope seemed lost. Raziya, 35, credited her husband Sikandar Meeranayak’s support for the success of her endeavour. “He runs an NGO. Almost immediately after we marketed our masks on social media, Deshpande Foundation’s Navodyami programme, placed an order for 20,000 of them, Raziya told TOI. The women she has distributed the work among are paid in proportion to the number of masks they stitch. Raziya said that each of them earned Rs 2 for every mask made. “Each tailor makes around 100 to 200 masks every day, and I sell them for Rs 10 each, making a profit of Re 1 per mask. But it is being a part of the battle against Covid-19, and providing employment to these women that I am most proud of,” she added. Executive director of Vanasiri Rural Development Society in Ranebennur, Haveri district SD Baligar procured 3,000 masks from Raziya for MGNREGS labourers, and was pleased with the quality of the product. Saraswati Kurubar and Biyama Kambar are among the women who were enlisted by Raziya, and they were effusive in expressing their gratitude to her. Their husbands having been rendered unemployed during the lockdown, work they got from Raziya helped tide over the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stitching-masks-she-helped-keep-fires-burning-in-homes-of-45-other-women/articleshow/76178418.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Event management firms offer packages prioritising safety but response tepid||MANGALURU: The restrictions on conducting mass weddings and other key ceremonies have forced event management firms to rethink their idea of what constitutes a grand affair, sending them back to the drawing board. In Mangaluru, wedding planners are coming up with tailor-made packages for a large cross-section of clients, the common denominator being the safety norms prescribed to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. On the one hand, the more modest packages designed for ceremonies with not more than 50 invitees are priced around Rs 70,000 – expenses include lunch and invitations. The more premium packages extend up to Rs 2 lakh. Renewing the lockdown, the Union ministry of home affairs issued a new set of guidelines, which, however, limited the number of invitees to ceremonies at 50. Although several event management firms are prepared to take on the challenge of organising weddings and ceremonies with a limited guest list, the downturn in the economy has resulted in few clients approaching them for their expertise. Proprietor of Abhigya Events Ashwith Kottari is among those who has borne the brunt of the financial instability that the country is currently in the grips of. “All the arrangements for weddings and ceremonies are done in accordance with the government guidelines, and we offer budget and premium packages. The response, however, has been poor,” Kottari told TOI. The packages offered by his firm include the charge for the venue, stage decoration, sound system, et al. “In addition to this, we are also including thermal scanning, sanitisers and masks in our packages,” he added. Event Houz, another planning firm, is offering a package for Rs 1,99,999, the key difference being the inclusion of UV hand sanitisation and distribution of N95 masks to all guests. Another management company Pai Events are offering a Rs 1,27,777-package, with ceremonies being held in accordance with the safety guidelines. Kamath Caterers, a well-known name in Mangaluru, is offering bespoke deals to suit the requirements of its customers. “We do not offer packages. We serve food and make other related arrangements in accordance with the demands of the customers. But the number of wedding ceremonies has reduced drastically following the lockdown being enforced,” Sudhakar Kamath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/event-management-firms-offer-packages-prioritising-safety-but-response-tepid/articleshow/76183689.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Dearth of archaks now hits temples in Karnataka||KOLAR: Although places of worship could reopen on June 8, temples in Karnataka face a huge shortage of assistant archaks. There are more than three lakh temples across the state, including 36,000 under the muzrai department. While archaks for muzrai temples are appointed by the government, appointments in others are left to the discretion of their managing trusts. Most assistant Archaks working in non-muzrai temples returned to their hometowns and villages during the lockdown and many are unlikely to return, Manjunath Dixit, president, Rajya Aagama Traya Mahamandali, one of the four state bodies of archaks, said. Dixit said rules stipulate that muzrai temple archaks need to have a graduate degree in Agama Shastra from a reputed university, while appointments for non-muzrai temples are made based on experience of the person and his knowledge of various rituals. Bengaluru alone has 1,125 muzrai temples and more than 50,000 private temples, said S Srivatsa, president of the State Association of Archaks, Aagamika and Employees of muzrai Temples. Srivatsa, whose association has over 25,000 members, is hopeful of assistant Archaks returning to their temples. “Since assistant archaks mostly perform pooja and other rituals, they may not be well versed with other life skills and are likely to return to work once the situation eases,” he said. Girish Jois, head priest, Sri Karya Siddi Anjaneya Swamy temple in Kamakshipalya, Bengaluru, said assistant archaks are mostly from Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts. “Since there were no devotees during the lockdown, private temples faced a resource crunch. Many assistant archaks were not paid their promised salaries [about Rs 10,000] and many left,” Jois said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ahead-of-reopening-temples-face-shortage-of-assistant-archaks/articleshow/76184931.cms||K RANGANATH
June 4, 2020||Vadodara||30 stranded in Saudi Arabia seek Guj help||Vadodara: Around 30 workers from various parts of the state including Vadodara, Godhra and other places in the state are stranded in Saudi Arabia as they got stranded there due to the lockdown. The group had gone to the gulf country for a work assignment of two months. The group that had gone to work at a petroleum company during its shutdown was unable to return due to the lockdown. The flights from the country were suspended since March. The only ray of hope for the group is the flights under the Vande Bharat mission that begin from next week. None of these flights, however, come to Gujarat. The members of the group from Gujarat include persons from Surat, Navsari, Bharuch, Jamnagar and Dwarka besides Vadodara and Godhra. The group has sent mails to the state government, central government, various ministers and elected representatives from the areas to which they belong. In a video message, one of the stranded persons said that they had come to Saudi Arabia in February and March. The worker added that they wanted to return, but were unable to do so due to the lockdown. The worker adds that there are flights to other destinations, but not for Gujarat. Another worker Dhaval Sonagra from Bhatia village in Devbhoomi Dwarka district pointed out that there were around 400 persons from India with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/30-stranded-in-saudi-arabia-seek-guj-help/articleshow/76182360.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Chartered flight carrying employees from Saudi firm lands at MIA||Mangaluru: A chartered flight (Gulf Air 7272) carrying 169 passengers from King Fahd International Airport, Dammam, Saudi Arabia, touched down at Mangaluru International Airport, late on Tuesday. Zakariya Jokatte, CEO of Al Muzain Company, a firm in Saudi Arabia, chartered the aircraft to ferry his employees and their families back home. Speaking to TOI over the phone, Zakariya said three chartered flights carrying his employees had left from Saudi Arabia on Tuesday to Chennai, Ahmedabad and Mangaluru. He said two more chartered flights from his company are planned for Mangaluru and they will land on June 5 and 8. The flight for Mangaluru on Tuesday departed Saudi Arabia at 4.59pm local time and landed at MIA at 11.26pm – a four-hour journey. This is the second chartered flight to land at MIA after a SpiceJet operated from Ras al-Khaimah (RAK) in UAE late on Monday. Yatish Ullal, assistant commissioner, Puttur, in-charge of Vande Bharat Mission and repatriation flights, said all 169 passengers after initial health screening were transferred to an institutional quarantine facility arranged by their company. Their throat swab samples will be collected and tested for Covid-19 after five days. Yatish said the next chartered flight – booked by KS Sheikh Karnire, director of Expertise-Contracting Co Limited, Saudi Arabia – is expected on June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chartered-flight-carrying-employees-from-saudi-firm-lands-at-mia/articleshow/76184890.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Tope concerned as Jalgaon reports 71 patients in 1 day||Nashik: State health minister Rajesh Tope has expressed concern about the rising number of novel coronavirus cases in north Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district. The district registered one of the biggest single-day spike of 71 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 871. Of them, 316 have recovered. So far, as many as 103 have succumbed to the infection in Jalgaon district. Tope, who reviewed the Covid-19 scenario in the district on Wednesday, directed the district administration to immediately form a task force to tackle the rising number of cases in the district. District guardian minister Gulabrao Patil, collector Avinash Dhakne and other senior district officials were present during the meeting. “The task force would consist of intensive care specialists, physicians and health experts to guide the local administration in curbing the rising cases and fatalities,” said Tope. The state health minister has also ordered to seek the help of the local unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) to opening the private hospitals which had closed down. According to Tope, the district administration must increase surveillance to identify the high-risk contacts of patients and get them tested. “Since Jalgaon has a testing lab, the reports should be made available within 24 hours so that treatment of patients can start early,” said Tope. He added that the district administration will acquire 150 beds in two private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tope-concerned-as-jalgaon-reports-71-patients-in-1-day/articleshow/76183254.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Board exams to be held at 548 centres||Coimbatore: The school education department is gearing up to conduct Class X board exams in the district.Instead of the 148 centres decided in February, the exams will be held at 548 centres including high and higher secondary schools and centres for private candidates. This follows the state governments decision to turn all government, private high and higher secondary schools into board examination centres so that it will be easier for students to reach the centres amid the unusual situation this year.As many as 41,148 students will appear for the exams in the district, to be held from June 15 to 25. Pending exams of Class XI and Class XII will be held on June 16 and June 18 respectively. Coimbatore chief education officer P Usha has directed all HMs and principals to clean the centres. “We have asked them to rope in municipal and local body workers to sanitise the school premises,” she said. “Chiefs have been appointed for each exam centre and the other procedures are under way.”The district social welfare department will arrange masks for the students, Usha said. “We will distribute the masks to the candidates. We plan to give three masks to each student. Vegetable markets set up at some schools during the lockdown will be shifted this week and the places will be sanitised.”Hall tickets can be downloaded from www.dge.tn.gov.in by entering application number and date of birth from 2pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/board-exams-to-be-held-at-548-centres/articleshow/76185306.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Agri dept to promote cultivation of sorghum, little millet in dist||Coimbatore: In a bid to promote millet cultivation, the agriculture department plans to develop 255 hectares of demonstration plots in the district this year.Sorghum and little millet (saamai) will be featured in the district this year, said an official. Farmers will be given seeds, biofertilisers and funds to prepare fields. The department will distribute 29.5 tonnes of high-yielding varieties of sorghum seeds. The demo plots will be set up in visible and accessible farms of active farmers in all the 12 blocks of the district to create awareness. For each hectare of the demo plots, farmers will be given Rs 6,000 as subsidy. Other subsidy components under the scheme include micro nutrients for integrated nutrient management, biofertilisers, bioagents, weedicides for integrated pest management and farm implements and equipment such as manual sprayer. In 2018, as much as 150 hectares were allotted for developing demonstration sorghum plots. Last year, it was increased to 250 hectares. This year, along with 230 hectares of sorghum demonstration plots, 25 hectares of little millet plots will be formed.The nutri-cereals scheme in the district, under the national food security mission, has been allotted a fund of Rs 51.34lakh this year. “As millets require lesser water and maintenance, can be cultivated throughout the year and provide more nutrition, we are promoting them as a viable option for farmers,” said the official. “The scheme is already underway in the district. Block-level work has started and we have been identifying fields to form demonstration plots. So far we distributed 2.2 tonnes of sorghum seeds to farmers.”Farmers can sell the millets or make value-added products such as cookies and market them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agri-dept-to-promote-cultivation-of-sorghum-little-millet-in-dist/articleshow/76185301.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Erode||3 of family killed as speeding truck rams bike||Erode: Three of a family, one of them a seven-year-old boy, were killed after a speeding truck hit the bike they were travelling on near 46 Pudur area in the city on Wednesday. Police have arrested the truck driver. The Erode taluk police identified the deceased as K Kandasamy, 37, of Kandampalayam in Tiruchengode in Namakkal district, his wife Thangamani, 33, and son Pranesh. Manikandan, inspector, Erode taluk police station, said the incident occurred when Kandasamy and family were heading to Erode as part of his work. “When they neared 46 Pudur area in the city, a speeding truck that was heading to Namakkal from Kangeyam in Tirupur district, rammed the bike, throwing the trio off the vehicle. They succumbed to their grave injuries on the spot.” The Erode taluk police have registered a case and arrested truck driver P Kumar, 47, of Tiruchengode in Namakkal, for causing the accident. He has been lodged in the district prison at Gobichettipalayam under judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/3-of-family-killed-as-speeding-truck-rams-bike/articleshow/76185302.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Collector warns pvt schools against collecting fees||Coimbatore: Following several complaints from parents, collector K Rajamani on Wednesday issued a warning to private schools that were forcing parents to pay term fees or asking them to ‘collect books and uniforms’ by paying for them. In a release, the collector said his office has been continuously receiving complaints that some private schools in the district have been asking parents to pay fee or to come to the campuses to collect books. He said the state government had issued an order stating that no private school should force or pressure parents to pay fee for the academic year 2020-2021, or balance fee for 2019-2020, or late during the lockdown period.The chief education office has also sent the details of the GO as a circular to all private schools, the collector said.“At this juncture, private schools forcing parents to pay term fee or pay amount for books, is seen as a violation of the state’s orders and advice. All schools which are approved and recognised by the state should strictly follow the orders and advice of the state,” he said. “If complaints received regarding this issue are found to be true, severe action would be taken against the respective school, as per laws,” the collector warned. He said in times of crises, it was the duty of the managements of private schools to offer full cooperation to the state by following its orders. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-warns-pvt-schools-against-collecting-fees/articleshow/76185304.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Patna||Rs 8,538 crore spent on relief to people in state: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said the state government has so far spent more than Rs 8,538 crore on providing necessary relief to its people since Covid-19 pandemic spread in the country. Addressing the elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs), didis of Jeevika’s self-help groups and other stakeholders through videoconferencing and webcast from the CM residence, Nitish objected to the ‘pravasi’ (expatriate) term being used for the people of Bihar working in other states. “I do not consider such people as ‘pravasi.’ When the whole country is one and our citizenship is one, how can a person from Bihar working in other state be termed as a pravasi?” Nitish wondered and explained that a person can be termed as ‘pravasi’ only if s/he has gone outside the country for work. Nitish also lashed out at other states for not taking proper care of workers from Bihar. “Bhai (brothers), you people had gone to other states to provide service to them. They must have taken your proper care in the hour of crisis. But they didn’t. It is not good,” he said. The CM said people of Bihar were forced to return as the states where they had been working didn’t bother to take care of them. “Now, when you have returned home, I wish you should not go outside under any compulsion. If anyone wants to go outside for a job willingly, the entire country is one, there is no issue,” Nitish said. He said the state government was taking all necessary steps to provide employment to all returned migrant workers, besides those who had been working here and did not prefer to go outside Bihar. While giving the statistics of expenditure during the Covid-19 period so far, Nitish said Rs1,620 crore was provided as financial assistance of Rs1,000 per family to around 1.41 crore ration card holders and 21 lakh poor families without ration cards, Rs1,017 crore as three months’ social security pension to 85 lakh pension holders and a sum of Rs3,261 crore was disbursed by the education department among the beneficiaries of its different schemes. Similarly, more than Rs200 crore was provided as financial assistance of Rs1,000 per migrant workers. Another sum of Rs417 crore was disbursed as cash input subsidy among 12.35 lakh farmers, he said. Nitish also revealed that average Rs5,300 per person was spent on people at quarantine centres. “An estimated 12.70 lakh people listened to the CM’s speech through TV and different social media platforms,” state information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-8538cr-spent-on-relief-to-people-in-state-nitish/articleshow/76184438.cms||Madan Kumar
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Heavy rain and storm spark power failure||PUNE: Gusty winds and heavy rain in the wake of cyclone Nisarga left power supply infrastructure in tatters in several parts of the city on Tuesday night and Wednesday. Those working from home faced a trying time as internet connectivity also took a hit. Inverter batteries drained out rapidly, lifts stopped working and water could not be pumped to overhead tanks as power supply collapsed early in the morning. Supply was restored for a brief period only to go off again. Normalcy was restored only after 7.30pm. A statement from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said trees and branches fell on the distribution infrastructure on Tuesday and Wednesday and damaged 540 supply lines, which led to major power failure. Supply of 340 supply lines in rural parts of Pune had to be shut down as a precautionary measure owing to strong wind and heavy rain. “In Pune municipal limits alone, power supply to 85 supply lines was hampered, causing power failure in Rasta Peth, NIBM Road, Khadi Machine Chowk, Kondhwa, Undri, Yevalewadi, Wanowrie, Guruwar Peth, Dattawadi, Hingne, Dhayari, Ramtekdi, Mundhwa, Hadapsar, Magarpatta, Pisoli, Keshavnagar, Mohammadwadi, Koregaon Park, Kothrud, Shivane, Warje, Gandhibhavan, Bibvewadi,Gangadham Road and Katraj,” an official said. The situation was equally bad in Pimpri Chinchwad as 112 supply lines were damaged after trees and branches fell on them. The affected areas included Pimpri, Chinchwad, Bhosari, Ravet, Akurdi, Moshi, Charholi, Sabgvi, Wakad, Bijlinagar, Kharalwadi and Pimple Saudagar. An official said, “Underground cables were damaged in the NIBM Road area and repairs took time because rainwater had accumulated in dug-up areas.” Aundh’s Isha Agrawal said the power went off in the area around 3am on Wednesday. “Lights came back at 6am, but only for 10 minutes," she said. A high tension line and a transformer in the area developed faults, leading to the power failure. Kaustubh Shastri of Pancard Club Road, said, “There is no power since morning. Two phases went off around 6am, so lifts and water pumps failed to work." Many areas in Salunke Vihar Road faced severe power disruption since Tuesday night. “The power went off around 2.30am and came back after 9am on Wednesday. Since 10am, the power is coming and going frequently. There is no water as a result," a resident said. Transformers in the area developed faults in the morning. “We don't have power in Lane 11 of Salunke Vihar Road, with close to nine housing societies badly affected. Many people are working from home and power failure has affected their work," another resident said. A resident of Anand Park in Wadgaonsheri said supply was largely uninterrupted. Phone connectivity hitThe power failure affected the mobile connectivity as well. According to Sandeep Savarkar, the BSNL-Pune principal general manager, around 300-350 of their towers were affected in the city and rural areas, mostly because of the power failure.  “Once the power supply is restored, the mobile connectivity will also be restored,” he said, adding that their broadband service was not affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-rain-and-storm-spark-power-failure/articleshow/76185891.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Bevco outlets register lesser sales than bars in Ernakulam||KOCHI: With government granting permission to sell liquor and beer through bars at rates similar to Kerala state beverages corporation (KSBC) outlets, bars in Ernakulam reported more business than Bevco and Consumerfed outlets. According to the sources at KSBC, many bars reported double the business than in normal days while the business at Bevco outlets witnessed a dip compared to pre-lockdown days. Most Bevco outlets which marked an average sale of up to Rs 14 lakh daily are now reporting less than Rs 10 lakh per day. Meanwhile, sales average at bars were above Rs 12 lakh. The number of bars in the district (146) is much higher than the Bevco outlets (36) and Consumerfed stores (7). So, people opt for bars for faster service. Also, the availability of premium brands in rum, brandy and whisky is reportedly higher in bars compared to Bevco and Consumerfed outlets. KSBC officials said the lockdown has affected the production and supply of many brands of rums, whisky and brandy leading to shortage at warehouses. “Most Keralites prefer rum and brands like Bacardi, Hercules, Old Monk, Jolly Rogers, which are most-preferred by middle-class customers are short in supply at Bevco outlets. So, they prefer to go to bars where these stocks are available. Moreover, though the sales are done based on BevQ app token, a minimum of 400 tokens are allotted to each bar and Bevco outlet. Bars have more preference in the app when a customer chooses fast service option. The app automatically picks an outlet that has a free slot," said a source. Meanwhile, complaints are rising from bar owners that lack of enough staff in KSBC warehouses is affecting the delivery of loads and stocks. The shortage of labeling staff at the warehouses has led to delay in packing the loads to outlets despite full cash of the purchase is remitted to KSBC. Sources said around 114 bars, more than half of the total bars in Ernakulam excise division, are taking the supplies from Tripunithura KSBC warehouse. Due to shortage in the number of staffs, only 25 loads are leaving the warehouse each day which is not enough to meet the requirement of all bars and outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bevco-outlets-register-lesser-sales-than-bars/articleshow/76183261.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Waterlogging follows wet weather in many places||PUNE: Mahabaleshwar with over 80mm, Mumbai (Colaba) with over 50 mm and Ratnagiri with 40mm rain were among the wettest places on Wednesday. They also received the highest rainfall in the state from 8.30am till 5.30pm. Heavy rain also lashed Pune and Sangli from 8.30am on Wednesday with thundershowers at most places over Konkan and Goa, Madhya Maharashtra and a few places in Vidarbha. Shivajinagar in Pune received perpetual intense showers from 8.30am till late Wednesday night, though the amount of rain till 8.30pm was 23.8mm. On Wednesday, Madhya Maharashtra seemed like the most rainy region with many cities receiving showers till late in the night. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, said rainfall continued in parts of Madhya Maharashtra and north Maharashtra as the severe cyclone, which weakened into a cyclone was stationed over interior Maharashtra around Wednesday evening. It later weakened further into a deep depression over north Madhya Maharastra, continued its northeastwards movement and lay centered at 8.30pm over north Madhya Maharastra about 40km south of Nashik, 140 km west-southwest of Aurangabad and 120 km north-northeast of Pune. Hence, all the regions under its influence continued to receive rains till Wednesday night, Kashyapi added. Severe waterloggingMany areas of eastern Pune, including Wadgaonsheri, Kharadi, Dhanori and Tingrenagar were waterlogged on Tuesday and Wednesday as were Bhusari Colony and Bavdhan which are in the opposite direction. Prashant Ranpise, head of fire department of Pune Municipal Corporation, said they received nine calls . “Most were from eastern Pune. Our staff opened chambers to drain the accumulated water. In areas where there was no way to drain the water, we used pumps,” he said. Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingare said the natural channels which would drain rainwater have been blocked by construction. “The remaining are too narrow and cannot drain large volumes of water brought by such heavy rain. Houses located along such channels get flooded immediately. Heavy concreting at Wadgaonsheri is one of the reasons for flooding in the area. The storm water lines are extremely narrow and do not drain the water which was knee deep in certain areas. Several lasting measures need to be undertaken to make this area flooding-free,” he said. A resident of Dehu Road said the Dehu Road bridge was waterlogged and drivers had a tough time. Nigdi resident Sonali Jadhav said, “I travelled from Yamunanagar to Pradhikaran on Wednesday afternoon and noticed waterlogging in certain sections. Water levels were high enough to submerge half the tyre of scooters.” Pimpri fire brigade officials said they did not receive any calls about waterlogging. (With inputs from Rujuta Parekh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/waterlogging-follows-wet-weather-in-many-places/articleshow/76185901.cms||Neha Madaan
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Did coronavirus enter India in December? Scientists identify distinct trait||HYDERANAD: While the first confirmed Covid-19 case in India was registered on January 30 in Kerala, the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of the Indian strains with roots in China was in circulation as early as November 2019. Top scientists from leading research institutes in the country have estimated that the ancestor of the novel coronavirus cluster from Wuhan was in circulation as early as December 11, 2019. Using a scientific technique called, “time to most recent common ancestor” or tMRCA, the scientists estimated the age of the viral strain now circulating in Telangana and other states as between November 26 and December 25, the median being December 11. Whether the virus was introduced to India by passengers from China prior to January 30 is not clear as Covid-19 tests were not carried out on a largescale in the country then. Researchers, including those from the city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), have not only estimated the age of the most recent common ancestor of various strains of the novel coronavirus but also discovered a new cluster or clade that’s different from the existing ones. They have named this cluster or clade I/A3i. The viral strain found in India’s first Covid-19 case in Kerala belonged to the Wuhan ancestor, while the one discovered from Hyderabad (clade I/A3i) is unique as it originated not in China but somewhere in Southeast Asia. The exact country of origin of this new clade is not known, said CCMB director Dr Rakesh K Mishra. As far as the most recent common ancestor of the new strain (Clade I/A3i) is concerned, it was in circulation between January 17 and February 25, with the median being February 8. Another clade A2a, which is the predominant clade in India, had a tMRCA of January 2, with the period of its likely emergence between December 13, 2019, and January 22. Team did whole-genome sequencingThe team, which included researchers from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), Delhi, and the Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad, noted that the new clade is not found anywhere else in the world. This is also different from the other 10 known clades discovered earlier. The new clade was introduced in India from a single point. It was also from a single outbreak. It later has a rapid spread spanning multiple regions across the country. As part of the study the team performed whole-genome sequencing for 64 genomes making a total of 361 genomes from India. They also did the dating of the different clusters of viral genomes. Dr Mishra said the clade I/A3i encompasses 41% of all genomes sequenced and deposited in the public domain from multiple states in India. Globally 3.5% of genomes, which till date could not be mapped to any distinct known cluster fall in this newly defined clade. The I/A3i clade is represented in 145 genomes (41.2%) and represented from 16 of the 19 states from which the genomes originated. Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Delhi have the highest proportions of this new clade, followed by Bihar, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh. Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and Rajasthan have one genome each under Clade I/A3i.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/did-corona-enter-india-in-dec-scientists-identify-distinct-trait/articleshow/76185900.cms||Syed Akbar
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Dist collector credits religious heads||Nashik: Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare on Wednesday credited the religious heads of Malegaon for helping the administration keep a check on the spread of Covid-19 in city. There were rumours spread in the city that the survey was nothing less than the government’s idea of getting details under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). “We got the videos of the Maulanas appealing to the people to get tested, take medicine and the same even during the Ramzaan month. The best part today is Malegaon has 786 patients to date and recovery rate are 82.56 percent,” Mandhare said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-collector-credits-religious-heads/articleshow/76183273.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Sans support from banks, 40% MSMEs may perish||BENGALURU: A significant number of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) face the threat of going out of business, what with the banking sector allegedly failing to pass on benefits of the Centre’s stimulus package. The package was unveiled to bail out industries hit by the nationwide lockdown. Trade bodies have estimated about 40% of 6.7 lakh MSMEs in Karnataka may close down if they fail to get banking support quickly. Bankers on the other hand say they are worried about non-performing assets (NPA) piling up and fear unsecured loans may push NPAs up further. Obviously worried over the issue, state government is monitoring the situation closely. “Two months of the present quarter have already been unproductive which makes the next two months crucial,” said Guarav Gupta, principal secretary, commerce & industries. “I hope things fall into place quickly.” MSMEs are considered crucial for the recovery of the economy as they contribute nearly 25% of GSDP with a cumulative monthly turnover of Rs 35,000 crore. Last week, ISN Prasad, additional chief secretary (finance), convened a meeting of members of the State Level Banking Committee (SLBC) and urged bankers to “cooperate” and help the state government in its endeavour to shore up the industrial sector. Industrialists, however, say bankers are yet to warm up to the clarion call. Gupta said he will convene another review meeting soon to take the stock of the situation. “I have asked SLBC to submit data on compliance of banks in terms of implementing the Centre’s package. We will discuss the data and take a call on further action,” Gupta said. Industrialist say banks are reluctant to follow the Centre’s diktat and lend up to 20% of working capital without seeking collateral. The Centre had set aside Rs 3 lakh crore for MSMEs in its Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. The reduction of RBI’s repo rate to an all-time low of 4% has also not translated into lower interests rates on loans. Industries had expected at least a 3% drop in interest rates on existing loans. The construction sector too faces similar problems. Industries are also seeking a one-year interest-free moratorium, but their pleas have fallen on deaf ears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-sans-support-from-banks-40-msmes-may-perish/articleshow/76184844.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Woman cop arrested for stealing recovered gold||COIMBATORE: The city crime branch on Tuesday arrested a woman cop attached to the Singanallur crime police for stealing gold jewelleries recovered from thieves. She had stolen 61.5 sovereigns of gold jewelleries over a period of three years. Swapna Suja, grade II police constable, is in the service for over a decade. She was arrested based on a complaint from Singanallur crime police station inspector (in charge) S Sangeetha. According to police, Suja was the ‘court contact’ of the station and her responsibilities include tracking the station’s cases and producing recovered valuables in the court. “While reviewing the case files in last December, the then inspector of Singanallur crime police station S Sivakumar found irregularities in the documents. He had directed Suja to submit all the related documents within two days. Without submitting any documents, she had submitted a fake report claiming that the sought files were submitted,” a police officer said. During an inquiry, it was revealed that Suja had informed the victims that their lost jewels were handed over to the court and it would be returned to them at the earliest, the officer said. “But in 12 cases, she had neither handed over the recovered jewels to the court nor returned to the victims. She had stolen jewels weighing 61.5 sovereigns worth close to Rs 18 lakh,” the officer added. Meanwhile, she had gone on medical leave from January. Subsequently, she was suspended in February and an inquiry was initiated. As she failed to appear for the inquiry despite repeated communications, inspector Sangeetha filed a complaint. The CCB booked a case under sections 204 (destruction of document or electronic record to prevent its production as evidence), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 477 (a) (falsification of accounts) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused was produced before the judicial magistrate who in turn remanded her in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-cop-arrested-for-stealing-recovered-gold/articleshow/76185309.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Meghdoot cards to create awareness on rainwater harvesting||Coimbatore: The city corporation, along with the postal department, released its first meghdoot card, which is themed around rainwater harvesting, on Tuesday evening.This is also the first meghdoot card to be released by the postal department this year. A meghdoot card doesn’t often come with an educational message for a social cause. They are usually released as promotional tools, ahead of movie releases, product launches, or to mark special occasions. The last time a meghdoot card was released in the district was in September 2019.While the meghdoot card was introduced some 18 years ago, this is only the sixth one to be released by the Coimbatore postal division.A meghdoot card is the cheapest philately product and postal stationary available in the country. It costs just 25 paisa, compared to a normal postcard that is priced at 50 paisa.The card is blank on one side, where one could leave a message, and half the space on the other side is left for address, while the remaining half features the message on how rainwater harvesting could create water supply and sources for ever. It has a Thirukkural couplet the world can not exist without water. The card doesn’t require additional stamps and could either be send to people to simply create awareness on the concept or as a letter. The card release was timed to coincide with the onset of southwest monsoon in Kerala. The monsoon showers are expected to lash the district in the next few days, rejuvenating the groundwater tables by filling ponds and water tanks in the region.The city corporation has brought out one lakh meghdoot cards, which have been distributed to select post offices. Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, senior superintendent, Coimbatore postal division, said, “The city corporation has paid Rs 2 lakh plus GST to release the cards. It is the cheapest and easiest way to advertise or create awareness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/meghdoot-cards-to-create-awareness-on-rainwater-harvesting/articleshow/76185314.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||4 new Covid-19 cases reported||Coimbatore: The district recorded four more Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. While one of them is a city resident who is in Chennai, the remaining three are returnees from Bengaluru and Chennai. The district, meanwhile, received a shocker when the state government announced it had recorded nine new cases on Wednesday. But later, they clarified five of the nine cases were recorded on Monday and that they were repeated by mistake.According to a health department official, five of a family, who tested positive for the virus on Monday after they reached the district from New Delhi via road, were included in Wednesday’s list by mistake.It is to be noted that a total of 19 patients are already undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital and another one at the PSG Hospitals.Among the four new cases is a 24-year-old man who landed in the city from Bengaluru on Tuesday. The list also comprises a 44-year-old man from Madukkarai and a 28-year-old man from Ukkadam, who returned to the city from Chennai via road. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We tracked them down with e-pass details to stick quarantine posters outside their houses. We also tested them for Covid-19 and results showed them positive.”The remaining patient is a 74-year-old woman. A resident of Race Course, she had left for Chennai before lockdown. She developed symptoms recently and was tested positive for the virus in Chennai. She was added to the Covid-19 tally of the district, from where she hails.On Tuesday night, a man, who drove into the city from Malappuram in Kerala on Monday to attend a meeting and checked into Plaza Hotel, was tested positive for the novel coronavirus at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. The hotel has been disinfected completely and his contacts have been isolated.A doctor from Malumichampatty, who went to Madurai to pursue postgraduation, was also tested positive for the virus. He is hospitalized there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-new-covid-19-cases-reported/articleshow/76185312.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Salem||Cop slaps senior, suspended||Salem: A constable attached to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was placed under suspension on Wednesday for slapping an inspector in an inebriated state on Tuesday when the latter sought to know why he didn’t report for duty. An official source said constable Thendral Kumar, 28, was part of a team of 50 from Arakkonam NDRF who have been deployed in Salem to fight Covid-19. “They have been staying in a marriage hall in Annadhanapatty in the city.” On Tuesday evening, the source said, Kumar did not report for duty. “When inspector Jeeva came to know about this, he asked the reason for not reporting for duty. The constable, who was drunk, suddenly slapped the inspector.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cop-slaps-senior-suspended/articleshow/76185311.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata artistes team up for a video to help beat quarantine blues||KOLKATA: Beating the quarantine blues has not been an easy task in the wake of Covid-19. Staying emotionally healthy without letting any form of depression spiral out of control has been a challenge for many. Just before life in times of lockdown evokes ennui among people, 22 artistes have come together for the charitable initiative ‘Eka Nou Jeno’ that is supported by The Times of India. The idea is to spread the message among people that the fight against corona is to be waged by all. Conceived, directed and executed by Chicago-based IT management leader by profession and poet/lyricist by passion Jash Chakraborty, the ‘Eka Nou Jeno’ video features celebrities reciting lines penned by poet Utpal Chakraborty with Debopriya Chakraborty in charge of editing and the background score. The director said, “The continuous increase in Covid deaths across the world was incessantly triggering in my mind! Then I saw a poem written by my batchmate, Utpal Chakraborty. I thought it would be great if a few of my close friends, who have never recited any poem before, could recite this and spread the awareness against the pandemic. Slowly it turned into a big project.” Among the artistes who have been featured in the video are Rupam Islam, Anweshaa, Manomay Bhattacharya, Surajit Chatterjee, Raghab Chatterjee, Samik Sinha, Anik Dhar, Ujjaini Mukherjee, Arindam Chatterjee and Anindya Bose among others. Raghab said this project is aimed at making people think positive in the face of this pandemic. Ujjaini Mukherjee is happy to be a part of this presentation. Singer Aneek Dhar got back to recitation after many years. It is the first time for both Anweshaa and Manomay Bhattacharya to participate in a project where they need to recite.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-artistes-team-up-for-a-video-to-help-beat-quarantine-blues/articleshow/76185313.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 4, 2020||Delhi||RML Covid reports wrong & delayed, says AAP, cites retesting by Delhi government||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday alleged retesting of samples by the Delhi government had revealed Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, run by the Centre, was giving out erroneous Covid-19 test reports. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha slammed the hospital for delaying results. The hospital denied the charges. The party’s outrage against RML coincided with the initiation of a probe against eight testing labs — seven private and one run by the Centre, the National Centre for Disease Control — for allegedly collecting samples against ICMR protocol. The government ordered chief district medical officers to suspend the registration of all phlebotomists — personnel who collect samples — associated with these labs, pending investigation. These labs won’t be able to collect samples for testing on their own and the state would not send them samples for testing. No backlog of cases now: RML officialOn RML’s alleged wrong testing, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha claimed that the Delhi government had retested 30 samples, a day after the hospital had found them to be positive for Covid-19. “You will be surprised to know that 12 out of 30 were negative and the results for two samples were inconclusive,” he said. Chadha also alleged that RML was submitting results after delays ranging from three to 31days. “Around 281patients got their results after three days; 210 after four days; 50 after seven days; four after nine days; and some after 31 days. Such violation is unacceptable because this will lead to the disease spreading. People whose results are pending can spread it to many others if they are positive,” he said. In a tweet, Chadha asked people to avoid going to RML and urged the Centre to take strict action against the hospital. An official of RML Hospital denied the charges. She pointed out that the gap between sampling and retesting was seven to 14 days, indicating that this could have affected the results. “We are doing quality checks with AIIMS and NCDC and our results are concordant. Our positivity is more as all hotspot cases, family clusters and high-risk contacts of lab-confirmed cases are more at our screening centre. Also, we don’t have any backlog now. That was earlier when kits were not available,” she added. She said they had already given a statement to the Delhi government and Union health ministry. Doctors at the hospital said such allegations in the middle of a pandemic would only demoralise the healthcare workers who were taking huge risks to manage the patients for the past three months. Meanwhile, reacting to the allegation of having violated the ICMR protocol in collecting samples, an NCDC official said: “The order seems to be erroneous. They are questioning us for taking samples against ICMR norms. The fact is we don’t collect samples. Also, the state government says test results are taking too long. We get hundreds of samples from across the country daily and it is not possible to process all of them in 24 hours as expected,” said the official from India's premier institute for research in epidemiology and communicable disease control. An inquiry has been initiated against labs run by Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Fortis and SRL besides others. Ganga Ram said they have sent a response to the government while Fortis refused to comment. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Lal Pathlabs, which has the maximum testing capacity among private labs, has already been barred from collecting samples in most parts of the city. The cumulative effect of these decisions will be reduction in the overall testing capacity in the state. Sources said Delhi government has Covid-19 testing facilities at Maulana Azad Medical College and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and their combined capacity for daily testing is about 500 only. Delhi government health officials did not comment on the issue. However, a senior official said these labs weren’t following norms for giving out results in time and sharing exact data with the state and Centre, warranting the action. In a major shift in testing policy, the Delhi government has been asking labs to test only those people who have symptoms of Covid-19. “Testing capacity is limited. Our labs are overburdened. That’s why we have decided that those who don’t have symptoms of the disease need not be tested even if they are direct contacts of positive cases. Persons with comorbidities, such as diabetes and cancer, will be treated as exceptions,” said an official. ICMR, country’s top health research body, has categorically stated that asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case have to be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact. Watch TOI Daily: AAP govt questions RML Hospital's Covid-19 test results||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rml-covid-reports-wrong-delayed-says-aap-cites-retesting-by-delhi-government/articleshow/76186555.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Downpour in catchments of most dams in district||PUNE: The catchment areas of the four dams near the city and many reservoirs in the district recorded heavy rainfall from Tuesday evening till Wednesday because of cyclone Nisarga. Khadakwasla, Panshet and Varasgaon received over 40mm rainfall each, while Temghar recorded 25mm showers till Wednesday evening. The Pavana dam, supplying water to Pimpri Chinchwad, recorded 35mm rainfall. There are over 25 major dams in the Bhima basin. Almost all of them recorded showers in the past two days. Vadivale dam received the highest rain of 50mm, followed by 45mm at Bhama Askhed and 38mm at Andra. Officials in the state irrigation department stated that overcast conditions prevailed in the catchments of all the dams, accompanied by strong winds on Tuesday and Wednesday. The on-duty staff at every dam was put on alert about possible heavy showers because of the cyclone. An official said, “Water levels generally do not go up during the pre-monsoon rainfall. But showers during the last two days were significantly heavier than pre-monsoon rain. The chances of some rise in water stock cannot be ruled out.” The collective stock of water in the four dams supplying water to the Pune municipal limits was 6.85 TMC on Wednesday morning, as much as 3.35 TMC more than the last year’s stock of 3.5 TMC on June 3. The irrigation department has initiated water release into theMutha canal for summer crops from the Khadakwasla dam after reserving water to meet the requirement of the city till mid-July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/downpour-in-catchments-of-most-dams-in-district/articleshow/76185905.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Civil defence volunteers distribute earthen pots, urge people to provide water to birds||Bareilly: Civil defence volunteers in Moradabad on Wednesday distributed earthen pots for free among people and urged them to put water-filled pots outside their houses for thirsty birds as city wilts under the heatwave. Shobhit Gupta, a volunteer, said they were encouraging people to keep water-filled pots outside their houses for birds with the temperature shooting through the roof. “By distributing earthen pots, we are making people sensitive towards the birds and urging them to keep water-filled pots outside houses so that birds can quench their thirst in the scorching summer heat,” said Gupta. Local police are also helping the volunteers in their campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/civil-defence-volunteers-distribute-earthen-pots-urge-people-to-provide-water-to-birds/articleshow/76183287.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||First rescue flight lands in city with 180 people from Dubai||Coimbatore: The first flight under the Vande Bharat Mission landed in the city from Dubai on Wednesday around 12.23am, carrying a total of 180 passengers.Clad in full personal protection kits, airport and health department officials received the passengers as they disembarked from the Air India Express flight. They were there to help the passengers handle their baggage and clear the immigration.Airport authorities said the passengers comprised 17 children, three infants, 94 men and 66 women, 20 of who were pregnant. An official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “The flight landed here at 12.23am. We thermal screened the flyers, cleared their immigration, handed over their baggage and made them undergo Covid-19 test by 3am. After that, they were allowed to leave the airport.”The health department said the 20 pregnant women were sent to their houses, where they were asked to remain in quarantine for 14 days. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “They were from different districts such as Tirupur, Erode, Trichy and Dindigul, among others.”The remaining 160 passengers, he said, were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. “They will have to stay there for seven days. And then they can go to their houses, where they have to remain in quarantine for another seven days. All of them will be closely monitored. They have been asked to report symptoms, if any.”While all the 180 samples were sent to labs at 6am, the results are yet to arrive. “They are all from within the state. A majority of them are from the western and central regions,” an official said.While this was a rescue flight, it is to be noted that there has always been a constant demand for flights between the two destinations, which does not require any immediate runway expansion.R Raveendran, Residents Awareness Associations of Coimbatore, said, “All it requires is the permission from the aviation ministry and director general of civil aviation. MP A Raja had brought up the issue in Parliament. There will be business for airlines. We just need the political will to convince the central government to clear the route.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/first-rescue-flight-lands-in-city-with-180-people-from-dubai/articleshow/76185316.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Erode||Govt to hold parents’ meet for school reopening||Erode: “Meetings will be organised with parents to discuss about school reopening after the class 10 results are out,” said Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan. He was addressing reporters at the commencement of ‘kudimaramathu’ works at Thadapalli canal in Gobichettipalayam on Wednesday. The cost of the project is Rs 2 crore. The minister informed that, currently a 16-member team is working on the curriculum and it will be completed before the schools start functioning. “It is less likely for schools to reopen before the class 10 exams results are out,” he confirmed. Elaborating on the canal, Sengottaiyan added that the state government had allotted the money to widen and desilt Thadapalli canal pathways. “This will be benefit all farmers during irrigation ,” he said. He also informed that, Avinashi-Athikadavu project will be completed in three phases and all the works were going on as planned. “It will be a historical project once its complete,” he said. District collector C Kathiravan and others participated in the event. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/govt-to-hold-parents-meet-for-school-reopening/articleshow/76185319.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Restaurants get ready to welcome dine-in customers from Monday||Coimbatore: Following the state government’s announcement to reopen restaurants with 50% occupancy from Monday, most of the restaurant owners across the district are gearing up to open their premises for customers. “As the restaurants remained shut for a long time, we expect that most of the restaurants would reopen from Monday with skeleton workforce. Right from rearranging the seating arrangements to ensure social distancing, to ensuring cleanliness at the premises and checking for people with visible symptoms, we would be following all the government guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection,” said M Sivakumar, secretary of Coimbatore District Hoteliers’ Association.The city corporation has directed the hoteliers to ensure that their customers wore face masks, wash their hands with disinfectants at the entrance and maintain social distancing. The civic body has also warned of taking severe action upon violating the norms. The corporation has also asked hoteliers to collect details including phone numbers of all the customers. Sivakumar said they need the cooperation of the customers for compliance of guidelines issued by the state government and the city corporation. It might take a year to attain normalcy, he added. “We require sufficient manpower to resume our businesses,” Jagan Damodarasamy, executive director of Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar hotels private limited, said. At present, the restaurants are functioning with 30% to 35% of workforce, he added. “More than 90% of the guest workers who were working with us had gone back to their respective states after the special trains were operated and the remaining workers had returned to their native places after the lockdown was imposed. We have been holding talks with the workers who are in other parts of the state and exploring all the ways to bring them back,” he said. With the existing workforce, it is even difficult to reopen the outlets, he said and added that they have been planning to reopen their outlets in phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/restaurants-get-ready-to-welcome-dine-in-customers-from-monday/articleshow/76185317.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||Residents fear another day of havoc||Pune: Residents of Laxminarayan Towers, located along the Ambil Odha have said that nine months after writing to the mayor, police commissioner, ministers, collector and the PMC, the wall damaged due to flooding is yet to be repaired. As heavy rains lash Pune, residents fear flooding and a wall collapse. Amol Jathar, who lives in the residential complex, said, “PMC started work about a month ago. They repaired the damaged water chamber near the compound wall in Ambil Odha but that was all.” City engineer Prashant Waghmare did not respond to calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-fear-another-day-of-havoc/articleshow/76185906.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Protesters seek release of students, UAPA’s scrapping||NEW DELHI: Students and teachers from different universities in the city took to social media on Wednesday demanding the release of students involved in protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) earlier this year. With the hashtag #SaabYaadRakhaJayega, the protest was trending on Twitter. Holding placards, the protesters also demanded scrapping of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Meanwhile, some former JNU students also protested on Nelson Mandela Marg and five of them were arrested for violating lockdown rules. Over the past two months, Jamia students Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Asif Iqbal Tanha, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and activists Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Gulfisha Fatima and Sharjeel Imam have been arrested in different cases. “Devangana has been arrested thrice, while police have slapped UAPA on Natasha. For what? For peacefully protesting the anti-minority and anti-secular CAA. Women students leading have proved too much for the state,” wrote one of the protesters. The protesters also criticised the government for using the lockdown to arrest those who have been protesting against CAA and NRC. One of the citizen groups even held a protest in central Delhi area. They followed social distancing norms and wore masks. Sharing videos and pictures of the protest, social activist Shabnam Hashmi later wrote: “Release all political prisoners, release all activists in the anti-CAA movement. Scrap CAA-NRC-NPR and UAPA.” “Amid rising Covid cases and misery for workers, the government seems to be targeting students and activists,” said one of the protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protesters-seek-release-of-students-uapas-scrapping/articleshow/76185324.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Work on cleaning and de-silting Ambil Odha nears completion||PUNE: The first phase of cleaning, deepening and desilting Ambil Odha is nearing the end. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will finish the work in less than a fortnight. Nearly 1 lakh cubic ft of silt and debris has been removed from the stream so far. The choked Ambil Odha had caused severe flooding in many areas on September 25 last year. As per PMC officials, a number of initiatives have been planned to increase the carrying capacity of the stream and protect residents living nearby. Two major works, including cleaning of the stream and building a retaining wall, were undertaken and work began in April. Of the 10km stretch to be cleaned, only 300m requires further work. Over 1,000 truckloads of silt and mud has been removed from the stream, said the officials. Work on building the retaining wall is to start from June 15. “We are in the last phase of the cleaning work,” said Pravin Gedam, a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-on-cleaning-de-silting-ambil-odha-nears-completion/articleshow/76185908.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Couple found dead at home||Kollam: A couple was found dead in their rented house at Kaippalli Junction at Idamulakkad near Anchal on Wednesday morning. Identifying the deceased as Sunil, 35, and Sujini, 25, police said that their three-year-old daughter was found crying near her mother’s body. Sujini was lying on the floor, while Sunil’s body was found hanging from the roof. The man had reportedly called up his wife’s relatives early in the morning, saying he was unwell. Around 7am, the relatives found the front door of the house locked from inside, and on breaking it they found the bodies, said police. Neighbours reportedly told the police that they had seen Sunil returning home with milk around 6am. Investigators expressed suspicion that the man had strangulated Sujini before hanging himself. Police said that the couple had a heated argument on Tuesday night and Sunil might have had fatally assaulted her. Her body bore beating marks. The bodies have been shifted to the Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/couple-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/76182324.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Deemed universities to hold final year exams online||CHENNAI: In view of pandemic-related restrictions, a majority of deemed universities are likely to conduct exams for final year students online to help them graduate. The institutions are offering choices varying from online open book tests to permitting students with connectivity issues to take tests offline. Some of the deemed universities are preparing question banks for the online exams. SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) is conducting viva-voce online for final year students. “In a few branches, students have course work in the final semester. We are offering them online tests,” said Sandeep Sancheti, institute vice-chancellor. For students who are not able take the tests online, the university will conduct tests in the offline mode at the earliest. “If, for some reason, say lack of proper smart devices or connectivity issues, they fare poorly in the online tests, students can give the test again offline. We plan to consider best of the two results. It will make students more comfortable while taking exams online,” Sancheti added. The institute’s online tests for all students will include multiple choice questions, descriptive questions and will be monitored by artificial intelligence (AI) tools. For some courses, the institute plans to reduce the weightage for end semester exams and increase weightage of internals. Sastra University also plans to conduct end semester exams for final year students online. “It will be an open book online test backed by oral assessment,” said S Vaidyasubramaniam, its vice-chancellor. “A software will allot questions — a mix of MCQs, descriptive and analytical questions — randomly to students so they do not get identical ones. The oral assessment will ensure students know the concepts,” he added. Students in other years of their degrees, given they have 50% attendance, will be graded based on internal exams and can opt to appear for an improvement exam later. Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology is planning to conduct exams online if the situation does not improve by the first week of July. “We plan to conduct pen and paper mode exam for final year students. For others, we may conduct it online depending on the Covid-19 situation,” a senior official from the institute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deemed-univs-to-hold-final-yr-exams-online/articleshow/76184464.cms||A Ragu Raman
June 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cyclone Nisarga triggers diversion, delay and cancellation of flights||PUNE: Six flights were diverted and one was cancelled from the Lohegaon airport on Wednesday because of the cyclonic weather, while arrival and departure of several other planes were delayed. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said a SpiceJet flight coming to Pune from Delhi was diverted to Surat and an Alliance Air flight from Hyderabad to Pune flew back. “Another SpiceJet flight from Jaipur was diverted to Mumbai,” he said. Singh also confirmed that an IndiGo flight from Kolkata was diverted to Hyderabad. “An Air Asia flight from Bengaluru flew back to the Karnataka capital and another IndiGo flight from Nagpur returned. A Vistara Delhi-Pune-Delhi flight was cancelled,” the airport director said. From midnight till 8pm on Wednesday, the airport saw a total of 15 flight movements (nine departures and six arrivals). A total of 1,296 passengers flew out, while 331 landed. Several flights were delayed, leaving passengers hassled. A SpiceJet flight from Pune to Kochi was delayed by almost four hours and a GoAir flight to Delhi was delayed by an hour-and-a-half in the morning hours. An Air India flight to Delhi was delayed by almost three hours. “It is a hassle but we cannot complain much as the weather is very rough owing to the cyclone. It was very tough coming to the airport with all the luggage in an autorickshaw. I just hope that cabs start functioning at least for the airport travel,” said Subhash Rastogi, who was flying with his family to Kochi. SpiceJet on its social media handle informed passengers in the evening hours that all their flights were expected to get affected because of the bad weather in Pune. Airport sources stressed that the number of flight delays, cancellations and diversions could increase in the late evening hours. Trains diverted tooThe rough weather hit the train services also. Four trains of the Central Railway (CR) were diverted. “Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Express (02617) was diverted via Madgaon-Linda-Miraj-Pune-Daund chord line. Thiruvananthapuram-Lokmanya Tilak Special was also diverted along the same route,” a railway official said, adding that the Pune rail division remained unaffected. Another CR official said, “There is no information of any landslide in both the ghat sections, especially the Karjat-Lonavla section, until now.” Authorities in the PMPML said buses plied in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas, but the passenger footfall was very low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyclone-nisarga-triggers-diversion-delay-cancellation-of-flights/articleshow/76185910.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Civil defence volunteers distribute earthen pots, urge people to provide water to birds||Bareilly: Civil defence volunteers in Moradabad on Wednesday distributed earthen pots for free among people and urged them to put water-filled pots outside their houses for thirsty birds as city wilts under the heatwave. Shobhit Gupta, a volunteer, said they were encouraging people to keep water-filled pots outside their houses for birds with the temperature shooting through the roof. “By distributing earthen pots, we are making people sensitive towards the birds and urging them to keep water-filled pots outside houses so that birds can quench their thirst in the scorching summer heat,” said Gupta. Local police are also helping the volunteers in their campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/civil-defence-volunteers-distribute-earthen-pots-urge-people-to-provide-water-to-birds/articleshow/76183293.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||MSMEs under new definition not entitled for emergency credit||Nagpur: The new units coming under the definition of micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) after the criterion was changed from June 1 may not be able to get the benefit of government’s emergency credit guarantee scheme (ECGS). The scheme calls for providing additional credit to the entrepreneurs to tide over the financial impact of Covid-19. It covers both manufacturing and trading units and the loans will be backed by a guarantee from National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company (NCGTC), a government agency. The guidelines have a condition that the turnover of the unit has to be within Rs 100 crore. From June 1, government has covered units with a turnover upto Rs 250 crore into MSME definition. However, the additional credit will only available to businesses having a turnover upto Rs 100 crore. “This means even if new units are now MSMEs, they will not be getting the benefit of additional credit,” said Julfesh Shah, a chartered accountant specializing in project finance. The scheme also has a condition that the additional credit available will be 20% of the existing loans of a business or Rs 25 crore-- whichever is less. This will include term loan and cash credit limit. The existing loan will be the outstanding loan as on February 29, 2020. “In case a business does not have any liability as on that date, no fresh credit will be available even if the firm is in need of funds,” said Shah. Shah said instead it should have been 20% of the total sanctioned limits. The turnover criterion also needs to be revised. Even the cap of Rs 25 crore for the additional loans has to be revised. A company with Rs 250 crore turnover can easily have a loan worth Rs 50 crore, he said. Mayank Shukla, the president of Confederation of Small Industries’ Association’s (COSIA) Vidarbha unit, said the guidelines must be changed in line with the new definition of MSMEs. Nitin Lonkar of Butibori Manufacturers Association said the additional credit should have been 20% of the total sanctioned limits rather than outstanding. This is because the latter keeps changing. He said industrialists have already started appllying to banks for additional credit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msmes-under-new-definition-not-entitled-for-emergency-credit/articleshow/76184483.cms||Shishir Arya
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Farmers’ body says Centre misleading cultivators; to launch Twitter campaign||Pilibhit: Alleging that the Centre has “mislead the farmers by making a false declaration of providing them profits of 50-85% over the cost of production through increase in the MSP (minimum support price) of 14 Kharif crops”, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) has called upon farmers to start a nationwide Twitter campaign from June 6 to demand ‘Karza Mukti, Pura Daam’ (loan waiver and full price).In a video message to farmers, national convener of AIKSCC, VM Singh, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed in Parliament last year that the MSP was being fixed in accordance with the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission, which is not true.VM Singh said, “The MSP for the coming paddy crop has been increased by just Rs 53 over the previous year’s price of Rs 1,815. This hike is equal to 3 per cent of the previous year's rate while, as per the Swaminathan Commission’s recommendation, the MSP of paddy should have been Rs 2,428. Same is the case with other crops.”He also claimed that the Centre’s announcement of concessional 3 per cent interest subsidy on crop loans was illusory. Singh said this interest subvention had been subsumed in the crop loan policy long back by the Manmohan Singh government.End||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-body-says-centre-misleading-cultivators-to-launch-twitter-campaign/articleshow/76183305.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||GFP allegations on relief scam hurtful: BJP||Panaji: BJP North Goa district committee vice-president Prashant Desai on Wednesday refuted allegations by Goa Forward Party’s (GFP) Durgadas Kamat that the one-time monetary relief meant for registered construction workers in Goa was diverted to BJP officer-bearers. GFP, an NDA ally, had said the Rs 13 crore package under the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board Assistance scheme was a ‘multi-crore scam’. “Durgadas Kamat is a liar. His allegations are hurtful to BJP office-bearers and workers. We demand that taking note of his allegations, an inquiry is conducted, as has been demanded by Durgadas,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-allegations-on-relief-scam-hurtful-bjp/articleshow/76185923.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Pune||GMRT facility parked in safe mode||Pune: All the antennas at the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) in Junnar have been parked in safe mode as the Nisarga cyclone was expected to pass close to the facility. “As Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra and its predicted trajectory was close to GMRT array, the observatory was shut down and all antennas were parked in safe mode since Wednesday morning for the following two days. Hopefully, we will be unscathed,” National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) director Yashwant Gupta said. In the park position, all GMRT antennas point vertically upwards, towards the zenith. The elevation axis is locked with a mechanical arrangement, which is specially designed for this purpose. This will remain in force till Thursday or until the conditions are declared safe. “We had experienced a wind speed of 80kmph about four years ago. Worst case wind speed in the GMRT region from the cyclone is predicted at 50-60kmph. This is higher than the maximum operating wind speed limit of 45kmph for the antennas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gmrt-facility-parked-in-safe-mode/articleshow/76185911.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Labour pains: First it was flight of workers, now builders plan to fly them back to Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers from Hyderabad may have suffered nightmarish journeys in their bid to escape the lockdown and return to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. But many of them are all set to return, and in style. Pushed into a corner by approaching deadlines and a skeletal workforce, many desperate builders are now booking air and AC train tickets for labourers in the hope of luring them back to their sites. Average cost per head - Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 for air tickets. So, jet setting into Hyderabad are carpenters, painters, granite workers and scaffolding experts primarily from Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. They comprise 40% to 50% of the city’s labour strength. The rest come from UP, MP TN, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. “These are desperate times and we need to invest in bringing workers back to the city. We have told our contractors to book flights, as long as the fares are less than Rs 5,000,” said R Suresh Kumar, senior vice-president (business operations), of Prestige Group (Hyderabad) that has three ongoing projects in the city. The Bengaluru-based group has a team of 10 carpenters flying into the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Patna on June 6. “There will be similar batches coming in subsequently,” Kumar added, ruing how he has just about 700 labourers on ground against a usual strength of 3,000. As on Wednesday, a one-way ticket from Patna to Hyderabad was about Rs 4,900. “There are a few construction firms that are looking at flight options. It is mostly to bring in workers from Bihar and Bengal,” said a contractor manning one of Hyderabad’s largest labour camps housing over 2,500 workers. Many paying hefty advance to workersThe workers here are employed with multiple developers. “Right now, only 10% to 15% of them are left. We have to give some incentives for them to return. Developers have no choice but to spend,” he added. If some are using air tickets to sweeten the deal, there are others who are gift-wrapping a hefty advance along with AC train tickets – about Rs 1,800 to Rs 2,000 per seat – to win over the migrant workers. “We are offering up to Rs 10,000 in advance, over and above their travel fare. This month we have booked tickets for at least 300 labourers,” said Tapas Patel, CEO of Om Sree Builders and Developers. Roughly 1.5 lakh migrant labourers – a majority from the realty sector – have returned to their home states since the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labour-pains-first-it-was-flight-of-workers-now-builders-plan-to-fly-them-back-to-hyd/articleshow/76185914.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Crop loan issues will be resolved soon: District collector Mandhare||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has decided to set up a panel comprising local bank officials to resolve the issue of delay in issuing of crop loans to the farmers.“There are many other issues that have been brought to the notice by the members of parliament Hemant Godse (Nashik) and Bharti Pawar (Dindori). The issues are concerning and will be raised before the state government,” Mandhare said.“The private and nationalized banks have so far distributed Rs 259 crore of crop loans after intermediate measures were taken to resolve the issue. Last week, the loan distribution stood merely at Rs 41 crore,” he added.Pawar had recently raised the issue of farmers not getting crop loans despite loan waiver scheme offered by the state government.“The state government had announced the loan waiver scheme and the farmers have got the intimations as well. But even today outstanding loans are being shown against their names due to which banks are not issuing them loans,” Pawar said. Mandhare said that all the issues which involve policy decisions and will be taken up with the state government.“We have decided to conduct a meeting of the bankers on every Wednesday and review the loan distribution process during the Kharif period. However, the issues requiring policy decisions will be raised with the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/crop-loan-issues-will-be-resolved-soon-district-collector-mandhare/articleshow/76183320.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||No room for social distancing as buses run crowded across state||Chennai: Despite assurances from the state government that bus frequency will be increased based on demand, many buses in Tamil Nadu remained overcrowded on Wednesday, with social distancing gone for a toss. Tamil Nadu witnessed the first case of a bus driver being infected with Covid-19 on Tuesday. The infected employee was driving a bus on the Tiruvannamalai-Cuddalore route, in which 140 passengers had travelled. On Wednesday, in some areas like Bodi in Theni district and Pollachi in Coimbatore district, passengers, who waited for long at bus stands, resorted to minor protests demanding that more services be run. Though the government promised that 50% of buses will be operated, only 30% were out on the roads, multiple sources confirmed to TOI. The transport department, however, was unavailable to comment on it. Conductors too had a tough time in stopping excess passengers from boarding the buses. “We have been instructed to drop and pick up passengers at intermediate bus stops. If there are 10 passengers waiting at one such stop for more than an hour, will they listen to us if we say only two seats were vacant? Eventually, we were forced to carry on despite risks of getting infected,” said Siva, a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) conductor. K Arumugam Nainar from CITU-affiliated state transport union, said Wednesday being an auspicious day for marriages saw more than the anticipated crowd arriving at bus stops and that local authorities didn’t respond appropriately. “Now that the government has allowed most shops and factories to run, more people will depend on buses to travel to work and back home as trains are not operated. So there is no point holding back on 50% of the bus fleet,” he added. In response, a state transport department official said managing directors of all transport corporations and branch managers were given powers to operate more buses to avoid crowding and that scenarios as Wednesday’s will be rectified from Thursday. “Despite huge losses due to the pandemic, we haven’t hesitated to spend money on buying masks, personal protective equipment (PPEs) and disinfectants for buses. There will be no compromise on workers’ health and welfare,” the transport official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-room-for-social-distancing-as-buses-run-crowded-across-state/articleshow/76184477.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Husband, sons of BJP’s Jahanabad area chairman booked for attempting murder||Pilibhit: Police on Tuesday night booked the husband and two sons of BJP's Jahanabad area chairman – Mamta Gupta – for attempting culpable homicide, wrongful confinement and robbery. As per the victim's father, the crime was committed by the three accused in retaliation for an FIR lodged against them a few days ago. Complainant Dharmendra Kumar Gupta of Jahanabad town stated that his son Prince was forcibly stopped by Durga Charan alais Anna and his two sons Shiva and Shagun on Tuesday in front of their house while he was returning home from his shop. “The accused abused and assaulted Prince, dragged him inside their house and robbed him of his gold chain and mobile phone. They left him with multiple injuries and in an unconscious condition just outside our main gate. On getting information, I rushed him to the hospital,” the complainant allegedly said. Station house officer (SHO) Harish Vardhan Singh said that the three named accused were booked under sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 342 (wrongful confinement), 394 (robbery), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of trust) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-sons-of-bjps-jahanabad-area-chairman-booked-for-attempting-murder/articleshow/76183313.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Lekhpal commits suicide in Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: A lekphal posted in Mituali area of Lakhimpur Kheri, committed suicide on Wednesday. Police said lekhpal Pankaj Kumar hanged himself in his house at Gutaiya Bagh. SHO of Lakhimpur Kheri’s Kotwali police station, Ajay Mishra, said, “The cause of suicide is yet not known. The deceased left no suicide note.” Senior police and administrative officials visited the spot on receiving the information. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Mitauli, Digvijay Singh told TOI, “Kumar was a dedicated lekhpal and always used to complete his tasks on time. His fellow lekhpal said he appeared quite tense for the past few days and had even borrowed money from a friend. Police should investigate his case thoroughly and find the reason behind his suicide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lekhpal-commits-suicide-in-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/76183325.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three Jamia students get notice over social media posts||NEW DELHI: Three Jamia Millia Islamia students have been served show-cause notices by the university administration for allegedly sharing a screenshot on social media and making disrespectful comments towards the Prime Minister, and the Jamia vice-chancellor and authorities. The posts, now deleted from a few Instagram and Facebook pages run by Jamia students, criticised VC Najma Akhtar for not speaking up against the arrests of a few university students during the lockdown for their alleged involvement in the February riots. According to the notice, sent on Monday by Jamia chief proctor Waseem Ahmed Khan, “a few anti-social elements have posted some offensive, indecent... content about the Prime Minister of India on social media platforms... dragging Jamia and its administration”. Criticising the “baseless allegations against the Jamia administration” it accused the students of violating the university rules. Mohammad Haris claimed he had no connection with ‘jamiatimes1’, a page on Instagram, for which he had got the notice. “I run a different page where I did post the same picture. But a Jamia official asked me to delete it, which I promptly did,” the BSc physics student said. In his reply to the proctor, Haris claimed those who made the alleged remarks “had no connection with me”. The proctor told TOI, “The students wrote wrong things against Jamia authorities, the VC and the PM. This is not freedom of speech and students should not do it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-jamia-students-get-notice-over-social-media-posts/articleshow/76185341.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Abnormal Metro fares fair? Telangana high court wants L&T & govt to respond||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday asked the state and central governments, Hyderabad Metro Rail Ltd (HMRL) and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad Ltd (L&TMRHL) to furnish replies within four weeks over the high ticket fares charged from commuters and if they are fair after getting various concessions from the government. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also wondered whether HMRL and L&TMRHL are two different entities. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by CPM party’s Hyderabad unit which charged L&T with unilaterally fixing higher charges and the state and the Centre with inaction despite knowing that the action of HMRL was contrary to the concession agreement it had entered into with Telangana under public-private partnership mode. Confirming that they are indeed two different entities, L&T engaged a separate advocate to argue its case, while HMRL was represented by a state counsel. CPM, in its petition, filed through its Greater Hyderabad central city committee secretary M Srinivas Reddy, said L&T had received Rs 1,458 crore from the Centre to make the project viable and to keep the fares low. “This is apart from the huge public spaces it got all over the Hyderabad Metro corridor where it built huge malls to augment its revenues. These facilities were provided to L&T by the government with a view to keeping the fares within the reach of four lakh commuters using Metro Rail,” the petitioner said. He said if it faces any problems due to escalation of costs, it should represent the matter to the state government to compensate the losses. “But, it cannot unilaterally fix higher charges,” the petitioner contended.  He also urged the court to suspend the rate chart released by HMRL in November 2017 and direct the Metro Rail to collect the charges as per the concession agreement. The petitioner said the government had allotted precious land in the city to L&T to enable it to generate revenue through commercial means. “Accordingly, it developed those spaces into malls and commercial complexes and was earning huge commercial revenue in places like Panjagutta, Errum Manzil, Moosarambagh, etc,” he said. He said the intention for providing the land for commercial purposes was to meet the expenditure in running the Metro Rail without burdening the commuter. To this, the bench sought replies from the authorities and L&T within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abnormal-metro-fares-fair-hc-wants-lt-govt-to-respond/articleshow/76185338.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Pilot on his way to Delhi airport looted near IIT||NEW DELHI: A pilot with a private airline was allegedly waylaid and robbed by a group of men on the IIT flyover in south Delhi in the early hours of Wednesday while he was on his way to the airport in a company cab. The robbers smashed the windows of the car, attacked the pilot with a knife and fled with his wallet containing Rs 10,000. The criminals managed to flee the spot on their two-wheelers. Efforts are being made to arrest the criminals, said DCP (south-west) Devender Arya, adding that a case of robbery was registered against unknown persons. Arya said the police have gathered clues to identify the criminals from CCTV footages. According to the pilot, Yuvraj Tewatia, the incident took place around 1am when he was going from his Faridabad residence to the IGI airport for his early morning flight. A group of men on 4-5 two-wheelers rode up to him from the wrong side of the flyover and forced the cab to stop. Assailants at IIT flyover give the slip to chasing copsWhile some of them started smashing the windows with baseball bats and rods to force open the cab doors, two others pointed guns to the driver and Tewatia, asking them to hand over their belongings, the pilot said. Tewatia told TOI that one of the criminals attacked him with a knife while he was pulling out his wallet. He was injured in his thigh. The criminals then fled the spot. Later, it was found that some other people had also been attacked by the same gang. “There were three bikers and two car drivers who said they had been attacked by the criminals as well. By then, PCR vehicles had reached the spot,” said 30-year-old Tewatia. Police said that they had chased the criminals who managed to flee. The criminals covered their faces with masks. Tewatia was taken to AIIMS and discharged after being given first-aid. A massive manhunt is underway in parts of south Delhi to nab the accused. Cops are scanning through the identities criminals who they suspect could be involved in the robbery. Watch Pilot on his way to Delhi airport looted near IIT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pilot-on-his-way-to-delhis-igi-looted-near-iit/articleshow/76186594.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag resident dies of Covid-19 in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: A 44-year-old Covid-19 patient from Lakkundi village in Gadag district, who was admitted in KIMS hospital, died in the hospital in Hubballi on Wednesday. Gadag deputy commissioner M G Hiremath stated in a press release that the patient was admitted to CSI Hospital in Gadag-Betgeri on May 27. “As he was suffering from diabetes and urinary tract infection, he was referred to KIMS hospital in Hubballi on Monday. He died on Wednesday, even before the hospital got the results of his samples. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. His funeral will be held as per the Covid-19 disaster management guidelines,” he added. He said that of the 35 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Gadag district, 17 are recovering at the Covid 19 hospital, while 17 patients were discharged from the hospital. One patient died due to cardiac arrest last month. “We have tested a total 6,579 samples, of which only eight are pending. As many as 46 people are in institutional quarantine in the district,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-resident-dies-of-covid-19-in-hubballi/articleshow/76184518.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Chenani records 1,012 new cases, Tamil Nadu’s death toll touches 208||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 surge continued on Wednesday with Chennai alone reporting 1,012 of 1,286 fresh cases as the state’s tally shot to 25,872 and the death toll touched 208 with 11 more casualties. “We are in the midst of a pandemic and the number of cases is bound to go up. But our recovery rate is more than 50% and death rate is below 0.8%,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. Since its first case was reported on March 7, TN had battled two clusters Tablighi Jammaat, which had more than 1,300 positive cases, and Koyambedu market, which accounted for more than 3,000 cases. Now, people returning from other states and abroad are forming a third cluster, accounting for more than 1,700 cases since April 9. On Wednesday too, 42 of the fresh cases were returnees. But there are more than 18,000 people outside these clusters, most of who were living in crowded zones within Chennai such as Royapuram and Puliyanthope. The city’s overall case tally touched 17,598 and there have been 158 deaths so far. At the airport, 15 international passengers (two from UAE and 13 from Dubai), four domestic passengers (three from Gujarat and one from Karnataka) tested positive on Wednesday. Among those who travelled by train and road, there were five from Delhi, two from Karnataka and 16 from Maharashtra who tested positive. Besides the 1,012 cases in Chennai on Wednesday, the city’s neighbouring Chengalpet had 61 cases, Kancheepuram 19, and Tiruvallur 58. At a time when doctors and epidemiologists are asking the state to ramp up testing, the state knocked off the details about the number of people tested from the media bulletin. It, however, said 14,101 samples were tested. Maharashtra is the only other state to cross 25,000 cases, which it did on May 13 when it recorded 25,992 cases, 15,747 in Mumbai alone, and a death toll of 975. On Wednesday, Maharashtra had a case tally of 74,860 cases and 2,587 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-records-1012-new-cases-states-death-toll-touches-208/articleshow/76185345.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Losing tempo, band artists seek permission for wedding bookings||Bareilly: Having exhausted all the savings and staring at penury, a group of band artists on Wednesday approached Bareilly’s district magistrate and sought permission to accept bookings and participate in weddings. They said that having no other mean to earn bread and butter for their families they were inching towards starvation. The Centre while announcing guidelines for its Unlock 1, allowed gatherings at weeding ceremonies but with a cap of 50 guests. The band artists demanded that they should not be count under the 50-person cap. “We get around 40 bookings in a year and practise musical instruments during lean period. Our only demand from government is that band artists, light-men and horse-cart should be allowed during wedding function,” the association of band artists said. The artists gave a memorandum to the DM that was addressed to the chief minister in which they demanded that they should also be given financial aid like migrants. “Everybody knows that since lockdown came into force in March, not a single wedding function took place in the district. It was a wedding season for which we have booked several orders but all went in vain. After all our savings were dried up, to feed our families we had to borrow money from local moneylenders and now we are gradually inching towards starvation,” owner of Sartaj band, Mohammad Yaseen said. They also said that several band owners, who had brought musical instruments on loan. Now with no income they were unable to pay loan installments. According to the band association, there are close to 125 band parties running business in the district and as many as 1,250 artists associated with them are facing similar situation. After having listened to their ordeals, the DM said that their demands were genuine and a resolution will be chalked out as band artists could.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/losing-tempo-band-artists-seek-permission-for-wedding-bookings/articleshow/76183340.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Commuters demand more railway ticket counters in Nashik||Nashik: With only two ticket reservation counters at the Nashik Road railway station, commuters have urged the authorities to start more counters, as well as a two-speaker system. At present, the railways has started running a few trains on selected routes on the condition of advance booking. “Nashik Road railway station has only two ticket reservation counters which are now witnessing rush of passengers ever since the lockdown rules have been relaxed. Besides, the same counters are also responsible for refunds of cancelled tickets. Commuters are also experiencing delay in getting tickets as well as refunds,” Sumit Bhattacharya, who had booked the tickets from the railways passenger reservation system (PRS) at Canada Corner, said. Commuters said that if the railways open up more centres dedicated for refunds, it will help in reducing rush at the existing counters. The new PRS at Nashik Road railway station’s platform number 4 is quite congested and tiny. The counter is unable to handle the crowd and maintain social distancing, commuters said. In addition, the glass partition at the ticket counter does not allow proper communication between railway officials and passengers. The glass partition has two outlets — one for verbal exchange and second for ticket and money exchange. “Since facility for communication has been closed, passengers now duck and tend to speak to the clerks through the ‘money payment window’. At times, they also remove their masks in order to ensure clear communication which could prove to be dangerous in times of Covid-19,” Rakesh Jadhav, another commuter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/commuters-demand-more-railway-ticket-counters-in-nashik/articleshow/76183341.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Businessmen a disappointed lot after PSERC’s new tariff order||Ludhiana: Industrialists are disappointed over the new tariff order announced by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), in which the power charges have been reduced only for domestic consumers, and that too marginally. According to businessmen, they were expecting the PSERC to accept their demand of reducing the power charges for industrial consumption but the commission preferred to ignore their demand. Meanwhile, some businessmen are also of the view that they have not studied the new tariff order in detail and exact repercussions on the industry will be clear thereafter. According to Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, “It is really very sad that inspite of knowing the condition of industry in the state in the wake of the lockdown, nothing has been done for the industrial consumers.” He added, “We were anticipating that the PSERC will take a sympathetic view of our problems, but our repeated requests for reducing the power tariff for industry have went unheard. As far as introduction of discounted night tariff for small power (SP) connections is concerned, it is not going to benefit even a single small scale factory as already due to lockdown factories are not even operating in the day time, then who will run production during night.” Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, said, “This tariff order is another eyewash as the government is patting its back by reducing a few paisa in domestic tariff, which is not going to make any difference, since already rates of domestic power are very high in Punjab as compared to other states.” “As far as industry is concerned this tariff order is highly disappointing for us as our demand of reduction in tariffs for industrial consumers has been overlooked by PSERC,” he further said. According to Nitin Sharma, senior member of the Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, “As of now, there is no clarity about the new tariff order issued by the PSERC, so it will be too early to comment on the exact implications of this on the industry. We will be in a better position to know everything only when the detailed analysis of this order is out, which will take one-two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/businessmen-a-disappointed-lot-after-psercs-new-tariff-order/articleshow/76184510.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||‘Telemedicine is new normal in healthcare, let’s accept it’||As Covid-19 outbreak began in India, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed telemedicine practice for doctors in the country. As we are moving towards a new normal, telemedicine is going to be a part of the new healthcare system, said Dr Amar Amale, interventional cardiologist at Arneja Heart Institute, while talking to TOI. According to him, people and doctors should accept it just the way we have accepted WhatsApp, video calls, Zoom and online payment options. Excerpts: Do you think more people will go for telemedicine now? Telemedicine is going to be a new normal. It’s an important part of modern healthcare and practised worldwide. Teleconsultation is offered by doctors in India since year 2000. But, in Covid-19 pandemic situation, this has received much-needed statutory basis and support. State medical councils revoked ban on teleconsultation. Now, it’s fully legal and very beneficial for patients as well as doctors. What are the benefits of telemedicine for patients? Telemedicine empowers patients to make decisions, therapeutic options and also teaches them self-care. For example, in chronic diseases like diabetes and asthma, patients visit doctors once in a 2 or 3 months, mostly to get advice on changes in the dosage of medication. Such visits can be easily skipped. Secondly, you can consult specialist doctors of your choice irrespective of city and state and get consultation on video calls and mobile applications. Thirdly, we have multiple platforms like text messages, voice messages, live streaming, e-mails, WhatsApp and medical apps too. Time has come to adopt this new digital healthcare system. There are apps available for telemedicine consultation. How good are they? We must be careful in selection of apps and go for the authentic ones. But, these applications are need of the hour now. Most urban patients keep digital thermometer, glucometer, pulse oxymeter and electronic blood pressure machine these days. If these devices are attached to a mobile application and doctor is consulting with you on the same, readings will directly go to the doctor and he can advise you the best treatment. Several apps have diagnostic centres attached with them. Your reports directly get shared with your doctor and you get the timely and best advice. Many telemedicine systems are involving smartphones to keep record of changing health parameters. Smartphone-based diaries are an elaborate, trendy and attractive way of providing immediate help to patients. Even your physical activities can be tracked. How difficult will it be for patients and doctors to accept this change? We have accepted many technological changes in last two decades. With changing times, we must learn to live with novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Going digital is a must to avoid crowd, traffic, waiting period at doctor’s place and risk of infection. Hospitals are always there for emergency and critical situation for sure. But, most of the times, digital consultation from home can be best option. It’s on its way to become a routine now. Doctors have already started adopting it. Now, patients should also get accustomed to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/telemedicine-is-new-normal-in-healthcare-lets-accept-it/articleshow/76185368.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 4, 2020||Hubballi||Heavy rain leaves highway waterlogged in Karwar||Karwar: For a second consecutive day, heavy showers lashed Uttara Kannada district on Wednesday, with Karwar alone recording 154mm rain. Several places across Uttara Kannada are being buffeted by gales, and heavy rain has been lashing most taluks – the outcome of the cyclone Nisarga. Although there have been no reports of property being damaged anywhere in the district, water gushed into several homes in Karwar town. The heavy rain that pounded the district left NH-66 waterlogged, leaving the road blocked for some time. The highway is being expanded at several taluks along the coast of Uttara Kannada. The extreme weather condition was a particularly bitter pill to swallow for the fishermen, who has been hoping to make the most of the extended deadline for fishing activity – the government extended the last date from May 31 to June 15. However, with the cyclone in full swing, venturing into the sea seemed a perilous exercise. The meteorology department has forecast heavy rain for two more days in the district. This, the officials said, will be followed by the onset of the monsoon in Uttara Kannada. Sources said that the seven fishermen who were on board the boat, which capsized off the Goa coast, had been rescued. In addition to Karwar, Honnavar (83.5mm), Kumta (54.5mm) and Ankola (53.6mm) all recorded heavy rain on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/heavy-rain-leaves-highway-waterlogged-in-karwar/articleshow/76183333.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Salem||DMK functionary among 3 killed in road accident||Salem: A DMK functionary and two women died in a road accident near Keeripatty on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as K Sivakumar, 45, of Keeripatty, and his wife Varalakshmi, 36 and their relative Shanthi, 35. Sivakumar was a DMK functionary. The trio including Sivakumar went to Thammampatty to purchase jewelleries in a car. Sivakumar was at the wheels. After purchasing jewelleries, the trio were returning when a MUV heading to Thammampatty from Attur dashed against the car near Keeripatty. “In the accident, Sivakumar and Shanthi died on the spot,” an officer from Malliyakarai police said. He said Varalakshmi died on the way to a hospital, where doctors confirmed that she was brought dead. Three occupants of the MUV sustained minor injuries. The Malliyakarai police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dmk-functionary-among-3-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/76185340.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cong neta Sananda’s kin faces FIR for not procuring cotton||Nagpur: Buldhana collector Suman Rawat Chandra has cracked down on influential Congress leader Dilipkumar Sananda, who was MLA from Khamgaon several times. Chandra had cancelled license of three bars belonging to Sananda family a few days ago and now has asked deputy district registrar of cooperative societies to lodge a police complaint against Dilipkumar’s brother Mukeshkumar for not buying cotton from farmers despite signing an agreement with Cotton Corporation of India (CCI). Interestingly, the complaints in this regard were lodged with the collector by Sananda’s political rival Khamgaon’s BJP MLA Akash Phundkar. Sananda wields considerable influence in Congress party. About 15 years ago, his father Gokulchand was in trouble for locking up farmers, who had not repaid their debts, in his house. The then chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh had come to his rescue. This fact was exposed by the local media and caused great embarrassment to Deshmukh. Bars were not allowed to sell liquor during the lockdown for weeks. Sananda had lodged a complaint with the collector that liquor was being sold illegally in Khamgaon town. On learning this, Phundkar lodged a complaint that three bars belonging to Sananda family were involved in this business. Chandra asked excise officials to investigate the matter. Based on their report, she cancelled the license of 15 bars including the three belonging to Sananda family. Sananda, however, managed to obtain a stay from excise commissioner. Eight ginning mills had signed agreements with CCI for buying cotton from farmers. Five of them started procurement when farmers started selling their produce. However, three mills — LR Ginning, Shakambhari Industries and Sugosa Ginning — refused to do so. Deputy registrar Mahendra Chavhan issued show-cause notices to the three owners. LR Ginning fell in line but the other two ignored the notice. Chandra then ordered Chavhan to lodge police complaints against Shakambhari owner Atul Dhanuka and Sugosa owner Mukeshkumar Sananda. The collector also ordered cancellation of the two mills’ agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-neta-sanandas-kin-faces-fir-for-not-procuring-cotton/articleshow/76184513.cms||Ashish Roy
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Children account for 15% of those infected in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Children below the age of 14 years account for about 15% of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, state government data shows. Until end of day on June 1, the state had reported 3,408 cases, of which 504 were children. There are 322 children (16%) among the 2,026 active cases, who are being treated at designated Covid-19 hospitals. Babies as young as four-months-old are among the infected children and while some have their parents and other family members, who are also infected, keeping them company in hospital, others are alone in isolation wards, battling homesickness and coping the best they can. The silver lining, though, said Dr Rajani MH, deputy director, mental health, health and family welfare department, is that paediatric cases are the easiest to counsel. “My team and I have spoken to several children,” Rajani said. “They are fine. They have been given toys like building blocks and caroms to play with. Children are far more resilient than adults.” Counselling sessions have revealed no significant stress say officials of the mental health section of the state health department. “They understand why they are in hospital,” Rajani said. “Initially there usually are issues like adjusting to the hospital, but later, with the support of family, they cope well. They remain in touch with family and friends over the phone. They have games, drawing sessions and film screenings to keep them engaged.” But Dr KS Sanjay, director, Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, where five infected children were treated in March-April, said separation from parents during isolation can impact children psycho-socially. “In all five cases that we had, the parents were also infected,” Sanjay said. “One parent, who was also infected, was allowed to stay with the child. We roped in other physicians to treat the adults. Yet, no matter how well a nurse or a caretaker looks after the child, they are no substitute parents. The presence of a parent is a huge comfort for a child. Recovery will obviously be faster if the mother is allowed to stay with an infected child.” If both parents are negative for the virus and if the child is below six years old, hospital protocol allows one of them to stay with the child in the isolation ward. “That’s allowed when the child has no acquaintance or other relatives who are positive along with him/her,” Rajani said. “In some cases, Covid-19 children have been taken care of by their uncles and aunts, who have tested positive when parents have tested negative.” In a case in Bengaluru, the mother of a four month-old baby boy, who tested positive after returning from Maharashtra recently, was allowed to stay with the child, although she was negative. The exemption was given considering the infected baby’s age, said doctors. To kill boredom while being housed in an isolation ward, a nine-year-old patient from Padarayanapura being treated at the trauma care centre at Victoria Hospital, has made three TikTok videos. “The boy tested positive, while his parents were not infected,” authorities at the trauma care centre said. “He had his elder sibling with him. As most children in our wards are asymptomatic, they have plenty of time to play. Some were even given phones by their families.” The boy, who was discharged recently, recorded short videos of him dancing and singing and put them up on the TikTok app. Although the hospital set-up was visible in the background, the videos revealed nothing about their Covid-19 settings. “The boy shared the videos with us before he was discharged. Unlike adults who look worried, irritated and even depressed during their hospital stay, children rarely complain,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/children-account-for-15-of-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka/articleshow/76184908.cms||Sunitha Rao R
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana police ‘promoting astrology’ on its Facebook page raises eyebrows||LUDHIANA: The radio talk show of Ludhiana DCP (headquarter) Akhil Chaudhary and Ajay Shahi ‘Know yourself through astrology during corona- a blend of vedic knowledge with new medical advancement’ has created a controversy on social media. Moreover, a city resident has also complained to DGP, Punjab, Dinkar Gupta against it via email. On Wednesday afternoon, Ludhiana police uploaded a post on its official Facebook page- ‘Know yourself through Astrology during corona’ on a private radio channel. It claimed it to be an initiative Ludhiana police and Astro Intelligence. However, as soon as city residents started objecting to it, the post was deleted from their official Facebook page. Bhavjit Singh uploaded a post, “Now, you can learn superstitious powers from Ludhiana police. Here you will get IPS ranked ‘tantrik’ also.” Amandeep Singh Bains, a resident of Dugri, posted on his FB account – “So you are going to give all credit of corona warrior’s success to these astrology logic? How can Punjab police official take part in such show in uniform in the middle of corona virus pandemic and then share it on official FB page of Ludhiana police.” He further said, “Belief in astrology can be a personal matter of any individual, but Punjab police supporting and promoting astrology is unacceptable. Now, when all corona warriors have fought for 70 days to defeat Covid-19, Ludhiana police thought of taking help of astrology, I can’t understand this.” Bains said he had also sent a complaint to DGP Punjab and chief minister Amrinder Singh too against it. The complaint states, “I would like to bring folly of Ludhiana Police to your notice that they are sharing superstitions things like astrology from their official pages. After all hard work of officials , this is a clear effort to give all credit to astrology .We are not concerned how an individual believes and they have every right, but Ludhiana police promoting astrology through there official Facebook page and then one senior police officer taking part in that is not in good taste. We really think you need to look into these things. A few days back a religious leader, Srisri Ravishankar, was promoted via this Facebook page of Ludhiana Police. Kindly get the needful done in the best interest of people and society.” Further Bains said, “I have listened to the talk show in which the astrologer was saying that a person should inhale alcohol through both nostrils and then corona positive patient cannot infect them. I called the show organisers and asked if there was a scientific proof of this, but the astrologer did not confirm. Suppose, if someone tries it at home, he could even die.” DCP Akhil Chaudhary said, “I was invited for the talk show and was told that I would have to answer questions of callers, which would be related to coronavirus and lockdown. I knew that there would be an astrologer too, however, that was a separate thing. I have talked about coronavirus and lockdown only and not about astrology. Moreover, we were made to wear headphone and we could not hear to the questions of each other. Ludhiana police has nothing to do with astrology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-police-promoting-astrology-on-its-fb-page-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/76184568.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 4, 2020||Nashik||60% drop in NMC’s water tax collection||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has registered a 60% drop in water tax collection in the first two months of the current financial year, collecting Rs 2.35 crore as against Rs 6 crore during the corresponding period last year. Civic officials have attributed the drop in water tax collection to the lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19. “People’s priorities have changed due to lockdown. They are now giving more priority to saving money as much as possible. Moreover, the lockdown has also resulted in many people facing financial crisis. This has overall led to a drop in water tax collection,” said NMC officials. The municipal corporation had introduced incentives of up to 5% for prompt property tax payers who pay annual tax in the first four months. As a result, property tax collection of the NMC in April-May increased marginally as compared to the corresponding period last year. However, the NMC did not introduce any incentive schemes for water tax collection. “We are working out the possibilities whether such incentives can be introduced. We will also submit a proposal in this regard to municipal commissioner,” said NMC sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-drop-in-nmcs-water-tax-collection/articleshow/76183379.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Maanja threads make a bloody comeback in city||Chennai: Kite-flying as lockdown hobby seems to have found quite a few takers in the city, but with the banned sport, maanja threads have made a bloodied comeback as well. Since the lockdown first began, the deadly thread has slit throats of at least 16 people, mostly ones walking or riding a bike, leaving them injured. Maanja is a thread coated with glass powder, used in competitive kite flying to cut off opponents’ kites. Despite kite flying and the killer maanja being banned in the city in 2015, their use continues. Police said people continue to fly kites despite warnings, seeing it as a way to pass time during lockdown. “Whenever a police patrol tracks kites, people cut off the maanja thread and escape. Such loose, dangling threads are extremely dangerous and fall on victims on bikes, cutting or sometimes killing them,” an officer explained. “Children sitting in front, on petrol tanks of bikes, are the victims quite often. Police have asked people to keep watch and report if they find anybody flying kites. “Most of the alert calls about kite flying are from neighbours of the culprits as they have realised how dangerous it can be,” said a senior police officer. The violators were juveniles in most of the raids and seizures made so far. Since they have people alerting them when they spot a police, we have started deploying police personnel in civvies to keep an eye on them, the officer said. In July 2017, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned the use of ‘Chinese’ kite strings, made of nylon or any synthetic material, which is non-biodegradable and had directed all state governments to prohibit manufacture, sale, storage, purchase and use of synthetic maanja or nylon threads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maanja-threads-make-a-bloody-comeback-in-city/articleshow/76184519.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Villager mowed down by mini truck, mob blocks NH in protest||Pilibhit: An angry mob of villagers blocked the Bareilly-Haridwar national highway 74 near Kalyanpur crossing under Jahanabad police station after a villager was mowed down by a mini truck on Wednesday morning. The mob overturned the mini truck and vandalized it. Police have lodged an FIR in the matter and have taken the driver into custody. The mob was dispersed only after sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Pilibhit city circle Avinash Chandra Maurya, his counterpart in Amaria circle Saurabh Dubey and the circle officer (CO) of Jahanbad circle Pramod Yadav intervened. In order to control the agitated mob, police force of four police stations were called on the spot. The deceased who was identified as 35-year-old Sohan Lal of Ramnagar village was on way to Amaria tehsil headquarters to buy bricks from a brick kiln when his bike was hit by the mini truck coming from the opposite direction. Station house officer (SHO) Harish Vardhan Singh said, “The driver was booked under sections 304 A (causing death by any rash or negligent act), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. The mini truck has been impounded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villager-mowed-down-by-mini-truck-mob-blocks-nh-in-protest/articleshow/76183370.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Unemployment rate in May 33.6% in Punjab, 35.7% in Haryana: CMIE data||CHANDIGARH: The unemployment rate in the agrarian state of Punjab rose to 33.6% in May, according to the report released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). This is much more than the national unemployment rate of 23.48% and the economists in Punjab have questioned the data. “Though 33.6% unemployment rate in Punjab in May is yet believable, 2.9% unemployment rate in April is highly implausible when there was complete curfew in the state (due to Covid-19) and the state police was strictly dealing with curfew violators,” said Satish Verma, professor of economics in Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (Crrid) in Chandigarh. According to CMIE data, Punjab’s unemployment rate was 11.1% in January, 11.0% in February, 10.3% in March. 2.9% in April and 33.6% in May. Questioning the sudden dip and then spike, professor Verma said, “When complete industry, hospitality sector and other commercial activities are closed, how can the unemployment rate be 2.9%?” He said the CMIE must reveal its source of data collection. Another professor at Crrid, A K Nanda also questioned the data collection in April amid curfew. “Though researchers and government also quote CMIE’s reports, but 2.9% unemployment rate in April is beyond belief. CMIE’s own report says even there is no such trend in the past,” he said. Punjab industries department records show that after complete closure in April, 13,671 industrial units had restarted operations across the state next month with around 3.87 lakh workers as on May 11. But on May 31, 2.07 lakh industries, out of the 2.59 lakh registered in Punjab, had restarted their operations with 13.65 lakh workers. Before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, around 20.29 lakh workers were on the rolls of the registered industrial units in Punjab. Similarly, out of over 17.78 lakh persons registered with the Punjab government to move out to their native states, over 5.41 lakh such people had moved in Shramik trains, buses and other vehicles from May 4 to May 30. Satish Arora, president of the hotel, restaurant and resorts association of Punjab, said 98% of the hospitality industry is still closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unemployment-rate-in-may-33-6-in-punjab-35-7-in-haryana-cmie-data/articleshow/76185347.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Migrants not leaving after opening sectors’||CHANDIGARH: If Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is to be believed, migrants have dropped the idea of returning to their native states after the opening of various sectors. According to him, the state sent back around 3.26 lakh migrants to their native places till Monday and now around two lakh have dropped the idea of leaving. Khattar has also claimed that those who left due to lockdown have “changed their mind” and are now willing to come back and join industrial sector. “Our idea was that around seven lakh migrants may be sent back to their native states. Around 3.26 lakh of them have already been sent through 96 trains and around 5,500 buses. I have come to know that around 1.5 lakh have left on their own. The remaining, around two lakh, have apparently dropped the idea of going back after finding employment opportunities in the state,” Khattar claimed. While interacting with media persons on Tuesday afternoon, the chief minister said that he had been informed by the people in industrial sector that several migrants were willing to come back and “have requested me to make arrangements of their return”. “We have verified information that after the opening of industry and availability of employment opportunities in the state, around two lakh migrant workers who intended to go have decided to stay back. As the train services have already started from June, those who had left can come back on their own. We will try to provide them all kind of help on their return to Haryana,” Khattar added in his digital interaction. Haryana has spent around Rs 10 crore in sending the migrants back to their native places during lockdown. Meanwhile, Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the leading business information company, has reported a declining trend in Haryana’s unemployment rate, which saw a massive increase in loss of jobs in the state in April. The unemployment rate dropped from 43.2% in April to 35.7% in May. The state government officials as well as those running industries in the state have credited the opening of lockdown in the first week of May as the main reason behind dip in unemployment rate. Haryana’s unemployment rate was 18.3% in May 2019 and 15.2% in May 2018. Immediately before Covid-19 lockdown, the unemployment rate was 25.8% in February 2020 and 25.1% in March. In April, it rose to 43.2% in April after the closure of almost every sector due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/migrants-not-going-back-after-opening-of-sectors-khattar/articleshow/76185353.cms||Ajay Sura
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Youth commits suicide after killing sister-in-law in Budaun||Bareilly: A youth allegedly shot dead his sister-in-law and then committed suicide by hanging himself in Atarpura village under Bisauli police station of Budaun late on Tuesday night. Police said the youth killed the woman over some family dispute.According to police, 27-year-old Rahul shot dead his elder brother’s wife Hirakali (30) around 11.30 pm on Tuesday and then committed suicide by hanging himself. On receiving information, police reached the spot and sent the bodies for postmortem.Budaun senior superintendent of police Ashok Kumar, said, “The initial investigation suggests that Rahul’s marriage was scheduled on June 1, but it was cancelled due to some reason. As Rahul suspected that his marriage was called off due to the intervention of his sister-in-law, he shot her dead in a fit of rage and then committed suicide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-commits-suicide-after-killing-sister-in-law-in-budaun/articleshow/76183382.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Constable recovering from knee surgery helps squad detect Rs18L dacoity||Nagpur: Crime branch constable Pravin Rode, having undergone a surgery in left knee, was resting at home on the surgeon’s advice. Then, his special expertise in marathon CCTV footage viewing and analysing got him dragged back to office after the Rs18.31 lakh dacoity case at Civil Lines on June 1. Rode sat for more than nine-and-a-half hours in front of the CCTV footage, and found the clues to catch the criminals. The case was cracked within 10 hours with Rode’s CCTV ‘clue-finding’ skills, and the squad got a reward of Rs1 lakh too from CP BK Upadhyay. Four persons, including Yogesh Satramwar, who gave the tip, his cousin Mangesh Padamgirwar, dreaded goon Akash Dhoye, Suman Nandeshwar and Nikhil Gokhale, were arrested within a couple of hours. The cops also seized cash Rs6.36 lakh from them. More arrests are expected. Sub-inspector Mayur Chaurasia, in-charge of the crime branch’s ‘anti-vehicle theft squad’, along with sub-inspector Rajkumar Tripathi, was engaged in the probe to crack the case when he requested constable Rode to help. Rode, despite being on sick leave and his knee still recovering, agreed to take up the challenge. Chaurasia, who worked under the supervision of Addl CP Nilesh Bharne, DCP Gajanan Rajmane and ACP Sudhir Nandanwar, helped Rode reach the Control and Command (COC) centre to view the footages on a colleague’s bike. “Everyone was viewing the CCTV footage from the spot of the crime and trying to trace the fleeing culprits in the frames. Chaurasia’s team had started to scan the footage from where the criminals had begun chasing the persons carrying cash,” said an officer closely associated with the probe. Chaurasia’s team had already collected the details of the employees of the logistics company engaged in ferrying cash from the LIC office at Shankar Nagar to the bank at Civil Lines. Many of them were suspects. Rode was closely monitoring the CCTV footage at Shankar Nagar when he spotted two suspects waving and gesturing at each other soon after the victims, Shrikant Ingle and Satish Dhande, left the LIC office with cash. He tried to note down the number of their bike. It took him some time to scan through several footage of CCTVs at various locations to note down the number of the ‘black Splendour’. With the help of the RTO, the owner of the bike was traced to Kushba village near Kuhi. He said Satramwar, who worked at the same logistics company, had borrowed his bike for a day as his bike had been seized by traffic cops. Satramwar was rounded up and revealed not only his involvement but also details about all the others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/constable-recovering-from-knee-surgery-helps-squad-detect-rs18l-dacoity/articleshow/76184555.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 4, 2020||Mysuru||Missing bullets: Station staff suspended in Mysuru||MYSURU: Three days after an FIR was filed, Mysuru police have placed T Narasipura police station writer Krishnegowda under suspension in connection with the missing bullets case. A total of 50 bullets of .303 rifles from T Narasipura police station have gone missing. It came to light during a recent inspection by a senior cop attached to District Armed Reserve on May 23. The bullets going missing had raised the eyebrows of officers concerned. SP uperintendent of Police CB Ryshyanth told TOI that as writer Krishnegowda was in possession of keys of the ammunition room at the station has been held responsible for the bullets going missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/missing-bullets-station-staff-suspended/articleshow/76183375.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government to cap treatment cost for Covid-19 in private hospitals||CHENNAI: In a move to prevent profiteering by private hospitals, the state health department is planning to cap inpatient treatment cost for Covid-19 patients at Rs 7,500 to Rs 22,500 a day by invoking provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Hospitals found overcharging patients will face action including closure, health minister C Vijayabaskar said. At a meeting chaired on Wednesday by the minister in which senior officials including health secretary Beela Rajesh took part, it was decided that Rs 7,500 will be the maximum charge a day for treatment at general wards of private hospitals that offer tertiary care, Rs 15,000 for ICU care in such hospitals and Rs 22,500 in cases where life-saving equipment such as ventilators are used. “We are planning to make this an all-inclusive (rate). Hospitals can fix any rate below this amount,” the minister said. “If patients, however, want to get themselves admitted to deluxe rooms or suits, charges will be separate,” he said. According to officials, if patients require expensive drugs for treatment of comorbidities and other complications, hospitals may charge them. The state government, he said, wanted to ensure hospitals continue treatment without facing losses. “We want all doctors and health staff to wear protective gear while attending to patients,” he said. Earlier this week, after some reports said some private hospitals were collecting up to Rs 3 lakh as advance from families even before admitting Covid-19 patients, Vijayabaskar said the state had received complaints about some hospitals fleecing patients. He said the state will soon cap prices for both testing and treatment. Two days ago, after discussions with private laboratories over videoconference, he said the cost for RT-PCR test will be reduced by at least Rs 1,500 in the state. Currently, labs are permitted to charge up to Rs 4,500 for the test. “We told them that they would be required to do more tests in the coming months and hence they should not charge more than Rs 3,000. If labs are doing home tests, they can charge Rs 500 more,” he said. Senior health officials said the state will soon issue a formal order. While testing and treatment for the infection is free in government hospitals, CM’s health insurance scheme beneficiaries can use their cashless card at all empanelled hospitals for treatment. “Action, including closure of establishments, will be initiated against hospitals and labs in case of violation. There should be no profiteering during a pandemic,” Vijayabaskar said. Private hospitals and doctors’ bodies including the IMA have urged the state government to ensure supply of PPEs and testing kits for private hospitals at government rate. “The biggest component of medical bills are these kits,” they said. The state is also working on a dashboard to publicise details on number of patients being treated at government and public hospitals and number of beds and cost of treatment at each hospital. “The numbers on the board will be dynamic and will be changed on a real-time basis. This will help people make informed choices,” a senior health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-to-cap-treatment-cost-for-covid-19-in-private-hosps/articleshow/76185355.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 4, 2020||Agra||Agra dist's Covid tally now 924 with eight new cases, two die in Meerut||Agra/Meerut/Firozabad/Etah/BIJNOR: A 62-year-old pneumonia patient, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died while being treated at SN Medical College in Agra on Wednesday. As of now, 45 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Agra district. Notably, the number of cases in this west UP's Covid "hotspot" is now closing in on the 1,000 mark. In Meerut, the west UP's other major Covid "hotspot", at least 16 cases were reported on Wednesday with, importantly, two cases of deaths. While the total tally reached 474 which included one found in Kanpur, the death toll is now 30. Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raj Kumar said, "Two people died in Meerut on Wednesday. They included a 60-year-old from Brahmpuri and a 79-year-old former military staff from the Military Hospital." Meerut's district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, "The positive cases were reported from Brahmpuri, Jagriti Vihar, Gandhi Nagar (Delhi), Chappel Street, Azrada block (Kharkhauda), Baghpt Gate, Purva Ilahi Baksh, Shastri Nagar L Block, Purva Mahavir (Delhi Road), Jasora village - currently lodged in temporary jail, Laliyana, and a few other locations." In Agra, at least eight fresh cases surfaced till Wednesday evening, taking the district's tally to 924. Three patients of SARI admitted at SN Medical College, a patient suffering from chest pain at a private hospital, a kidney patient and a student were among the fresh cases - with at least four of them above the age of 60. The new cases belong to Shahganj, Tedi Bagiya, Lohamandi, Rasoolpura, Nagla Padi and Guru Ka Taal locality. Also, three Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Of the 924 cases, 87.26 per cent have recovered. There are now 73 active cases in the district. In Firozabad, a 60-year-old woman councillor died on Wednesday. She had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night. Firozabad's Covid toll - following her death - rose to 14. The district also reported seven new cases which included a CMO office staff. The individual is a resident of Labour colony under Linepar police limits. The district tally is now 295. In neighbouring Etah district, seven people were diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday, taking the tally to 40. While in Bijnor, two more tested positive, taking the tally to 116. Of them, 52 are active ones. Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav said the patients belong to Kaziwala village and Mandawar town. The resident of Kaziwala had recently returned from Kuwait and was quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dists-covid-tally-now-924-with-eight-new-cases-two-die-in-meerut/articleshow/76183384.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Amritsar||Pb govt docs wear black badges to oppose fee hike in medical education||Bathinda: Members of Punjab Civil Medical Services Association (PCMSA), a body of government doctors, on Wednesday wore black badges to oppose the state government’s move to hike fee for medical education. Punjab paramedical and health workers’ union supported the protests. In some places, PCMSA members also gathered briely together with placards to denounce the hike. The protests were held in Moga, Bathinda, Mansa, Sangrur, Barnala, Mukatsar, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur and Patiala. In Moga, PCMSA state president Dr Gagandeep Singh said, "The government has hiked medical education fee by 77%. The fee for MBBS course was earlier Rs 4.4 lakh, but it has been hiked to Rs 7.8 lakh. The fee is almost impossible for poor and middle class families to pay,” he said. PCMSA general secretary Dr Manohar Singh and senior vice-president Dr Gagandeep Singh Shergill said medical services and education were the government’s duty, but it was looking for profit in it, which is not the rule of a welfare state. The government must take back the decision.” he said. Tapa SMO Dr Jasbir Aulakh pointed out that after the hike, medical education in Punjab will be the most expensive in the country. “Even Supreme Court had ruled in the past that only 15% hike should be enforced after three years,” he said. He said the move seemed to benefit private colleges and this would impact meritorious students. “Those who will have their names in the merit will not be able to afford the education, while those having money will become doctors,” added Shergill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-govt-docs-wear-black-badges-to-oppose-fee-hike-in-medical-education/articleshow/76185359.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 infection rate is slowest in MP: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the pace of Corona infection in Madhya Pradesh is slowest in the country. The doubling rate of Corona in the state is 31 days while the recovery rate is constantly increasing and has become 63.4%. He said there is a constant decline in active Covid-19 cases in the state. Chouhan was reviewing the situation of Corona and arrangements through video conferencing at Mantralaya on Wednesday. While reviewing Gwalior district, it was found that the district has all the best arrangements and the condition of all active patients is good. But, fresh cases of Corona have also been found first time in Gwalior city. Chouhan directed to take all precautions there as the cases will not take time to jump. It was found in the review of Neemuch district that 127 cases of Corona have been reported in the district in the last 7 days, which constitute maximum number from Jawad. Instructions were given to expand surveillance and sampling in the district. The chief minister instructed that special attention should be paid to Neemuch and Jawad and work should be carried out with utmost seriousness there. During the review of Sagar district, Chouhan asked to make better arrangement for treatment and sanitation at Sagar Medical College. He directed that a team of specialist doctors should be dispatched immediately to Sagar and to provide the high flow oxygen machine there. Chouhan lauded the services rendered by the Madhya Pradesh Police in this hour of Corona crisis saying it was highly commendable. Excellent work has been carried out by police in adverse condition. Chouhan appreciated DGP Vivek Johri and entire police force for their excellent work. ACS health Mohammad Suleman informed that the high flow oxygen machine is very effective in treatment of corona. Five to 10 litre oxygen can be given in one day by normal machine, whereas 60 litre oxygen can be given by the high flow oxygen machine to patients in a day. This machine will be made available soon to all the district hospitals and other Covid hospitals. Health minister Narottam Mishra, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri, and principal secretary Sanjay Shukla were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-infection-rate-is-slowest-in-mp-chouhan/articleshow/76185372.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh sets up panel to look into purchase of ventilators||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh government has constituted a high-level committee to probe charges of irregularities in the purchase of ventilators by the health department, said a senior official on Wednesday. The four-member panel has been asked to submit its report in 10 days. The committee, headed by industries director and controller of stores, was formed on Tuesday, with the medical education director, principal of Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital, Shimla and the deputy controller - finance and accounts, directorate of medical education, as its members. Additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said the director, health services has stated that these ventilators were purchased to strengthen the health infrastructure in the wake of Covide-19 pandemic outbreak. On March 28, a committee was constituted under the chairmanship of deputy director, health services to suggest technical specifications for the ventilators, and on the basis of recommendations, the ventilators were purchased, he said. The committee also checked price on the central government’s GeM portal for public procurements and studied the process of purchase of ventilators adopted by other states. It was observed that the Odisha Medical Supplies Corporation, an enterprise of Odisha government, had purchased 20 joint ventilators on March 20 for Rs 1.83 crore, excluding GST. The committee, therefore, recommended the purchase of ventilators costing Rs 9.9 lakh, as it met all the required technical specifications. Seven of the 10 ventilators were received by the department on April 15 and sent to health institutions immediately. The health services director had in his report informed that the Haryana Medical Supplies Corporation had purchased the above-mentioned ventilators on April 16 and the amount spent on each ventilator was Rs 10.29 lakh — nearly the amount spent on purchase of entire lot by the directorate of health services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-purchase-of-ventilators/articleshow/76185364.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nashik||Shops in Nashik city allowed to open on odd-even basis from June 5||Nashik: Shops in Nashik city will resume operations from June 5 on odd-even basis, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game stated in a circular issued on Wednesday.According to the circular, shops on both sides of roads will operate on alternate days. The circular is drafted in co-ordination with the guidelines issued by the state government. Therefore, all standalone shops, except malls and commercial complexes, across the city are given permission to resume operations with certain conditions. The circular states that shops will be opened on the lines of the parking style of the traffic department i.e. parking-I (P1) and parking-II (P2) basis. Shops on one side of the road will operate on odd days while those on the other side will operate on even days. Though the new pattern of operating shops is in place, there are some market areas in the city where P1 and P2 style is not followed. In the circular, Game also stated that the divisional officers of the respective areas will take a call about opening of shops on odd-even basis. Shops in the city have been permitted to operate from 9am to 5pm. In addition, shop owners/operators have been asked to ensure social distancing in and outside their shops besides wearing face masks. They have also been encouraged to keep hand sanitisers in their shops to ensure better safety to curb the spread of Covid-19.As part of precautionary measures, trials rooms inside garment shops will not be allowed to operate, the circular adds“We want the government to allow shops on both sides of roads so that the crowd is not concentrated at one place. Allowing shops on one side of road on even and odd day will only lead to crowding at the shops. Hence, all shops should be allowed to open in a blanket manner across the city,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president of the Nashik Jewellers’ Association.Meanwhile, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allowed opening of jogging tracks and gardens in the city with certain conditions. These places will be allowed to operate from 5am to 7pm. However, pregnant women and senior citizens aged 65 and above with health conditions as well as children below 10 years of age are not allowed at jogging tracks and gardens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shops-in-nashik-city-allowed-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-from-june-5/articleshow/76183432.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Eye & dental clinics begin operations after West Bengal approval||KOLKATA: Doctors specialized in eye and dental care are at a higher risk of getting infected by Covid-19 while attending patients or conducting a surgical procedure. But with the West Bengal government recently issuing guidelines on safety measures, eye and dental hospitals have started OPD services. Elective surgeries, too, have started picking up but in limited numbers. “Some dental surgical procedures are highly aerosol-generating. This raises the risk of infecting the surgeon and attendants in the OT room. Baring such procedures all services have been opened and doctors are taking precautionary measures as per the government guidelines,” said Raju Biswas, secretary of Indian Dental Association, attached with R Ahmed Dental College, Kolkata. The only dental college in the city that would see a daily OPD footfall of over 1,000 currently has about 200 patients. All patients are screened for symptoms before they proceed with the treatment. The chain of eye hospitals also started elective surgical procedures on May 10, but as patients are few, the number of surgical procedures is only about 5% of what used to be before the lockdown. “During contact procedures like a laser treatment or putting a lens, the doctor need to touch the retina. Therefore sterilizing the eye before the procedure, sanitizing the contact instruments, etc are among the measures we are implementing in order to minimize the chance of infection,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, chairman and managing director at Disha Eye Hospitals. “During the lockdown, we carried out emergency procedures. Now, all our branches are open for OPD services and elective surgeries. There is a steady rise in the OPD footfall, which is about 25% of the normal. All precautions are being taken up according to government guidelines,” said Bhattacharya. The guidelines also advise to avoid aerosol generating procedures. Hence, dental surgeons are not taking up procedures like root canal treatment, crown cutting and ultrasonic scaling, for now. “These are procedures that release aerosol and pathogens. Thus, there is a risk of infection if the patient is asymptomatic for Covid. We are carrying out other dental treatment wearing personal protection equipment,” said Tirthankar Debnath, assistant professor at R Ahmed Dental College. Although patients are asked to wear a mask while visiting a doctor in the OPD of a hospital or a clinic, one in need of dental care cannot be examined with the mask on. “There is risk in all kinds of medical care right now. But then we need to live with this pandemic for some time. Therefore, it is better to gear up and start attending to patients by taking precautions,” said a source at Regional Institute of Ophthalmology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eye-dental-clinics-begin-ops-after-state-approval/articleshow/76185366.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Finally, Yavatmal and Chandrapur get Covid labs||Chandrapur/Yavatmal: In a major boost to the fight against Covid-19, Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Chandrapur and Yavatmal were approved on Wednesday. While the lab at Yavatmal has started testing Covid samples from Wednesday itself, the Chandrapur lab will become operational on Thursday. The lab at Yavatmal was inaugurated on Wednesday by district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod. Now, only Bhandara, Buldhana and Gadchiroli districts in the region are without the Covid testing lab as these districts do not have medical college. The lab at Gondia has been approved and it is expected to be functional in a day or two. Chandrapur GMCH dean Dr SS Morey said trial tests on newly-installed RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) machine were carried out in the last two days and All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Nagpur has formally granted approval to start the testing. The RT-PCR machine imported from Singapore can perform around 200 tests per day. However, as per the instructions of the supplier company, initially around 50 tests would be carried out for next few days and later the machine would be put to its full capacity functioning, said Dr Morey. Earlier, Chandrapur GMCH had installed CBNAAT (cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test) machine at the laboratory to carry out antigen-based test for Covid-19 during the second week of May. Complying with the government orders, the RT-PCR machine meant for Chandrapur was handed over to Jalgaon Covid-19 lab in the third week of May owing to higher coronavirus contagion there. Health department has now handed over the RT-PCR machine supplied to Nanded laboratory to Chandrapur. For Yavatmal lab, equipments were brought from Singapore for which the minister had sanctioned Rs3.50 crore. The order for the procurement was placed through Pune-based Haffkine Institute headed by Dr Rajesh Deshmukh, who had earlier worked as Yavatmal collector. The lab can test 125-150 swab samples daily apart from testing other epidemic diseases like HIV, chikungunya, dengue etc. The lab is under the microbiology department and the concerned staffers, including doctors, have already been trained at AIIMS Nagpur. Addressing a small gathering at the GMCH Yavatmal, the minister said that with the commissioning of the lab here, the city will not have to depend on other labs for getting test reports. The lab is under the microbiology department and the concerned staffers, including doctors, have already been trained at AIIMS Nagpur. Dean Dr RP Singh delivered introductory remarks while the HoD of microbiology Dr Gujar proposed the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finally-yavatmal-and-chandrapur-get-covid-labs/articleshow/76184580.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 4, 2020||Bareilly||Youth thrashed by girlfriend’s dad, brother in Sambhal; dies in hospital||Bareilly: A 28-year-old man was allegedly beaten up badly and left for dead by the father and brother of his “girlfriend” after the couple was caught in the girl’s house in Sambhal on Monday night. Victim Avnish Singh died on Tueday morning at a community health centre. In his statement to police minutes before his death, Avnish said he was thrashed by his girlfriend’s father and brother and then dumped him on the roadside assuming that he was dead, said police. The girl’s father has been arrested but her brother is on the run, police said. Avnish’s father, Makhan Singh, a resident of Bilari, in Moradabad, told police that his son used to work as a DJ at wedding functions, and had on Monday gone to visit his maternal aunt who lives in Narauli village of Sambhal district. The next morning, a villager saw an injured youth lying on the roadside and informed the police. Area circle officer of Bilar, Mahendra Kumar Shukla, said a police team immediately rushed to the spot and took the grievously injured youth to the nearby community health centre. In his statement to police, the youth said he was brutally beaten up by Khempal and Kapil and then dumped him on the roadside after assuming that he was dead. Soon after recording his statement, Avnish succumbed to the injuries on Tuesday morning. During investigation police learnt that Avnish had reached Khempal’s house on Monday night to meet his girlfriend. Soon, the couple was caught and beaten up badly by the girl’s father and brother. Police said the girl was taken to hospital for medical examination. An FIR under section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered following a complaint by the victim’s father, said station house officer Gajendra Tyagi. end||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-thrashed-by-girlfriends-dad-brother-in-sambhal-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/76183407.cms||Pankul Sharma
June 4, 2020||Chennai||Karunanidhi’s 96th birth anniv is a low-key affair||Chennai: Lockdown curbs made DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi’s 96th birth anniversary a low-key affair with partymen across Tamil Nadu paying homage to the late leader with garlands and flowers. In Chennai, DMK president M K Stalin along with senior party leaders S Durai Murugan, T R Baalu, Kanimozhi and others paid homage to Karunanidhi at the late leader’s memorial on the Marina. The memorial was decorated with flowers early on Wednesday morning. Later, Stalin and other leaders paid homage to the leader’s statue at Murasoli office and the Gopalapuram residence of the former leader. In a video message, Stalin paid tributes to his father and pledged to strive for the progress of Tamil Nadu, abiding by Kalaignar’s principles and wisdom. Stalin recalled the legacy left behind by Karunanidhi. “Kalaignar’s physical presence might not be around but he continues to remain in the minds of the people of Tamil Nadu. Considering himself as one with the people and the DMK, he led Tamil Nadu on a path of development that has become an example for India,” said Stalin. He also recalled how various national and Tamil Nadu leaders in the past had praised Karunanidhi. At Karunanidhi memorial, Stalin conducted a self-respect marriage for a couple. The day also saw party functionaries providing relief to poor people across the state. They offered food, besides distributing rice, vegetables and other essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/karunanidhis-96th-birth-anniv-is-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/76184563.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Was punished already, says court staffer||A total of five charges have been framed against the judicial employee — uploading videos on social media, making statements against judiciary and judges, concocting stories of corruption, bribery and nepotism prevailing in judiciary, scandalising the judicial system and discouraging public from getting justice from the court of law. The will now be heard on September 24. In this case, the contempt proceedings were moved against Harmeet Singh, pursuant to a reference by the district and sessions judge, Ludhiana, wherein the respondent joined the sessions division, Ludhiana in March 2009 as clerk. Due to administrative convenience, he was posted at Jagraon but he kept on pressurizing the competent authority for transferring him back to Ludhiana. Later, he submitted an application for his posting as clerk to the deputy commissioner, Pathankot, through the district and sessions judge, Ludhiana, being his parent department. Thereafter, he started filing applications under the Right to Information Act, as also frivolous complaints, for venting his ire against the district and sessions judge and other judicial officers of the sessions division, Ludhiana. Besides, he opened an YouTube account titled 'Ugly Face of Judiciary', where he openly criticised the judicial system. Harmeet, however, has been arguing that he has already been punished by ordering the stopping of four increments, for which an appeal is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/was-punished-already-says-court-staffer/articleshow/76185373.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Finally, construction of RCC road for focal points gets under way||Ludhiana: In what can be considered good news for hundreds of businessmen having their factories in focal points, which are the designated industrial areas in the city, the work of construction of RCC roads in Focal Point, Phase VI and VIII got started on Tuesday. The work was inaugurated by the chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) Gurpreet Gogi. A huge number of businessmen and other office-bearers of various boards, including Pawan Dewan, chairman of Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, and K K Bawa, chairman, Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation, were also present on this occasion. Rs 40 crore had been llotted by the state government for the construction of 21km of roads in focal points. Giving more information Upkar, Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “CICU is the only organisation, which has been following up the matter of development of Focal Point’s infrastructure for a very long time with the state and central government by regularly sending memorandums and requests. Various meetings too have been organised with the officials regarding this matter. Finally, all our efforts have paid off and now our dreams have come true of having good infrastructure in the focal points, at least in terms of roads.” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “We are thankful to chief minister Amarinder Singh and industry minister Sham Sunder Arora for granting Rs 40 crore for development of the focal point roads. PSIEC chairman Gurpreet Gogi too has done a commendable job by pursuing this matter constantly for the past few months and succeeding in getting the work of roads started in the focal point areas.” Meanwhile, Gogi, Pawan Dewan, and K K Bawa congratulated the businessmen and said that after the work of roads of the focal points, work on other infrastructure like streetlights and parks too will start soon and all pending problems of businessmen will be solved. Prominent businessmen, including OP Bassi, Rajnish Ahuja, Anil Bedi and Rajiv Sharma were also present on this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/finally-construction-of-rcc-road-for-focal-points-gets-under-way/articleshow/76184583.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: First clinic to offer post-Covid care comes up at ID Hospital||KOLKATA: The Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General (IB&BG) Hospital has come up with a special clinic to tend to patients who have been discharged after treatment for Covid-19 infection. Perhaps the first such specialized clinic in the country, the post Covid follow-up clinic was thrown open to patients on Wednesday at the state’s nodal hospital for Covid-19. “This clinic is not meant for only Covid patients who received treatment at our hospital. Any patient, irrespective of the hospital that treated him/her, is welcome to the clinic in case s/he experiences any medical problem or mental issue,” Anima Haldar, principal ID&BG Hospital.  This clinic will be operational once a week (Wednesday), for now. The first patient who attended the clinic on the day of opening was a young nurse attached to a government hospital in the city. The nurse had undergone treatment at ID & BG but was being stigmatized not only in the locality but also by close relatives. Doctors said the nurse’s problem pertained mostly to mental stress. She developed depression because she was being ostracized. She was thoroughly counselled and advised regular follow-ups. “The idea is to give medical as well as counselling support, if required, because many of those who have been cured, continue to be stigmatized,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, assistant professor of community medicine, who is also in charge of the clinic. The hospital’s Covid team will also be a part of the clinic. Doctors said that the change in the discharge policy is allowing patients with mild or moderate symptoms to go home after 10 days of symptoms’ onset without Covid negative confirmatory tests if they do not have fever for previous three days. But these patients need to be in home isolation for about a week. They also need to follow up after that. “Some of these patients might develop health conditions that may not be related to Covid-19 infection. But due to the stigma of having been infected earlier, they face problems while seeking treatment. We have come across discharged patients neglecting conditions like hypertension or diabetes because of the same issue. Our clinic will help them,” said Bandopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-clinic-to-offer-post-covid-care-comes-up-at-id-hosp/articleshow/76185362.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: St Xavier’s University to resume on September 1||KOLKATA: St Xavier’s University, Kolkata, has become the first education institute to draw up comprehensive guidelines on the requirements for students to return to campus. It has also decided to commence the first-year undergraduate and post-graduate programmes from September 1. Each class in the UG and PG departments will be divided into batches of 25 students that would be brought on campus on alternate days. “The academic year will begin with classroom interactions. Students will be taught online on the days they are away from campus. Thus, no syllabus will be missed,” said vice-chancellor Fr Felix Raj. He added that only one student will be allowed on one bench. In the first semester, the university has decided to hold 25%-30% of classes online. The university will begin accepting online applications in August. “In a vice-chancellors’ meet last week, we agreed that uncertainty should not plague the students. Thus, we planned to hold the terminal semester examinations in both UG and PG programmes and to resume studies from September 1,” Raj said. The university will conduct admission tests for two UG and all PG courses. “Instead of holding simultaneous exams on the same day, we will allow 200 students on the campus during admission tests for one subject at a time,” the VC added. The university runs 14 UG and PG courses along with an MBA programme. While the UGC has already suggested beginning the the first-year programme from September, none of the universities in Bengal are eager to open campuses, fearing the pandemic. “We are aware of the UGC recommendations. But, we shall wait for a directive from the state. We do not want to get into any trouble or get blamed in case any student contracts the disease,” said a senior state university official. A private university’s VC said classes will commence for their first-year students in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/st-xaviers-univ-to-resume-on-sept-1/articleshow/76185370.cms||Somdatta Basu
June 4, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh hoteliers in no rush to resume operations||MANALI: Even as the Himachal Pradesh government has allowed opening of hotels and restaurants from June 8, the hoteliers of state say they will prefer to stay closed until the government comes out with a uniform tourism protocol and there is clarity on action if a tourist tests Covid-19 at one of their units. During a virtual meeting with the tourism department officials on Wednesday, the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association (Fohra) said they would first want the government to ensure uniformity in tourism-related rules across the country. The hoteliers also wanted to know the government’s action if a tourist is found positive for Covid-19 and also how the government would ensure multi-level sanitisation of tourists and their vehicles. Fohra state convener Budhi Parkash said a lot of things need to be discussed and sorted out before resuming the tourism and hospitality sector operations. “Himachal gets tourists from all states of the country. Better coordination among states and uniform tourism rules are a necessity. We have urged the government to think on it. We are open to discussions. When a set of rules is in place across the nation, we can proceed without hesitation,” he said. The hoteliers also want the government to set up a mechanism to sanitise incoming tourists and vehicles multiple times at the borders of each district. They also said that tourists should be medically examined by a government agency and the government should take responsibility of the tourists who later test positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-hoteliers-in-no-rush-to-resume-operations/articleshow/76185378.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||RTI activist for probe into MC building branch working||Ludhiana: A city-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal has raised the demand for a vigilance inquiry in the functioning of the building branch of Ludhiana civic body to check the difference between the new electricity connections released by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and new building plans/challans issued by the civic body. On Wednesday, he wrote a letter to chief secretary of the state government in which he mentioned that due to alleged corrupt practices among the building branch officials the civic body was suffering losses. He demanded action against erring officials. In his letter, he mentioned that from April 1, 2019, to May 31, 2020, the number of building plans approved and challans issued for violations was very less. But as compared to this, a large number of electricity connections have been released by the power department during this time period. He said new connections were issued against new construction work and similarly new building plan was approved for new construction work. He added that there was hardly any coordination between both departments and this was affecting the public exchequer. Sabharwal further claimed that if these new constructions got their maps approved from the competent authority and the requisite number of challans had been issued by officials then a large amount would have been credited in the public exchequer. He demanded vigilance inquiry into the aforesaid matter so that facts might come out in light. Also data should be collected from all offices of power department about new connections and then those should be compared with new building plans or challans, he said and added that suitable action should be taken against the responsible officials after completion of inquiry. Recently, building branch officials had faced the wrath of sub-committee members in the meeting on June 2 for imposing the change of land use and external development charges on their own and showing carelessness towards their duty. Now, this will create another problem for the building branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rti-activist-for-probe-into-mc-building-branch-working/articleshow/76184589.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC to sign MoU to outsource 700 sanitation workers in city||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a private agency in a few days to outsource 700 sanitary workers to maintain cleanliness in the cityThe NMC has finalised the agency through the tender process and it may get the workforce from the agency within a month. “We will sign a MoU with the private agency in a day or two for the outsourcing of sanitary workers. We have revised the draft of agreement adding some new points related to Covid-19 and swachh survekshan as per the directive by the municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game,” said NMC officials.We will immediately give the work order to the agency once the MoU is signed, said officials. The total length of the roads in the limits of the municipal corporation is around 2,500 km. Accordingly, the city needs a total of 2,500 sanitation workers to maintain cleanliness.But there are only 1,800 sanitation employees working at present with the municipal corporation. As no recruitment has taken place in the past due to lack of permission by the state government on the ground of high administrative expenses of the municipal corporation. There is still requirement of 700 sanitation employees to maintain cleanliness in the city. Hence, NMC had decided to outsource these required staff of sanitation through a private agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-sign-mou-to-outsource-700-sanitation-workers-in-city/articleshow/76183445.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb extension to around 2.2k schools||Chandigarh: Giving relief to associated schools in the state, Punjab government on Wednesday provided extension to around 2,200 such schools for the 2020-21 academic session. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said that after reviewing the situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the department decided to give them a breather for a limited period of time. He added chief minister Amarinder Singh has approved the proposal. “Though the extension has been given till March 31, 2021, associated schools will have to give an undertaking to the education department till December 31, 2020 about improvements in infrastructure,” Singla said. The situation will be reviewed again after December 31 and schools failing to meet the criteria will be allowed to continue only pre-primary classes. He also directed the officials to check associated schools in their jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-extension-to-around-2-2k-schools/articleshow/76185376.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Following HC rap, Uttarakhand government releases funds to districts for rural quarantine centres||DEHRADUN: A day after Uttarakhand high court (HC) called the quarantine centres established at the village level ‘worst of the lot’, their state ‘pitiable’ and the hygiene condition ‘extremely poor,” and directed authorities concerned to disburse funds to gram pradhans, the state government on Wednesday released funds for maintenance, sanitisation and upkeep of facilities at the quarantine centres in rural areas. As per the details provided by the government, Rs 3 crore each has been given to Nainital, US Nagar, Dehradun, Tehri, Haridwar, Pauri and Almora districts. In addition, Rs 2 crore each has been provided to the remaining six districts. Besides the Rs 33 crore given to the 13 districts, the department of medical health and family welfare has also been released funds of Rs 16 crore for Covid-19-related work. For repair of works related to drinking water supply, the state has issued Rs 20 crore to peyjal sansthan and Rs 30 crore to public works department. The medical education department has also been sanctioned an amount of Rs 150.94 crore from their approved budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/following-hc-rap-ukhand-govt-releases-funds-to-districts-for-rural-quarantine-centres/articleshow/76183437.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Why air travellers being sent to paid quarantine, Uttarakhand HC asks state govert||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government as well as civil aviation secretary and the district magistrate of Dehradun to explain why people coming to the state via the air route are being sent to paid quarantine into hotels. The directions from the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe came while it was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging that many people travelling to the state through air are being asked to quarantine themselves in hotels. Dehradun resident Umesh Kumar, who is also the petitioner in the case, alleged that the people in quarantine are asked to pay for everything, including food at these centres. Though the court’s written order wasn’t available till the time of filing of this report, Gopal Verma, the counsel appearing for the petitioner told TOI that the court has asked the respondents to explain why, when people travelling by car or trains are being sent to institutional quarantine centres or being asked to quarantine themselves in their own homes, people travelling by air are being sent to paid quarantine centres. "We informed the court that the government has established 36 of these quarantine centres in areas such as Dehradun, Rishikesh and Haridwar where air travellers are being sent, while no person travelling by car or train is being sent to these paid quarantine facilities," he said. He added that there are many air passengers who have somehow arranged money from their friends and relatives to take flights to Dehradun but as soon as they reach the airport, they are being sent to 7-14 days of paid quarantine. “Many of them cannot afford to spend so much on paid quarantine facilities,” the counsel said. The court has given the state and other respondent time till Thursday to respond to the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/why-air-travellers-being-sent-to-paid-quarantine-ukhand-hc-asks-state-govt/articleshow/76183449.cms||Prashant Jha
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Man attacked on June 1 succumbs to injuries||LUDHIANA: A 30-year-old man, who was attacked on June 1 by a criminal, Sonu Kancha, along with his accomplices, at Matharu Chowk in Shimlapuri, succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. The Shimlapuri police have lodged an FIR against Sonu Kancha of Gobind Nagar and his accomplices, which include Sonu Kumar, Vijay Kumar, Jaswinder, Karan Mani and Bina. There were more accused who are yet to be identified. The deceased been identified as Ramandeep Singh (30) of Bulara village. A case has been registered following information provided by the victim’s friend Gagandeep Singh (27) of Jujhar Nagar of Shimlapuri, who was accompanying Ramandeep and was also injured in the attack. Gagandeep said that he, along with his friend Ramandeep, were standing at Matharu Chowk around 10pm on June 1, when the accused turned up there with sharp-edged weapons and attacked them. They thrashed Ramandeep brutally and also chopped off fingers of one of his hands. The accused after thrashing both of them escaped, assuming them to be dead. Thereafter, some onlookers called an ambulance and rushed them to ESIC hospital, where Ramandeep Singh succumbed to injuries on Wednesday.  Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at police station Shimlapuri, said both groups had some old rivalry with each other. Earlier, a case under section of attempt to murder was registered and now murder section has been added, he said. The SHO said, “Gagandeep and Ramandeep are also facing trial in criminal cases. They had assaulted brother of Sonu Kancha in 2017 and an attempt to murder case had lodged against both of them and their accomplices. They got bail and were out of jail, while one of their accomplices is still lodged in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-attacked-on-june-1-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/76184608.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||City’s roads 4,000km, drains cleaned along only 369km||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) sanitation department, which carried out stormwater drains cleanliness drive ahead of monsoon, claims to have covered “369.23km of the 389.86km network in the city”. On the other hand, the city has a road network of over 4,000km, out of which only 960km have stormwater drains, as per data available from the NMC public works department. The inadequate drainage network is the main reason why waterlogging is witnessed in many areas every year even after moderate rain. Sources pointed out that the city’s existing stormwater drains have a capacity to handle only 20% of precipitation pressure. At many places, the existing stormwater network also carry sewage, leading to choking and sewage overflow. The cleanliness drive had started in April. Sanitation department officials claimed that this year the stormwater drains are almost cleaned. “We learnt a lesson from last year’s experience. In 2019, torrential rains caused many stormwater drains to overflow and inundated several areas,” the official said and added that property worth lakhs was destroyed due to water gushing into homes or shops. In 2011, the NMC had prepared a detailed project report (DPR), according to which the city was divided into three zones. The north zone, which has many new areas and Nagpur Improvement Trust layouts, has very poor stormwater drain network. The north zone has around 323.48km of drain network while it needs drains along 1,690km of road length. The central zone has existing stormwater drain network of 461km against requirement of 961km. South zone has 176km of network, while 1,390km is needed. As per the data procured from the sanitation department, workers from 10 zones cleaned 17,377 outlets out of 18,208. Remaining 831 will be cleaned soon. The figures are available till May 28. Apart from cleaning stormwater network, NMC workers also cleaned rainwater chambers. Out of the 23,512 chambers, 21,917 were cleaned, the data revealed. The NMC has also completed cleaning of 201 out of 227 nullahs. Out of the 201 nullahs, 151 were cleaned manually while the rest with the help of machines like excavator. STORMWATER NETWORK WORKS Task———————————----Cleaned Cleaning 23,512 chambers --———-21,917 Cleaning 20,622 outlets ---17377 Cleaning drains along 389.86km ---369.23km (Data provided by NMC sanitation department)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-roads-4000km-drains-cleaned-along-only-369km/articleshow/76185586.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||Dad in a towel, mom with fruit tray: It’s all happening in online class||Nagpur: Actor Ranbir Kapoor’s towel gig in movie ‘Saawariyan’ may have looked good on the screen to many, but an almost similar act popping up on screen during an online class in city was outright revolting. And this was no virtual gatecrasher but father of one of the students who walked into the frame in a towel and glanced at the computer screen. Similar candid camera moments have left other students in splits but teachers and parents and fuming and embarrassed. A teacher said the father just came up behind the child and tried to see what she was watching on the screen. “And all he had on was a towel around the waist. We know that it wasn’t done on purpose but imagine how the rest of us felt,” she said. After a few seconds and a wide grin, the gentleman ended the towel ramp walk. Unintentionally, more families are broadcasting such candid moments from their homes to the entire class. Another teacher said that computers are almost always in bedrooms and some have webcams placed in such a manner that either the bathroom door or the wardrobe is visible. This results in considerable airtime being hogged by parents/siblings who walk in and out of the bathroom in sometimes more than a towel but less than a formal dress. “We get to see parents opening their wardrobe and the father is always the one with lesser part of the body covered,” said a teacher. Sometimes younger siblings appear scurrying to the bathroom door or coming out of it in full glory. All this adds to distraction as other students start giggling and it takes a while to bring things back on track, she added. Pampering parents are another set of problems. “Every half an hour a glass or a snack or fruit tray is slid on the table. Sometimes you will see the mother peeking into the screen and patting the child on head before walking away,” the teacher said. Reena Dargan, principal of Ira International, said parents’ concern for their young children leads to these issues. “I would say students of Std V and below are where we see this. Too much intrusion becomes a problem during classes,” she said. Centre Point School (Katol Road)’s principal Shilpee Ganguly will be issuing guidelines to parents for online classes. “They can use virtual backgrounds or point camera such that entire bedroom is not visible,” said Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dad-in-a-towel-mom-with-fruit-tray-its-all-happening-in-online-class/articleshow/76184605.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 4, 2020||Hubballi||Officials told to build confidence among SSLC students||Bagalkot: In view of the Covid situation, primary and secondary education minister S Sureshkumar called upon the officials of the department to build confidence among students appearing for SSLC exams scheduled from June 25. Speaking during a meeting at the ZP conference hall here on Wednesday the minister asked the officials to take measures towards ensuring students’ safety. He said Bharat Scouts and Guides Association has come forward to supply free washable masks to SSLC candidates numbering to 8.5 lakh. A private company is providing sanitizers costing Rs 75 lakh. Children from migrant labourers’ families will be allowed to write the exams in the place where they are staying, he added. ZP president Bayakka Meti, member of parliament PC Gaddigoudar, Bagalkot deputy commissioner K Rajendra, DDPIs of Vijayapura and Bagalkot and other offcials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/officials-told-to-build-confidence-among-sslc-students/articleshow/76183457.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||YAD want probe against Bains in seed scam||Ludhiana: The Youth Akali Dal staged a protest and burnt an effigy of Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains on Wednesday while alleging his involvement in seed scam. Gosha demanded a probe to check role of Bains in the scam. However, on the other hand, Bains rubbished this charge and claimed that the LIP had highlighted this scam after which the state government had acted and conducted raids. Gosha said the Lok Insaaf Party president role in the seed scam came under scanner after his close aide was arrested in this connection. He alleged that the police arrested Baljinder Singh in connection with the seed scam. He also alleged that Baljinder had duped farmers by selling unauthorised seeds with support of MLA Bains. Gosha further alleged that cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Bains were involved in the multi-crore seed scam and the case should be probed by an independent agency. The government should get the role of Bains probed by the CBI or any other agency. Meanwhile, Bains said, “I had received a report from various districts about seeds being sold on the black market and I made a complaint to chief minister Amarinder Singh and special secretary to CM Suresh Kumar about this. I then received a message from Suresh that raids were being conducted to check this malpractice.” He further said Youth Akali Dal woke up from slumber and started blaming him, which was not right. Bains claimed that Gosha, who was protesting against him, was the one who helped LIP in 2017 Punjab assembly elections and then 2019 parliamentary elections by saying that they were fond of his working style and now he was pressing corruption charges against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yad-want-probe-against-bains-in-seed-scam/articleshow/76184595.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two Kali temples, Belur eye devotees’ return||KOLKATA: Dakshineshwar temple has prepared reopening guidelines and will conduct trial runs between June 8 and 10 with a limited number of 60 devotees, who will be called in by invitation. If successful, the temple will reopen thereafter. Kalighat temple, on the other hand, is likely to reopen on June 15. Belur Math and all branches of Ramakrishna Mission will open their doors for public on June 15. At the entry point of Dakshineswar temple, sevaks will check if a devotee is masked before his temperature is thermal-scanned. Only those whose temperatures are within the permitted range will be allowed to walk in after a mandatory hand-sanitizing at the disinfectant channel. All the time, a prescribed gap is to be maintained between two devotees. Sevaks will monitor the line. “We are installing disinfectant channels that will only sanitise hands and not the entire body because we have been pre-warned about the harmful effects of the chemicals on human body. We will even have children among our visitors and hence we cannot risk their safety,” said Kushal Chowdhury, spokesperson of the Dakshineshwar Temple Trust. The temple will not remain open from 6am and 9pm like earlier times. It will open around 7am for two-and-a-half hours. It will again open in the evening for a similar span of time. “We will have to allow our sevaks time to cool off because they will otherwise suffocate wearing the PPE constantly,” Chowdhury said. Devotees will not be allowed to enter any of the smaller temples or Ramkrishna Paramhansa’s room, but will have to stay contended with darshan from outside till the situation improves. Kalighat temple authorities said that since space is a constraint inside the temple, they will have to take extra measures by setting up sanitising tunnels at all the six entry points. “We have taken quotations and are in the process of giving orders for these gates. This should be done over the next 10 days. That apart, we will have to decide on how to regulate the crowd,” said Kalighat Temple committee vice-president Bidyut Haldar. “We are in the process of taking measures to make our premises safe for devotees and this is taking a bit of time. We should be ready to reopen on June 15,” said Swami Suvirananda, general secretary of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-kali-temples-belur-eye-devotees-return/articleshow/76184611.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||Slow pace of testing a concern as 7000 sample results pending in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN:Over 7000 samples are pending for testing in Uttarakhand, a figure which is causing concern to health-watchers. The state has till now tested 34,500 samples while neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, with equal number of testing labs as Uttarakhand, has tested over 40,000 samples and had just 940 pending samples till Tuesday. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based research organisation Social Development for Communities (SDC) Foundation, who has also tweeted to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan seeking help to speed up the testing process in the state, told TOI that the sample pendency reaching 7,004 from barely 1,600 samples on May 21, was worrisome. "The infection rate also reached 4% in Uttarakhand on Wednesday, which is not much below the national average of around 5%," said Nautiyal, adding that the preparedness of the government machinery in this regard is cause for concern. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 testing lab was inaugurated at the Indian Institute of Petroleum (IIP) in Dehradun on Wednesday. This will be the sixth Covid sample testing lab in the state. Commenting on the pending samples, additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that with the sixth lab at IIP, the state will be able to speed up the testing process. He added, "We have recently purchased new antibody testing machines for several districts while discussions are on with some more private labs to participate in testing. One government lab in Almora is also being converted into Covid testing lab and the process will be completed soon." Meanwhile, Nainital reported 15 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday followed by nine each in Haridwar and Dehradun. Pithoragarh, Udham Singh Nagar and Pauri reported one new case each while Chamoli reported 6 new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/slow-pace-of-testing-a-concern-as-7000-sample-results-pending-in-ukhand/articleshow/76183464.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 4, 2020||Shimla||Back from Delhi, couple 1st Covid patients in Kinnaur||Shimla: A couple who returned from Delhi to Sangla became the first two people to test positive for Covid-19 in Kinnaur on Wednesday, even as 14 fresh cases were reported from across Himachal Pradesh. Of the remaining 12 cases, four are from Kangra district, two each from Hamirpur and Mandi, and one each from Shimla, Chamba, Una and Bilaspur. Ten patients recovered in the state, including six in Kangra, and two each in Una and Chamba. The state now has reported 359 positive cases, of which 204 patients are active and 146 have recovered. Kinnaur was in the green zone till Tuesday, as no case had been reported in the remote district. The couple is of a 45-year-old man and his 40-year-old wife who returned from Delhi on May 26 and were in institutional quarantine at Urni. They have been shifted to a Covid-19 care centre in Reckong Peo. In Shimla district, a man who returned from Delhi on May 27, tested positive. In Bilaspur, 31-year-old man from Solan who was in institutional quarantine at Swarghat tested positive. In Mandi, two men from Sundernagar, aged 23 and 26, who had returned from Mumbai on May 27 tested positive. The two Hamirpur cases include a 31-year-old man from Louta Breen who returned from Delhi and 25-year-old man from Jahu who returned from Mohali. Both were in institutional quarantine. Those who tested positive in Kangra district include a 30-year-old man from Badhal village who was institutional quarantine since his return from Madhya Pradesh on May 27. A 31-year-old man from Gangath who was in home quarantine after his return from Pathankot on May 28 also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/back-from-delhi-couple-1st-covid-patients-in-kinnaur/articleshow/76185386.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to employ more revenue recovery officials||Ludhiana: The fund starved civic body in an attempt to increase its revenue generation has now planned to employ staff through outsourcing so that more defaulters could be caught in the net. The officials will put up the proposal in front of members of Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) scheduled for May 4 and if they get nod more staff will be deployed. The officials cited the shortage of staff a major reason behind lesser recovery every year. Since 1999, no new clerks and inspectors were employed in the civic body but population of city increased manifold. The officials have raised the demand for at least 50 recovery clerks and 50 inspectors for recovery of property tax, water supply, sewerage, disposal and license branch. In these branches, at least 31 posts of inspectors and 41 posts of recovery clerks are lying vacant. While citing an example in the proposal, the officials mentioned that in UID survey conducted nearly five years ago, the civic officials had come out with 4.5 lakh total properties in city, but property tax returns are being filed by 3.25 lakh tax payers so 1.25 lakh people are still away from MC net. And in the five years since, at least 1 lakh more units must have been added so in a way 2.25 lakh more people can be added in list of tax payers, they added. Similarly, for water, sewerage and disposal usage, the civic body is sending bills to 2.60 lakh people but properties are 5.5 lakh so due to shortage of staff 2.90 lakh are away from the clutches of civic body. In 2018-19, the property tax portal of MC had shown 65,000 those units from where civic body is getting property tax for industrial, commercial and mixed land use, but in the same year 45,000 trade license were issued by the civic body. This would mean license branch 20,000 units are not covered till date. If officials hire these many employees through outsourcing, the civic body will have to bear expenses worth Rs 13.11 lakh annual. When contacted, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu admitted shortage of staff in the civic body and claimed that it has left its impact on all works, including recovery. He said they will consider the proposal when it will be kept in the meeting and suitable decision will be taken accordingly. Notably, from property tax, the civic officials could generate Rs 85 crore against target of Rs 100 crore and from water supply and sewerage dues recovery was around Rs 45 crore out of Rs 100 crore target. For current financial year, targets have been increased even as pandemic situation is yet to come to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-employ-more-revenue-recovery-officials/articleshow/76185384.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Pankaja rules out quitting BJP||Aurangabad: Former state minister and BJP leader Pankaja Munde on Wednesday took to social media to address her supporters and members of the community on the occasion of his father and BJP stalwart Gopinath Mund’s death anniversary. “I have not succumbed. We will start afresh. Gopinathji, while being in BJP, contested and lost elections, but he never succumbed. While being in power, I had to struggle on several occasions and I never succumbed,” she said. Pankaja added that irrespective of getting any position, she will continue to work for the welfare of the people. She also announced that soon she will step out and meet everyone, including party workers. The statement has come amid speculations that she will quit the BJP. She said that her future course of action would be decided in consultation with her supporters and party workers. Without taking any name, she said that her electoral loss had become a topic of discussion, but nobody discussed the victory of the person who won against her — taking a shot at her cousin and Congress leader Dhananjay Munde. “In elections, it is essential to taste defeat. Many bigwigs have tasted defeat. It teaches you a lot. I overcame my defeat the very next day of results,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pankaja-rules-out-quitting-bjp/articleshow/76183478.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notice to demolish 97 unsafe buildings in 15 days||Nagpur: With monsoon round the corner, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has conducted structural audit of many buildings and declared 173 as dilapidated and unsafe. Directives have been given for demolition of 97 buildings within 15 days. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday issued a public notice warning of action and fine of Rs25,000 in case owners, occupants, tenants of the 173 buildings failed to follow the orders within prescribed time period. As per the notice, 97 buildings have been declared totally unsafe under category C-1 and directed to vacate and demolish. Under category C-2A, there are 25 buildings that need to be vacated and where necessary repairing and strengthening works are to be done. Under category C-2B, repair works have been ordered at 35 buildings without vacating them. Minor works are to be done without vacating at 16 buildings falling under category C3. The notices to all the buildings have been issued under subsection 1, 2, 3 and 4 under section 264 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act. “Rains threaten old and dilapidated buildings, thus risking lives of its occupants, people passing by and adjacent residences. NMC zone offices conducted inspection as per guidelines issued by state government on November 5, 2015 for pre-monsoon activities,” the notice stated. Owner/occupant/tenant, and not NMC, will be responsible in case of any incident, as per the notice. “As per section 265 of MMC Act, owner or occupant of the building is responsible for inspecting and keeping the building safe. It is mandatory to get structural audit done for buildings with life of over 30 years from structural engineers empanelled by the NMC. Also, it is mandatory to inform the NMC if any portion or entire building is dilapidated or collapsed,” the notice stated. The NMC will give certificate to owners/occupants after completion of repairing works suggested by the structural engineers. For any further details, the interested can contact assistant commissioners. The NMC has also made available disaster management cell with helplines numbers — 0712-2567029, 2567777, 7030972200 and 101. TOI on May 8, 2019 had reported that 20,016 buildings across the city are over 30 years old, as per data of property tax department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notice-to-demolish-97-unsafe-buildings-in-15-days/articleshow/76184616.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 4, 2020||Dehradun||How villagers in hills made use of lockdown to repair and build roads, construct pits for water harvesting||NAINITAL: Forced to remain cooped in their villages for over two months due to the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown, several villagers in the hills of Uttarakhand have spent their time building roads, digging pits for water harvesting and improving other public facilities in their area. The villagers of Naai in Okhalkanda block of Nainital district for instance have dug 15 pits – referred to locally as ‘chaal khaals’ – that act as reservoirs used to conserve water and to prevent forest fire in hills. Speaking to TOI, Chandan Singh Nayal, a resident of the village, who initiated the digging of the pits, said that 15 such pits had been made, each of which can store 5000 to 10,000 litres of water. “Despite receiving enough rainfall throughout most of the year, there are very few natural sources of water in the area. Our forefathers have been building these chaal khaals for hundreds of years but in the past few years, the number of such water bodies has drastically reduced and therefore not only humans but even animals wander towards the villages in search of water,” he said. The pits are also helpful in times of forest fires. “Our village has a profusion of pine forests which are prone to fires. But since these pits store water for most part of the year, the land becomes humid. Traditional wisdom has it that they impede the spread of the forest fire and later trees that can hold water are also planted in them so that fire caused by the pine trees can be stopped,” Nayal said. Reacting to the initiative taken by villagers, Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal said that “the administration will provide all help to the locals who have been working to improve the civic conditions in their area.” Meanwhile, in Mangaliya village of Pauri Garhwal district, villagers utilised the lockdown time to construct a motorable road. The villagers, including several women, were involved in cutting rock, clearing bushes and flattening the path which could earlier be used only by people as a dirt track for walking. The village can now be reached by car. “Most of us had almost nothing to do the entire day. So after a couple of weeks of sitting idle and angered by the fact that despite so many letters to the administration and politicians, we still didn’t have a road, we finally decided to do something about it. Within a few weeks, we had cleared most of the stretch and broadened the road so much that now even a car can reach our village,” said Shakuntala Devi, a resident. Pauri DM Dheeraj Garbyal, when apprised of the initiative taken by villagers, said that he, too, will “ensure all help is provided to the villagers of Mangaliya in making the road permanent.” In yet another instance, villagers in Shilauti in Kumaon -- where a road project had remained stalled for almost 10 years -- pooled in money and resources and finally completed the road with their own efforts. “The track was barely a meter and half wide. We had used this track for some time but because of the landslides and careless approach from the authorities, the track was soon covered with debris boulders and shrubs,” said Durgadatt Paldiya, a resident of Kharki village and former member of the Block Development Corporation. He added that the villagers worked from early morning till noon every day and finally completed the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-villagers-in-hills-made-use-of-lockdown-to-repair-and-build-roads-construct-pits-for-water-harvesting/articleshow/76183481.cms||Prashant Jha
June 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Traders seek to reopen all shops in TK veggie market||Coimbatore: The traders at Thyagi Kumaran (TK) vegetable market in Town Hall on Tuesday demanded the city corporation allow them to reopen all the shops.While the city corporation has allowed 50 of the 450 shops to function, the traders didn’t open any shops on Tuesday to protest the official apathy. They said they would remain closed on Wednesday too.The city corporation had shifted the traders to Gandhipuram bus stand during lockdown to ensure adherence to social distancing by customers. With the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) resuming bus services, the city corporation had decided to shift the market to prison ground from Monday.The traders, however, opposed the move, citing lack of basic facilities. M Rajendran, president, Coimbatore TK Market Anaithu Motha Vyabarigal Sangam, said, “They are asking us to set up temporary shelters at our own cost which would cost us more than Rs 6.50 lakh. How could we afford to spend such a huge sum?”With the onset of monsoon, he said, the ground was prone to inundation. “Who would want to step into the sludge and buy vegetables from us when all other markets are open?”When the traders expressed their disappointment to the city corporation officials, the latter allowed the market to function but with just 50 shops a day. “Of the 450 shops, 175 pay rent directly to the corporation. How fair is it to allow just 50 shops to function a day,” Rajendran asked.The traders urged the city corporation to allow them to open all the shops in the market, while assuring the civic body that they would follow all the guidelines. The city corporation is also looking for an alternative location to shift the temporary market that is functioning at the new bus stand on Mettupalayam Road. The wholesale traders from MGR market, who were moved to the bus stand in March, are yet to be shifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traders-seek-to-reopen-all-shops-in-tk-veggie-market/articleshow/76164041.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 4, 2020||Patna||25th Covid death reported in Bihar, tally up to 4,326||PATNA: One more death and 230 new Covid cases were reported in Bihar on Wednesday. It was the 25th Covid death in the state, which has registered 4,326 coronavirus cases so far. One coronavirus patient had committed suicide. Altogether 2,025 patients have recovered, leaving 2,275 active Covid cases in Bihar. The man who died on Wednesday belonged to Jamui district. Jamui DM Dharmendra Kumar said the deceased (64) had returned from Mumbai. “When he developed symptoms, we got his Covid test done. He was found positive and admitted to Gidhaur primary health centre. He developed breathing problem on Tuesday evening. We referred him to Patna, but he died on the way,” Dharmendra said. As per the state health department’s information, Covid cases were reported from 32 districts on Wednesday, with the highest 85 from Khagaria, followed by 15 in Sitamarhi, 11 each in Samastipur and Darbhanga, 10 in Bhagalpur, nine in Kaimur and seven cases in West Champaran. Patna reported two cases, including a 21-year-old man in Dulhin Bazar. Total 84,729 samples have been tested in Bihar, including 3,316 in the past 24 hours. In the same time period, 222 people recovered from the virus. Also, 3,079 of the total positive cases were migrants who returned since May 3. The maximum 733 patients have travel history from Maharashtra, followed by 729 from Delhi, 480 from Gujarat and 264 and 174 from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar said all those under home quarantine were being monitored. “Their health is also being monitored. The survey teams keep watch if they develop any symptoms. So far, the houses of 4.80 lakh migrants have been surveyed and 166 people were found with symptoms of cough, fever and breathing problems. They all are being tested,” said Lokesh. Meanwhile, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi in a statement stated that Bihar, when compared to developed states like Gujarat and Maharashtra, has very few Covid casualties due to effective measures by the state government. “Recovery rate in Bihar is 48%. But the way migrant labourers are returning in large numbers, people are shifting to their homes after completing quarantine period, markets have opened and buses have started plying, it will be a big challenge to stop the spread of virus in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-dies-as-covid-cases-reach-4326-in-state/articleshow/76184460.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 4, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka 2nd PUC exam 2020: 16k students opt for change in exam centre||MYSURU: Over 16,000 II PUC students, mostly those who were staying in hostels prior to the lockdown and the children of migrant workers who were studying in other districts, have opted for change in examination centre. They will be allowed to write English language examination scheduled on June 18 at the centres in their native districts. It can be recalled that as per the original schedule, English language examination was scheduled to be held on March 23. However, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, it was rescheduled to June 18. As per the tentative list prepared by the PU department, till now 16,957 students opted for change in examination centre. “This number is expected to touch 18,000 once the final list prepared,” said an officer from the PU department. “The new centres will be allocated within the district for these students based on the availability of facilities in each centre,” added department officials. According to the tentative list, as many as 1,523 students in Belagavi district have opted for the change followed by 1,207 students (Raichur), 1,185 (Bengaluru Urban and Rural), 867 (Haveri), 751 (Kalaburugi), 731 (Koppal) 520 (Gadag), 474 (Yadagiri), 401 for Mysuru. With just 51 students, Dakshina Kannada district received lowest requests. “These students were studying in other districts and had written other five subjects in the same districts. Now they have returned to their home towns following the lockdown. To ensure that they need not travel again just to write this examination, the option was provided,” explained the authorities. Only the students who were staying in hostels and those belonging to migrant families have been allowed to change the examination centres. Although the centre is changed, hall ticket number will remain the same. Once the final list is ready, the details of the candidates with their photo will be published on the department website, the official added. “The decision was taken considering the inconvenience that will be caused to students and parents during this crisis. This will also minimise the exposure of the students to the coronavirus,” PU department director M Kanagavalli said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/16k-ii-puc-students-opt-for-change-in-exam-centre/articleshow/76188941.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents feel it’s time India takes ‘boycott China goods’ route||Ludhiana: As tension escalates between India and China, the feeling of resentment and tension can be witnessed across the country and the heat can be felt, especially on the social media as well. Many posts can be seen trending on boycotting Chinese goods. It’s not just the common man, but celebrities too are coming forward in support of the cause. Milind Soman and Sonam Wangchuk appeal is being heard and a video of the latter has created a stir among people. Some residents shared their feelings on this issue. Surbhi Jain, a resident of BRS Nagar and a student, feels, “China has time and again caused havoc in the world. And what’s happening on the border is serious. It’s high time we stand by our country. I completely stand for boycotting Chinese goods. I agree doing it is much harder than just saying. I started by uninstalling all China-based apps on my phone. Buy more local brands is the only way to combat the dragon.” Another resident, Praneet Kaur, a resident of Haibowal feels the same when she says, “As an Indian I feel there should be complete boycott of the Chinese goods with immediate effect. These tiny but significant steps will surely make a big difference. I and my friends have uninstalled Chinese apps on our phones. We have pledged to buy only Indian brands from now onwards. Recently, it was noted that the rating of a China based app dropped drastically when many people gave negative review for the same.” Although most of the people are in complete favour of boycotting the Chinese goods, there were some who felt a little different. Shubhan Dua, a resident of Krishna Nagar, says, “I think this policy is misguided and typical of the present government to divert attention. We live in a market-based economy, and I don’t think we should overlook quality. The government has shown time and again that it can antagonize the wrong parties and divert attention. We should work in stimulating our economy rather than creating hatred and fear among people”. Irrespective of the current situation it won’t be wrong to say that Chinese goods are omnipresent and cannot be overlooked, whether it is the steel sector, apparels, plastics, toy market, medicines, cosmetics, cellphones. The current situation has started like a revolution that will slowly but surely have long-term effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-feel-its-time-india-takes-boycott-china-goods-route/articleshow/76184623.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Courts to function in 2 shifts from June 8||PANAJI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday has approved a standard operating procedure with guidelines for the functioning of subordinate courts in Goa from June 8. The courts will function in two shifts with 50% presence of judicial officers and staff in each shift. The administrative committee, after taking into account the situation prevalent due to the spread of Covid-19 and the suggestions received from the district judges, issued the rules and regulations for functioning of the courts with a direction to follow social distancing norms. The guidelines state that judicial officers may, if the situation demands, use face shield as well transparent acrylic sheets partitioning the dais from the addressee. The communication states that any violation of the norms may entail the closure of such court by the high court, till further order. The committee has also mentioned that it would be desirable that during the first week, not more than 15 matters are placed on board in every court in each shift. The cases listed on board should be kept moderate in numbers and is to be decided by the concerned presiding officer. It is also made clear that when any particular taluka is declared as containment zone or any other restrictions are imposed impending physical functioning of the court, then instructions should be taken from the administrative committee for further course of action. The committee has asked the principal district and sessions judge to place a mechanism in form of a token system giving a particular time slot for filing of cases. The location of filing of cases may be earmarked on the ground floor near the entry gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/courts-to-function-in-2-shifts-from-june-8/articleshow/76185973.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, record cases for third straight day||CHANDIGARH: Haryana recorded 302 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the third straight day when the state registered the highest one-day rise in number of people testing positive. The state recorded sharpest single-day spikes in cases even on Monday (265) and Tuesday (296). Now, the tally for Covid-19 cases in the state has hit 2,954. The recovery rate has dipped to 36.87 and doubling rate to six days. With 132 fresh cases, Gurgaon’s tally hit 1,195, including 903 active cases. It is followed by Faridabad, which got 69 new cases and whose tally hit 309. Also, 28 cases each were reported from Narnaul and Sonipat, 10 from Karnal, eight each from Ambala and Hisar, seven from Rohtak, six from Nuh, and one each from Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Panchkula and Panipat. The state’s rate for tests per million rate has risen to 5,045. It has tested 1,278,95 persons for Covid-19 so far. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said three of the new patients included a 29-year-old man from Kurlan village, a 55-year-old woman from Badarpur village and a 47-year-old man from Poosgarh village. He said all patients had travel history to other states. In Kurukshetra, a man from Amin village tested positive and a woman from Jandheri village negative, said an official. Of the eight new patients in Hisar, four came from Mumbai, two from Gurgaon and one each from Delhi and Ludhiana. They included included a three-year-old girl, her mother and a couple. (With inputs from Kurukshetra, Hisar and Karnal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hry-record-cases-for-3rd-straight-day/articleshow/76185388.cms||Manvir Saini
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jaganmohan Reddy wants teacher-student ratio in Andhra Pradesh schools to be best in country||AMARAVATI: Giving the green signal for teacher transfers, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday asked the education department to rationalise the teachers’ strength in such a way that the teacher-student ratio is the best in the country. He said the needs of the students should determine the transfers. The chief minister reviewed the Nadu-Nedu work in the education department with education minister Adimulapu Suresh and other officials at the camp office on Wednesday. Accepting the proposals put forwarded by the officials for taking up the teachers transfers in July, the chief minister asked them to strengthen the education system. “Ready the guidelines for transfer by taking feedback from all stakeholders. Rules should not be aimed someone. We should be fair and transparent,” said the chief minister. The chief minister asked the officials to map the student’s strength in each school and deploy sufficient number of teachers. He said that about 7,991 schools had single teachers during the TDP regime that led to their closure. “They (TDP) worked only to help corporate schools and colleges and weakened public school system. We should correct all those mistakes,” said the chief minister. He said that uniforms were not distributed till November during the TDP rule and it should not be the case under their rule. Jaganmohan Reddy asked the officials to keep a close watch on learning abilities of the children from Class-VI to X and analyse their progress and take additional measures to help slow-learners overcome the hurdles. Jaganmohan Reddy asked the officials to ready a plan for digital learning through the app. He asked them to provide video calling facility to clear the student’s doubts during the course of preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-wants-teacher-student-ratio-in-state-schools-to-be-best-in-country/articleshow/76183492.cms||Samdani MN
June 4, 2020||Kolkata||Jewellery stores open, but business yet to glitter in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The brightly lit neon signboards of jewellery stores across the city have flickered to life, rekindling hope of a rebound in business for lakhs of skilled and unskilled workers after 10 weeks of complete lockdown. According to the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council, almost 90% of the showrooms and stores located in different pockets of the city have reopened. The workshops, however, will start production after a few days as most jewellers have unsold stock that they had procured for the marriage season and Akshay Trithiya. “The sales have been very low as purchasing gold is nowhere on the priority list of people currently,” said Sourabh Dutta of Dutta & Company Jewellers on BB Ganguly Street. “What we are expecting is for people to exchange their old pieces for new one or repairs that will at least kickstart the business,” he added. According to the Council, retailers across the city sell close to 40 tonnes of gold every month, but due to the coronavirus outbreak, almost 70% of the business is lost. “The industry is now eyeing the festive season to salvage some of the losses due to the virus and the subsequent lockdown. We are hoping the sale of gold picks up before Dhanteras and Diwali later this year,” said Prakash Duggar of Shubh Jewellers in Burrabazar. According to rough estimates, close to 25 lakh people in the state are directly or indirectly associated with the trade. The reopening of the stores offers a ray of hope for revival but those working in the workshops will have to wait a little. “Even many skilled workers have been forced to look for other means of livelihood due to the prolonged lockdown. If workshops don’t open soon, it will be a disaster for lakhs of workers,” said Bablu Dey, working president of Swarna Shilpa Bachao Forum. Shankar Sen, the vice-chairman of the West Bengal chapter of the All India gem and Jewellery Domestic Council, said they were transferring some money to the accounts of the workers engaged with the industry to sustain them. “0They are the backbone of our trade,” said Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jewellery-stores-open-but-business-yet-to-glitter/articleshow/76184620.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Epicentre Noida: Delhi-NCR witnesses 6 earthquakes since April 12||NEW DELHI: A mild earthquake of 3.0 magnitude on the Richter scale struck Noida on Wednesday evening. Tremors were felt across the National Capital Region (NCR). This was the sixth earthquake since April 12 in the region. There was no report of any injury or damage to property. The epicentre was located 19 km south-east of Noida. “The earthquake occurred at10:42:29 IST at a latitude of 28.4 N and longitude 77.5 E. The depth was 4 kilometres below the earth’s surface,” said J L Gautam, head (operations) at National Centre of Seismology. Only five days back, NCR felt tremors from a medium-intensity earthquake which had its epicentre in Rohtak. The 4.5 magnitude earthquake had occurred on May 29, causing people to rush out of their homes. Before that, all four earthquakes occurring in the region had their epicentre in Delhi, but measured 3.5 and lower on the Richter scale. Earthquakes below 4.0 magnitude are generally not known to cause any damage. NCS officials said these mild earthquakes generally occur as a result of minor adjustments underneath the earth’s surface. NCR is an active seismic zone and falls into category IV (severe).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sixth-earthquake-rocks-ncr-in-54-days/articleshow/76186608.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Of Ambala’s 8 cases, 2 back from Qatar||Ambala: Eight people tested positie for Covid-19 in Ambala district on Wednesday, including two men who returned from Qatar, five members of a family with Delhi travel history and a woman who worked as a domestic help, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “The men who came from Qatar are aged 21 and 29, and from are from Kullarpur and Sarasheri villages, respectively. Since their arrival in Ambala, they were quarantined at a hotel in Ambala Cantonment. Now they have been shifted to the Covid hospital for treatment,” said Dr Kuldeep. “The family members — two men aged 36 and 30, two boys aged 9 and 2, and 35-year-old woman — came in one cab to meet their family in Pragati Vihar, Ambala Cantonment, from Delhi on June 1. They have been isolated,” said Dr Kuldeep. The domestic help is from Deha Basti. She worked at the house of a family living in Ahluwalia Building of Ambala Cantonment whose members tested positive on Tuesday. She was tested under contact tracing,” added Dr Kuldeep||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-ambalas-8-cases-2-back-from-qatar/articleshow/76185391.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: PAU police station ASI caught taking bribe||LUDHIANA: The Vigilance Bureau on Tuesday arrested PAU police station assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurjit Singh for accepting a bribe of Rs 28,000. Shamsher Singh of Raipur Majri village in Fatehgarh Sahib said in his complaint, “My daughter, Ramandeep Kaur, is married in Birmi village, Ludhiana. On April 24, Sukhwinder Kaur, her sister Sandeep Kaur, aunt Jasbir Kaur and relative Mandeep Singh barged into Ramandeep’s house and thrashed her with sticks and rods. My daughter lodged a complaint with police, but no action was taken.”  “ASI Gurjit Singh kept delaying action on the pretext of curfew duty. On May 31, police lodged an FIR under bailable sections. My daughter had submitted her medical legal report and proof of trespassing, but the ASI refused to add non-bailable sections. He then sought Rs 70,000 for adding more sections to the FIR. The deal was later struck at Rs 68,000, which were to be paid in two installments,” he added. VB SSP Rupinder Singh said the ASI was nabbed while he was accepting the bribe’s first installment of Rs 28,000 from Shamsher near PAU police station. A case has been registered under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-police-station-asi-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/76183514.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Saved money finances tables and fans in schools||AMARAVATI: The state government is renovating government schools with world-class furniture under the Nadu Nedu scheme. Official sources said the education department has managed to save Rs 144 crore through reverse tendering to buy fans and tables. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had inspected some of the furniture procured by the education department and expressed his satisfaction. The state government has taken taken up modernisation work in 15,000 schools in the first phase. The renovation work will be done in three phases and completed by 2022. Meanwhile, the education department purchased 1.5 lakh student tables for Class-I to III and another 1.5 lakh tables for Class-IV to VII. About 2.1 lakh students from Class-VII to X would get dual drawer tables. The department also procured 89,000 tables and chairs for teachers and 72,000 green chalk boards. It has finalized tenders for supply of 1.57 lakh ceiling fans and 16,000 iron safes. The department estimated that all the furniture would cost around Rs 890 crore. “We have saved Rs 144 crore through reverse tendering which can help us procure the furniture,” said education principal secretary B Rajasekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/saved-money-finances-tables-and-fans-in-schools/articleshow/76183505.cms||Samdani MN
June 4, 2020||Goa||Did Goa falter by easing SOPs? Doctors feel so||PANAJI: As the government grapples with increasing Covid-19 cases, several doctors believed that easing of the standard operating procedure may have been one of the reasons for spread of the virus. “We must change gear now since we have more cases. I don’t understand how a visitor coming from Sri Lanka, which has less cases than India, has to undergo more scrutiny, while those coming from hotspots within the country can enter easily,” a pulmonologist said on condition of anonymity. While international travellers are placed in paid institutional quarantine for seven days and under home quarantine for another seven days, as per the changed protocol, domestic travellers are asked to self-isolate themselves until their screening test results are known. City physician Dr Oscar Rebelo said the least the government could do was to put the domestic travellers under quarantine till the swab results come. “If not institutional then they should be put under home quarantine,” Rebello said. Cardiologist Dr Francisco Colaco said Goa has “stepped out of the green zone and headed towards a mess because something has drastically gone wrong”. Though interstate travellers are tested, he said there is no reason why the state mustn’t be extra cautious and home quarantine all travellers, irrespective of their travel history. Till the Mangor Hill transmission, as per the state health department records, almost 90% of positive cases were of people who had travelled from Maharashtra. In a tame response to the rising cases, the Indian Medical Association said it has left it to the government to decide. “Testing everyone is practically not possible. Let us wait and watch how things unravel. Right now, the government is doing its best,” its president S Samuel Arawattigi said in a statement. Another city pulmonologist said the best strategy would be to home quarantine a traveller, as the TureNat testing had its own limitations. “A test coming negative is no guarantee that a traveller will not develop Covid-19 symptoms. Incubation period of the disease is long,” he said. He also said that these travellers should be stamped and sent to home quarantine, “otherwise there is always a fear that they may walk around freely”. A senior government official said since the health department is overworked, local self-bodies must be roped in for monitoring people in home quarantine. “It would be more effective if ward members are involved. It would also help avoid unnecessary tension in any area or housing society due to rumours of a possibility of a positive case among them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/did-goa-falter-by-easing-sops-docs-feel-so/articleshow/76185976.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Cop, pregnant woman among 34 +ve in Punjab||Chandigarh/Bathinda/Amritsar: Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Punjab on Wednesday as 34 more people tested positive for it and there was a death due to the virus, taking the overall tally to 2,376 and number of casualties to 47. Of the new cases, source of infection of 13 is outside the state. Seven cases each were reported from Mohali and Pathankot, three each from Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Faridkot and Hoshiarpur, two each from Patiala, Muktsar and Amritsar, and one each from Bathinda and Nawanshahr. The death took place in Jalandhar. Also, 12 patients were discharged after they recovered. In Faridkot, the patients include a pregnant woman, a cop and a man, who returned from Mumbai. All live in Kotkapura. The woman has been put in isolation at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot. The cop had been on duty at a naka on Jaitu-Kotkapura road. The man who returned from Mumbai was already in home quarantine and now has been sent into isolation at the medical college. In Muktsar, the two patiets include a 33-year-old man from Malout and a 19-year-old woman Tarmala village in Lambi block. “Both had returned from Gurgaon and had been in home quarantine,” said civil surgeon Dr Hari Narain Singh. While the state bulletin said there was one case in Bathinda, a district official said there were two new patients. including an NRI and a man who had returned from Delhi. Of the seven cases in Pathankot, four are contacts of a Covid-19 patient who lives in Mirpur Colony. The two patients in Amritsar are from Housing Board Colony and Bharat Nagar. The Housing Board Colony patient is a contact of man from Jaura Phatak who tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-pregnant-woman-among-34-ve-in-punjab/articleshow/76185393.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeking to postpone Class X board exam withdrawn||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday dismissed as withdrawn a plea which sought to postpone the Class X board examination after the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted completely.A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Kanagaraj, a resident of Tenkasi district.Kanagaraj said that following the announcement of lockdown, the Class X board examinations, scheduled to be held from March 27 to April 13 were postponed.The livelihood of several families are affected due to lockdown and students hailing from these families have lost their capacity to study and face the examinations.Taking into consideration the plight of the students, the CBSE had postponed the Class X exam to July, however, the state government had issued a GO on May 20 stating that Class X examinations in the state would commence from June 15.Citing that students would face difficulties even to reach the exam centres, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeking-to-postpone-class-x-board-exam-withdrawn/articleshow/76185396.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mystery shrouds domestic help’s death at businessman’s home||HYDERABAD: A minor girl working as a domestic help for a couple died under suspicious circumstances in their Bachupally house. Borra Aparna (16) made a distress call to her mother on the morning of June 1 before she was found dead complaining of harassment from her employer, a businessman, police said. Aparna hailed from AP’s East Godavari district. According to police, a half-opened pesticide bottle was found in the room where Aparna was found unconscious on Monday morning. OGH doctors declared her brought dead. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to find out if she consumed the pesticide. The CCTV camera on the corridor shows she had gone into the room after 8.30 am. The employer found her lying a couple of hours later,” said Bachupally inspector P Jagadeeshwar. He said, “She did not seem distressed in the footage. However, we are investigating the case from all angles.” A suspicious death case was registered, while an autopsy was conducted on Wednesday. Arjamma said her daughter was 13 when she was hired by the couple — A Prasad and Sumalatha — who reside on Rajeev Gruhakalpa Road. “Four days prior to her death, Aparna sounded scared. Whenever I called her in the recent past, she would pester me to take her back home. We even requested the couple to drop her at our relative’s house, but they did not bother,” Arjamma told TOI. On Monday morning, Aparna called her mom from the watchman’s phone. “She seemed very scared. She said Sumalatha was harassing her and asked us to rescue her. That was the last she spoke to us. The family’s harassment led to my daughter’s death,” she said, crying inconsolably. Lisee Joseph of National Domestic Workers’ Association questioned the delay in registering a case by police. She said though the incident occurred on Monday morning, a case was registered on Tuesday after she and other activists intervened.  “Cops have failed to register a case for abetment of suicide and add sections of Juvenile Justice Act, SC/ST Atrocities Act and Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act in the FIR against the couple,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mystery-shrouds-domestic-helps-death-at-bizmans-home/articleshow/76185433.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Aim is to become more accessible to citizens: DGP||Vijayawada: Director general of police D Gautam Sawang on Wednesday reviewed the reforms and initiatives taken by the department since he took charge a year back. Addressing the media, Sawang said, “Technology has been used in all aspects of policing to make it more efficient, transparent and accessible to citizens. Seven cyber labs were established and 40 basic and 13 advanced field-responder kits were distributed to units.” Other technological enhancements within the police department includes APCOPS application to improve efficiency of police, integration of courts, prisons and police stations through ICJS. Digital platforms have been introduced for receiving petitions, including complaints of cyber harassment and cybercrime. Bringing up to speed on the current Covid-19 scenario in the state, Sawang pointed out that 70,000 police personnel and 58,000 home guards were mobilised to the frontline against Covid-19. About 686 relief camps were run for migrant workers and around 155 highway dhabas were made operational for people transporting essential supplies, he said. “Forty-five police personnel who were infected were immediately shifted to hospital and taken care of, resulting in all of them recovering. Police welfare desk was set up in all units for families of police personnel,” Sawang said. Health and age profiling is being done to ensure that high-risk personnel are not exposed to the virus,” Sawang added.  Describing the Disha Bill 2019 as historic as it has allowed speedy and accurate handling of cases, Sawang stated that 33 cases of rape and 134 sexual offences were dealt with in seven days. The Disha Act has registered five lakh downloads that was launched on February 8. Sawang said they have received 42,799 calls so far, of which 336 were actionable calls and 82 FIRs have been registered in their regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aim-is-to-become-more-accessible-to-citizens-dgp/articleshow/76183525.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Madurai||HC asks for details of schemes to put them in public domain||Madurai: The state government has been directed to submit details about all welfare schemes implemented by it including the ones announced during Covid-19, so that they can be placed in the public domain to make the public aware of these and avail them.The Madras high court was hearing a petition filed by N Malaikannu, founder of an NGO named Association for Rural Development and Upliftment of Humanity to Virtual Integrity, based at Ramanathapuram district seeking to provide relief to unregistered unorganised sector workers.Malaikannu stated that the state government had announced Rs 1,000 and essential commodities for them as Covid-19 relief. However, it had not reached unregistered unorganised sector workers as most of them are illiterate and not aware that they should register themselves with the welfare board. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. When the case was taken up for hearing on Wednesday, the additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted that the government had distributed relief amount of Rs 1,000 twice to 14,07,130 workers who are registered under 15 different welfare boards across the state.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi, while appreciating the government for the disbursal, said that the schemes are not available in public domain.The judges therefore called upon the AAG to collate all the welfare schemes including the ones that were announced during Covid-19 pandemic and submit the same as soft copy to the court. The judges further said that thereafter, the court would place those schemes in public domain, so that, people are made aware of them and they can approach the government authorities and the District Legal Services Authority to get benefits under the schemes applicable to them. The judges directed all the authorities to provide details about the welfare schemes implemented in the departments concerned to the AAG and adjourned the case to June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-for-details-of-schemes-to-put-them-in-public-domain/articleshow/76185395.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Fourth accused in Ludhiana’s Ghumar Mandi gold heist identified||LUDHIANA: In the 2kg gold dacoity from a jewellery shop in Ludhiana’s Ghumar Mandi on January 29, the Punjab Police has identified the fourth robber, too, as Shiv Preet. Even as the other three — Tejinder Singh, alias Teja, Vishnu, alias Sam, and Bhushan — have already been arrested, police have failed to make any recovery in the case. The Organised Crime and Control Unit (OCCU) had arrested Tejinder, the mastermind of the heist, from Mohali on June 1. A set of Punjab police uniform, along with an ID card of Seema Suraksha Bal, a paramilitary force of MHA, were seized from him. He also possessed a Chinese 30 calibre pistol, 10 cartridges and a Chevrolet Optra car and had fake Aadhaar card and driving licence. Police said Tejinder was mobilising funds for a spate of targeted killings as part of a pro-Khalistan agenda. AIG, counter-intelligence and OCCU, Gurmeet Singh Chauhan said, “We are investigating the radical links in the case as well as robbery of an SUV from Kharar which was used to commit the Ludhiana gold robbery. While three accused have been arrested, their fourth accomplice has been identified as Shiv Preet. He is on the run. Efforts are being made to identify those who gave them shelter and assistance before and after the dacoity.” One of the accused told during interrogation that after executing the heist, they fled to Delhi and Noida. “Following a fight over fair distribution of the loot, they parted ways. The three gang members were against Tejinder. No recovery has been made as they are blaming each other for possessing the robbed gold,” Chauhan added. Vishu was arrested by Khanna police on May 22. Deputy commissioner of police (detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said, “Bhushan was arrested the previous month and is in judicial custody. All accused are giving different statements to mislead investigation.” On January 29, four armed robbers had barged into VK Jewellers in Ghumar Mandi in broad-day light. After holding shop owner Vinay Jain and his employee captive, they had escaped with 2kg gold worth Rs 80 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fourth-accused-in-ghumar-mandi-gold-heist-identified/articleshow/76183524.cms||Payal Dhawan
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 49 fresh cases, Covid tally surges to 775||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded 49 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus from 12 districts on Wednesday. Along with two cases detected around midnight on Tuesday, the state tally of positive cases rose to 775, of which 448 are active, 322 have recovered (including one from Bokaro on Wednesday) and five have succumbed to the infection. Notable, 100 cases have been added in just the last two days. Returning migrants continued to account for a large chunk of patients. As per data released by the state unit of National Health Mission (NHM), 522 of the total caseloads are migrants who have arrived from red zones across the country. Of the fresh cases detected on Wednesday, East Sinhbhum recorded the maximum patients 11 persons testing positive, followed by Saraikela with nine cases. Simdega recorded eight cases, Palamu six, Ramgarh five, Latehar three and Ranchi, Bokaro, Gumla, Koderma, Hazaribag and West Singhbhum one each. The lone case from Ranchi is a dance teacher who had returned from Mumbai on April 26. “The 27 year old migrant from Mumbai had tested positive in his first test. However after he wasn’t sure of his test results he went for a repeat test five days after first test results of which came positive on Wednesday,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-49-fresh-cases-covid-tally-surges-to-775/articleshow/76184650.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Freeze on JCB machines for MNREGA works||CHATRA: The Chatra district administration on Wednesday put a freeze on the use of JCB earthmoving machines to ensure manual labourers, particularly migrants returning home, can get employment under MNREGA scheme. Chatra deputy development commissioner (DDC) Murli Manohar Prasad has sent notices to owners of JCB machines here, asking them not to provide the machines for projects under MNREGA. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Prasad said, “Migrant labourers have returned to the district in large numbers. To provide them with more avenues of employment, I have issued notices to 165 JCB owners asking them not to use the machines in MNREGA projects. If anyone is found violating the order, then they will face legal action and their machines will be seized.” Prasad also directed all block development officers in the district to inform JCB owners about the order. District officials said they have received complaints about implementing agencies using JCB machines to complete MNREGA projects, but maintaining false records of labourers to siphon off government funds. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Jitendra Kumar Singh terminated the services of 13 contractual employees of the district rural development authority for misusing funds to the tune of Rs 45 lakh, which was allocated for the construction of 40 roads and two ponds in 2016-2017. Rural development minister Alamgir Alam had ordered an inquiry in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/freeze-on-jcb-machines-for-mnrega-works/articleshow/76184593.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Mahto meets chairpersons of new standing committees||Ranchi: Speaker Rabindranath Mahto on Wednesday chaired a meeting of the chairpersons of the newly-formed assembly standing committees. The meeting, a customary affair, was attended by parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam and the chairpersons of the 23 committees. The appointed chairpersons of these committees are C P Singh, Neelkanth Singh Munda, Saryu Rai, Niral Purty, Bhushan Tirkey, Ramdas Soren, Dipak Birua, Ramchandra Chandravanshi, Umashankar Akela, Sudesh Mahto, Lobin Hembrom, Aparna Sengupta, Kedar Hazra, Savita Mahto, Sita Murmu, Sarfaraz Ahmed, Pradeep Yadav and Irfan Ansari. At the meeting, Mahto urged the committees to prepare reports and make recommendations which will help improve public administration. “Around 80% of all the recommendations made by the assembly standing committees are accepted by the government,” Mahto was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Jharkhand assembly. Later, Mahto also chaired a meeting of the members of the newly-formed committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mahto-meets-chairpersons-of-new-standing-committees/articleshow/76184474.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Gangster’s aide shot dead; cops suspect personal rivalry||Daltonganj/Dumka: Kunal Singh (35), known to be an aide of gangster Dabloo Singh of Phulaang village, was shot dead by unidentified criminals on Wednesday morning. The incident took place barely a kilometre away from the Town police station in Daltonganj. Kunal was found in his car with bullet injuries on his forehead and chest, said Palamu SP Ajay Linda, adding personal rivalry could be a reason behind his death. Police rushed Kunal, who was found in a t-shirt and a half pant, to a nursing home in Nawa Toli where he was declared brought dead. The number of assailants are yet to be ascertained as the incident happened early in the morning. Linda said, “The assailants were on four-wheelers which was deliberately collided with Kunal’s car before he was shot at.” Sources added, “Preliminary investigation shows the Kunal’s assailants either retreated on foot or may have fled on bikes.” Linda further said, “Five empty cartridges were recovered which indicates retaliatory shots were fired, but no weapon was found inside Kunal’s car.” Though Kunal was Dabloo’s trusted aide, of late, he was maintaining a distance from the latter and was trying to float his own business. Linda said, “We know Kunal was trying to launch his business and a probe is on to ascertain the type of business he was eyeing at.” Meanwhile, in Dumka, Chottu Das alias Dharmdeo Das (35) was shot dead by unknown assailants near his home in Thadi Dulampur village under Kundahit police station of Deoghar district on Wednesday. According to Chhotu’s younger brother Shankar, three men visited their home at 6am to discuss some land deal. “After checking the plot, the men engaged in a discussion over the price of the land and suddenly one of them opened fire and ran away,” said Shankar outside sadar hospital where Chhotu died later. Deoghar SDPO Vikash Chandra Srivastava said, “The accused are being identified. They escaped on a motorcycle after committing the crime. The incident appears to be an outcome of some land dispute among local mafia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gangsters-aide-shot-dead-cops-suspect-personal-rivalry/articleshow/76184449.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Six-year-old girl beats Covid in Koderma, wants to become a doctor||Koderma: Six-year-old Archana Rana, youngest among the 29 others who recently recovered from Covid-19 in Koderma district, now aspires to become a doctor. Archana and her mother Rekha are currently under home isolation in their village in Kakarcholi under Jainagar police station after the duo was released from Holy Family hospital on May 30. The duo, along with Archana’s father and her four-year-old brother, returned in a Shramik Special train from Surat on May 14. Samples were drawn from the four on May 15, following which, Archana and her mother tested positive on May 20 and were shifted to the Covid-19 hospital in the district. Till Wednesday, Koderma recorded 44 cases, of which one patient died and 14 are still active. Talking to TOI, Rekha said, “Our stay at the hospital became memorable as the doctors and other staff members were not only courteous, but also kept motivating us. My daughter made many friends in the hospital and after we returned, she started dreaming of becoming a doctor when she grows up.” Archana said, “I saw how they were treating so many people at the hospital and many called them god. When I grow up, I want to serve people by becoming a doctor.” Koderma DC Ramesh Gholap said the girl is very promising and tweeted a picture of her during her discharge and said he is glad to know that the girl wants to become a doctor. “Completely curing a patient of covid-19 is a challenge for all of us and a proud moment whenever we discharge them. Amid all this, I was elated when the girl promptly told me that she wants to become a doctor,” Gholap said. Archana’s father, Anand Rana, worked as a carpenter in Surat while her mother was a teacher at a private school where Archana studied. Rekha, said, “With the help of villagers and other family members, we are slowly returning to normal life, but the future is uncertain. We don’t want to return to Gujarat as migrants, but will we be able to eke out a decent living to fulfil our children’s dreams?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/six-year-old-girl-beats-covid-in-koderma-wants-to-become-a-doctor/articleshow/76184495.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Another batch of 180 migrants to be flown back from Port Blair today||Ranchi: Another contingent of 180 migrant workers of Jharkhand, who are stranded in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, will be evacuated by air on Thursday afternoon. A chartered flight, hired by the state government with financial support from a New Delhi-based company, Interlink Foods Private Limited, will take off from Port Blair’s Veer Savarkar International Airport at 3:30 pm. The aircraft will reach Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International airport around 6:30 pm. This will be the fourth batch of Jharkhand’s migrant workers who will reach Ranchi by air. On May 27, the alumni network of National Law School in Bengaluru sent 174 persons from Mumbai to Ranchi in a chartered commercial airliner. On May 29, 60 migrants were evacuated from Batalik sector in Leh and brought to Ranchi by two commercial airliners at the behest of the state government. On May 30, 180 migrants were flown back from Port Blair by the state government in a chartered Indigo flight. Announcing the evacuation, a statement from the office of chief minister Hemant Soren said, “Private companies are also participating in the CM’s mission to bring back Jharkhand’s migrant workers. The CM had urged the companies and industrialists to extend their help. Inspired by the CM’s efforts, a Delhi-based company, Interlink Foods Private Limited, has extended its help. With mutual consent of Jharkhand and Andaman & Nicobar and the company’s cooperation, the migrants will be brought back on June 4.” Sources in the CMO said a few more flights are being planned to evacuate stranded workers in Jammu & Kashmir. “After the CM’s public appeal, many corporate houses and trade and commerce bodies have called to seek for ways in which they can contribute to the return of migrants,” a government official said. As per data available with the state transport department, as many as 219 Shramik special trains have brought back 2.89 lakh migrants to Jharkhand since May 1. There are five more trains scheduled, including one each from Mizoram, Goa, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Besides the scheduled trains, Jharkhand government has written to the Indian Railways for operating 10 more special trains to bring back the remaining workers. Around 4.3 lakh people have been brought back in trains and buses so far, the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/another-batch-of-180-migrants-to-be-flown-back-from-port-blair-today/articleshow/76184677.cms||Dhritiman Ray
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Chatra man fakes kidnap, cops find him in forest||Ranchi: A contractor was booked for faking his own abduction and demanding a ransom amount of Rs 15 lakh from his relatives in order to tide over the financial losses incurred as a result of the lockdown, police said on Wednesday. On Wednesday, SDPO Chatra Varun Rajak said that a case was lodged with the Sadar police station on Monday by a relative of Verma, claiming that the latter has been kidnapped. On Tuesday, a special investigation team found Verma alone in a forest near Unta village on the Itkhori-Chauparan road. A mobile phone and Rs 3,800 have been seized from him, the SDPO added. A case under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Verma. During questioning, Verma said that pretending to be a kidnapper, he sent messages to his relatives demanding Rs 15 lakh for his release. In his messages to the relatives, he warned them against informing the police. Verma did not call up his family members to demand money. Chatra SP Rishav Jha said “Verma informed us that he was under pressure from his workers for payment and had no money. He used to supply workers to companies in Gujarat and was also responsible for their payment. However, due to the lockdown, he was not receiving money from the companies while the workers were asking for payment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-man-fakes-kidnap-cops-find-him-in-forest/articleshow/76184431.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ranchi||Female lion dies in Bokaro zoo||Bokaro: An 18-year-old female lion, Rameshwari, died at Jawaharlal Nehru Biological (JNB) Park, popularly known as Bokaro zoo, here on Wednesday morning. Later, the zoo authorities said Rameshwari passed away owing to a cardiac arrest. She was the only lion left in the zoo. Since 2009, Bokaro zoo has recorded the death of four lions. The JNB Park is owned and maintained by the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan said, “The lioness died due to a cardiac arrest. A blood clot was detected in her heart during autopsy. The carcass was cremated as per the norms.” A veterinarian with Bokaro zoo, Gautam Chakraborty, said: “Although the lioness was old, she was healthy and free from any disease. Till Tuesday evening, she was spotted wandering in her enclosure and ate all the meat given to her during the night. But around 9am on Wednesday, zoo staff found her dead. This was a shocking incident for all of us,” Chakraborty said. Rameshwari was born in 2002 at Maitri Bagh Zoo in Bhilai, Chhattisgarh and was brought along with her male partner to Bokaro zoo in December 2008 under the animal exchange programme. Her partner had died in 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/female-lion-dies-in-bokaro-zoo/articleshow/76184655.cms||Divy Khare
June 4, 2020||Business||FB, Instagram get rights to use Saregama music||Kolkata: RP-SG group entertainment firm Saregama India, which has the largest repertoire of Indian music, has entered into a licensing agreement with Facebook on Wednesday. With this global deal, Saregama can license its music for video and other social experiences across Facebook and Instagram. “This partnership will allow users to choose from a wide variety of music to add to their social experiences such as videos, stories via music stickers and other creative content. People will also be able to add songs to their Facebook Profile,” the company has said. Saregama is India’s oldest music label with a rich catalogue of over 100,000 songs across many different genres, including film songs, devotional music, ghazals & Indi-pop in more than 25 languages. Starting now, people will be able to use classics from legends likes Lata Mangeshkar, Kishore Kumar, Mohammed Rafi, Asha Bhosle, Gulzar, Jagjit Singh, R D Burman, Kalyanji Anandji, Geeta Dutt and Laxmikant Pyarelal, making their experience on the platform more vibrant, personal and engaging. Commenting on the partnership, Vikram Mehra, MD of Saregama India, said “We are pleased with this partnership as now millions of Facebook users will be able to add music from our vast catalogue to stories and videos they create and share.” Manish Chopra, director and head of partnerships, Facebook India, added, “At Facebook, we believe music is an integral part of self-expression and bringing people closer together and creating memories that last. We are very proud to partner with Saregama that will allow people on our platforms, globally, to use their favourite retro Indian music to further enrich their content on our platforms.” Formerly known as The Gramophone Company of India, Saregama owns the largest music archives in India, one of the biggest in the world. The ownership of nearly 50% of all the music ever recorded in India also makes Saregama the most authoritative repository of the country’s musical heritage. Saregama also has expanded into other branches of entertainment — publishing, film production and digital content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fb-instagram-get-rights-to-use-saregama-music/articleshow/76185410.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Home quarantine now 7 days for all arriving in Delhi||The 14-day mandatory home quarantine for all asymptomatic passengers arriving in Delhi was on Wednesday reduced to seven days by the state government. The order was issued according to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. Chief secretary Vijay Dev directed airport, railway and transport department authorities to submit passenger lists to the revenue department daily. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The DMs, who will then be forwarded the lists, have been asked to ensure the returnees staying in their areas strictly follow home quarantine rules. Special CEO of Delhi disaster management authority K S Meena has been designated nodal officer for the entire exercise. Watch Home quarantine rules changes for all arriving in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-quarantine-now-7-days-for-all-arriving-in-delhi/articleshow/76186611.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Letter to education dept was routine: Governor’s office||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat’s governor’s office clarified on Wednesday that a letter titled ‘Continuous disrespect and humiliation of the Hon’ble Chancellor (Governor’s) letters by the department of education’ referred only to an applicant’s grievances. The Raj Bhavan had forwarded the letter to the state government.Arvind Joshi, the principal secretary to the governor at the Raj Bhavan secretariat, said: “One Sanjay Desai, a syndicate member of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University, had made some representations to the Raj Bhavan secretariat regarding the university.” Joshi went on to say: “According to the routine office procedure, the Raj Bhavan secretariat forwarded the representation of the applicant to the state government in the education department (sic).”On Wednesday, TOI had published an article headlined ‘Gujarat Governor says education department disregarded him’.“We have not instructed the education department to initiate any inquiry into the matter but have simply requested it to do the needful and intimate the applicant about the same,” Joshi said. “The Raj Bhavan’s letter was merely forwarded to the education department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/letter-to-education-dept-was-routine-governors-office/articleshow/76184912.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Business||US launches probe into tax on Amazon, Netflix||NEW DELHI: The US has launched an investigation against several countries, including India, on the levy of digital service tax, in what is seen as the latest trade offensive by the Trump administration to help Google, Facebook and e-commerce players such as Amazon and Netflix avoid levies. The US Trade Representative’s (USTR) section 301 investigation comes barely two months after India imposed a 2% equalisation levy on e-commerce companies, four years after it had introduced the tax on the revenues generated on business-to-business digital advertisements and allied services. Apart from India, the European Union, the UK, Austria, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Indonesia, Italy, Spain, and Turkey are included. Indian officials, however, said that the action is not targeted at India as it is meant to deal with the issue of digital taxation. “Moreover, this is a consultative process that stems from initial concerns with India’s equalisation levy. USTR has stated that it will solicit comments from the US public regarding the potential impact of policies such as India’s equalisation levy. Hence, USTR is still collecting facts regarding India’s policy and it may emerge that India’s equalisation levy does not qualify as an unfair trade practice,” an official said. In the case of France, where the probe found the policy to be unfair and a burden on US commerce, no tariffs have been imposed as the two sides are negotiating an outcome. “This is a larger trade issue, there are many of similar nature that companies will try to press and the US will try and support. By larger trade issues, it means there are issues like data localisation, where they (US firms) have pushed back, and privacy laws,” said Rahul Matthan, partner (head of technology practice) at law firm Trilegal. The extension of the levy to e-commerce players had prompted those such as Netflix to seek a clarification from the government, while lobby groups such as the Internet and Mobile Association of India pleaded with the government to roll it back on the ground that it would impose an “additional burden of new regulatory and compliance requirements”, amid the virus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/us-launches-probe-into-tax-on-amazon-netflix/articleshow/76186634.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nurses at AIIMS warn of indefinite strike||NEW DELHI: The AIIMS Nurses Union, protesting for the past three days over poor working condition, on Wednesday warned the administration that they would go on an indefinite strike from June 15 if their concerns were not addressed. More than 300 people working at the institute, including 47 nursing staff, have tested positive for Covid-19. In a fresh mail to AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, the union said no heed had been paid in task force meetings to their letters and regular representations. “At this difficult juncture...we are still left unheard by the AIIMS authorities. So we have been forced to resort to severe steps, including mass casual leave on June 10,” the mail read. If the union has to go on an indefinite strike, the AIIMS administration will be responsible for all consequences, the mail added. Seeking a prompt meeting with the director, the union said, “We also do not want to go for strike during this difficult time.” The union is demanding implementation of a uniform four-hour shift with personal protective equipment in Covid-19 areas of the Centre-run hospital, a uniform rotation policy between Covid and non-Covid areas, and establishment of proper donning and doffing areas. Union president Harish Kajla earlier said working at a stretch for six hours, which often extended to seven-eight hours, in PPEs was affecting the physical well-being of the nursing staff, especially women. “Several of us are getting rashes and urinary tract infections while many have lost weight,” Kajla said. Women can’t even change sanitary pads as “a PPE cannot be taken off just like that”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-nurses-at-aiims-warn-of-indefinite-strike/articleshow/76186639.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Goa||Misinformation causes panic-buying in Vasco||Vasco: Fear reigned all over Vasco after a post on social media stating that the port town would be locked down from 5pm on Wednesday till June 8 went viral. With no authority to counter the misinformation, the rumour spread like wild fire. Throwing caution to the wind, people rushed to supermarkets, grocery stores, vegetable and fruit markets, etc, to stock up on essential commodities. No social distancing was maintained. Crowds and long queues were seen everywhere. The police watched helplessly as chaotic scenes were witnessed in the port town. Karim Mulla, an event manager from Sada, said, “It's not the fault of the public. Vascoites lacked guidance today. Nobody cleared the air. People were scared that in case there is a sudden lockdown, as it happened earlier, they might be left high and dry without essential items.” “The callousness of the public today has surely put Vasco town under more risk of Covid-19, as people didn’t seem to care about the pandemic even after 40 cases were reported from the Mangor Hill area,” Vikram Sarmalkar, an activist, said. The scenario was the same even at New Vaddem, Baina, Shantinagar, Sada, etc. Chetan Naik, a resident of Baina, was upset as he said that many shopkeepers and vendors had suddenly increased prices of essential commodities. “A one-litre packet of oil costing Rs 90 was sold at Rs 120-130. The prices of potatoes, onions, and vegetables have also shot up,” Naik said. When contacted, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida said that although he has been asking for a complete lockdown in Vasco, no such intimation had been received from the government. Former Vasco MLA and revenue minister Jose Philip D'Souza said, “It is very sad to see that people had no clue of what was happening. The MMC councillors and the local MLA should work hard. They should have had a proper plan in place on to how the city should be run amidst this pandemic. A strategy should be worked out on how to keep Vascoites safe.” A source from the Mormugao disaster management cell said that they received many calls from locals asking about the lockdown rumour. He said the social media post was the main reason behind the entire confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/misinformation-causes-panic-buying-in-vasco/articleshow/76185692.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Coronavirus: Karnataka records 1,780 infections in just 8 days||BENGALURU: Forty-four per cent of Karnataka’s 4,063 coronavirus cases occurred in a span of just eight days, between May 27 and June 3. These infections, 1,780, coincided with the return of thousands of people who had been living or working in other states, and led to several grim milestones in the form of highest single-day spikes. The indications started to emerge in the second week of May. In fact, Karnataka crossed the 1,000-mark only on May 15 and in the next few weeks, it recorded over 3,000 cases. Of the 1,780 cases seen between May 27 and June 3, 1,554 (87 per cent) tested positive after arriving in Karnataka from other states. The majority, 83 per cent, had travelled from Maharashtra. On June 3, Karnataka reported 267 new Covid-19 patients. Of these, 232 had a Maharashtra travel link. The influx of returnees has reduced the number of days for cases to double in Karnataka. In the first week of May, it took 17 days for cases to double. This period is now 11 days. The number of infections topped 1,000 only on May 15, which means that daily additions in absolute numbers were never as high as they are now. “The priority now is to test those returning from other states as they continue to add to the cases here. This is particularly true about those coming from Maharashtra, which is still a red zone,” said Dr MK Sudharshan, chairman of the Karnataka Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, said. Karnataka’s current daily testing capacity is about 12,000. As of the morning on June 3, the state had tested 2.7 lakh people. Of these, 1.4 lakh were people who had returned from other states, whereas 8,856 had international travel history. About 1.4 per cent of the 2.7 lakh tested have been diagnosed with Covid-19. Of the 1.4 lakh domestic returnees who were tested, 1.7 per cent have been confirmed as being infected. This sharp upward trend in the number of infections is likely to continue for a few more weeks as more people are expected to arrive in the state. On May 25, the number of applications for travel to Karnataka from Maharashtra stood at nearly 1.7 lakh. The current figure is 71,168, which is 30 per cent of the total 2.3 lakh applications submitted to Karnataka’s Seva Sindhu portal. A senior official said that at least 1 lakh people had returned from Maharashtra and over 2 lakh overall. “While the process is completely handled through the Seva Sindhu portal, we have learned that there are duplications in applications, where the same people have applied for passes in two categories. Such applications are being weeded out,” said Gunjan Krishna, commissioner for industrial development, who is now the nodal officer for Maharashtra migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-records-1780-infections-in-just-8-days/articleshow/76186648.cms||Chethan Kumar
June 4, 2020||Nagpur||In week before Env Day, country sees cleanest air in 5 years||Nagpur: This year, the week leading to World Environment Day on Friday has been the cleanest in the country compared to last five years, reveals government data assessed by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). As per the analysis of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the average levels of toxic pollutant particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in the country have seen a drastic fall. From 81 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) in 2016, the seven-day average between May 28 to June 3 came down to 28 mpcm this year. The levels of another toxic pollutant nitrogen dioxide (NO2) too saw similar improvements during the week before World Environment Day. From 31 mpcm in 2017, 2018 and 32 mpcm last year, the levels fell to 17 mpcm this year. According to experts, various factors are responsible for the improvement in the country’s air quality. “In the earlier years, only few major cities were a part of the national air quality monitoring programme. However, now, air quality of more than 100 cities is being monitored which has led to significant fall in the average levels,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at CREA. Another major reason is the reduction in anthropogenic activities due to the nationwide lockdown. “Meteorological conditions too have contributed in making the air cleaner,” added Dahiya. Experts feel there is a need for stringent measures to maintain the improved air quality. “There should be a national air quality policy which will be applicable to all industries as well as government establishments and individual construction. Also, illegal tree felling needs to be stopped and there needs to be authentic compensatory plantation against every development work which need to be controlled by the government and presented on public domain at the planning stage itself,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil Foundation. The government needs to seriously implement the air action plan prepared for cities, said Leena Budhe, director of Nagpur’s Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD). “We cannot afford to have a lockdown for better air quality. Clean air should take the front seat,” she added. Stressing on the need for stricter laws, Chatterjee said, “Laws should be framed in a way that the National Green Tribunal should have more say in projects related to environment. The government should promote sustainable approach related to every activity. More subsidies and financial advantages should be given for adopting less polluting technologies.” Dahiya added that efforts towards implementing the Bharat Stage-6 norms for vehicles, effective public transport and boosting clean energy should be taken for maintaining good air quality. Table 1: Reduction in PM2.5 levels  2016-----------2017------------2018--------2019----------2020 May 28---111-------------47--------------84--------------53--------------34 May 29----78---------------48-------------79--------------59---------------26 May 30------87------------74------------55----------------66----------------24 May 31-------84---------50----------------60-------------64-----------------21 June 1----------59----------68---------------63-------------65----------------28 June 2----------67------------84--------------52--------------57---------------30 June 3-----------84------------79--------------57------------52-----------------32 7-DAY AVG-------81----------64--------------64------------59-----------------28 Reduction in NO2  2016-----------------2017-------------2018------------2019----------2020 May 28---20--------------------27-------------------39-------------35--------------15 May 29---20--------------------28--------------------35-------------39--------------16 May 30-----24-----------------29--------------------28----------------40-------------15 May 31-----29-----------------31--------------------32------------------33--------------14 June 1-------27-----------------33-------------------31----------------31----------------18 June 2-------26----------------35----------------------28---------------22----------------19 June 3----------33-------------36-------------------------26------------------23-----------20 7-day avg--------26-------------31-----------------------31----------------------32-------17||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-week-before-env-day-country-sees-cleanest-air-in-5-years/articleshow/76216533.cms||Manka Behl
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: High screen time spurs sale of blue-lens eyewear||BENGALURU: The demand for blue-lens spectacles has increased significantly as people spend more time staring at mobile and computer screens while working or studying. Such lenses filter blue light from screens of electronic devices and are thought to offer a certain degree of protection to eyes. Many optical stores in the city said the sales of the lenses had shot up with the advent of work-from-home arrangements and online classes. “I work from home for over 11 hours, spending most of this time in front of the screen. After I started getting watery eyes, the doctor advised me to using blue lens,” said IT professional Kishore Surendra. The owner of an optical store in Jayanagar said several people had been ordering or enquiring about anti-blue light and anti-glare spectacles. “The demand has increased by almost 60 per cent,” he added. Titan, the largest producer of eyewear in the country, said blue-filter lenses accounted for a significant chunk of its overall sales. “Earlier, blue-filter lens used to contribute less than 40 per cent to our lens sales, but now it contributes 55 per cent as people are more aware and cautious about their health,” Shalini Gupta, marketing head of Titan, told TOI. “Across metros, the number of people purchasing this has increased. In Maharashtra and Chennai, we are receiving more online orders due to the Covid-19 situation in those places.” Jaiswal Opticals, one of the largest distributors of eyewear in Karnataka, also said that orders for blue-lens spectacles had gone up drastically. “Many stores across the city are now demanding new designs with blue-cut lenses. We have increased our supplies,” said Pradeep Jaiswal, owner of Jaiswal Opticals. Blue-filter or blue-cut lenses come with a special coating which blocks the harmful blue light from screens of electronic devices. Prolonged exposure to blue light can cause retinal damage, according to ophthalmologists. Dr Bhujang Shetty, founder of Narayan Nethralaya, said that blue-filter lenses reduced eye strain and were recommended for people using digital screens for long hours. “Due to lack of outdoor activities children and adults are spending more time on digital screens and the overall digital time has increased by 70 per cent, putting eyes under tremendous strain,” Shetty said. “On an average, a person blinks close to 20 times a minute but due to screen usage, the blinking count reduces to 5-7 times which causes damage to the cornea.” Shetty suggested the 20-20 exercise: looking at an object which is 20 feet away for 20 seconds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-high-screen-time-spurs-sale-of-blue-lens-eyewear/articleshow/76186644.cms||Nithya Mandyam
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Unlock 1.0: Mumbai housing societies script rules for new normal||MUMBAI: As Unlock 1.0 begins, housing societies across the city are taking their first tentative steps to opening up. While restrictions on outsiders continue to be in place, several societies are allowing technicians, plumbers, electricians and delivery persons with mandatory checks. Thermal screening and Aarogya Setu app are a must at many places now. But allowing maids, shifting of tenants and flat renovation work before monsoon remain grey areas as the state's 'Mission Begin Again' document is silent on these aspects. The managing committee of Prathamesh Residency in Andheri has decided to allow maids and drivers inside the society from June 8. Outsiders will be allowed to use only the visitors' elevator, said managing committee member Ruiee Kapoor. A separate toilet also has been allotted for drivers and security personnel, she added. However, the society is yet to include guests in their new normal. For residents, use of masks and sanitiser during entry and exit is a must. "Though the government has relaxed the lockdown norms, we all need to be doubly vigilant now," she said.  At another gated community near Jacob's Circle, rules that prevented residents from stepping out without prior permission from the 'Covid-19 committee' in the housing society have been relaxed. Some socs limit visitors, others use thermal screeningResidents can now freely return to work, visit a bank, or step out for medicines without seeking approval, in line with the state government’s recent decision to “unlock” . At another society in Versova, technicians are being allowed entry into flats to fix broken appliances, but not without the society management’s permission. “Forms with the technician’s details have to be filled up a day in advance and submitted to the management. If the form is approved, the technician needs to undergo thermal screening and a check on the Aarogya Setu app on his arrival. “The security guard clicks his picture and posts it on the society’s WhatsApp group. A designated volunteer then steps down and goes through the ID and address proof submitted by the technician,” said Priya Ram, a resident. The volunteer then logs onto the BMC’s website to ensure the technician’s residence is not in a containment zone. The resident has to ensure the technician wears a mask and gloves. The society has capped the number of handymen at four a day. The residents of Lodha Amara in Thane recently received an update on the new set rules. Thermal screening at the main gate is mandatory for every individual entering, said secretary of one of the clusters, Siddharth Gaikwad. The complex is taking extra care to clean frequently touched surfaces, he added. Rajeev Saxena, chairman of the Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association’s Covid taskforce, said thermal screening, masks and sanitizing have become mandatory at most housing societies, while some have even procured pulse oximeters. As societies are still divided on the issue of allowing maids, the association has written to the government seeking clarity. “Though the Mission Begin Again document allows selfemployed people into the society, domestic helps are not mentioned. Some societies have interpreted domestic helps as self-employed and are allowing them, but many are still awaiting government guidelines. We have been getting 15-20 calls daily seeking clarity on the issue,” said Saxena. The association has requested the government to come out with clear guidelines on entry of maids, shifting of tenants and flat renovation work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unlock-1-0-mumbai-housing-societies-script-rules-for-new-normal/articleshow/76186652.cms||Yogita Rao
June 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Michael Lobo pitches for monitoring of all slum-like dwellings||PANAJI: The spread of the novel coronavirus in Mangor Hill has shown that slum-like dwellings or ‘bastis’ are susceptible to rapid transmission of the virus, rural development minister Michael Lobo said. Lobo, who met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday, has called for monitoring all areas where houses are in close proximity. Lobo identified the slum-like dwellings at Merces, Chimbel, Zuarinagar, Mapusa, Aradi in Parra and around Margao as vulnerable places. “Orders will have to go from the chief minister’s office to the deputy collectors of those areas and they will have to take a meeting of the chief officers or panchayat members along with the people of those areas. To stop any community transmission, to avoid community transmission happening, we have to stop people coming from outside the state to stay in those areas,” he said. Civil supplies minister Govind Gaude also shared Lobo’s concern and raised the issue with the chief minister. “It is mandatory for us now to check the bastis around. Those who enter Vasco should be stopped and those who usually go out should be stopped. If the transmission continues and spreads out of Vasco, then Goa will be in trouble,” he said. Interestingly, while Lobo claimed that community transmission has begun in Mangor Hill, Sawant has termed the fresh outbreak as “local transmission”. “Like Dharavi in Mumbai where the cases are spreading, Mangor Hill is a similar situation. Shanties, where houses are close together, there are common walls, we have to keep a watch and take precautions,” said Lobo. The rural development minister has called on social workers, NGOs, panchayat members and others to keep a close watch on the arrival of outsiders in slum-like dwellings as the virus could spread quickly in such areas. He said that keeping the state’s borders closed is no longer an option. However, Lobo said that Goa’s present situation is not conducive for the opening of the hospitality sector. “There is community transmission happening and it is not in the interest of Goa to start resorts and hotels as more tourists will come and stay. It is not the right time. We will take another review and if things go a little bad, we will have to take strict measures, malls will have to be shut,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-for-monitoring-of-hutments-in-zuarinagar-mapusa-margao/articleshow/76185143.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Govt’s paperless push to streamline functions||BENGALURU: A fresh push for paperless governance, prompted by the coronavirus pandemic, is expected to streamline administrative functions, free up manpower for stretched government departments, and perhaps open up the work-from-home option for employees. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday night issued an order for mandatory use of ‘e-Office’ for administrative purposes. Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar also communicated the same to various departments. e-Office, an electronic system for clearing files, was launched in November 2019. Both bureaucrats and ministers have been reluctant to use it. In fact, only two of the 28 members in Yediyurappa’s cabinet have used the system so far, according to government officials. The two cabinet members are deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and mines and geology minister CC Patil. This will now change as Yediyurappa has made the system adoption compulsory. An official in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said going online would reduce physical handling of files and papers, cutting chances of infection. The move will also improve efficiency and resource utilisation. “In every office, there are scores of Group C and D officials whose basic job is to sign on files and take them from one desk to another. In the CMO, too, there are many such employees. The online system will free up such employees for other work,” the official said. With the state’s finances under pressure, the government is reportedly looking to rationalise departments by shifting a section of officials to divisions facing a staff shortage. The online switch will also prevent unnecessary delays in clearing files. The said system tracks a file from the minute it is opened to the moment it is processed. It also records the time a file spends with every administrative function. Narayan said the system was very convenient and had helped his department to dispose of cases quickly. “Apart from transparency, it offers another benefit: it weeds out middlemen and excess government personnel in any department,” he said. Some government employees claimed there had been no training for the system switch in the secretariat. “While an online mechanism for clearance of files has been in place in districts like Udupi and Shivamogga for over 12 years, the e-Office system has not been installed in the offices of all ministers and bureaucrats,” CS Shadakshari, president of the Government Secretariat Employees’ Association. He added that there was no staff redundancy in any department. Another CMO official said the focus on paperless functions could also pave the way for remote work arrangements. “We are looking at the possibility of providing more WFH roles to government employees,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-paperless-push-to-streamline-govt-functions-free-up-manpower/articleshow/76186661.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
June 4, 2020||Goa||Home guard tests +ve, Vasco police station sanitised||Vasco: The entire Vasco police station premises, including barracks, offices of the traffic cell and police station, among others, were sanitised by the Vasco fire station personnel on Wednesday after a home guard attached to the traffic cell there tested positive for Covid-19. The home guard, who is the neighbour of the Mangor hill fisherman who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday, had visited the Vasco police station barracks on Monday. Vasco traffic cell police inspector (PI), Sudesh Narvekar said, “He is a home guard and usually does not come to the police station. But, on Monday he came and directly went to the barracks to rest. On Tuesday, he was found to be positive after which we decided to sanitise the entire premises.” “On Tuesday and Wednesday, 32 traffic police personnel underwent tests and 12 will be tested on Thursday. So far the reports have been negative,” Narvekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/home-guard-tests-ve-vasco-police-station-sanitised/articleshow/76185175.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: One more fireman dies, fifth casualty in force in 2 weeks||MUMBAI: A fireman, Pandit Keshav Salgaonkar, posted at Kurla fire station died of Covid-19 in Nair hospital on Wednesday. It is the fifth death in the Mumbai fire brigade in nearly two weeks. Till Wednesday, more than 50 firemen have tested positive, of which 17 are recuperating in hospitals and 20 are in quarantine. Firemen are engaged in fumigation across the city, including coronavirus-affected zones. The Mumbai fire brigade has engaged 17 quick response vehicles and 16 mist-blowing machines to sanitise hospitals, containment zones and buildings. Till May 30, they had sanitised 7,742 buildings in slum clusters and containment zones, including 368 hospitals/nursing homes, 275 BMC offices, bus depots and police stations. They also sanitised 7,016 common areas in containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-one-more-fireman-dies-fifth-casualty-in-force-in-2-weeks/articleshow/76186669.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 4, 2020||Goa||Commence community testing, says oppn leader||Panaji: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat on Wednesday urged the government to release a detailed report on the spread of the novel coronavirus in Goa and the steps being taken by the directorate of health to combat the pandemic. Kamat said that a white paper report on the covid-19 situation would help dispel the rumours circulating in the state. “The government must release a white paper on Covid-19 and maintain complete transparency in corona testing protocol. We have always asked for community testing in the state and if this is done then a lot of issues can be sorted out,” said the Congress MLA. The former chief minister urged the government to consult healthcare experts to draft a strategy on herd immunity for Goa. “Expedite community testing and explore expert opinion on herd immunity with social awareness,” said Kamat. Reacting to the detection of Covid-19 cases in Mangor hill, Kamat said the cases detected could be the ‘tip of the iceberg’ and the government needs to step up preventive measures. Meanwhile, the Congress’ media convenor for Goa, Trajano Dmello said that CM Pramod Sawant remains in denial about community transmission in Goa. Sawant said that the cases in Mangor, Vasco did not amount to community transmission but was a case of local transmission. Given that one of the persons detected positive had come in contact with fish trucks coming from Karnataka, the Congress said that the border staff should be screened. “SSC students who answered at the Mangor center should be screened along with all staff involved,” said Dmello.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commence-community-testing-says-oppn-leader/articleshow/76185220.cms||---
June 4, 2020||Faridabad||Noida: Offices unlock, borders stay in gridlock||NOIDA/NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: While more offices and businesses in NCR are opening up, all borders are not. After a month of confusion, the Gurugram and Faridabad borders saw a relative ease in the flow of traffic on Wednesday as police removed barricades. But at Delhi’s borders with Noida and Ghaziabad, it was a different story. With fewer lanes open, both Delhi and Noida police checking every vehicle for valid passes and not everyone even having passes, the tailbacks kept getting longer on both sides of the DND Flyway and Chilla border. And some commuters ended up waiting for as long as two and a half hours, before turning back. “I left home, at Amrapali Village Apartment in Indirapuram, around 9am for a surgery scheduled at 11am. But I was stuck in the jam for two and a half hours and didn’t even reach UP Gate. Traffic was not moving because Delhi Police were checking vehicles at the Delhi border. Around 11.30am, I decided to turn back. I had to ask another doctor to take over the surgery for me,” said Dr Swati Sinha, an obstetrician-gynaecologist at Sitaram Bhartia Hospital in Delhi. With offices opening up, a significant volume of traffic was that of office-goers. “I started from my home at Shakti Khand in Indirapuram at 9.15am for my office on Lodhi Road. It doesn’t take more than 35-40 minutes, usually. But on Wednesday, when I got to DME, it was chock-a-block. I had never seen such a mess on the roads,” said Ankit Gupta, a resident of Indirapuram. “After one and a half hours, I could only make it to the toll plaza before Ghazipur landfill. Even after crossing that, there was congestion.” Many of those who patiently made it to the border were turned back because they didn’t have passes. Some tried showing official letterheads, but that didn’t cut it.  “I needed to get a few things from my employer, who lives in south Delhi. I did not have a pass, not at such short notice. As a result, I couldn’t cross over,” said Mohan Sharma, a 36-year-old carpenter from Greater Noida. So there had to be some workarounds. Mohan asked his employer to come to the border, where he got the material he needed from his employer, and then turned back. Rajesh Kumar, sales manager at a private bank, too, said he needed to go to the Delhi office from Sector 50 in Noida to hand over some documents. He didn’t have a pass. “So I had to call another employee to came to DND, I handed over the papers at the border and came back to Noida.” Some others were seen arguing with police officers about passes. The Centre had, after all, allowed inter-state movement. But the Noida and Ghaziabad district administrations and Delhi government had not. And that’s the hold-up. “When a vehicle approaches the border post, the driver should keep the pass ready. People start looking for their papers after they get to the check point and that adds to the delay. If we ask them to pull over and park by the side, that also causes a jam. All we request is that people commute only if they have valid passes and ID,” a police officer posted at a checking point said. “Police could at least open more lanes on both sides so ease the pressure. At least half an hour is wasted just waiting,” said Rituraj Sahdev, on his way back to Noida from Delhi. But in Noida, police were not considering that. “With Delhi police also checking vehicles, traffic pressure has eased on both sides of DND. A maximum of three lanes are being used,” DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/offices-unlock-borders-stay-in-gridlock/articleshow/76186630.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 4, 2020||Ghaziabad||Noida: Offices unlock, borders stay in gridlock||NOIDA/NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: While more offices and businesses in NCR are opening up, all borders are not. After a month of confusion, the Gurugram and Faridabad borders saw a relative ease in the flow of traffic on Wednesday as police removed barricades. But at Delhi’s borders with Noida and Ghaziabad, it was a different story. With fewer lanes open, both Delhi and Noida police checking every vehicle for valid passes and not everyone even having passes, the tailbacks kept getting longer on both sides of the DND Flyway and Chilla border. And some commuters ended up waiting for as long as two and a half hours, before turning back. “I left home, at Amrapali Village Apartment in Indirapuram, around 9am for a surgery scheduled at 11am. But I was stuck in the jam for two and a half hours and didn’t even reach UP Gate. Traffic was not moving because Delhi Police were checking vehicles at the Delhi border. Around 11.30am, I decided to turn back. I had to ask another doctor to take over the surgery for me,” said Dr Swati Sinha, an obstetrician-gynaecologist at Sitaram Bhartia Hospital in Delhi. With offices opening up, a significant volume of traffic was that of office-goers. “I started from my home at Shakti Khand in Indirapuram at 9.15am for my office on Lodhi Road. It doesn’t take more than 35-40 minutes, usually. But on Wednesday, when I got to DME, it was chock-a-block. I had never seen such a mess on the roads,” said Ankit Gupta, a resident of Indirapuram. “After one and a half hours, I could only make it to the toll plaza before Ghazipur landfill. Even after crossing that, there was congestion.” Many of those who patiently made it to the border were turned back because they didn’t have passes. Some tried showing official letterheads, but that didn’t cut it.  “I needed to get a few things from my employer, who lives in south Delhi. I did not have a pass, not at such short notice. As a result, I couldn’t cross over,” said Mohan Sharma, a 36-year-old carpenter from Greater Noida. So there had to be some workarounds. Mohan asked his employer to come to the border, where he got the material he needed from his employer, and then turned back. Rajesh Kumar, sales manager at a private bank, too, said he needed to go to the Delhi office from Sector 50 in Noida to hand over some documents. He didn’t have a pass. “So I had to call another employee to came to DND, I handed over the papers at the border and came back to Noida.” Some others were seen arguing with police officers about passes. The Centre had, after all, allowed inter-state movement. But the Noida and Ghaziabad district administrations and Delhi government had not. And that’s the hold-up. “When a vehicle approaches the border post, the driver should keep the pass ready. People start looking for their papers after they get to the check point and that adds to the delay. If we ask them to pull over and park by the side, that also causes a jam. All we request is that people commute only if they have valid passes and ID,” a police officer posted at a checking point said. “Police could at least open more lanes on both sides so ease the pressure. At least half an hour is wasted just waiting,” said Rituraj Sahdev, on his way back to Noida from Delhi. But in Noida, police were not considering that. “With Delhi police also checking vehicles, traffic pressure has eased on both sides of DND. A maximum of three lanes are being used,” DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/offices-unlock-borders-stay-in-gridlock/articleshow/76186629.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 4, 2020||Goa||Quarantined pregnant women want to go home||Panaji: At least a dozen pregnant women who arrived on the first direct Vande Bharat flight to Goa from Dubai and have been forced to undergo institutional quarantine are waiting for their test results in the hope that they will be sent home. One of the ladies entering her eighth month of pregnancy got a doctor to check her blood pressure and sugar at her quarantine centre at Patto, on Wednesday. “I’m close to my delivery date and I’m getting very apprehensive. Clause 2 of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines for international arrivals clearly state that pregnant women be sent on home quarantine, but authorities are not listening to us. What happens if my contractions start,” she said. She told TOI that she has hasn’t been able to rest either as she has to take care of her four-year-old child, who travelled with her from Dubai. The lady booked her ticket to travel to Goa in March but got stuck when the lockdown kicked in. Another woman in her fourth month of pregnancy told TOI that the excuse given to them that the state has set stricter guidelines than MHA would have been acceptable if the Goa government has published these. “You can’t expect to come here and then be told that the SOP has been changed. The health secretary also said we violated norms we signed but there should have been clear SOPs published ,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quarantined-pregnant-women-want-to-go-home/articleshow/76185250.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 4, 2020||Noida||Noida: Offices unlock, borders stay in gridlock||NOIDA/NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: While more offices and businesses in NCR are opening up, all borders are not. After a month of confusion, the Gurugram and Faridabad borders saw a relative ease in the flow of traffic on Wednesday as police removed barricades. But at Delhi’s borders with Noida and Ghaziabad, it was a different story. With fewer lanes open, both Delhi and Noida police checking every vehicle for valid passes and not everyone even having passes, the tailbacks kept getting longer on both sides of the DND Flyway and Chilla border. And some commuters ended up waiting for as long as two and a half hours, before turning back. “I left home, at Amrapali Village Apartment in Indirapuram, around 9am for a surgery scheduled at 11am. But I was stuck in the jam for two and a half hours and didn’t even reach UP Gate. Traffic was not moving because Delhi Police were checking vehicles at the Delhi border. Around 11.30am, I decided to turn back. I had to ask another doctor to take over the surgery for me,” said Dr Swati Sinha, an obstetrician-gynaecologist at Sitaram Bhartia Hospital in Delhi. With offices opening up, a significant volume of traffic was that of office-goers. “I started from my home at Shakti Khand in Indirapuram at 9.15am for my office on Lodhi Road. It doesn’t take more than 35-40 minutes, usually. But on Wednesday, when I got to DME, it was chock-a-block. I had never seen such a mess on the roads,” said Ankit Gupta, a resident of Indirapuram. “After one and a half hours, I could only make it to the toll plaza before Ghazipur landfill. Even after crossing that, there was congestion.” Many of those who patiently made it to the border were turned back because they didn’t have passes. Some tried showing official letterheads, but that didn’t cut it.  “I needed to get a few things from my employer, who lives in south Delhi. I did not have a pass, not at such short notice. As a result, I couldn’t cross over,” said Mohan Sharma, a 36-year-old carpenter from Greater Noida. So there had to be some workarounds. Mohan asked his employer to come to the border, where he got the material he needed from his employer, and then turned back. Rajesh Kumar, sales manager at a private bank, too, said he needed to go to the Delhi office from Sector 50 in Noida to hand over some documents. He didn’t have a pass. “So I had to call another employee to came to DND, I handed over the papers at the border and came back to Noida.” Some others were seen arguing with police officers about passes. The Centre had, after all, allowed inter-state movement. But the Noida and Ghaziabad district administrations and Delhi government had not. And that’s the hold-up. “When a vehicle approaches the border post, the driver should keep the pass ready. People start looking for their papers after they get to the check point and that adds to the delay. If we ask them to pull over and park by the side, that also causes a jam. All we request is that people commute only if they have valid passes and ID,” a police officer posted at a checking point said. “Police could at least open more lanes on both sides so ease the pressure. At least half an hour is wasted just waiting,” said Rituraj Sahdev, on his way back to Noida from Delhi. But in Noida, police were not considering that. “With Delhi police also checking vehicles, traffic pressure has eased on both sides of DND. A maximum of three lanes are being used,” DCP (Noida) Sankalp Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/offices-unlock-borders-stay-in-gridlock/articleshow/76185881.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 4, 2020||India||RPF jawan from Gwalior to be first 'Captain Rlys'||NEW DELHI: If the US has ‘Captain America’ to look up to in times of distress, the world’s largest passenger carrier will now have its own ‘Captain Railways’. But unlike the popular film character based on American comics, Captain Railways will be a good samaritan who has gone beyond the call of duty to help migrant labourers travelling home on Shramik Specials. The first to get the title -- and a cash reward -- will go to RPF (Railway Protection Force) constable Inder Singh Yadav who ran after a carriage to deliver milk for the 4-year-old kid of a woman travelling on the Belgaum-Gorakhpur Shramik Special No 06299 on May 5 even as the train was pulling out of Bhopal station. According to sources, when the train pulled up at platform no. 1 of Bhopal station at 8.45 p.m, Yadav, 33, was on platform duty at the time. He noticed the woman passenger beckoning at him. Upon inquiry, she requested Yadav for milk, saying her kid was hungry and wouldn't stop crying as she couldn't arrange milk since the train left Belgaum. Without thinking twice, Yadav, who is from Gwalior, rushed out to buy milk. But as he returned, he saw the train chugging out. Even as the train gathered speed, he ran after the woman’s carriage and managed to hand over the milk packet -- holding his rifle in one hand and the milk packet in the other. Yadav had joined the RPF in 2009 and has been stationed at Bhopal for the last five years. Earlier, he was at Lucknow. Surely, Yadav has proven that the man in khaki is not just an officer, he is also a gentleman. The Railways has run 4,197 Shramik Specials from various states as of June 3, taking more than 58 lakh migrant labourers back to their homes in 34 days. The top five states/Union territories from where maximum trains originated are Gujarat (1,026 trains), Maharashtra (802), Punjab (416), Uttar Pradesh (294) and Bihar (294). In addition to Shramik specials, Railways is running 15 pairs of special Rajdhani-type trains connecting New Delhi and has started 200 schedule services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rpf-jawan-from-gwalior-to-be-first-captain-rlys/articleshow/76186667.cms||Sanjay Dutta
June 4, 2020||Mumbai||Constable fighting cancer succumbs to Covid-19, Mumbai police toll rises to 19||MUMBAI: Another city cop succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Tuesday taking the toll to 19 police personnel. The deceased, a 48-year-old constable from Kurla police station, was on medical leave since a year as he was undergoing treatment for cancer. "The constable, who lived in Thane, was admitted to Bombay Hospital on May 21 after he tested positive for Covid-19. But his condition worsened and he died on Tuesday," said Kurla police senior inspector Dattatray Shinde. Till date, 1,526 cops from across the state have tested positive for Covid-19, and 29 of them have died. Last month, the state government, along with the Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation, had set up two dedicated Covid centres for cops at Marol and Kalina. "We are counselling policemen on how to handle Covid-19 patients and what precautions should be taken while maintaining the law and order in containment zones. Cops who are likely to be in direct contact with patients have been given PPE kits and advised to take HCQ tablets and multivitamins," said an IPS officer. In April, the state government had announced Rs 50 lakh compensation for the kin of deceased police personnel and a government job for a family member, in addition to the Rs 20-25 lakh from the police welfare fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/constable-fighting-cancer-succumbs-to-covid-19-mumbai-police-toll-rises-to-19/articleshow/76186690.cms||---
