June 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Teachers face challenges as online classes gather steam||When educational institutions were shut at the start of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, not many reckoned it would change the face of education as we have all known. From a no smartphones allowed in school, to learning only with such devices at home, it has been a massive change that everyone involved – teachers, students and parents – is still getting accustomed to. With uncertainty still surrounding the reopening of schools and colleges, many institutions have begun online classes, which could continue for a while. For the teachers, the move from a physical classroom of 40-odd boisterous students to a room in their homes, from where they hope to impart the same level of learning to the young ones, has been fraught with challenges and quite the learning experience. ‘Adapting to technology took time’For Mallika Dorothy, a 52-year old Physics teacher at Bethany High School, says. "Online classes has been a learning process for everyone, including students. Since we are used to one method, learning and adapting to a whole new process took some time. Thankfully we have a good technical team that helped us through any difficulties we faced," says Mallikka. For 68-year-old English professor Reena Dsouza*, who teaches at a city college, learning new software and online tools at this age were quite a task. "I was nervous about conducting online classes, because I am not very tech-savvy. But since I had a laptop, I asked colleagues and my kids to help me navigate through the software," she says. But even that was a task, as maintaining social distancing meant having to learn how to share a computer screen, among others, so that they could help her. ‘Figuring out online class etiquette took some time’Learning the tools to conduct class, was only the first step, as Reena found out. "Not all students have access to the best internet connection or a quiet space at home to attend class. In the initial days, some students would not mute themselves, so we were privy to a lot of personal conversations, or just background noise of a kitchen or TV," she says. ‘Parents hovering around during class are an issue’One of the biggest issues, though, is that parents also have ‘access’ to these classes now. Since online classes were announced, there have been multiple memes of parents attending class and taking notes instead of the children, which prompted school to send our circulars against such behaviour. Some parents even began commenting on the quality of teaching, following which a video titled ‘Parents! Please be patient with school teachers who are starting online classes’ came up on social media to address helicopter parenting and how it makes teaching difficult for teachers. Mallikka says, "I have seen parents helping out their children during my online classes, claiming that their wards are slow and need help to catch up with the class." ‘Maintaining discipline online is tough’A school in Kengeri stopped using the video conferencing app Zoom recently, after a porn video popped up on the screen during a class conducted by the Chemistry Department. And that’s not all. “Students would log in, mute themselves and turn video off and then do other stuff. I now ensure student participation in rotation to ensure everyone is attentive," says Reena. Mallikka shares that a colleague once accidentally shared her screen with students, which some of them used as an opportunity for mischief. "When the teacher shared her board with the students, one of them changed the formulae as she wrote them,” she says. Overall, though, Mallika says that conducting classes has been manageable since they were for classes eight and above. “Now that we will begin online classes for the remaining classes, we will have to wait and watch and see what new challenges we face." Will the delay in reopening result in a shorter academic year?It is too early to comment, but by the looks of it, it seems the academic year will be shorter. For us, students' and faculty members' welfare is priority. We are awaiting the guidelines from the state government and the United Grants Commission (UGC) about reopening educational institutions. Only then will we be able to decide on the next course of action. – Sophia Sharon, Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, Mount Carmel College. Here’s what the new schedule of schools in a post-COVID-19 era could look like220 days and 1,320 hours to be reduced to 100 days and 600 hours for in-school sessions  Remaining 100 days and 600 hours for active learning hours from home 20 days likely to be set aside for sessions with doctors and counsellors to ensure well-being of students Classes 1-5 likely to have classes twice a week Classes 6-8 likely to attend classes 2-4 times a week Classes 9-12 likely to attend classes 4-5 times a week Class duration to reduce to 30 minutes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teachers-face-challenges-as-online-classes-gather-steam/articleshow/76201847.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||How did West Bengal impact Basu Chatterjee’s filmmaking?||KOLKATA: On a rain-washed gloomy day in Mumbai when it seemed just right to get romantically nostalgic humming his “Rim jhim gire sawan”, legendary director Basu Chatterjee passed away. Bengal mourned the demise of the maker who made Byomkesh Bakshi a pan-Indian household name and set trends by chronicling the aspirations of the working class with a touch of simplicity, melodious songs and slice-of-life situations.  Despite waiting till 1998 to direct a feature film in his mother tongue, Chatterjee’s Hindi films have been replete with Bangaliana. He cast many Bengali actors, including Utpal Dutt, Ashok Kumar and Mithun Chakraborty in “Shaukeen”, Indrani Halder in “Hamari Shaadi”, Roopa Ganguly in “Kamla Ki Maut”, Moon Moon Sen in “Sheesha” and Moushumi Chatterjee in “Manzil”. Soon after the news of his demise, director Shoojit Sircar tweeted remembering his first job as an assistant director with Chatterjee on the sets of a Bengali TV serial that was shot in New Delhi. Few know that most of his films were Hindi adaptations of Bengali literary works by authors Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay (“Swami” and “Apne Paraye”), Subodh Ghosh (“Chitchor”), Swaraj Bandopadhyay (“Kamla Ki Maut”), Samaresh Basu (“Shaukeen” and “Safed Jhooth”), Ashish Burman (“Manzil”) and Bimal Kar (“Dillagi”). Moon Moon Sen and Mithun Chakraborty in "Sheesha" His Bengali directorial debut at the age of 68 with a rank newcomer as the lead who later went on to become Bangladesh’s superstar was a trend-setter of sorts. More so, since Mumbai-based Bengali directors who worked in Bollywood usually never returned to Bengal after tasting success. “Sreelekha Mitra had recommended me for ‘Hothat Brishti’. Basuda had got Nachiketa Chakraborty to score the music. That was Nachiketa’s debut as music composer,” said Ferdous Ahmed from Dhaka.  Shooting with a sexagenarian can be a challenge but Chatterjee always made it fun, remembers Prosenjit Chatterjee, who worked with him in 2008 for “Hochheta Ki?” “He was fit and had an agile mind. It was an experience working with a legend who had set the trend of giving hits without stars relying on content and music. That’s a trend is followed till date,” he said. Rajit Kapur as "Byomkesh Bakshi" Many remember how Chatterjee made shooting easy with his impeccable sense of humour. “He had already made cult films and I was just out of college. One day while shooting my first film, he asked me about my experience of having to shoot daily while riding a camel in Rajasthan. I told him about the stench. He reminded me that the camel must be 50 years old and had never brushed its teeth in all those ears! Such witty lines made me feel easy.” Moushumi Chatterjee in "Manzil" “Hothat Brishti”, which was made on a budget of Rs 60 lakh, was a roaring success both in Bengal and Bangladesh. “Back then, other Bengali movies were made on lesser budget. This film set the trend of Tollywood making bigger budget films and also casting newcomers in the lead,” added Ahmed, who had even co-produced “Hothat Sedin” with the director in 2012. "It was the remake of 'Rajnigandha'," Ahmed added.  Mitra too has memories of shooting for “Hothat Brishti”. “For me, Basu Chatterjee means ‘Rajnigandha’ and ‘Manzil’. These films were so real. There was a shadow of those works in his Bengali cinema too. But I feel his best films were in Hindi. When he came to work in Bengali cinema, he was past his prime,” Mitra said.  Just for the opportunity to watch a legend had prompted director Atanu Ghosh to work as an executive producer for a Bengali telefilm directed by Chatterjee. “In 1969, two Bengali filmmakers had received box office hits with their off-beat ventures. One was Mrinal Sen with ‘Bhuvan Shome’ and the other was Basu Chatterjee with ‘Sara Akash’. Those paved the way for Indian new wave to get a firm commercial footing. Here was someone who had made such diverse films like ‘Kamla Ka Maut’, ‘Sara Akash’, ‘Shaukeen’, ‘Ek Ruka Hua Faisla’, ‘Chhoti Si Baat’, ‘Baton Baton Mein’ and ‘Chitchor’ and I wanted to see him at work,” Ghosh said. He had approached both Sen and Chatterjee to make telefilms for a Bengali private channel. Sen had refused on grounds of ill-health but Chatterjee was game. "In midst of shooting for the telefilm, we enjoyed the adda sessions, the juicy anecdotes from the film industry, as well as engaging tales from his days as a cartoonist in Mumbai," Ghosh added. Roopa Ganguly in "Kamla Ki Maut" With Chatterjee, Ahmed went on to work in three more Bengali films – “Chupi Chupi”, “Tak Jhal Mishti” and “Hothat Sedin”. By Ahmed’s own admission, none of these were as successful as “Hothat Brishti”. “Basuda had already set a trend in Hindi cinema. With his first Bengali film, he had set another trend. But Tollywood had started to change by the time he started his other Bengali films. He would say I don’t make films with action scenes or ones where the hero flies abroad at the drop of a hat. Once he had attended the premiere of a commercial film of mine and said: ‘ebar maramari chhere amar cinemae dhoko (now drop your fight scenes and come to my sets)’. I guess Tollywood had moved to a space where films of other kinds were working. Basuda, who had always been a trend-setter, refused to change himself to fit into this space,” Ahmed said.  In fact, he was also in talks with Ahmed to adapt a short story titled “Biyer Phande”. According to Ahmed, the script too was ready. But destiny had other plans. Before he could do that, Chatterjee passed away on a rain-swept morning while the world was blissfully humming "Rim jhim gire sawan/ Sulag sulag jaaye mann/ Bheege aaj is mausam mein/Lagi kaisi yeh agan".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/how-did-bengal-impact-basu-chatterjees-filmmaking/articleshow/76203391.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ollywood celebs express shock over the Kerala elephant killing incident||Sandip.Bal@timesgroup.comThe tragic death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala has shocked the entire nation. And closer home, people, especially animal lovers, can relate to it even more because of a similar incident when a pregnant dog was brutally killed in the city during the lockdown. Here’s what celebs and forest officials have to say about the incident. Sabyasachi Mishra, actor This is a most barbaric and inhumane act. The crime should be treated equal to murder of a human. The accused should be given exemplary punishment. Chandan Kar, actor This is the most inhumane and outrageous act one can do. I am just thinking how could the people who killed the elephant sleep in peace. The weak laws for wildlife protection give an upper hand to such people. We have become sadistic to the extent that videos of people torturing animals are shared online these days. We have to coexist with nature, not harm it. Anubha Sourrya, actress I am speechless seeing the kind of inhumanity, we are showing towards animals. Be the killing of a pregnant dog here in Bhubaneswar or throwing of a dog into water after tying its legs in Madhya Pradesh or this incident in Kerala, it shows the true nature of humans. We need strong wildlife laws and harsh punishment so that these inhuman acts can be prevented. Partha Sarathi Ray, actor On one hand, we read about good Samaritans who restore our faith in humanity and on the other, this news of inhumane treatment towards animals. After I read the news, I was devastated. An animal trusted you, you fed it explosives and despite being in pain it didn’t harm anyone, didn’t damage any house or any crop.I feel humans are the animals. A senior forest official The wildlife acts are very strong in India. What we need is more sensitisation among people. Once they are aware of the penal provisions, it will create fear among people. The killers of the elephant in Kerala will be identified and booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ollywood-celebs-express-shock-over-the-kerala-elephant-killing-incident/articleshow/76203983.cms||Sandip Bal
June 5, 2020||India||UP teacher ‘earns’ Rs 1 crore in 13 months||LUCKNOW: A full-time science teacher employed in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV), a residential setup for girls from weaker sections of society, allegedly "worked" at 25 schools simultaneously, earning a total of over Rs 1 crore as salaries from these schools over 13 months till February 2020. The anomaly came to light when a database of teachers was being created. The teacher, Anamika Shukla, was able to pull this off despite real-time monitoring of teachers’ attendance in UP’s primary schools. A native of Mainpuri, according to the records in all the schools she "worked" in, Shukla was on the rolls of these schools for over a year. According to the director general of school education, Vijay Kiran Anand, a probe is under way to ascertain the facts about this teacher who has gone incommunicado. "How can a teacher mark her presence at several places even when they are supposed to mark their attendance online on the Prerna portal? It needs a thorough probe," said Anand, who in March received a complaint regarding Shukla. "We had asked our officers to investigate the matter. Due to the lockdown her records couldn’t be traced. I had sent a reminder to officers on May 26. Strict action will be taken if the information about the teacher is found true," Anand told TOI. "We have no clue about her original posting. We are getting it verified from the districts stated in the complaint. If true, an FIR will be lodged." Shukla’s employment has been found in KGBVs in districts like Ambedkar Nagar, Baghpat, Aligarh, Saharanpur and Prayagraj, to name a few. KGBV teachers are appointed on contract and are paid approximately Rs 30,000 per month. Each block in a district has one Kasturba Gandhi School. When asked whether Anamika was using the same bank account for all the schools, Anand said, "We will know once the inquiry is over." The digital database of teachers on the Manav Sampada portal required teachers’ personal records, date of joining and promotion. Once the records were uploaded, it was found that an Anamika Shukla, with the same personal details, had been listed at 25 schools. Shukla was last found working in Rae Bareli's KGBV till February, when her case came to light. According to Rae Bareli's basic education officer, Anand Prakash, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan office had issued a letter to six districts to check in their KGBVs about a teacher named Anamika Shukla. "Though Rae Bareli was not named in the letter, as a precautionary measure we cross-checked and found the woman was working at our KGBV also. A notice was issued to her," he said. "She was asked to report to us but she didn’t. Her documents available with us have been sent for verification at a higher level. Her salary was immediately stopped," Prakash told TOI. Rae Bareli’s district coordinator (girls’ education) Anil Tripathi confirmed that Shukla had been reaching at the district’s KGBV. "She was a teacher in KGBV, Rae Bareli. I don’t know where else she has been working," he said. Watch UP: Govt science teacher 'earns' Rs 1 crore in 13 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-teacher-earns-1-crore-in-13-months/articleshow/76204900.cms||Isha Jain
June 5, 2020||Business||Lockdown ‘flattened’ GDP curve, the wrong one, says Rajiv Bajaj||NEW DELHI: Industrialist Rajiv Bajaj on Thursday said that a badly managed hard lockdown has “flattened the wrong curve”, the economy, as he questioned the decisions to manage the corona pandemic and urged the PM to build confidence among people to retrieve the situation post-lockdown. He also appeared to question the government’s decision to provide limited direct cash support to people and organisations.In a video interaction with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, Bajaj also revealed he was warned of trouble if he did the proposed interview, as he underlined that people were increasingly nervous about expressing opinions. “We have ended up with the worst of both worlds. On one hand, a porous lockdown makes sure that the virus will still exist and it is still waiting to hit you when you will unlock. But you have definitely decimated the economy. You flattened the wrong curve. It is not the infection curve, it is the GDP curve,” Bajaj said. He also argued that a hard lockdown has created a fear among people that corona infection was fatal. He said the mindset thus created is proving a big hurdle in restoring normalcy. “The first problem is to get this fear out of the minds of the people, there has to be a very clear aligned narrative, I would say from the PM because, right or wrong, when he says something, people seem to follow,” he added.  When Rahul said that the Centre had finally agreed to leave decision-making on restrictions to states which he said should have been done right at the start, Bajaj remarked, “To our perception as a common citizen, it is happening as passing of the buck and not passing of the strategy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-flattened-gdp-curve-the-wrong-one-says-rajiv-bajaj/articleshow/76205041.cms||---
June 5, 2020||India||2,300 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members who took part in Delhi religious event barred from entering India for 10 years||NEW DELHI: The Union home ministry has blacklisted around 2,300 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members and barred their re-entry into India for 10 years in view of their participation earlier in the outfit’s religious activities across several states in violation of their ‘tourist‘ visa conditions. The foreign TJ members‘ religious preaching sessions across the country in March — which required them to hold a missionary visa and not tourist visa — had ended up as major hotspots for Covid-19 spread in several parts of the country. A home ministry source told TOI that while nearly 2,300 foreign Tablighi workers — who continue to be in the country with many of them facing prospects of legal action for violation of visa and reporting rules, as also under the Disaster Management Act — were blacklisted until May 25, the numbers may have gone up further to around 2,500 now. The highest number of those blacklisted are from Indonesia, followed by Bangladesh and Malaysia. Since international passenger flights are yet to resume and legal action pending against foreign TJ members, the 10-year blacklisting provision will kick in once they leave India. They are also likely to be fined up to $500 for violation of ‘tourist’ visa norms. A source said grant of visa to a foreign national being a country’s sovereign power and since denial of a visa cannot be challenged in the courts, the home ministry can bar the entry of a foreigner who has violated visa conditions for any duration of time it deems fit. “Like some Sikhs linked to pro-Khalistan protests, remained blacklisted for decades. In the case of foreign TJ workers, we have barred them for 10 years now and will revisit our position if they re-apply for a visa after 10 years,” an officer said but did not rule out the possibility of their being denied a visa for longer. From the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin itself, more than 2,000 members of the outfit, including over 200 foreign nationals, were evacuated in March end, many of whom were found to be Covid-19 positive. Similarly, many states they had travelled to for religious preaching sessions also found a TJ link for a majority of their Covid-19 cases while carrying out contact-tracing. The home ministry had earlier said that around 2,100 foreign Tablighi Jamaat workers had entered India since January 1, 2020. More that 25,000 TJ workers around the country were identified and placed under quarantine. In April itself, 960 foreigners linked to TJ were blacklisted. A tourist visa entitles a foreign national to a stay of 180 days in India but only for purposes that include recreation, sight-seeing, visiting relatives or friends or a short-term yoga course or medical. Such foreigners cannot indulge in religious preaching or sermons, which are permitted only for those holding a “missionary” visa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2300-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-took-part-in-delhi-religious-event-barred-from-entering-india-for-10-years/articleshow/76205224.cms||Bharti Jain
June 5, 2020||India||Employers and employees must go for settlement on lockdown period wages: Centre||NEW DELHI: After making it mandatory for employers to pay full wages to workers during the lockdown through its March 29 notification, the Centre on Thursday substantially diluted its stand by saying employers and employees must seek settlement on payment of wages during the period when the country was brought to a standstill by the Covid-19 pandemic. The home ministry, in its March 29 notification, said employers will face prosecution for non-payment of wages and several such notices were issued. The Supreme Court thereafter protected employers against any coercive action by authorities for non-payment of wages. Employers and companies have argued that the Centre could not force them to pay when they had no income and also questioned the validity of the direction to private firms. The Centre's revised lockdown guidelines were seen to rescind the direction. For the Centre, attorney general K K Venugopal said the notification was issued to stop exodus of workers from industrial units and workplaces by assuring them wages. "If the notification was not issued at that time, there would have been a much larger exodus of migrant workers. Now, the government wants to start economic activity. Please keep in abeyance the scrutiny of the March 29 notification for two months and let employers and employees reach a settlement on payment of wages under the Industrial Disputes Act," he said. But a large number of companies and employers, through senior advocates K V Vishwanathan, Jamshed P Cama and counsel Jeetender Gupta, told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah that unless the March 29 notification was quashed, no worker would come for a settlement on payment of wages. They said the government, under the Disaster Management Act, was not empowered to direct private companies to pay full wages to workers. The bench too raised the same doubt. But in a rare ocurrence, senior advocates Indira Jaising, C U Singh and Anand Grover rallied in support of the government's March 29 notification and said it was a just direction issued to protect interests of the poorest of the poor. "The only law that governs the country at present is DM Act. The workers could not have attended work as there was a compulsory lockdown that was enforced strictly and violators were punished. So, the workers cannot be pushed to double jeopardy by denial of wages," they said. Employers and companies said the lockdown affected both them and the workers. "There was no earning. How could we pay full wages to employees? The government must distribute the surplus ESI fund to workers as wages for the present," they countered. The bench said it would pass orders on June 12 and protected the employees and employers from prosecution for non-payment of wages till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/employers-and-employees-must-go-for-settlement-on-lockdown-period-wages-centre/articleshow/76205226.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 5, 2020||India||India, Australia sign on ‘comprehensive strategic partnership’||NEW DELHI: India and Australia elevated their ties to a ‘comprehensive strategic partnership’ as the first virtual summit between PM Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison saw the two countries sign nine agreements, including an important Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) that will allow the navies to cooperate closely. The convergence came even as both countries have been at the receiving end of Chinese aggression, India on the northern borders and Australia threatened with economic action for demanding an international inquiry into the origin of the Covid-19 virus. MLSA is a significant step forward. India now has such arrangements with the US, France, Japan and now Australia. It allows India a strategic access deep into the Indo-Pacific region. It is an indication of the strategic confluence between India and Australia, particularly in the face of an aggressive and expansionist China and its actions even post Covid. Asked by journalists, MEA’s Secretary (East) Vijay Thakur Singh, however, said there was “no discussion on China”. She added that there was no discussion on “any specific naval exercise”, when asked whether India had invited Australia to the Malabar exercises. Among the more important decisions was one that elevated the 2+2 dialogue from the secretary level to the ministerial level. A joint statement on strategic partnership said, “India and Australia share a vision of a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific region to support the freedom of navigation, over-flight and peaceful and cooperative use of the seas by adherence of all nations to international law including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and peaceful resolution of disputes rather than through unilateral or coercive actions.” The India-Australia summit comes in the backdrop of both countries dealing with Chinese subversive activities — India with Chinese intrusions in Ladakh and Australia with Chinese influence-peddling operations, which have led to China stopping commodities imports from Australia. Australia was among the first countries to bar China’s Huawei from 5G operations on its territory. "India-Australia relations have deepened. And this depth comes from our shared values, shared interests, shared geography and shared objectives," PM Modi said. “How our relations become a 'factor of stability’ for our region and for the world, how we work together for global good, all these aspects need to be considered." Australian PM Morrison said in his opening remarks, “We are committed to an open, inclusive, prosperous Indo-Pacific and India's role in that region, our region, will be critical in the years ahead. … it's time for our relationship to go broader and to go deeper …” A ‘Shared Vision for Maritime Partnership’ said, “India and Australia will work closely to develop, with all interested partners, the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the 14th East Asia Summit on 4 November 2019 at Bangkok. Through this Initiative, they will endeavour to improve the management of the shared oceanic domains, including in key areas of cooperation such as preserving the maritime ecology and reducing the impact of marine pollution (especially plastics); maritime security.” India has promised to assist Australia with its space programme, while an agreement to cooperate on “critical and strategic minerals” will see India importing lithium and cobalt among others from there. This is an effort to diversify both sources and markets from an over dependence on China. Singh said, “Australia has huge deposits of minerals, we believe it will be a reliable supplier of such minerals.” The joint statement said, “India and Australia jointly decided to work cooperatively through multilateral, regional and pluri-lateral mechanisms to strengthen and diversify supply chains for critical health, technology and other goods and services.” Australia and India co-sponsored, along with other countries, a resolution in the WHO recently for an independent investigation into the origin of the coronavirus pandemic. Morrison observed that with India as chair of the executive board of the WHO, “I have no doubt that the way we will be led under India's leadership will be critical to how we deal with the many difficult problems that we are encountering globally, particularly in the health area”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-australia-sign-on-comprehensive-strategic-partnership/articleshow/76205330.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||72% of Covid cases in state are migrants||PATNA: The migrants returning home contribute over 72% to the total Covid-19 cases in Bihar. The figures are based on the samples of migrants tested for coronavirus. Though around 21 lakh migrants returned since May 2, only 84,729 samples were tested in the state till June 3. They include those who had not gone outside Bihar. As per the state health department data, total 4,273 people tested positive for Covid-19 till June 3 and 3,079 of them were migrants. Had all the migrants returning home been tested, the figure would have been much higher, if the percentage of samples taken and people testing positive are taken into consideration. East Central Railway on Thursday claimed that over 20 lakh migrants have returned to Bihar by Shramik special trains since May 3. If at least one lakh who came by other modes of transport or on foot are added, around 21 lakh migrants have returned so far. That means only 1.46% of the total migrants who came back to state tested positive. The state health department could not provide the break-up of total number of migrants reaching home and how many of them were among the 84,729 people whose samples were collected for Covid testing. Public health expert and former Union ministry of health and family welfare’s National Health Systems Resource Centre head, T Sundararaman said: “Ideally, all the migrants should be tested, but that is not possible. So, the government should at least test 5% of the migrants. That means at least one lakh migrants should have been tested. But Bihar is under-testing as of now and it is a serious problem. Testing capacity should be enhanced 10 times more than at present.” State health secretary Lokesh Kumar said all symptomatic migrants were being tested in the state. He said door-to-door survey was also being done to ensure migrants under home quarantine were following the norms. “Their health status is checked for 14 days and those who develop any symptoms are tested,” Lokesh stated through a press statement on Wednesday. As per the state government data, around 25 lakh Bihar migrants registered for Rs1000 cash benefit. It is considered that most of them returned to the state. Altogether 5.21 lakh people had registered in Delhi, but only 729 people with travel history from there tested positive for the virus till Wednesday. Similarly, 3.2 lakh Bihar migrants registered in Haryana for Rs1,000, but only 264 of them tested positive on return. Another 2.9 lakh people had registered in Maharashtra and 733 have tested positive for the virus after reaching Bihar so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/72-of-covid-cases-in-state-are-migrants/articleshow/76201749.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 5, 2020||Patna||12k reach state by special trains||PATNA: More than 20 lakh migrant workers and others stranded outside the state returned to different places in Bihar by altogether 1521 Shramik special trains since May 2. About 58 lakh migrant workers and others have been transported by railways across the country by Shramik special trains during the past 34 days. On Thursday, nearly 12,600 people returned to the state by nine Shramik special trains from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the special trains from Tuticorin, Tiruvalla, Chennai Central, Chennai and Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu ferried about 7,000 migrant workers to Barauni, Bettiah, Darbhanga and Hajipur, while two such trains from Bengaluru carrying about 28,000 migrants reached Muzaffarpur and Araria. Another Shramik special train with 1400 migrants reached Katihar from Calicut in Kerala. “The railway officials and district administration employees conducted thermal screening of each passenger on arrival at Katihar, Muzaffarpur and Hajipur stations. They were asked to remain in home quarantine at least for 14 days, the CPRO said. He said at least 4,197 Shramik special trains have so far originated from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to ferry migrant workers to their respective states. While 1,026 Shramik special trains originated from Gujarat till Wednesday, 294 local Shramik special trains originated from different stations in Bihar, followed by 802 from Maharashtra, 416 from Punjab, 294 from Uttar Pradesh, 197 from Jharkhand, 187 from Odisha and 156 from West Bengal. “Railways is already running 15 pairs of special Rajdhani trains since May 12 and 200 other mail and express trains since June 1,” Rajesh said and added that railways was getting better response from passengers travelling by 24 pairs of mail and express trains originating from Bihar. “Altogether 1,980 passengers travelled against 2,029 seats in the Patna-Howrah Janshatabdi Express on Wednesday, while 2,214 passengers, including RAC ticket holders, travelled by Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi Express, which has 1394 seats. Similarly, 1576 passengers, including RAC ticket holders, travelled by Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express on Thursday,” he said. Likewise, Danapur-Bengaluru, Danapur-Pune, Danapur-Tata, Danapur-Secunderabad, Patliputra-Lokmanya Tilak, Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Sampporna Kranti Express, Darbhanga-Lokmanya Tilak, Raxaul-Anand Vihar, Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar and Saharsa-New Delhi Express left for their respective destinations with almost 95% occupancy on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12k-reach-state-by-special-trains/articleshow/76201807.cms||Kumod Verma
June 5, 2020||Vadodara||‘Players make coaches successful’||Vadodara: Former Aussie cricketer Dav Whatmore, who has joined Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) as head coach of Ranji team, said that it is players who make the coaches successful and not the other way round. Whatmore held an online session with the cricket coaches of all age groups in the BCA on Wednesday where he explained them the role of a coach in the team. Whatmore discussed the importance of having all coaches on the same page in terms of sharing his vision along with the processes that the coaches can understand and implement. Whatmore, who will also assume the role of director for cricket, was introduced to all the 34 coaches of various age groups during the interactive session. “The session helped our coaches in understanding his vision for Baroda cricket,” said a BCA official. He also asked the coaches to prepare a special pool of players in every age group so that the promising ones can be nurtured with an eye on the future. He also discussed values including caring for all the players and shedding individual egos for raising the bar of performance on the field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/players-make-coaches-successful/articleshow/76202330.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Koraput’s kitchen gardens boost diet of pregnant women||Koraput: The Borigumma block administration has launched a ‘nutrition garden’ initiative to ensure that women have access to healthy and nutritious food during pregnancy, and their families have opportunity to earn some cash during this time of hardship. Supported by funds from the MGNREGA and the Odisha Livelihood Mission (OLM), the government is helping families of pregnant women grow a nutrition garden comprising fresh, organic vegetables and green leaves in the backyard of their houses. “It is the right of every woman to get a balanced and nutritional diet when she is pregnant. However, there are several instances of such women being deprived of the necessary food. This not only harms their health, they end up giving birth to underweight children. The nutrition garden scheme will ensure that pregnant women get a healthy diet,” said Pranay Ranjan Behera, block development officer, Borigumma. The officer explained that the gardens would come up on two cents of land and will comprise two drumstick plants, three plants each of papaya and banana, two lemon plants and a few green vegetable plants. While the saplings, worth Rs 700, are being provided by the OLM, 24 mandays with daily wage of Rs 207 are being provided to the family of the pregnant woman to develop the garden under the MGNREGA. “The total cost of each garden, including the building of two compost pits, has been pegged at Rs 6,156,” said Satyanarayan Sethi, assistant engineer of the block. The fruits of the garden will supplement the diet already provided to pregnant women by anganwadi centres, he added. Based on the data provided by the health department, the block authorities have identified at least 1,000 beneficiaries in its 31 panchayats for the first phase of the initiative. Gardens have already been built in the backyards of the houses of at least 400 beneficiaries. Apart from helping pregnant women, the project, launched in March, has provided employment for 24 mandays to families of these beneficiaries at the time of economic hardship caused by the Covid-19 lockdown. “I am happy with the nutritional garden in my backyard. I am able to get fresh vegetables from my garden, which not only helps me get a nutritional diet but saves my expenditure on produce,” said beneficiary Manima Majhi of Narigaon village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/koraputs-kitchen-gardens-boost-diet-of-pregnant-women/articleshow/76202369.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||UoM figures in global varsity ranking list||Mysuru: The University of Mysore (UoM) has secured 1,000+ rank in the The Times Higher Education World University Rankings-2020 released on Thursday. UoM vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said UoM is the only university from Karnataka to be featured in the ranking list announced by the UK-based group. According to the list, UoM has secured 601+ ranking the Impact Rankings, 351-400th ranking in the Asia University Rankings. “Universities of 92 countries had participated in this survey,” the VC said. According to the survey findings, UoM secured 601+ ranking in life sciences and 801+ ranking in physical sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-figures-in-global-varsity-ranking-list/articleshow/76202373.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Vehicle curbs at wholesale mkts||Kolkata: The police have started securing several markets in the city — focusing on wholesale markets — to ensure social distancing. Hare Street police and traffic guard headquarters have already taken several measures around Mehta Building and Canning Street, considered the hub of wholesale medicine trading. Traffic cops have stopped vehicle movement on Canning Street, except a few mini-trucks that ferry medicine supplies. Four-member teams, each led by an ACP, have started conducting checks at all five entry points to ensure that only those with genuine trading purpose can access the market. Police said all the adjoining roads — Brabourne Road, Rabindra Sarani, Ezra Street and Pollock Street — will see regulated vehicular movement. Several traders who use dalas and block the main entrance have now been asked to shift out from Canning Street or follow an odd-even formula. Lalbazar has proposed a similar formula for Bagri Market and a few other wholesale markets in Posta. “Timings are being fixed for specific activity and, just like Mehta Building, we will not allow anyone to enter without masks and, on certain occasions, gloves. Some bigger markets, like Gariahat and Patipukur fish market, have led by example. While Gariahat market has allowed restricted entry, it is mandatory for customers to sanitize their hands before entry. In New Alipore, cops have continued with home delivery while at Chhatubabu Bazar, no one is allowed to enter without gloves and masks. At Paikpara fish market, located next to a containment zone, the timings have been fixed at two hours and traders and customers have separate queues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vehicle-curbs-at-wholesale-mkts/articleshow/76203919.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 5, 2020||Business||Bharat Biotechconsoritum bags CEPI grant||Hyderabad: Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said a consortium led by the company and International Vaccine Institute (IVI) has entered into a new partnering agreement with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and Ind-CEPI for the development of a Chikungunya vaccine. As part of this, CEPI will provide the consortium with up to US$14.1 million for vaccine manufacturing and clinical development of a two-dose live-inactivated vaccine (BBV87) against Chikungunya. Bharat Biotech said the consortium will also receive a grant of up to $2 million from the Indian government’s Ind-CEPI initiative, which will fund the setting up of GMP manufacturing facilities for the vaccine in India, and the subsequent manufacture of materials for clinical trials. Apart from manufacturing, the partnering agreement will also finance a multi-centre Phase 2 and 3 adaptive clinical trial that will be conducted by IVI in Colombia, Panama and Thailand and will provide crucial data about the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate, Bharat Biotech said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bharat-biotechconsoritum-bags-cepi-grant/articleshow/76203458.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Varanasi||Webinars held on the eve of World Environment Day||Varanasi: Webinars were organised by several organisations and messages were sent to appeal to people for protection of environment on the eve of the World Environment Day on Thursday. The World Environment Day is observed on June 5 every year. Mahamana Malaviya Research Centre for Ganga at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) organised a webinar on ‘skill of living with the environment amid the outbreak of Covid-19’. Noted environment scientist and chairman of MMRCG Prof BD Tripathi said that people will have to protect the environment while following the prescribed safety norms to prevent Covid-19. Former head of the department of sociology, Prof AK Joshi, Dr RJ Vishwakarma and many others took part in the webinar. Meanwhile, the BHU vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar would release a booklet on environment at a brief function at the Central Library on Friday. Diesel Locomotive Works GM, YP Singh claimed that the unit has been working for the cause and said that it has its own sewage treatment plant and industrial effluent treatment plant for treating waste water. Meanwhile, the forest department has also appealed to the farmers for plantation, particularly medicinal plants. Forest officer Mahaveer Kaujlagi said that the farmers are invited to take benefit of the medicinal plant farming under Namagi Gange programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/webinars-held-on-the-eve-of-world-environment-day/articleshow/76204799.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Nisarga effect: Rainfall likely in parts of Bihar till Saturday||PATNA: Cyclone Nisarga, which weakened into a low pressure area on Thursday, is likely to cause light to moderate rainfall across Bihar on Friday and in northern parts of the state on Saturday as well. As per a bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Nisarga was very likely to move northeastward and weaken into a well-marked low pressure by Thursday evening. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said the remnant of Nisarga, which will eventually die out after entering Nepal, is likely to cause light to moderate showers at some places in Bihar over the next 48 hours. Besides, a less marked trough line over Bihar and Jharkhand is expected to feed moisture in the region, augmenting cloud formation and rain. Weathermen said light rainfall occurred at one or two places over northwest and south-eastern parts of Bihar during the last 24 hours and was most likely at few places over southwest, northwest and north-central parts of Bihar during the next 24 hours. Besides, light to moderate rainfall may occur at few places over north Bihar during the next 48 hours. “Nisarga is expected to die out in Nepal via passing through Uttar Pradesh and adjoining West Champaran district in Bihar. The remnant clouds along with a less marked trough is expected to lead to light showers in parts of the state till June 7,” a Met official said, adding dry weather is expected in the state three to four days thereafter. About the onset of southwest monsoon, the meteorologist said monsoon current was moving swiftly according to the predicted pattern and it is likely to enter Bihar between June 12 and 15. “The advancement of monsoon current has been good so far. A depression is likely to develop over central and east-central Bay of Bengal around June 8. This will push the monsoon current further towards northeast and eastern states, including Bihar,” he said. A weather bulletin stated that conditions were likely to become favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into some parts of central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, southwest, east-central and entire southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of west-central Bay of Bengal during the next 2-3 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nisarga-effect-rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-state-till-saturday/articleshow/76201896.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 5, 2020||Business||Banks to install contactless ATMs to cut down on touch||MUMBAI: With reduced hand contact becoming the norm in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, banks are set to deploy contactless ATMs. A prototype has been developed by payments company AGS Transact Technologies, which uses the bank’s mobile app to interface with the machine after scanning a QR code on the screen. Traditionally, the ATM has been using a magnetic stripe card for identification of the accountholder and the PIN for authorisation. To use the contactless ATM, the customer has to use the bank’s smartphone app to scan a QR code on the screen and enter the amount and ATM PIN in his mobile, and collect the cash without touching the machine. AGS Transact, which manages 70,000 ATMs for banks, is in the process of implementing this contactless solution for two banks. It is also in discussions with four more. While the changes are related to software, implementation could take up to eight weeks, given that banks have multiple service providers for mobile banking, ATM operations and maintenance of their ATM switch. Speaking to TOI, AGS Transact CTO Mahesh Patel said that the QR code-based withdrawal is safer than using a card as it eliminates the risk of cards being skimmed. He said that it is also faster and the maximum time taken during tests has been 25 seconds. “The application can be integrated within the existing mobile banking app of each bank,” he said. While large banks like State Bank of India and ICICI Bank have developed cardless withdrawal apps using the smartphone, these pre-Covid-19 applications do require engagement with the ATM. These are generally for transactions on the banks’ own network of ATMs. AGS Transact had developed a QR-based cardless withdrawal system, which was launched by Bank of India. The earlier application required the use of the ATM keypad, while the new one is completely contactless. “Our new Touchless ATM solution is an extension of the flagship QR Cash solution, which ensures safety of the users and will provide a seamless cash withdrawal experience with enhanced security. With minimum investment, the banks can enable this solution for their ATM networks by upgrading the existing software,” said AGS Transact chairman and MD Ravi Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-to-install-contactless-atms-to-cut-down-on-touch/articleshow/76203355.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Dreaded criminal killed in encounter||BHAGALPUR/KHAGARIA: Dreaded criminal Dinesh Muni (40) was killed in a police encounter at Narayanpur riverine area under Balrampur police outpost in Naugachia police district late Wednesday night. Muni was the prime accused in the murder of Pasraha sub-inspector Ashish Kumar Singh on October 12, 2018. Two sophisticated carbines, one double-barrel gun, 14 live bullets, four bullets of carbine and several gallons of toddy were recovered from the spot. Other members of the gang escaped in darkness. Bhagalpur Range DIG Sujeet Kumar said Muni carried cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. He was involved in the killing of SI Ashish,” he said. Muni was from Telihar village in Beldaur block of Khagaria. Police sources said SI Singh had received information about Muni and his gang hiding in Dudhaila diara area under Bihpur block of Naugachia police district. Singh with his police team raided the area and killed a criminal named Shrawan Yadav. But Singh was also killed by the bullet fired by Muni. A police constable had also received gunshot injuries in the crossfire. Later, Muni’s gang became active in Khagaria, Naugachia and adjoining diara areas and committed several crimes, including killing, abduction for ransom, extortion and crop loot. Police sources said the STF along with Naugachia police in civvy were camping in the area since the last 4-5 days. Following a tip-off, they challenged Muni and his gang members on Wednesday night. Muni was killed while two of his gang members were injured in the police firing, but managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dreaded-criminal-killed-in-encounter/articleshow/76201927.cms||Kumar Rajesh
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||61 in UK urge govt to bring them home||HYDERABAD: As many as 61 Indians from the state have urged union minister for external affairs S Jaishankar to facilitate their return home as they have been stranded in the UK for three months now. “We have families and jobs to return to and have financial burdens from our long stay,” the group of people said in a plea to union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Suri, state chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and IT minister KT Rama Rao. “We hope that our government will seriously consider our requests to bring us home,” they said. “HCI UK has a list of all the people registered and waiting to be repatriated to Hyderabad. Our petition is on behalf of all Telangana residents stranded in UK and it is not only for the names on it,” they said. They have been stranded in London since March 24. It is not just the 61 people listed but there are others too who have not been able to return in the evacuation flight operated earlier under the Vande Bharat Mission. Mohammed Sohail Ahmed Khan from the city is another person who has been stuck in London. In fact, he was returning to India from Toronto, Canada, on April 2 and had to take another flight to India from Heathrow airport but there were no flights due to Covid-19 lockdown. “I have been spending my money for accommodation and food and want to return to India at the earliest,” he said. Ahmed could not be on the evacuation flight to India as his departure was not confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/61-in-uk-urge-govt-to-bring-them-home/articleshow/76204390.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 5, 2020||Surat||Partner in crime helps cops arrest his friend for murder||SURAT: The fear of getting caught by police led to a man spilling the beans about his friend, a diamond unit owner’s crime of killing a 44-year-old broker. Following confession of Ashish Dhamelia, a resident of Amroli, Katagam police detained the unit owner Sandip Patel who had allegedly killed diamond broker Kanti Rakholiya and also tried to destroy the evidence. Rakholiya was missing since Wednesday afternoon and it was on Thursday that police found his body stuffed in a plastic bag from Raghunandan Apartment in Gotalawadi. While Rakholiya’s cousin Harshad told police that his brother was killed as Patel didn’t want to pay him to Rs four lakh for a diamond deal, the latter claimed that the broker was blackmailing him with an video of his private moments with a woman and extorting money from him. Police investigation revealed that Patel had asked Rakholiya to come to Raghunandan Apartment. After a verbal altercation, Patel attacked and strangled him to death. He then disrobed him and removed his watch and mobile phone. Patel stuffed his body in a plastic bag after tying the hands and legs. Patel then told Dhameliya to dispose the clothes, watch and phone, but the body was left at the spot. However, few hours after the murder, fear of getting arrested started stalking Dhameliya who called up the cops and confessed. “Patel and Dhameliya will be formally arrested after their Covid-19 tests are done. The complainant and the accused are giving different reasons for murder and exact details will be known only after investigation,” said an officer at Katargam police station. Harshad has told police that Patel had purchased diamonds worth Rs 4 lakh from Rakholiya few months ago. As the 120 days limit for payment got completed, Rakholiya asked Patel to pay the amount. Harshad said that as Patel was unable to pay the amount, he killed Rakholiya. On the other hand, Patel told police during preliminary questioning that Rakholiya was in possession of his video with a woman. The accused claimed that Rakholiya had extorted Rs 15 lakh from him during the past few years by threatening to make the video viral, and that’s why he killed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/partner-in-crime-helps-cops-arrest-his-friend-for-murder/articleshow/76203260.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Rift in SC/ST MLAs’ morcha||PATNA: The all-party SC/ST MLAs Morcha floated by JD(U) minister Shyam Rajak on Thursday showed marks of breach as the member MLAs from the opposition RJD did not participate in its scheduled meeting held at the residence of former CM and HAM (S) founder Jitan Ram Manjhi. The morcha was formed to build an opinion among the SC/ST MLAs in the state and then nationally to stress on unity among them on the issue of protecting constitutionally given reservation benefits to the SC/ST people. On Thursday, the SC/ST MLAs of RJD chose to attend a meeting with their leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Although Manjhi is a part of the opposition alliance led by RJD, observers saw manifest inner strain in the grand alliance itself. “The morcha meeting was held at the same time as that of the Tejashwi with its legislators. My first loyalty is to my party,” former RJD minister Shiv Chandra Ram said. However, after the meeting of Arakshan Bachao Sangharsh Morcha, Rajak said, “The morcha does not have any party affiliation. Today, the RJD MLAs also had their meeting at the same time.” Rajak said the offices of the President and PM had acknowledged the receipt of the letter sent to them apprising of the morcha’s demands. It would be followed by seeking formal appointment with them. The next meeting of the morcha is on June 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rift-in-sc/st-mlas-morcha/articleshow/76201910.cms||Abhay Singh
June 5, 2020||Patna||CPM man shot in Khagaria, 2 held||KHAGARIA/PATNA: CPM activist Radhe Singh (60) was shot dead by motorcycle-borne criminals in Khagaria district late Wednesday evening. This is the second murder of a Left party worker in the district in the last two months. Police said the assailants fired at Singh near Patraha village under Chautham police station when he was returning home at Nirpur from Tilai Chowk on his bicycle. Singh was a member of CPM block committee. Khagaria SDPO Alok Ranjan said on Thursday Singh was rushed to the Sadar hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. He said a countrymade pistol of .303 bore was used in the crime. SHO Nilesh Kumar said one Ramchandra Singh and his son Saurabh Kumar were arrested. Six persons have been named as accused in the FIR lodged by the deceased’s son Ranjit Singh. The SHO said the murder was a fallout of a land dispute. Singh was accused in an Arms Act case lodged by one Manoj Singh after a video of indiscriminate firing on his rival group had gone viral a few weeks ago. CPM district functionary Sanjay Singh, however, said the police failed to protect Radhe despite threat to his life. Radhe had met DSP Alok Ranjan on Tuesday apprehending attack on him and his family members, Sanjay revealed. Earlier, Jagdish Chandra Basu, who had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha election on a CPM ticket, was shot dead near Lootna village under Alouli police station in the district on May 12. Basu’s murder had triggered protest by local CPM activists. CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar has demanded immediate arrest of the accused and Rs20 lakh compensation to the deceased’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpm-man-shot-in-khagaria-2-held/articleshow/76201944.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||‘Covid insurance’ in place, TV shoots to start on June 10||Kolkata: At a meeting between stakeholders of the state’s television industry and minister Aroop Biswas on Thursday, it was decided that shooting of Bengali serials will restart from June 10. However, though no child actor under 10 will be allowed to shoot, those above 65 can join work provided they agree to give an undertaking expressing their willingness. In case of any infection on the sets, the state will take the onus of treatment. Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI) president Swarup Biswas said, “For the first time in the history of Indian cinema, a guideline has been drawn up to provide a Covid-19 life insurance plan of Rs 25 lakh for each person present on the floor. In case of technicians, the broadcaster and producers will share the cost of premium. In case of artistes, the broadcaster will pay 50% and the producers will pay 40%. The remaining will be paid by the artists’ forum,” Biswas said. Besides, FCTWEI will provide a set of three masks, a face shield and a 500ml bottle of sanitizer to each technician. The composition of the 35-member unit on the set was also decided on Thursday. On Sunday, another round of meeting is expected to streamline the issues related to film shooting. “We expect to streamline everything and start film shooting by June 10 too,” Biswas said. “On Sunday, we will discuss how the premium will be paid for film artistes since we will not have any broadcasters for films,” said Arindam Ganguly, the general secretary of West Bengal Motion Picture Artists’ Forum. Incidentally, the ban on kissing and hugging might not have a huge impact on serials that largely rely on mythology or dialogue-driven scenes with close-ups. Also, not too many serials will be affected by the guideline barring child actors below 10 since 80% of Bengali serials don’t have them as protagonists. “Schools are closed. How can we allow them to come for shooting? For senior actors, coming to shoots depends on their discretion,” said Ganguly. Actors have also been asked to take their costumes home and use their own make-up. Producers will bear the cost of individual make-up kits for those who can’t afford them. Technicians will be given assignments on a rotational basis so that no one loses their jobs. “Most technicians have their own bikes and cycles to commute. If someone stays far away, FCTWEI will arrange for their conveyance. We are against accepting payment without doing work. Only technicians present on the floor will have to be paid,” Biswas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-insurance-in-place-tv-shoots-to-start-on-june-10/articleshow/76203925.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
June 5, 2020||Business||Ashok Leyland evaluates options to reduce debt||Chennai: Truck and bus maker Ashok Leyland is committing only maintenance capex for FY21 and ‘evaluating all options’ to reduce its Rs 2,586 crore debt in an attempt to remain cash competitive through the Covid-19 crisis. “We are coming off a large capex cycle with the Rs 500 crore investment in the just launched AVTR modular truck platform and will focus on maintenance and regular capex in FY21,” said MD & CEO Vipin Sondhi. As for its debt, the company is “internally looking at all aspects of cost to keep a lean value chain,” he said, adding, “we are reducing working capital needs by controlling costs and we are looking at all options (on debt).” The company has already pared down its earlier decision to buy back 19% stake in group company Hinduja Leyland Finance and has instead bought back just under 7% — a transaction completed in April. The company also announced that it would work with dealers to improve liquidity and help with interest and manpower costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ashok-leyland-evaluates-options-to-reduce-debt/articleshow/76203719.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Business||DocsApp merges with MediBuddy, raises $10m more||Bengaluru: Online doctor consultation platform DocsApp has merged with healthcare platform MediBuddy when demand for telemedicine and lab tests at home is on the rise. The combined entity has also raised $10 million in capital, on top of the recently closed $10-million financing, taking total raise to $20 million since last month. The merger is a mix of cash and equity. The funding has been led by Bessemer Venture Partners, Fusian Capital, Mitsui Sumitomo & Beyond Next ventures. Existing investors Milliways Ventures and Rebright Partners of the Bengaluru-based startup, which was established in 2015, also participated in this round. The merged entity DocsApp’s CEO Satish Kannan said it will be able to serve the healthcare needs of around 3 crore people, spread across a partner network of 90,000 doctors, 7,000 hospitals and 2,500 pharmacies. Together, the firm will have a wider presence across online doctor consultation, lab tests and medicine orders, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/docsapp-merges-with-medibuddy-raises-10m-more/articleshow/76203749.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Surat||4k people use city bus service in Surat daily||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has pressed into service 105 buses on nine different routes in the city.Official sources said that about 4,000 people are travelling in the city buses every day and that the numbers are likely to increase in the coming days. SMC will start the operation of buses on Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) on three more routes from Friday. According to SMC officials, the three routes include Pal to Kamrej Terminal, Gajera circle to Kharvarnagar and Utaran to Sarthana Nature Park. Kamlesh Naik, assistant municipal commissioner (BRTS cell) told TOI “We are operating 105 buses on nine different routes in the city. We will be running BRTS buses on three routes from Friday. The areas under containment zone are not catered. We are getting about 4,000 passengers daily.”Naik added, “The frequency of buses will be increased in the coming days to facilitate people in the city. Looking at the social distancing norms, we are allowing only 15 passengers in the city buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4k-people-use-city-bus-service-in-surat-daily/articleshow/76203092.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hubballi||Not locusts, Belagavi farmers are fed up with tipplers||BELAGAVI: When farmers in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and other states are battling locus attacks on their crops, the farmers in Belagavi are dealing with a strange problem — tipplers. The menace has increased since the day government permitted the sale of liquor in the state after the lockdown. The farmlands are pulling crowds with drinking still prohibited inside bars. The trouble, however, has now gone from bad to worse in the last week as more and more party lovers camp at agriculture fields in the late evening hours who otherwise sit at bars and restaurants, farmers claim. The farmers in Hukkeri, Hirebagewadi, Sankeshwar, Khanapur, have to clear the garbage strewn on their land by the tipplers every day. Shivandh Hulloli, a young farmer sweeps his field every morning since a week now. “We are exasperated by this behaviour of alcoholics. Let them drink, but they have to clean up after themselves,” he said. Hulloli has tilled his five acres of land to sow maize, wheat and tur. “These tipplers are mindlessly throwing bottles, tetra packs, plastic glasses, cigarette butts, pan sachets and plastic bags everywhere. It was fine for a day or two, but these people are now coming almost every day. Our homes are not very close to our fields which makes it the ideal spot for merry making. In the past one week, I have had to clean the entire field several times to sow cotton seeds in them,” said Ramappa Kudari, a farmer. Few women in some villages, including Shirahatti, Hullolli and Yalemunavalli have raised complaint with the gram panchayat officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/not-locusts-belagavi-farmers-are-fed-up-with-tipplers/articleshow/76204298.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Garment exporters seek 2 lakh workers from UP govt||LUCKNOW: Days after the real estate sector said that it could provide jobs to 1 lakh workers in the sector, readymade garment exporters have requested the government for 2 lakh workers, citing the shortage of labour as the prime reason for the inability of manufacturing and export units to start work. In a letter to principal secretary MSME, Navneet Sehgal, the president of the Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), Lalit Thukral, has said that while they have received permission to operate, shortage of labour is proving to be a huge problem. “You are aware that due to the spread of the current Covid-19 epidemic, the operation and production of readymade garments units had stopped completely…the readymade garments units in Noida are unable to resume the operations because of absence of manpower, despite government orders allowing restarting of the production units. We are facing a severe problem of shortage of workers/manpower due to the migration to their native places,” Thukral has written. The association has said that they immediately need 2 lakh tailors and supporting hands to be able to restart work, 3 lakh in the next quarter which may even be increased to 4 lakh soon after as work picks up. Officials in the UP government said that a comprehensive list of migrant workers who had returned to the state during the lockdown had been prepared, detailing their skill sets. As per that, the names and contact details of everyone registered as tailors or in allied works would be shared with the cluster so that they could contact them directly as per their demands. The Noida apparel cluster employs about 10 lakh persons in its approximately 3,000 readymade garments production and export units. Its annual export is about Rs 18-20 crore. However, the entire production facility stopped during the lockdown, leading to losses worth several crores. The industry was later granted special permission to operate units as they continued to get orders from stores in the US and Europe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/garment-exporters-seek-2-lakh-workers-from-govt/articleshow/76204909.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 5, 2020||Business||Iffco Tokio hires 400 in lockdown||MUMBAI: Iffco Tokio General Insurance — the country’s fourth-largest private non-life company — has on-boarded 400 employees between March and May. The company’s board had decided to expand its network and had already received applications earlier this year. Some were given appointment letters and the hiring was to happen in the first quarter. But, with the lockdown getting extended, the company decided to complete the process over video calls and an app for induction of new staff. The company has also gone ahead with annual increments at a time when many employers are scaling back employee costs. “We had a revision in salaries according to performance and vintage, ranging from 10% to 30% for all deserving employees. In our 20th year of operations, we wanted to retain all deserving employees and at the same time bring in fresh blood to meet new challenges in this new financial year,” said Ramesh Kumar, ED (HR, training, admin & CSR), Iffco Tokio General Insurance. According to the insurer, it has not scaled back any hiring plan despite the Covid-19 pandemic. The hiring were for sales and distribution in tier I to tier IV locations and some of the candidates were expected to work out of single-person offices. They also participated in an online induction training programme through a mobile learning app — iLeap. The company has arranged to have laptops delivered to the employees and most have started working remotely. “We fulfilled our commitment to all the newly hired employees even during the lockdown period and on-boarded them through digital mode. This digital on-boarding helped us to complete the process in a seamless manner and keeping in view social-distancing norms. We also trained them digitally during the lockdown so that they are ready to be in the market as and when the norms are relaxed,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iffco-tokio-hires-400-in-lockdown/articleshow/76203301.cms||Mayur Shetty
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Pump makers hit by labour shortage & fractured logistics||COIMBATORE: Pump manufacturers, who have been getting inquiries and orders, in the district are hit by scarcity of raw materials and spare parts due to fractured logistics and labour shortage. The industry representatives said they were unable to make or deliver pump sets to their full capacity. The pump industry usually sees brisk business from November to June, which is considered the peak season. Pump making units in the district cater to various industries, and agriculture and construction sectors. Pointing out that they have been getting orders and inquiries, industrialists said they were unable to deliver due to logistics and labour constraints. K K Rajan, CEO of Sharp Industries, said, people, who have been waiting because of lockdown, have started to place orders. “As lockdown norms have been relaxed, we are getting decent orders. Our dealers are also getting inquiries.” But the flow of raw materials such as copper wires, bearings and castings has been hit, owing to lack of proper logistics. Units in the district source them from Delhi, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. Similarly, the units are also finding it difficult to ship the finished products. “While we are delivering to places such as Rajasthan, Karnataka, Puducherry and parts of Tamil Nadu, we are not able to deliver to many other places that don’t have transport facilities now,” Rajan said. K Maniraj, president, Kovai Power Driven Motor Pumps and Spare Parts Manufacturers’ Association, said the industry players were getting raw materials only once in five days now, compared to five trucks a day earlier. He said pump units were operating only at 40% of their capacity, as labour was also an issue. “While guest workers are leaving for their hometowns, local workers, who depend on public transport, have not been able to commute to work in the absence of proper public transport.” As per the industry estimates, units in the district used to deliver three lakh to four lakh pump sets a month. Industry representatives exuded confidence that the scenario would get better with the resumption of logistics services across the country, as there would always be a demand for pump sets for industrial purposes and in agriculture and construction sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pump-makers-hit-by-labour-shortage-fractured-logistics/articleshow/76204389.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Human beings brought Covid-19 crisis upon themselves, says experts||PATNA: As the world gears up to celebrate Environment Day on Friday amid the Covid-19 pandemic, experts claim that human beings brought the crisis upon themselves. They, therefore, ask people to start thinking of ways to change their lifestyles. This year’s theme for World Environment Day is biodiversity and experts are of the opinion that depleting green cover, intensive farming and disrespect for animals have led to the spread of coronavirus. During an online event hosted by a farm animal welfare organization, ‘Compassion in World Farming’, on Tuesday, noted primatologist Jane Goodall urged people to change their diets and the way they treat animals in order to avoid pandemics like Covid-19 in future. “People should stop exploiting and destroying natural habitats of animals and plants,” she said. Patna University’s zoology department head Arbind Kumar also pointed out that the recent crisis created due to Covid-19 was simply a result of disproportionate exploitation of natural resources. Throwing light on rapid urbanization, environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh said, “The number of birds, which depend mainly on trees and water bodies, has declined drastically because of deforestation and diminishing wetlands.” Even teens and youngsters raised concerns over the degradation of biodiversity. A Class X student of Notre Dame Academy, Nilaa Chandrasekar, said, “It is not just the responsibility of the government or the local bodies to keep our cities clean and protect biodiversity. It is a collective effort.” Meanwhile, some experts believe that the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus has had a positive impact on the environment. State environment, forest and climate change department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Wednesday, “As soon as people started staying indoors and stopped using vehicles, nature began healing. Unusual events like wild animals roaming on the streets and the Himalayan peaks becoming visible happened.” Bihar State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Ghosh also said, “Corona proves that nature can heal without spending crores on various projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/human-beings-brought-covid-19-crisis-upon-themselves-experts/articleshow/76201858.cms||B K Mishra
June 5, 2020||Business||Unacademy eyes funding at $1.2 billion valuation||BENGALURU: Education technology startup Unacademy is in talks to raise a new round of funding at a valuation of over $1.2 billion, making it the latest potential entrant into the unicorn club, said two sources familiar with the development. The contours of the round are still being finalised as there is rising investor interest in education-tech startups, one of the few sectors seeing an increase in top line amid the pandemic-led lockdown across the country. Unacademy is expected to raise over $100-150 million, but the amount could be higher depending on investor appetite and final valuation, said one of the sources mentioned earlier. The five-year-old platform is expecting a valuation of $1.2-1.5 billion with this round, said the second source mentioned earlier. Unacademy was valued at about $500 million when it had raised $110 million from US social media giant Facebook and PE firm General Atlantic in February this year. Investors in discussions include US-based financial investors and strategics from China, besides global private equity firms. Unacademy co-founder Gaurav Munjal declined to comment when contacted by TOI. Unacademy links educators giving lessons to students through online videos for competitive exams like UPSC (civil services), IIT-JEE, and bank probationary officers. This has resulted in increased paid users, with sources saying Unacademy’s annualised recurring revenue (ARR) has now reached $80 million as compared to $30 million in January this year, as its user base has seen a spike. In April, Unacademy said it saw an 82% increase in revenues as compared to March, with time spent on its platform at 1.4 billion minutes — a 40% increase over March. The startup was founded by Munjal, who sold his first startup Flatchat to Commonfloor, along with Hemesh Singh (former CTO at Flatchat) and former IAS officer Roman Saini. Its existing investors already include SAIF Partners, Nexus Venture Partners, and Blume Ventures. Individual investors include Flipkart CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy, Sujeet Kumar (co-founder, Udaan) and Haptik’s Aakrit Vaish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unacademy-eyes-funding-at-1-2bn-valuation/articleshow/76203422.cms||Madhav Chanchani
June 5, 2020||Surat||Dahej factory blast toll climbs to 10||Surat/Gandhinagar: The death toll in the massive explosion at the chemical factory in Dahej SEZ climbed to 10 on Thursday with two more persons succumbing to the severe burn wounds in Bharuch.While the Directorate of Industrial Safety & Health (DISH) is still investigating the exact cause of the explosion, which was heard as far as 20 km away, sources in the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) said that the likely reason was mixing of two incompatible chemicals. The incident happened at Yashasvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd promoted by a Surat-based business group.“We are not sure what chemicals they were, but prima facie it looks like a case of serious lapses in handling the chemicals,” officials of GPCB told TOI.Of the 10 dead, two are from Bharuch district while eight others are migrants. They were identified as Rashmikant Chauhan (35) and Naresh Prajapati (27) from Bharuch district; Surajlal Rajput (35), Munnasingh Shiv Prasad Singh(38, Tripurari Kumar Rai (25) and Hari Darashan Umesh Chaudhary from Bihar; Pramod Yadav (26) from Uttar Pradesh, Arun Kori (19) from Madhya Pradesh and Jayant Mohanto (28) from West Bengal. All these nine were working for Yashasvi Rasayan while one identified deceased worker was from adjoining Thermax company.District Collector of Bharuch, Dr MD Modiya told TOI that condition of four people is still critical. “A team from DISH is investigating and action will be taken against the company owners after detailed inquiry.”Out of 79 injured, 34 were discharged and 44 are stable in the hospital.Meanwhile, GPCB, member secretary, AV Shah, said that a penalty of Rs one crore has been imposed on the company for causing massive environmental damage.DISH, which functions under the state labour and employment department, has issued prohibition order was issued to the company within hours of the accident. “The unit will not be allowed to resume operations until adequate safety measures are in place," said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment. He also said of safety audit of major accident hazard (MAH) units and chemical units will be undertaken. Strict action will be taken units not following the recommendations in the safety audit.Mittra also said that the management of Yashashvi Rasayan will pay ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased workers.“The process for paying compensation has been initiated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dahej-factory-blast-toll-climbs-to-10/articleshow/76203070.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Review works taken up by 2 departments, says CM||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to review the works undertaken by the rural development and the rural works departments for their speedy implementation. He also told him to ensure that labour-intensive works were taken up to create job opportunities in the state. Speaking at a high-level review meet, the CM asked the officials of the rural development department (RDD) to pay special attention to the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural) as well as the Mukhyamantri Gramin Awas Yojana. With regard to the latter, he asked the officials concerned to purchase homestead lands for the purpose and also directed the chief secretary to review the implementation of the RDD schemes. Similarly, Nitish directed the officials and engineers of the rural works department (RWD) to expedite construction of roads. He said the remaining works under the Mukhya Mantri Gram Sampark Yojana were completed. He also told the departments concerned to ensure that the families of migrant workers are linked with the Jeevika programme and self-help groups. Apprehending the arrival of the monsoon season, the CM asked the water resources department to complete the flood-protection schemes in time. He also directed the officials of the departments concerned to gear up for meeting the challenges in all the flood-prone districts. The CM also laid emphasis on launching an awareness drive in rural areas that would throw light on the importance of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and reporting about the symptoms of Covid-19. He asked the departments to conduct a sustained awareness campaign through loudspeakers, poster display, radio and TV announcements and advertisements in newspapers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/review-works-taken-up-by-2-departments-says-cm/articleshow/76201776.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Surat||88 fresh cases in Surat, Katargam a major concern||Surat: Katargam zone has emerged a major concern for the Surat civic body. On Thursday of the 88 new cases, 25 were reported from Katargam.Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that to deal with spread of the virus, private hospitals will be designated as Covid-19 hospitals. “If cases continue to rise, we will designate private hospitals as 'Covid-19 hospitals. As per the ICMR guidelines, those with mild symptoms are given treatment at home. We have also started this system where two patients — one from Athwa zone and one from Katargam zone, have been isolated at their homes. But those patients who have breathing problems will have to get admitted to hospital,” said Pani. “Our next challenge is to contain the influx of people coming from outside the city. Two patients, one from Nadiad and one from Mumbai have tested positive for Covid-19. We have repeatedly requested people to self isolate for 14 days when you enter into the city from outside to contain the spread of the virus,” Pani added. He said that many of the new cases have been referred by private medical practitioners. On Thursday, 44 patients who have recovered were discharged from various hospitals, of which 22 were from Covid Care Centre at Samras Hostel and 19 from New Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/88-fresh-cases-in-surat-katargam-a-major-concern/articleshow/76203079.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Surat||Special training for paramedics to identify leptospirosis cases||Surat: Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, the state health department and Surat district administration on Thursday held a meeting to prevent spread of leptospirosis during upcoming monsoon season. Leptospirosis cases spike in south Gujarat every year during monsoon. The meeting was attended by Surat district development officer Hitesh Koya and additional director (hand medical services) Dr. Prakash Vaghela, among others. “Surat district administration will provide special training to paramedical staff for leptospirosis,” said Koya. According to officials, in 2019, 26 cases of leptospirosis were reported in Surat district. “We are preparing to deal with it and will soon start fever surveillance in the district to identify such cases,” Koya added. “Leptospirosis cases start in the end of July month and are reported till end of August. In order to provide timely treatment for the disease, special arrangements will be made at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) run SMIMMER hospital,” said Dr Ghanshyam Patel, deputy director (epidemic department), Gandhiangar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/special-training-for-paramedics-to-identify-leptospirosis-cases/articleshow/76203103.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Surat||Diamond units urged not to import roughs in June||Surat: At a time when the diamond manufacturing in Surat has resumed operations, industry leaders have urged the diamond unit owners not to import rough diamonds in June.In the letter to industry representatives, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has exhorted diamond manufacturers to avoid rough diamond import during the month of June.Dinesh Navadiya, regional chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “About 30% of the diamond units have reopened due to the severe shortage of workers, who have gone to their native hometowns in Saurashtra. The workers are not likely to return in the next couple of months. So, we have appealed to the unit owners not to import rough diamonds in June.”Surat's diamond industry import rough diamonds to the tune of $19 billion per annum. The monthly import of rough diamonds is pegged at Rs 3,000 crore. Sources said that the diamond miners and producing countries are feeling the pinch of over the import ban in India. De Beers and Alrosa, the world's largest diamond mining companies, have decided to cut the diamond production due to the subdued demand from India. Diamond industry analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide said, “It is likely that the industry will not import rough diamonds in the next two months. The demand for polished diamonds has been severely affected due to coronavirus pandemic. The diamond consuming markets including Europe, US and UAE are affected.”Lidbide added, “The Hong Kong protest is going on from the last many days, which has disrupted the diamond export to China.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-units-urged-not-to-import-roughs-in-june/articleshow/76203122.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Workers start going outside Bihar for job||PATNA: Bihar has witnessed a huge influx of migrant workers after the Centre allowed the interstate movement of stranded people in May. However, with no work and money left, some returnees are going back to their previous workplaces in search of a livelihood. A bus from Bhatinda in Punjab reached Darbhanga in Bihar on Wednesday to take migrant workers back. Parked between Bithauli and Arai, it left for its destination with at least 50 men from nearby villages. Earlier, a bus had left for Ludhiana in Punjab with a group of 30 workers from Haripur village under Singheshwarshtan block in the district. The return of migrants to their workplaces in search of jobs is not confined to Darbhanga alone. On Sunday, altogether 20 men from villages under Minapur block in Muzaffarpur district went back to Punjab by a bus. Most of them had come to their native villages before Holi and were stuck because of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. Sources claimed that a contractor in Minapur was in touch with the farmers in Punjab, who require migrant workers for paddy cultivation on their agricultural lands during the monsoon season. 20-year-old Madan Kumar, whose father, Manoj Sahni, left by the bus bearing the registration number of Punjab, told this newspaper, “In the changed scenario, the farmers of Punjab have agreed to pay Rs 12,000 for paddy sowing on an acre of land, instead of Rs 4,000. Who will not grab this opportunity.” Besides, some migrants have received e-tickets from farmers in Punjab to facilitate their return. One Sonelal Sahni, a resident of Gosai village under Minapur block in Muzaffarpur, said, “I will board a train for Delhi from Muzaffarpur Junction and leave for Ludhiana by a special vehicle.” E-tickets have reportedly been booked for several other migrant workers hailing from Ganga Dharampur and Purainia villages. “After getting their e-tickets, at least 15 people left for Punjab by trains,” a local resident, Ganesh Shahi, said. Asked about the return of migrants to their workplaces, the block development officer of Minapur, Amrendra Kumar, pointed out, “I have not received any official information either from any people’s representative or any government official till date.” He, however, admitted that unconfirmed reports said that some migrant workers from Turki Purvi village had returned to Punjab in search of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/workers-start-going-outside-state-for-job/articleshow/76201764.cms||Ramashankar
June 5, 2020||Patna||As life limps back to normal in Patna, many forget rules||PATNA: With the implementation of Unlock 1.0, life is slowly getting back on track in the city. Stores, salons, offices and market complexes have reopened and more vehicles can be seen plying on the roads. While a large number of people are still not stepping out of their houses because of the fear of contracting coronavirus, there are some who are openly flouting social distancing norms in public places. A visit to the popular Hathwa, Khetan and Patna markets on Thursday exposed the careless attitude of many. There was neither a cop to monitor the crowd nor any mechanism to ensure that social distancing norms were followed. To make matters worse, many people were roaming around without wearing masks or gloves. Ram Lal Khetan, the owner of Khetan Market, however, told this newspaper that customers were being allowed to enter only after undergoing thermal screening and sanitizing their hands. Bhikhna Pahadi resident Avinash Kumar claimed that 90% of the people in his area were not wearing masks. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “The district administration, local police stations and Patna Municipal Corporation have been told to make sure that social distancing norms are followed in public places. People have to wear masks and traders have to allow a limited number of customers in their shops.” On the other hand, electronic goods and homeware markets on Boring Road, S P Verma Road, Exhibition Road and Nala Road wore a deserted look on Thursday. Shyam Lal, the owner of a home décor shop on S P Verma Road, rued, “Earlier, at least 20 people would visit my store every day, but now, there are hardly any customers.” Stand-alone shops and makeshift stalls are also unhappy with the poor footfalls. Chotu Singh, who runs a ‘pani puri’ stall outside Maurya Lok Complex, pointed out, “I have started wearing gloves and using a hand sanitizer, but people are no more willing to eat my ‘golgappas’.” Meanwhile, with more vehicles on roads, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna has started deteriorating, again. As per the daily bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board, the city’s AQI stood at 102, which falls in the ‘satisfactory’ category, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-life-limps-back-to-normal-many-prefer-staying-indoors/articleshow/76201874.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Cop scanner on Kolkata business hubs||KOLKATA: The surge in business activity and subsequent crowding in the wholesale hub of Burrabazar has prompted police to shut down some markets within a week of Unlock 1.0 and impose restrictions on others for flouting social distancing norms. On Thursday, though there was some calm inside the markets, it was mayhem outside where hawkers encroached up on carriageways, labourers dumped goods on pavements and vehicles continued to unload goods and block the thoroughfare. Cops conducted several surprise checks to see if social distancing norms were being followed and whether people wore masks. “We met members of the associations of various markets in Burrabazar and adjoining areas and told them to sort out the mess or we will shut the markets indefinitely. Shops in containment zones were found conducting business and nobody was following social distancing norms. The streets were crammed with people and vehicles and none was wearing a mask,” an officer said. In Mehta Building, shops have been asked to follow the odd-even formula. On Ezra Street, a wholesale hub for electrical goods, hawkers have been allowed to open stalls on alternate days and several shops in the containment zones of Harrison Road, Cotton Street, Sikdar Para, Banstalla, and MG Road have been shut. Since these markets house several wholesale dealers, thousands throng this pocket every day. Officers said it was difficult to control the situation unless the business fraternity itself took the initiative. Mehta Building, with close to 850 shops, have been asked to practice the odd-even formula. “Shops that are side by side will open on alternate days so that buyers can get enough space for social distancing. The same rule will apply to the dalas inside the market,” said Yash Bhartia, a joint secretary of the association. Most of the markets in ward 23, which reported several Covid-19 positive cases and some deaths, have been told to shut down. “It is a sensitive zone and we had to work hard to break the chain of transmission. But the threat is still present. Since buyers come from all parts of the city and the suburbs, there is a risk of transmission to other areas too,” said an officer of Posta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-scanner-on-kolkata-biz-hubs/articleshow/76203911.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 5, 2020||Patna||Panel to draft SOP for Patna police functioning||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic is going to change the state police functioning in and outside the office. The police headquarters has formed a high-level committee to draft standard operating procedure (SOP) and guidelines for police functioning in post-Covid era. This is for the first time that such SOP is being prepared as police functioning has so far been mainly guided by rules in Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and Bihar Police Manual under the Bihar Police Act, 2007. The committee is headed by ADG of Bihar Military Police (BMP), RS Bhatti, with State Crime Records Bureau IG Kamal Kishore Singh, IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj and IG (Magadh range) Rakesh Rathi as its members. While Bhatti and Rathi had experience of working with CBI, Raj had been associated with Central Detective Training Institute in Hyderabad for several years. When contacted, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the committee would formulate guidelines for state police to follow while conducting raids, making arrest, transporting arrested person, patrolling, interrogation and several other aspects of daily policing in the field as well as in police stations. “The guidelines would also be implemented while conducting training of fresh recruits as well as on duty. Once formulated, the SOP and guidelines would also be included in Bihar Police Manual after the DGP’s approval for immediate implementation,” he said. The ADG said if there is any point beyond the jurisdiction of the state police headquarters, it would be put up before state government. He said the draft would be made soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panel-to-draft-sop-for-state-police-functioning/articleshow/76201957.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 5, 2020||Surat||Mission on to regreen forests with lost native species||SURAT: In an effort to conserve native flora and regreen the state’s forests with its almost extinct native species of trees, a major step is being taken towards conserving and promoting these native species through seed collection. Spearheading the movement, Silviculture and Forest Utilization circle (Silva) at Rajpipla in Narmada district, has collected seeds of about 112 native trees from different forests areas, especially the eastern belt of the state, including seven of critically endangered species. The rest include seven endangered species, 19 near-threatened, and 17 vulnerable trees. Silva, one of the research wings of the state’s forest department, started the journey by collecting seeds of around 60 native tree species, and this year it has collected about 112 native tree species. This requires extensive fieldwork to find critically endangered and other rare species in the remote forest areas including those of Dang and Ratanmahal. Forest officers at Silva hope to raise more than 10 lakh saplings of such rare plant species in 2020-21, which will then be planted in Gujarat’s forest areas. "We have launched a mega drive of collecting more than 100 native tree seeds from forest areas this year. Many of them are vulnerable, endangered, threatened and endemic to the western belt of our country. Due to habitat fragmentation and other reasons native trees pertain to Gujarat are becoming rare,” Dr Minal Jani, assistant conservator of forests, Silva circle, told TOI. "Restoring native plant habitat is fundamental for preserving biodiversity and functioning of ecosystems. They are the ecological basis upon which life depends, including birds, animals and people,” Dr Jani said, adding that trees like Timru (Tendu patta, Coromandel Ebony) and Karamda (Karanda) are favourite to sloth bears and other animals will be planted in their habitats. At many places, rare trees were found but without seeds and flowers, while other species like Wrightia dolichocarpa (Moti Kudi) and Toona ciliata (toon) were found after 30 years but from places not reported earlier, said the officer. Trees with greater longevity like Kumbhio (Wild Guava), Saadad (Indian Laurel), Mahudo (Indian Butter Tree), Behada (Beach almond), Chamoli (Pore Leaved Bauhinia) among many others help in combating climate change by locking carbon dioxide and conserving water, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mission-on-to-regreen-forests-with-lost-native-species/articleshow/76203201.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
June 5, 2020||Surat||Tapi sheds its decade-long hyacinth blanket this summer||SURAT: Every summer, river Tapi, from Kosad to weir-cum-causeway, wore a green blanket. However, this summer it has thankfully got rid of that hyacinth covering after the more than two months of lockdown. Earlier, the waterweed-covered river was an eyesore for the residents, who are pleasantly surprised by the free flow of clean water now. According to experts, thanks to good amount of rain and reduced discharge of waste water in the river, it could shed at least 32 percent hyacinth cover this year compared to the past 10 years. Hyacinth not only deteriorates quality of water but also creates major problems in the operation of the intake well that pumps water to the city, they explained. The drop in hyacinth cover is now helping improve the ecology of the river. “There is more than 32 percent significant drop in hyacinth cover in the 20km stretch of the river, from Kosad to weir-cum-causeway. We have registered such a big drop for the first time in a decade,” said Namrata Jariwala, assistant professor, Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT). Jariwala said that abundance of rain and heavy flow of water helped clear hyacinth from river water. Also the closing down of a number of unauthorised waste water outlets helped keep the weed under control, she added. “Hyacinth grew in the river for past few years as there was no good rain,” said Karmavir Bhatt, an ecologist. He said that was cured by heavy water flow for over three months which cleared the river of hyacinth, from roots to seeds. “Overall water quality has improved in the river and a good monsoon this year too will clear the river further,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-sheds-its-decade-long-hyacinth-blanket-this-summer/articleshow/76203163.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
June 5, 2020||Surat||Woman accused of poisoning her children tests positive||SURAT: A 33-year-old woman who is accused of allegedly trying to kill her children by poisoning, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.The woman was taken for test by police before arresting her. She is now admitted in New Civil Hospital for treatment following the test results. The woman Lata Lathiya had attempted suicide by consuming poisonous material at her residence in Amroli area on Saturday. She made her two children, 13 and 7 years, drink some poison-laced milk. However, all three survived and their health too has recovered in the hospital. Meanwhile, police had booked Lathiya after her estranged husband, Jitesh, lodged a complaint with the police. Jitesh, a diamond broker who works in Mumbai has been living separately owing to frequent disputes between them. Jitesh had gone to his native in Bhavnagar during the lockdown when the woman took the extreme step, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-accused-of-poisoning-her-children-tests-positive/articleshow/76203136.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hubballi||1.9 lakh saplings to be planted in Chitradurga||DAVANAGERE: “We have planned to plant over 1.9 lakh saplings during this monsoon in different parts of Chitradurga district,” said DCF (social forestry) Cholarajappa. The plantation drive will be launched on Friday under the concept of greening of urban zones. “We have prepared a large number of saplings including neem, mango and tamarind at our ten nurseries spread out in six taluks of the district. It is the responsibility of every citizen to plant a tree and nurse it,” the DCF said on the eve of World Environment Day. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1-9-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-in-chitradurga/articleshow/76204257.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kanpur||138 tanneries asked to suspend production for 15 days||Kanpur: The district administration has ordered 138 tanneries of the Jajmau area to suspend their production for 15 days for allegedly discharging more effluent than permissible limits as overflowing effluent might pollute Ganga. The regional pollution control board had lodged a complaint with the district administration that the tanneries, connected with the Sheetala Bazar and Budhia Ghat pumping stations, were discharging more polluted water from their units. Taking cognizance of the complaint, district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari took action on Wednesday and warned the tannery owners that strict action would be taken against them if their units were found operating in the suspended period. On the demand of the tannery owners, the government had given permission to operate the units with certain restrictions and Covid-19 protocols. The pollution control board observed that the tanneries connected with Budhia Ghat and Sheetala Bazar pumping stations were discharging more effluent water which might pollute the river. Talking to TOI, regional pollution control board officer SB Franklin said that effluent discharge flow had become high after which the matter was reported to the district administration which had asked the tanneries connected with the two pumping stations to suspend their operation for 15 days. He said that the administration had also ordered to run the tanneries according to a roster. Under the roster programme, 120 tanneries would operate in one fortnight while the remaining 138 tanneries in the second fortnight .This roster system would continue till July, he further said. The city has four pumping stations-- Sheetala Bazar, Budhia Ghat, Chabileypurwa and Wazidpur with which are connected 120,18,25, and 95 tanneries respectivel . Since operation of 138 tanneries had been suspended, the remaining 120 could carry their operations, Franklin added. General secretary, Leather Industries Welfare Association, Asad Iraqi, claimed that the correct figures were not being presented and the officials were confusing the authorities. He said his association would soon meet the CM and apprise him of the correct facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/138-tanneries-asked-to-suspend-production-for-15-days/articleshow/76204871.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
June 5, 2020||Business||Consumer confidence crashes: RBI survey||MUMBAI: Less than two months into the Covid-19 lockdown, consumer confidence in India totally collapsed with half of those polled expecting incomes to shrink and prices to rise. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday released its consumer confidence survey, conducted through telephonic interviews across May 5-17 in 13 cities, which indicated consumers “entering the zone of pessimism”. Consumers have turned more pessimistic on all fronts — economic situation, employment, income and spending. Among those surveyed, 74% said that the economic situation has deteriorated, while 67% said that expectations on employment have worsened. Expecting price pressure on food products, more households see general prices and inflation rising over a three-month horizon as compared to the previous round. However, the prices of all product groups, especially the cost of housing, are expected to ease over the year-ahead period. Until now, it was only a minority (less than a fourth) who felt that there is a likelihood of incomes shrinking. However, in the May 2020 survey, a record 50% said that they saw their incomes coming down. As a result, nearly 10% said they would reduce spending even on essentials, while 46% said they would cut spending on non-essential items. The RBI also released the results of the inflation expectation survey of households. This survey shows that median inflation perception and expectations increased sharply in May 2020 as compared with the March 2020 round of the survey. Three-month and one-year ahead median inflation expectations rose by 190 and 120 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), respectively, over the previous round. Overall consumer spending remained afloat, mostly due to relative inelasticity in need for essentials. Consumers, however, reported sharp cuts in discretionary spending and also do not expect much improvement in the coming year. The RBI usually releases consumer confidence data at the time of the monetary policy. However, given the lockdown, the central bank was not in a position to complete its surveys. It has also released its survey of professional forecasters on the outlook in respect of gross domestic product (GDP) growth and inflation. Most of the professional forecasters have lowered their previous (pre-Covid-19) forecasts by 7 percentage points. Real GDP, according to the forecaster’s poll, is likely to contract by 1.5% in 2020-21, but is expected to revert to growth terrain next year when it is likely to expand by 7.2%. Real gross value-added (GVA) is expected to decline by 1.7% in 2020-21, but is likely to record 6.8% growth in 2021-22, supported by an uptick in industrial and services sector activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumer-confidence-crashes-rbi/articleshow/76203516.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Business||WFH pushes demand for support pillows, protective eyewear||Chennai: With work from home (WFH) and online classes becoming the new norm, people are purchasing items that reduce body aches and strain eyes that comes along with long hours of computer usage. From back support pillows, ergonomic chairs and protective eyewear many are seen buying them. Eyewear brands Titan, Specsmakers, which saw only a fraction of their sales from blue lens, before lockdown — protective eyewear — are now seeing an increase in its share by 25%-30%. “It is not just WFH, but also due to the overall increased screen usage that is straining people's eyes. There is also a 60% jump in demand for zero power protective specs," said Pratik Shah, CEO, Specsmakers. Anxious parents are getting a pair for themselves and for their kids who have online classes and spend the rest of the time using gadgets, add retailers. Titan saw its share of blue lens rise to 55% from less than 40% last month. “Across metros, the number of people purchasing these (protective lens) has increased,” said Shalini Gupta, marketing head at Titan EyePlus. Besides eyewear, ergonomic chairs — with adjustable seat height, seat depth and lumbar support — are also seeing a spike in demand. Ergonomic office furniture solutions provider Humanscale is seeing a tripling in demand from its corporate clients. “In the initial few weeks, there was no idea how long the work from home situation would go on for. People could work out of their beds or from the floor. This began to cause back aches in their employees since the same was happening for over a month. In the last month, we see more demand from corporates for chairs, monitor arms, laptop holder, keyboard trays etc,” said Alastair Stubbs, Country Manager India, Humanscale Not only are corporates buying such furniture for their employees, many are even providing allowance. Freshworks, Salesforce for example have allocated upto $250 per employee for setting up home offices. Custom furniture brand Woodenstreet is seeing a rise in demand for straight backed, adjustable chairs and desks from employees who are using their allowance for the purchases. “The demand has increased since May, when employees realised that WFH is here to stay and retail started opening up,” said Lokendra Singh Ranawat, CEO and co-founder, Wooden Street. Other brands including Godrej Interio and Sunday Mattress have also launched WFH furniture from employees launching their own home offices. Some working out of smaller spaces are making their beds more comfortable to work. Companies such as Wakefit, Wink and Nod are seeing a jump in demand for back support pillows, neck support pillows, and etc. “The mix of products has changed. Earlier people used to order more mattresses but now, the demand for accessories has increased by 40% because of the WFH trend,” said Chaitanya Ramalingegowda, co-founder, Wakefit.co.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-pushes-demand-for-support-pillows-protective-eyewear/articleshow/76203761.cms||Aparna Desikan
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘My priority will be to restore Vimsar’s image’||Newly appointed Vimsar director Lalit Kumar Meher talks to Subrat Mohanty about his plans for his alma materWhat will be the areas you will focus on after you join office as director, Vimsar?Many medical and paramedical posts at the premier health institution are lying vacant. My priority will be to fill up these posts at the earliest as only then can the institution deliver quality healthcare. Moreover, discipline at the workplace will be another focus of mine. Matters related to the students and infrastructure also need urgent attention. What is the biggest challenge before you?The biggest challenge for me is the image of the institution. That matters a lot. A bad image of an institution creates mistrust among patients, and mistrust is a barrier to providing good health services. People across western Odisha depend on Vimsar, but the image of the institution has suffered due to some small reasons. We have to change the image of the institution. There is an allegation that doctors of the institution are involved in private practice and neglect hospital workYou will find black sheep in every profession. Doctors are also human beings and, of course, there will be some doctors who will not fall in line. We will try our best to change them. But the good thing about Vimsar is that there are many doctors there who are doing their job sincerely. Many of them are outstanding doctors.  Do you plan to open new departments?There is a requirement of superspecialty departments, but getting good faculty for these departments is a big challenge. You are an alumnus of the institution. Do you think it will be easy for you to resolve its problems?I completed my MBBS from the institution a long time ago and many things have changed since then. I am not aware of the current situation here. I will analyse it once I arrive and take the required measures. It is not possible to resolve all problems overnight. I will seek the cooperation of every stakeholder to resolve the problems at my alma mater. I am optimistic about support from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/my-priority-will-be-to-restore-vimsars-image/articleshow/76202396.cms||Subrat Mohanty
June 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Rain useful for sowing operations||KOLHAPUR: Even as normal life in parts of western Maharashtra was partially affected due to cyclone Nisarga, the pre-monsoon showers have brought cheers to the farmers. Sowing operation for kharif season was in the last stage in western Maharashtra and farmers believe that rainfall was useful for them to complete the remaining farming operations. Kolhapur district recorded 527 mm rainfall on Wednesday Kolhapur zilla parishad agriculture officer Dnayndeo Vakure told TOI that Wednesday rains were useful for farmers in the region as majority of them had completed sowing operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rain-useful-for-sowing-operations/articleshow/76202386.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Tenant turns violent as landlady lodges plaint||COIMBATORE: A video of woman in her 40s brandishing sickle and threatening her 70-year-old landlady went viral on social media on Thursday. According to police, it was a complaint against her for not paying rent that provoked the tenant, identified as Jaya. She was one of the three people staying at the house that was rented out by Gnanamary, of Kalki Street in Rathinapuri. An officer said a family of three – two women and a school girl – had approached Gnanamary on January 18, 2020, to rent her house. “The woman agreed to pay a security deposit of Rs 20,000 and a monthly rent of Rs 5,500. While she initially paid the landlady an advance of Rs 10,000, she failed to settle the remaining security deposit amount. She hasn’t also paid any rent so far.” The woman, the officer said, used to abuse the landlady whenever she approached her for rent. “Finally, the tenant agreed to vacate the house on March 31. But they refused to shift, citing lockdown.” On Wednesday, Gnanamary, along with her 85-year-old husband Mariyaprakasam, lodged a complaint with the Rathinapuri police against the tenant. When they returned home, Jaya threatened Gnanamary with the sickle. Immediately, the couple contacted the police control room and a team of police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. On Thursday, Gnanamary lodged another complaint with the Rathinapuri police against the tenant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tenant-turns-violent-as-landlady-lodges-plaint/articleshow/76204394.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||Chouhan visits Narottam over breakfast, keeps observers guessing||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday made a surprise visit to the official residence of his cabinet colleague and home minister, Narottam Mishra. The meeting took political observers by surprise as it comes in the backdrop of rumblings within the party over cabinet expansion and tickets for by-polls on 24 seats in Madhya Pradesh. Chouhan is learnt to have discussed with Mishra the impact of Balendu Shukla quitting the BJP in the Gwalior-Chambal region. However, he later told reporters that this was a casual meeting over breakfast. Chouhan reached Mishra's house at Char Imli area in the morning without any official alert and held a close-door meeting for almost half-an-hour. Sources said the two leaders discussed strategy to thwart Congress' plans to lure BJP leaders. Chouhan later told reporters, "I am chief minister and he (Mishra) is home minister. We had worked together since the era of Yuva Morcha (youth front) in the party. Narottam had been requesting a breakfast meeting at his residence, so I decided to join. This breakfast meeting was long awaited otherwise we meet everyday in the office," Chouhan told reporters on the get-together. Replying to the Congress allegations on damage to the wheat and gram crops lying in open during rains, the chief minister said that 94% crops have been stored inside warehouses. "The Congress could not control Covid-19 in the state. It also failed to provide jute bags ahead of procurement of Rabi crops. Still, we have procured a record 126 metric tonne of wheat during the season. Procurement was suspended due to rains but, farmers need not worry about their crop. I am here for them," said Chouhan BJP sources said the two leaders discussed the impact of Balendu Shukla quitting the party on 24 seats where by-polls are scheduled soon. Shukla, who was uneasy ever since Jyotiraditya Scindia joined the saffron party in March, decided to return to Congress. The former Congress minister holds sway on a few seats in Gwalior region including, Gwalior and Gwalior South, from where he had unsuccessfully contested elections in 2003 and 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-visits-narottam-over-breakfast-keeps-observers-guessing/articleshow/76224687.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nashik||Crops in 191 ha damaged in Nashik dist||Nashik: Cyclone Nisarga, which brushed past the Nashik district on Wednesday, did not cause major damage to life and property damage here, but affected crops across 191.2 hectares, reports show. Crops in 191.2 hectares were affected across the district. The Sinnar taluka was worst hit as crops in 138.8 hectare were damaged here. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who reviewed the situation and toured parts of the district, said: “This is a primary assessment. It is likely to increase.” About 258 houses including 64 pakka, 187 kaccha and 7 slums were affected by the strong winds. According to the district administration, poultry shed in Yeola blew away and chicks died causing a loss of Rs 21.36 lakh. Bhujbal said some individuals incurred heavy damages and the government would soon look into what can be done to help them. The IMD’s Nashik observatory, set up in the city, recorded 144.2 mm of rain. The district received 40% of rainfall for the month of June in a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/crops-in-191-ha-damaged-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/76202418.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM transfers Rs 1,300 crore to over 86 lakh pensioners||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath transferred Rs 1,301.84 crore as pension to 86,71,181 beneficiaries on Thursday. “Coming on the eve of the CM's 48th birthday, the help came as a return gift for beneficiaries under old age pension, nirashrit mahila pension, divyang pension, leprosy pension and those of the Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan package,” said a state government spokesperson. The CM also interacted with some of the beneficiaries through video conferencing. In April, to help people tide over the Covid-19 lockdown, the government had released two month’s pension in advance amounting to Rs 871.48 crore, depositing it directly into their accounts. The total pension released by the government so far, including funds under the Central scheme, is Rs 2,173.32 crore. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, an amount of Rs 1,000 per beneficiary was released along with the monthly pension. The total disbursal included Rs 748.06 crore to 49,87,054 beneficiaries of old age pension, Rs 390.93 crore to 26,06,213 beneficiaries of nirashit mahila pension, Rs 160.17 crore to 10,67,786 beneficiaries of divyang pension and Rs 2.68 crore to 10,728 beneficiaries of leprosy pension. While addressing beneficiaries after the funds were disbursed, the CM said that by transferring money directly into the accounts of beneficiaries helped in quick transfer of funds and also ensured that any avenue of corruption through physical transfer was stemmed. “Now one does not even need to go to banks to withdraw their money as newly appointed banking correspondents will visit pensioners and help them carry out banking transactions at their homes,” he said. “During the interaction, pensioner Rajaram from Jalaun thanked the CM for organising a direct interaction with people. In a conversation with one Bamouri Devi, the CM told her that she had received Rs 1,000 under the Garib Kalyan package and Rs 500 as pension which would help her meet her household expenses. Krishna, a resident of Bahraich, informed the CM that along with the pension, he was also getting ration on time with which he was able to sustain his family,” said a government spokesperson. He added that Ravi Kumar from Meerut, who works in a bulb factory, told the CM that he was very worried when all industrial work shut down during the lockdown but that he was paid his salary regularly during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-transfers-rs-1300cr-to-over-86l-pensioners/articleshow/76204910.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur boat clubs want to train youths||KOLHAPUR: The city-based boating clubs are approaching the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) to train the youths in carrying out rescue operations during floods. The civic body has made it mandatory for the residential societies, in areas affected by flood last year, with more than 20 apartments to procure life jackets and rescue boats. They have also been asked to get the youth from the societies to sign up for voluntary rescue work. A senior KMC official said, “We have received a letter from some of the boat clubs who are ready to provide training to the volunteers for rescue work training.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-boat-clubs-want-to-train-youths/articleshow/76202404.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||HC to Telangana: Give status of Covid-19 patient||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday directed the state to furnish the status of Covid-19 a patient from Vanasthalipuram by Friday. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a plea filed by the patient’s wife, seeking the whereabouts of her husband who was admitted in Gandhi hospital on April 30. Prior to this, her father-in-law tested positive and succumbed to the disease. She, along with her children were quarantined in a government hospital and were later discharged. She brought to the notice of the court the multiple statements made by the state and GHMC that her husband too succumbed and that his body had been cremated. “But we were not given any information,” she said. She filed this plea as a habeas corpus petition and sought to know the whereabouts of her husband. “Even in the case of a Covid-19 death, the norms say that the authorities should videograph the cremation and give it to the family. Leave alone videograph, we were not even intimated as to what happened to my husband,” she lamented. The high court bench sought information on this by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-t-give-status-of-covid-19-patient/articleshow/76204401.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal records 58 fresh cases, 15 from Kotra Sultanabad||BHOPAL: As many as 58 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state capital on Thursday, 15 of them from a single colony in Kotra Sultanabad. Along with Hanumanganj, which reported 10 new cases, and Kotra Sultanabad, the two areas are fast emerging as hotspots for Covid-19 in Bhopal. Aishbagh too reported more Covid-19 cases in the last 24-hours. Nine people tested positive in Aishbagh. Among Thursday’s cases, five were marked as address ‘not applicable’ by the district administration. There are 141 containment zones and 458 active Covid-19 cases in the state capital. Since the outbreak, 1,630 people have been diagnosed with the infection and 1,111 have recovered. A total 61 people have died. On Thursday, MP health minister Narottam Mishra visited JP hospital to inspect Covid-19 measures undertaken by the hospital. Mishra interacted with the medical staff and patients. He also inspected the fever clinic of the hospital and reviewed measures taken by doctors and paramedical staff, who were examining, sampling and screening the patients. He also talked to patients in the clinic. Three people who received convalescent plasma therapy clinical trial have recovered and were discharged from Hamidia hospital on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-records-58-fresh-cases-15-from-kotra-sultanabad/articleshow/76203480.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||NU prof develops UV sanitization units for mobiles, food items||Nagpur: In wake of coronavirus threat, everyone thoroughly washes vegetable and other food items. We even clean the mobile handsets regularly with sanitizers. However, there’s always a threat of getting infected from the deadly disease if not cleaned properly. A Nagpur University professor has come out two innovations based on ultraviolet (UV) technology, which would do sanitization of mobiles and food items, including the vegetables. Sanjay Dhoble, working as associate professor at NU’s physics department, in collaboration with assistant professor at Amritsar’s DAV College Vibha Chopra, has designed two sanitization units, one mobile phone and a multi-purpose device for daily use items including fruits and vegetables. The researchers have already applied for patents of both units, which they claimed as first of its kind in the country. According to Dhoble, both the sanitizing units could be readily used at offices of universities, colleges, schools, hospitals, police stations and even at homes. The devices are designed in collaboration with industrialist Tushar Padgilwar from Padgilwar Agro Industries and would be made available in the markets soon. “UV technology can be used as one of the methods for sanitization since its light has germicidal properties. It’s not only cost effective and environmental friendly, but also leaves no residues like chemical disinfectant methods,” he said. According to him, it’s a time-saving technique that would cause no harm to environment and humans, since the devices are fully enclosed. “The units are economical and can be used at homes, offices and specially hospitals to sanitize daily usage items in the time of global pandemic. Both are expected to kill 99.99 % of the germ, fungi, bacteria, and virus,” he said. Explaining further, Dhoble, who had many innovations to his credit, added the units wouldn’t cause any damage to the smartphone, fresh fruits, vegetables, eatables, other grocery items. “The virus could stay on mobile screen for as long as 96 hours and we regularly touch the screen from where it could be transmitted in out body,” he said. “Since unit are radiation based, there is no radioactivity. Both devices are fully enclosed, so they have an advantage that whole air inside is subjected to a known UV dose and the disinfection effectiveness can be accurately measured,” Dhoble added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-prof-develops-uv-sanitization-units-for-mobiles-food-items/articleshow/76203502.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 5, 2020||Mangaluru||With 481 Covid-19 cases, Udupi on tenterhooks||MANGALURU: Udupi district’s war against Covid-19 has seemingly faltered after the government decided to reduce 14 days institutional quarantine to one week. What is more shocking is that a few people who tested positive for the disease have not yet been traced. Udupi district, which was once lauded for successfully handling the pandemic, is now in the first place in the state for Covid-19 cases, with 564 total cases and 481 active cases. Interestingly, reports of recent cases detected were out after people had gone from institutional quarantine to home quarantine. As many as 1, 732 samples are yet to be tested as on Thursday. Till May 1, the district had only three positive cases. “A majority of the cases detected recently, are people who had already gone home. Some of the people who tested positive are incommunicado, and there is possibility of community transmission of the disease because of them. This wouldn’t have happened if the government sent them home after arrival of sample test reports,” said a source working with the health department. Those whom the authorities are unable to contact had given incorrect details, said an official. Ruling out community outbreak, G Jagadeesha, deputy commissioner, Udupi, is confident of the district’s preparedness to tackle the disease, in case there is community outbreak. “We have sent people into home quarantine, after seven days of institutional quarantine, as per MHA and state guidelines. One shouldn’t blame the district administration in this regard,” he said. Due to people who have moved into home quarantine testing positive for Covid-19, it has created panic among residents, who stay close by. In Kallianpur, a person who recently returned from Dubai tested positive for Covid-19 while in home quarantine. “Now the entire apartment is sealed. It has caused fear in people living in the area,” said a neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/with-481-covid-19-cases-udupi-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/76202415.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 5, 2020||Varanasi||Two held with demonetised currency||Varanasi: Azamgarh police on Thursday arrested two motorcycle borne youth with Rs seven lakh in old currency notes in denomination of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500, which were demonetised in 2016. Police are trying to know the source of procurement of these currency notes and where they were being taken. SP Azamgarh Dr Triveni Singh said, two youths on a motorcycle fell down after they lost control on the vehicle near Naraipur under Jiyanpur police station on Thursday morning. The demonetised currency notes kept in their vehicle also spilled out on the road following which the local natives alerted Jiyanpur police. Police initially took the duo to a local hospital where they were provided first aid after which they were taken under custody for interrogation, said the SP. The youths, identified as Ankur Yadav and Dabbu Ram of Elval locality under Kotwali police station, divulged during interogation that a youth of their locality Jwala had given them these currency notes for delivering to a person in Gorakhpur. SP Azamgarh said that after getting this input Jwala had also been arrested. He said that further investigation in this connection is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-held-withdemonetised-currency/articleshow/76204843.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Woman escapes from jaws of death||KENDRAPADA: A 33-year-old fisher woman survived a crocodile attack on Thursday morning after she put up a courageous fight with the reptile for a few minutes in the Ramachandi river at Hariabanka village near Bhitarkanika National Park in Kendrapada district. A nine-foot-long estuarine crocodile tried to drag her into the deep. “But I fought bravely with the reptile to save my life,” said Mamata Jana of Hariabanka village. Mamata was collecting prawn seeds in the river along with some village women when the reptile attacked her. The crocodile first grabbed Mamata’s hand. Other women heard Mamata’s cry for help and came to her rescue, said an official. Mamata was in waist-deep water when the reptile pounced on her. She sustained injuries on her legs and hands. As luck would have it, the life of Mamata was saved as the reptile gave in after we threw stones at it, said Arati Mandal, one of the eyewitnesses . Mamata is now undergoing treatment in the primary health centre (PHC) at Mahakalapada. Mamata struggled to recount the horrifying experience. “I escaped from the jaws of the reptile by pricking its eyes,” said Mamata while undergoing treatment. She said after pricking its eyes the crocodile loosened its grip hence enabling her to escape. Attending doctors said her life is out of danger and she is responding well to treatment. Riverside villagers remain wary because rivers, creeks and water bodies in Biitakanika are home to many crocodiles. The exact figures on crocodile attacks are unavailable with the forest department. But locals said at least six to 10 persons are killed or maimed by crocodiles every year. “Most of the cases are not reported, people just go missing,” said Pradip Das of Danagamala village, one of the areas hit hard by crocodile attacks. “We warned many times riverside villagers not to enter the rivers, creeks and other water bodies of Bhitarkanika and its nearby areas as the waters are infested with 1,757 ferocious estuarine crocodile according to the reptile census report of this year,” said Bikash Ranjan Dash, divisional forest officer (DFO) of the park. “To prevent human-crocodile conflict in the breeding season the state forest department recently barricaded around 45 river ghats around the Bhitarkanika National Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/woman-escapes-from-jaws-of-death/articleshow/76202423.cms||Ashis Senapati
June 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad ZP launches campaign to detect Covid-19 patients||The Aurangabad Zilla Parishad has launched a campaign to conduct door-to-door survey in rural parts of the district to detect Covid-19 patients and contain the spread of the disease. In a statement issued on Thursday, the officials said that 112 teams comprising health officials, accredited social health activist (Asha workers) and staff of the primary health centres are working in the rural part of the district. On Wednesday, they surveyed 4055 households. During the survey, they obtained 22 throat swab samples of suspected Covid patients and shifted them in isolation. The officials said that patients with mild symptoms of Covid-19 were being treated at the covid treatment centres in different places of the district while patients in critical condition are being referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for treatment. All the Asha workers and Anganwadi Sevikas are provided with N95 masks and sanitisers. The staff at the primary health centre was also provided with face shields, three-layer masks and sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/zp-launches-campaign-to-detect-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76202460.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Allahabad||Five arrested for couple’s murder in city||Prayagraj: Five men were arrested for their alleged involvement in a middle-aged couple’s murder in Prayagraj on Thursday. SP (city) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said the accused included two nephews of the victims. On Thursday, police recovered the mutilated body of man identified as Mohammad Irfan (47), while his wife Husna Begum alias Moish Fatima’s body is yet to be recovered. The SP said that the accused confessed that they had thrown the woman’s body into the river and that efforts are underway to recover the body. The couple’s nephews were identified as Meraz and Siraz, who had first killed their uncle Mohd Irfan near Kareli forest and later strangled his wife to death in Mehdauri Colony. The SP said that Irfan’s elder brother, who had lodged a missing persons complaint for the couple on Wednesday, might also have been involved in the murder plot. During the investigation, police found that the couple had reportedly been murdered over property, as the couple did not have any children. The police on Wednesday night brought Meraz and Siraz from Kanpur to Prayagraj and they kept changing their statements. They finally confessed that they along with three more family members were involved in the couple’s murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/five-arrested-for-couples-murder-in-city/articleshow/76204857.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Allahabad||1,300 criminals arrested by cops during lockdown||Prayagraj: As many as 1,300 criminals wanted for murder, dacoity, loot, dowry death, POCSO Act, and rape were arrested by police during the lockdown starting from March 23. Statistics released by district police on Thursday said among the 1,300 criminals, 226 were wanted for heinous crimes, including 98 for murder, 24 for dowry deaths, 26 for loot/dacoity, 22 for rape, 16 for POCSO Act, 18 for Gangster Act and 22 for molestation/eve teasing. Besides, 4,558 persons were arrested in Prayagraj district and booked under Section 151 of CrPc from March 23 to May 31 and 1,078 others in connection with other cases during the same period. Prayagraj SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj told TOI, “A total of 5,882 people were arrested, including 4,558 for violating section 151 of CrPc from March 25 to May 31 during lockdown.” Apart from criminals wanted in connection with loot, murder and other offences, around half a dozen criminals carrying cash rewards ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs one lakh were also arrested by police during lockdown, the SSP added. Police got a major breakthrough when a joint team of crime branch Sarayinayat and Industrial area police arrested a sharp-shooter Neeraj Singh alias Akhand Pratap Singh alias Karam Singh alias Annoo Pandey, a resident of Peeparpur, Amethi, from a school in Lawayankala on May 26. Singh was wanted by Amethi police in a murder case and was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. Police also seized a rifle of 0.315 bore, a 0.32 bore pistol, a 0.315 bore countrymade pistol and a huge cache of cartridges from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/1300-criminals-arrested-by-cops-during-lockdown/articleshow/76204850.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Allahabad||Pregnant woman, teen among 6 new patients||Prayagraj: A pregnant woman and a teenager were among the six new novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases reported from Prayagraj district on Thursday. With these new cases, the district’s tally reached 113. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that five of the new cases were migrants. “A 25-year-old pregnant woman from Gari Kala area in Shahganj, who had no travel history, was diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. Besides, a 14-year-old boy from Ugapur village under Pratappur block also tested Covid-19 positive. His father had also tested positive on June 1.” A 32-year-old man from Harwara in Dhoomanganj, who came back to city from Bhiwandi on May 31 and was quarantined in Kalindipurm, also tested positive for the infection. Besides, a 25-year-old man from Awas Vikas Colony in Jhunsi, who came back from Noida on May 28 and was quarantined later, tested positive. His swab sample was collected on June 2. Moreover, two more migrants, aged 61 and 50 years and who came back from New Delhi and Mumbai on June 2 and May 11 respectively, were among the new cases which surfaced in the city on Thursday. Sahai said the 61-year-old patient was from Koraon, while the 50-year-old man who came back from Mumbai on May 11 in a truck along with six of his family members, was from Pratappur village. Till now, 38 active cases have been reported in the city. Of these, while 72 patients have recovered and been discharged and three patients have died due to Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pregnant-woman-teen-among-6-new-patients/articleshow/76204859.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man falls prey to sim upgrade fraud in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: During the lockdown when people refrained from going out or visiting banks, cybercrooks got into sim card upgrade fraud to land victims. Maheshsingh Roopsingh Rathod of Kubernagar lodged a complaint with cybercrime police station alleging that on the pretext of upgrading his 2G sim card to 4G, cybercrooks had siphoned off Rs 1,93,035 from his bank in seven transactions. Special commissioner of police, Ajay Tomar, said that on May 20, the complainant got a call from an unknown number and the caller said he was speaking from the call centre of a mobile service provider. “He told the victim that if he doesn’t upgrade his 2G sim card to 4G his number will be deactivated and all services linked to that number will be stopped. The victim fell into his trap,” Tomar said. Police sources said the cheats sent the number of a blank of sim card to the victim and asked him to forward the number to his service provider. “He then told the victim that his sim card will remain deactivated for 24 hours and then it will be upgraded to 4G,” said a cybercrime police station official. DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala, said the fraudster than activated the victim’s mobile number and through a mobile application transferred all the data of the victim from his sim card. They then used the data to siphon off the money from the bank account of the victim, through online transactions. “We have registered a case under Section 406,420 IPC and the IT act against the cheats and are probing the case” Jhala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-falls-prey-to-sim-upgrade-fraud/articleshow/76204058.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||An online platform to handle industrial waste in Andhra Pradesh soon||AMARAVATI: The government will launch an online waste exchange platform on Friday in a bid to encourage professional management of industrial waste. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will formally launch the portal on the occasion of World Environment Day. This is the first-of-its-kind online exchange to handle industrial waste in the country. The online portal will be managed by Andhra Pradesh Environment Management Corporation. In fact, it was the chief minister’s idea to create a dedicated corporation to handle environmental concerns involved with industrial growth in the state. The APEMC has been directed to handle industrial waste right from its generation to the end of its life cycle. “The platform is being launched to resolve the existing insufficiency in managing waste generated by industries . APEMC will levy green tax on industries to dispose and manage its waste. The new entity is being floated keeping in view the limitation of AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB),” said Nirabh Kumar Prasad, special chief secretary (environment & forests). Meanwhile, the second phase of YSR Vahana Mitra was launched by the chief minister on Thursday. As part of the scheme, Rs 262.49 crore was released for 2,62,493 beneficiaries online from the CM’s camp office. Jagan also interacted with taxi and autorickshaw drivers through video call after releasing the funds. The chief minister said they decided to advance the second phase of the Vahana Mitra scheme by four months considering the financial difficulty suffered by the drivers due to the lockdown. He appealed to the beneficiaries not to use the money to buy alcohol as it would get them in more trouble. He also assured help to all those who are yet to enrol for the scheme and asked them to apply in the village and ward secretariats in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/an-online-platform-to-handle-industrial-waste-in-state-soon/articleshow/76202455.cms||Samdani MN
June 5, 2020||Vadodara||Woman from Chhota Udepur tests positive in Vadodara||Vadodara: Chhota Udepur district registered its 34th case of Covid-19 on Thursday as a 66-year-old female tested positive.According to the district administration, the woman hailing from Sankheda taluka had tested positive in Vadodara and has been admitted to the special isolation ward a private hospital for treatment. “The woman had a history of frequent travelling to Vadodara and we will also inform about her contact tracing to chief district health officer of Vadodara as well,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. The woman is the second patient from Chhota Udepur who tested positive in Vadodara. Currently, there are 11 active cases of Chhota Udepur district and 23 patients have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-from-chhota-udepur-tests-positive-in-vadodara/articleshow/76202352.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Salem||Salem: Covid-19 patient who threatened doctors held after discharge||SALEM: The Shevapet police arrested a 40-year-old man, who was discharged after recovering from Covid-19, on Thursday for threatening doctors and nurses with knife while undergoing treatment at the government hospital in the city. A resident of Mettur, the accused was admitted to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on May 25. A doctor at the hospital said the accused was not cooperative in treatment from day one of his admission. “On Tuesday, he suddenly threatensed duty doctors and nurses by showing knife demanding them to discharge him from the hospital,” the doctor said. He was overpowered by security guards and police personnel present in the hospital. When the doctors examined him, they found that he was mentally stressed. Meanwhile, the accused was discharged from the hospital on Thursday evening. The residential medical officer (RMO) of SGMKMCH Dr Karuna lodged a complaint with police, based on which he was arrested. The accused was remanded in judicial custody and lodged at the Salem central prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-patient-who-threatened-docs-held-after-discharge/articleshow/76204438.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Maha extends validity for building nod, NOCs by 9 months||Nagpur: In a major relief for individuals as well as builders engaged in real estate sector, the state government has extended due dates of all NOCs, building permits etc by nine months. None would be required to visit government agencies including civic bodies to avail of the extension. The state’s urban development department on June 4 sent letters to all urban local bodies including Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) directing them to comply with the orders and exempt penalties, interest and process for extension to all dues dates which came to an end on March 25 or during the lockdown period. “An advisory has been received from ministry of housing and urban affairs on May 28. Lockdown has been imposed since March 25 following pandemic in the country. Like other sectors, real estate too got affected. Apart from disruption of production and supply of material, migrant labourers too have returned to their hometowns. All these factors have affected construction activities. Therefore, there was need to issue the orders,” the department said. Secretary of CREDAI Nagpur Gaurav Agarwala told TOI, “Orders came as a major relief for all. Now, all building permits, NOCs including that of fire, environment clearance, demand notes to pay charges etc got extended that too by nine months. Even, due date of RERA also got extended. We thank the government for the move.” The extension of nine months is reportedly applicable to all notices issued by the NMC for compliance of various types of things including compounding of unauthorized constructions. The state had imposed full lockdown in the district on March 21. Since then, all construction activities have came to a standstill. The extension will also give chance for individuals to revisit their business/ construction strategies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-extends-validity-for-building-nod-nocs-by-9-months/articleshow/76203521.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 5, 2020||Erode||Leopard keeps foresters, villagers on high alert near Sathyamangalam forest||ERODE: The forest department warned residents of Susaipuram, Thoddakanjanur, Eripuram and Malkutthipuram villages near the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) from venturing out in the night after a leopard had been spotted in the area several times in the past week. The department launched a search for the animal on Thursday. A few villagers spotted the leopard roaming on agriculture lands a few days ago. A week before, it was spotted in abandoned stone quarries in the area. “The animal will come to rest in the area. It chooses densely cultivated banana and sugarcane fields for the purpose as it could not be spotted easily,” S Sivakumar, forest ranger of Thalavadi forest range, said. Earlier, after spotting the animal for the first time last week, villagers informed the Thalavadi forest range officials. “Immediately, we asked the villagers not to use roads close to the forest. We told them not to cultivate crops at least 500 meters from the forest boundary and not to tie cattle and goats in the open during the night,” the ranger said. Since it was spotted several times in the area, it could have migrated out of the forest, he said. Meanwhile, forest officials launched a search for the animal on Thursday morning and set up cages in spots where the animal could stray. They also imposed ban on people’s movement in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/leopard-keeps-foresters-villagers-on-high-alert-near-sathyamangalam-forest/articleshow/76204443.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid cases in jail where Shoma lodged worry kin||Nagpur: Two years after activists — Nagpur University professor (retired) Shoma Sen and lawyer Surendra Gadling — were arrested in Bhima-Koregaon case, their kin say the lockdown has left them clueless about their well-being in jail. They were already complaining of a slow progress in the case. Over 150 inmates have tested Covid positive in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where Shoma was shifted in February. “I could not go and meet Shoma in jail during the last three months. Neither did I get any letter from her during this period,” says her husband Tushar Kanti Bhattacharya, who lives in Nagpur. It will be exactly two years of Shoma and Gadling’s arrest on June 6 when the two activists were picked up from their homes at Nagpur by Pune police, after a high drama. The case has been transferred to National Investigation Agency (NIA) after Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) came to power in the state ousting the BJP. Bhattacharya, who lives alone in the city, said when his wife was in lodged in Yerawada Jail in Pune, he used to make monthly visits and give her medicines as she is suffering from glaucoma. In February she was shifted to Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai. “Now I have no idea whether she is getting the medicines or not. The drugs need to be kept in a cold storage. Earlier, I used to go every month travelling in an air-conditioned compartment keeping the medicine in an ice-box,” says Bhattacharya. Even the letter he sent could not reach Shoma, says Bhattacharya. “I had sent a letter through Speed Post and when I checked through a tracking app, I found that it had not moved out of the post office in Mumbai,” he alleges. A month after Shoma was shifted to Mumbai hail, Covid lockdown was imposed. Shoma’s daughter Koel Sen, who lives in Mumbai, said she last met her mother on March 2. After that she had a couple of minutes’ conversation over telephone on May 2. “My mother said she was sharing a barrack with 60 others,” said Koel. “We could not talk much in the two minutes,” she added. After Shoma was shifted, two Covid positive cases were detected in the jail. One was a female inmate and other a doctor. “My wife has various comorbidities, which makes it riskier for her,” says Bhattacharya. Shoma’s friends have also expressed concern over the situation. Professor of English and stage artist Supantho Bhattacharya said, “Professor Shoma Sen is a legendary teacher and social activist of international repute of our times. The very fact that an academician of her stature could be locked up like a common criminal for two long years without any substantial charges against her, reveals the injustice.” Former principal and head of department of criminology and correctional administration John Menachery said the court and police must find out the truth of the case as soon as possible. “I am not sure if charges against her are bailable or not, but there has to be a deadline for undertrials. There has to be a deadline for undertrial detention and bail should be granted if trial goes on beyond that deadline. It is sad that not just in Shoma’s case but in many cases people are languishing in jail for years on end. Justice delayed is justice denied,” he said. Nagpur District Congress Committee general secretary Sandesh Singlkar said the terms ‘committing terrorist act’ or ‘anti-national activities’ had been loosely and selectively used because of the political pressures in this case. “Demonizing lives of innocent people is definitely not the purpose of law. I know Shoma Sen as a person working to make society more democratic. If anyone is guilty, he or she must be punished but without using any due process of law criminalizing people just on the basis of suspicion is violation of fundamental rights,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-in-jail-where-shoma-lodged-worry-kin/articleshow/76203534.cms||Shishir Arya
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||MP drops to No. 7 in Covid infections, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that with continuous decline in number of Covid-19 cases, Madhya Pradesh has now dropped to 7th position in the country, as far as number of infections were concerned. MP was ranked 6th in the country, but with surge in cases, UP has surpassed MP. About 2% of newly infected patients in the country on Thursday were found in Madhya Pradesh. In the past it was about 8%. There are 174 new positive cases of Corona in the state, while the number is 9,304 in the country. Our corona recovery rate is 64.3% as against national average of 47.9%, he said. Chouhan was reviewing the situation and arrangements of Corona in the state through video conferencing at Mantralaya on Thursday. During the review of Burhanpur district, it was told that out of total 255 corona cases in the district, 194 patients have recovered and discharged, and the number of active patients is 45, now. The collector said that the corona situation in the district is constantly improving. Chouhan lauded the collector, SP and team for this. During the review of Sheopur district, chief minister directed that special attention should be paid to contact tracing. ACS health stated that Sarthak app is highly useful for contact tracing and should be used. Chouhan also expressed displeasure over the discrepancies in data during the review of Betul district. He instructed ACS health to immediately send a team to Betul to check the arrangements. Out of 34 patients infected in Betul district, 5 have recovered and gone home, 29 patients are active. Health minister Narottam Mishra, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, DGP Vivek Johri and principal secretary Sanjay Shukla were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-drops-to-no-7-in-covid-infections-says-shivraj/articleshow/76203522.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jittery parents mull a year break for kids||HYDERABAD: From giving a gap year for their child to exploring options of home or open schooling, many city parents are looking for alternatives as they are unwilling to send their children back to school even if physical classes resume by July-September. After moving to the city from Pune in December, Ashutosh Chitre has approached close to 10 schools to seek class 1 admission for his son. While he was happy to find his son’s name in admission list of some schools, he is now contemplating on giving a gap year. “I am mentally not ready to send my child to school for another year as I don’t feel the situation is conducive. He was born premature and we are not sure if his immunity is strong enough as yet,” said Chitre, adding that he will try again next year. Like Chitre, there are many other parents who are now looking at alternatives. Among them is Shubhash Lode, who is exploring options such as open schooling for his son who studies in class 7. “For the last 15-20 days, I have been researching a lot on open schooling and other alternatives as I feel it makes no sense to pay huge tuition fee only to have online classes. Even if physical classes resume, I am not comfortable sending my child as I am concerned about his safety,” said Lode. Officials at National Institution of Open Schooling (NIOS) admit that they have received a lot of enquiries from parents seeking information on courses that they offer. “NIOS is now accepted by many recognised higher education and universities. Staying at home, students can be enrolled for different levels which are equivalent to classes in schools,” said Anil Kumar, regional director, NIOS, Hyderabad. A few have dropped the idea of shifting their ward to some other school and have chosen to continue schooling with the same school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jittery-parents-mull-a-year-break-for-kids/articleshow/76204445.cms||Preeti Biswas
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||39 more Covid-19 positive in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 39 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the state tally to 2,415. The number of Covid-19 casualties was 47. Out of the 39 new reported cases, the source of infection in eight instances is from outside Punjab. These include one foreign returnee in Nawanshahr district and one in Gurdaspur district. Three such cases in Bathinda and one in Fazilka have travel history from Maharashtra and one in Ropar had travelled in from Delhi. One such case in Pathankot also has travel history from other state, though not specified by the health department. Out of the remaining 31 cases, one prisoner has tested positive in Sangrur jail, one policeman in Hoshiarpur, seven new cases of influenza like illness (ILI) were found in Amritsar and one new ILI case in Pathankot. Out of the Thursday cases, nine patients are contacts of positive patients. The highest number of 11 positive cases were recorded in Amritsar district, followed by six in Ludhiana, four each in Jalandhar and Pathankot and three in Bathinda. One case each has been reported from Fazilka, Muktsar, Ropar, Nawanshahr, Sangrur, Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur district. As 2,043 patients have recovered till date, there are only 325 active cases. As many as 14 patients were discharged from hospitals on Thursday after recovery. These include seven from Jalandhar, three from Sangrur, two from Bathinda and one from Ludhiana. Amritsar district continues to top the Covid-19 chart with 85 active cases, followed by Ludhiana (45), Jalandhar (38), Pathankot (36) and Patiala (17). Three members of a family — two brothers and a sister, all in mid-20s — tested positive at Bathinda on Thursday. They had returned from Mumbai by a Shramik Special train and had halted for a day at Ganganagar in Rajasthan, before reaching Bathinda by a taxi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/39-more-positive-in-punjab/articleshow/76204442.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||174 new cases take Covid count in state to 8,762||BHOPAL: With sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, Sagar district has crossed the 200 mark on Thursday. Directorate of medical education (DME) official confirmed that dean of Bundelkhand Medical College and Hospital has been removed from his post after the district reported 10 more cases. Dr GS Patel’s replacement would be decided by the divisional commissioner soon, said the official. 10 persons undergoing treatment for Covid-19 have died in the hospital. Removal of the dean is being attributed as a move to improve hospital’s administration. Most of the cases were late presentation and arrived with aggravated SARI complication, said a hospital consultant. Number of cases in Sagar has touched 207. Half of them are active cases. Three new cases were reported from Shahpur Tehsil and four from Khurai in Sagar. Sadar area in Sagar near Railway station is considered to be the hotspot. It has reported more than 120 cases alone. These cases, however, are limited to a few families living in adjacent quarters. The spurt came to the fore with the death of a BJP corporator Jilani Makrana. He allegedly received treatment from a quack, Ashok Khatri, who is himself hospitalised with Covid-19 infection. The quack’s family is infected along with 34 members of Keserwani family and 10 members of Lalwani family. Two members of Siddiqui family have died, a local doctor said. Four cases reported from Khurai near Bina junction are said to be people who had returned from Delhi and Pune. One of them was admitted to Sagar College Hospital on Thursday night. Meanwhile, 174 more people were diagnosed with Covid-19 across Madhya Pradesh, here on Thursday. Total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has jumped to 8,762 since the pandemic. Six more people died due to the infection, taking the death toll to 377. State’s recovery rate from corona is among the top states of the country and is also higher than the country’s average recovery rate. There are 21 testing labs in the state with the capacity of 6,000 tests per day. Only one third of the ICUs and bed systems are in use, according to a government press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/174-new-cases-take-covid-count-in-state-to-8762/articleshow/76203524.cms||Jamal Ayub
June 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Focus now on phased return to normalcy: Sudhakar||MANGALURU: Minister for medical education K Sudhakar said, “Karnataka is all set for the bigger fight in the Covid-19 battle, and ready to move past the two cluster outbreaks at Jubilant Generics Ltd, a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud in Mysuru and at First Neuro Hospital at Padil in Mangaluru. The focus now is on ensuring gradual and phased return to normalcy, and not nit-pick over what caused the two cluster outbreaks.” The state government directed senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta to probe the cluster outbreak in Nanjangud, while it directed Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Dr S Sacchidanand to get to the bottom of the cluster outbreak in Dakshina Kannada. A two-member probe team that the VC set up has submitted its report to the government. Yet little is known about the contents of this report, nor the one that Harsh Gupta submitted. The underlying fact in both these instances is that authorities have not been able to trace P-0 or the source of the outbreak. A 6-member expert committee that the Dakshina Kannada district administration set up has sought swab results of patients from Kerala who were treated at the hospital and discharged, to eliminate any doubts on P-0, and the state chief secretary has dashed off a letter to his counterpart in Kerala, seeking assistance from the authorities there. Sudhakar said, “This is not the time for investigative journalism. We have a bigger fight on our hands which includes addressing issues of social stigma attached to the pandemic. Media has a role to play in allaying social concerns that the disease has brought forth.” Kota Shrinivas Poojari, Dakshina Kannada district minister, said health authorities in the district will take forward the process to identify P-0, once they get reports from their counterparts in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/focus-now-on-phased-return-to-normalcy-sudhakar/articleshow/76202466.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Offline or online mode, premier institutions firm on holding exams||Nagpur: Though the Maharashtra government made its intent clear to cancel the final year/semester examinations of traditional universities, the deemed to be universities and premier institutions in the city have plans to anyhow test the students, preferably through online mode. Top-notch institutions like IIM here had already conducted its final trimester exams in March before the lockdown was enforced. “We were preparing for our convocation ceremony in April/May, but due to lockdown we couldn’t organize it,” a senior official says. At AIIMS, the administration is waiting for guidelines from the Medical Council of India (MCI). “This is our second year batch and the exams would definitely take place,” director Vibha Dutta says. Others like Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT-N) has planned to conduct exams of all semesters through online/remote mode. “Though we’ve only 47 students in the final semester, it would be our first batch which would graduate. We’ve added remote because online connectivity is poor in many areas. Hence, we will be providing option to the students to receive the question papers on e-mail/WhatsApp and send back a scanned copy of answer sheets,” director Omprakash Kakde informs, adding that IIIT-N has total of 540 students. The Symbiosis International University (SIU) follows a different pattern where it conducted regular tests and evaluation of the students. On this basis, it has already promoted the students to next class. “In our postgraduate programmes, we’ve 60% marks on evaluation and performance of entire year and 40% on the external. In undergraduate courses, it’s vice versa. We follow rigorous evaluation system where students are made to perform throughout the year. Their viva-voce exams are conducted through online mode,” SIBM director Shrirang Altekar says. City’s oldest institution of repute, the VNIT also plans to conduct online exams, despite facing opposition from students. The latter have wrote letter to administration against holding even the online exams, citing various difficulties like connectivity problems. “The decision of online exams was taken by our Senate where Students Council representatives participated. After their consultation, the plans are finalized. All NITs are conducting eight semester exams online. About 700 students are there and they have done their internal submissions online. If any technical issue, they will be given a second chance. Their degrees wouldn’t be of any value without exams,” director Pramod Padole says. The autonomous colleges under NU are waiting for the government’s orders on holding final semester exams. “We will follow the government’s instructions.We’ve 850 students in final semester and we’re ready to conduct their exams both offline and online,” Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management principal Rajesh Pande says. Echoing him, Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering (YCCE) principal UP Waghe says government is yet to come out with clear guidelines. “Despite being an autonomous institution, we need to abide by the rules of the government and NU. We’ve about 1,100 final semester students who’re waiting for the exams,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/offline-or-online-mode-premier-institutions-firm-on-holding-exams/articleshow/76203529.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Port City to become RTC’s logistics hub||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam region of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has decided to make the city its logistics hub given that it is set to become the executive capital. Speaking to TOI, C Ravi Kumar, executive director of the Vizianagaram zone of APSRTC said till recently the corporation was focused on passenger services, but now, following new directions from chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy government, the corporation has decided to expand its logistic services on par with the passenger services. “At present, Visakhapatnam district has two logistics centres – one at Dwaraka Bus Station and another at Maddilapalem depot, where the service started on Thursday. We will open another two such centres at Kurmannapelam and Madhurawada in the next few weeks,” Ravi Kumar said. The Vizianagaram zone earns Rs 6 crore per month through its logistic service. The corporation has set a target to reach the goal of Rs 2,000 crore annual turnover by March 2021. “To reach the state’s target, we have been asked to contribute at least Rs 600 crore from Vizianagaram zone, including Rs 200 crore from Visakhapatnam district. For this, we have turned our focus on the logistics, apart from regular passenger services. We are identifying suitable depots to start the logistic centres in our zone,” Ravi Kumar added. It may be mentioned that the the RTC restored the Parcel & Courier Services within the state from May 21. Customers can book their parcels as usual. Customers are requested to maintain physical distance, hand hygiene and wear face masks at counters while booking and receiving the parcels to prevent spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/port-city-to-become-rtcs-logistics-hub/articleshow/76202489.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 5, 2020||Erode||Two wild elephants damage compound wall, gate of park in Bhavanisagar dam||ERODE: Two elephants entered the park maintained by the public works department (PWD) in Bhavanisagar dam here and damaged the compound wall, a gate and a few trees on the premises on Wednesday night. The 15-acre park was close to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. “Often elephants from the forest enter the park in search of food,” a PWD official said. Around 11pm on Wednesday, the night securities at the park found the elephants damaging trees and the compound wall. They, immediately, started bursting crackers and chased the elephants out of the park, the official said. “Then the jumbos entered Punkar village, from where they were chased into the forest.” Forest officials followed the elephants into the forest and made sure they were far away from the human habitat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/two-wild-elephants-damage-compound-wall-gate-of-park-in-bhavanisagar-dam/articleshow/76204448.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to hear SSC exam case on Friday||HYDERABAD: Expressing doubts over whether the state was right in going ahead with SSC (class X) examinations amid reports of a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Telangana high court on Thursday posted to Friday the plea of the government seeking nod for the conduct of the exams and a few other petitions, which sought either postponement or cancellation of the exams and promote students based on their continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) performance. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Sudarsan Reddy, while resuming the hearing in a PIL filed by M Balakrishna, who sought postponement till the arrival of normalcy, came across another urgent plea by social activist Sai Mani Varun Chevuri of Kothapet, who mentioned in his petition about the appeal made by the Maharashtra government to its educational board to promote students without examinations. Balakrishna’s counsel said the high court directed the state to review the Covid-19 situation before going ahead with the exams. But, no such assessment was done, he said. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the court that they have filed an action report, explaining the increase in the number of exam centres from 2,530 to 4,535 centres. “All centres are equipped with thermal screening facilities, masks, sanitizers, gloves etc., apart from ensuring transport facilities. It also spoke about deployment of medical staff at the centres. No examinations at containment zones, arrangements in tune with physical distance norms, the roping in of Ayush department etc,” he said were detailed in the report. Following a request from P Naagesh, the counsel for Sai Mani Varun, the bench tagged his plea too along with Balakrishna’s petition and posted the case to Friday for a joint hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-hear-ssc-exam-case-today/articleshow/76204464.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Shimla||24 more cases in Himachal Pradesh, tally 383||SHIMLA: A total 24 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday. While seven cases were from Nahan, four each from Kangra and Hamirpur districts, three each from Mandi and Chamba districts, one each was from Shimla, Bilaspur and Kullu districts. Besides, 29 patients also recovered — 10 from Hamirpur, nine from Kangra, seven from Shimla and one each from Solan, Una and Bilaspur. Now, the state has 383 total positive cases, of which 199 are active and 175 have recovered. In Sirmaur district, seven positive cases include two who returned from Delhi, four persons who came back from Saharanpur and a woman whose sample was taken at Nahan Medical College. In Chamba district, two persons who tested positive include a 47-year-old Tibetan from Dalhousie who had returned from Delhi recently and an 18-year-old youth from Churah who had returned from Sonipat. Among those who tested positive in Kangra district are a 30-year-old male from Talsuh in Baijnath area, who returned from Delhi on May 28 and was in institutional quarantine; a 17-year-old youth from Sagur in Baijnath area, who also returned from Delhi on May 28 and was in home quarantine; a 35-year-old man from Baijnath, who returned from USA on May 29 and was in institutional quarantine; and a 46-year-old woman from Mandhol in Baijnath who returned from Delhi on May 28. In Mandi, two positive cases were been reported from Dharampur subdivision and third from Ner Chowk. In Kullu, a 29-year-old woman from Bhuntar, who had returned from Shimla, has also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/24-more-cases-in-hp-tally-383/articleshow/76204450.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Scientists call for measures to increase wildlife movement||Nagpur: Wildlife scientists have examined the effect of various land use, linear infrastructure and human populations on wildlife across two important conservation landscapes, Western Ghats and Central India, and concluded these have reduced wildlife movement. While most studies are tiger-centric, this study titled ‘Navigating paved paradise: Evaluating landscape permeability to movement for large mammals in two conservation priority landscapes in India’ was done for elephant, gaur, leopard, sambar, and sloth bear. For each species, scientists compared movement in the presence and absence of land-use land-cover, infrastructure and human population to identify areas where movement is impeded due to high-resistance features, unrestricted due to relatively low-resistance features, or increased and channelled due to surrounding high-resistance areas. They found that unrestricted movement was noticed to be the highest in natural areas and natural areas that occur alongside human populations. The study by Anisha Jayadevan, Rajat Nayak, Krithi K Karanth, Jadish Krishnaswamy, Ruth Defries, K Ullas Karanth and Srinivas Vaidyanathan highlights how human population, high linear infrastructure density and human land-use contribute highest to impede movement of all species. “Central India and Western Ghats—two conservation priority landscapes in India— are witnessing widespread habitat fragmentation. Sustaining the movement of wide-ranging species such as elephants and leopards across such fragmented landscapes requires planning for landscape permeability to movement. In turn, this ensures continuity of key ecosystem processes such as gene flow and dispersal,” said Anisha Jayadevan, lead author. The landscape permeability maps generated by this study can be used to identify areas that can improve freedom of movement for wide-ranging animals. Natural areas constitute only 20-55% and 50-70% of unrestricted, increased and channelled movement areas in the Western Ghats and Central India respectively, the study found. “This suggests a large percentage of these landscapes are crucial for maintaining movement outside natural areas. Such areas are often neglected while planning conservation or development activities,” the study stated. The research helps identify and prioritise areas where restoration or mitigation should be planned to improve permeability to movement for large mammals. “These resources will enable informed decision-making and environmental impact assessments about building infrastructure,” said Krithi K Karanth, chief conservation scientist at Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS). This approach can also be used for other landscapes where data on large mammal movement is lacking. The study also appeared in the journal Biological Conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scientists-call-for-measures-to-increase-wildlife-movement/articleshow/76203564.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 5, 2020||Kanpur||Corona cases continue to rise, 21 more test positive||Kanpur: On Thursday, 21 persons were confirmed positive for Covid-19 taking the total tally to 438. Now there are 115 active cases, so far 310 people have been discharged from hospital 13 have died. In past four days, 69 people have been tested positive for Coronavirus. The health department said that the new cases have been reported from Shiv Nagar Vidyut Colony, Laxmi Purwa, Raipurwa, Shivrajpur, Munshipurwa among others. Shiv Nagar Vidyut Colony has emerged to be a major hotspot area since the number of positive cases are increasing here. Similarly, there is also spurt in cases in Dipti Padao’s Laxmipurwa area. Eleven persons including five from KDA quarantine house were sent back after completing their quarantine period. Meanwhile, 119 teams of health department visited over 7,300 houses in containment areas and made people aware about Covid-19 and necessary precautions to be taken. Health department said that 400 samples were collected for tests on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/corona-cases-continue-to-rise-21-more-test-positive/articleshow/76204865.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||2 kids electrocuted in Wardha villages||Wardha: Two children aged 6 and 9 were electrocuted in two separate incidents in Mangli and Bodkha villages of Samudrapur tehsil on Wednesday evening. The deceased have been identified as Harshal Prashant Bhoyar (6) and Akash Amol Uike (9). According to sources, while playing around Akash touched an earthing wire at a temple at Mangli village. He suffered massive shock and fell to the ground. He was rushed to a hospital where Dr Premchand Varbhe declared him brought dead. In another incident, two brothers Harshal and Ganesh were playing in their house at Bodkha village while their father Prashant was taking bath and mother Manda was busy in the kitchen on Wednesday evening. On hearing Ganesh’s screams, Prashant and Manda rushed to the hall where the boys were playing and saw Harshal lying motionless on the ground near the cooler. Ganesh told parents that Harshal was trying to remove a pickle jar from atop the cooler when he suffered shock. Harshal was rushed to a rural hospital in critical condition. But the doctor declared him dead. In both the cases, Samudrapur police have registered a case and started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-kids-electrocuted-in-wardha-villages/articleshow/76203576.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Couple in 60s beat Covid together, ‘marry’ again||BHOPAL: An elderly couple in MP’s Damoh were so overwhelmed after recovering from Coronavirus infection that they garlanded each other, like they did during their wedding nearly four decades ago. “It is our second life,” said the 62-year-old ‘bride’. The couple had returned from Gurugram to Damoh’s Rasilpur village last month in a group of 20 or so. She was the first to test positive for Coronavirus on May 19. Everyone in the family was then swabbed for Covid-19 test, and 13 tested positive, including her husband, aged 64, said Dr Diwaker Patel, a resident medical officer of Damoh hospital. The woman took longer to respond to treatment. Ten members of the family were discharged a few days ago. On June 2, it was the turn of the couple. Following tradition of giving recovered patients a cheery sendoff, hospital staff felicitated the elderly couple with flowers. Someone handed them garlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/couple-in-60s-beat-covid-together-marry-again/articleshow/76203574.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Returnees behind latest wave in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has been hit by another wave of Covid-19 cases of people stranded in other parts of the country and aboard testing positive on return to their home state. This is seventh surge after the wave of cases caused by pilgrims subdued after May 10. A total of 1,129 pilgrims from Nanded in Maharashtra had tested positive for Covid-19. The current wave accounts for about 32% of total positive cases reported between May 11 and June 3. During this period, 490 new cases had surfaced, of which 156 had the source of infection outside Punjab. About 55% of these cases were reported in the last six days. Since the beginning of May, government allowed locals stuck outside the state to return after registration. Of the 92,002 people who approached the government to return so far, 82,801 were from within India and 9,201 from other countries. As many as 42,672 persons – 38,831 from within the country and 3,841 from outside --- have returned to Punjab and 839 of them have tested positive. While 23 returnees tested positive on May 29, 15 such cases came to light on June 2. Similarly, 13 locals each who returned were found to be infected with the virus, which has claimed 47 lives, on June 1 and June 3. The number of such people testing positive is expected to surge as about 50,000 registered locals are yet to return. Prior to the fresh wave, the state witnessed six different spells of cases. The first wave was related to people coming from aboard, followed by surge in number of cases caused by members of Tablighi Jamaat and then cases from Jawaharpur in Mohali district. Cases related to Jalandhar-based vernacular newspaper and hookah party in Rajpura also contributed to the spike in overall cases. According to norms, people entering the state are tested and those found positive are sent to state-run health facilities while asymptomatic passengers who test negative are taken into institutional quarantine -- government and hotel – for which they have to pay. They are tested on the fifth day and if negative, are allowed to go home after completion of seven days of institutional quarantine and asked to stay in home quarantine. Entry to people stuck outside is allowed only through notified entry points while all other entries to the state have been sealed. The move is aimed at ensuring that everyone entering the state is medically examined. The state has also devised a mechanism to track people who sneak into the state through unauthorised points. To identify such people, the village sarpanch and numberdars have been authorised to inform the health authorities about such persons when they reach their village. In case of municipal committees and municipal corporations, the municipal councillors have been entrusted with this responsibility in their respective jurisdiction. Citizens have been also empowered to inform about such persons by sharing their photographs on Cova mobile application. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the government had made an elaborate plan for tracking the heavy influx of people coming from outside the state. “People with the travel history being tested positive do not pose a threat to the community as they are being isolated and contained at the beginning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/returnees-behind-latest-wave-in-punjab/articleshow/76204478.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab will test private health facilities’ samples for free||CHANDIGARH: To ensure timely detection of Covid-19 patients in the state, Punjab government has decided to conduct RT-PCR testing of all samples sent by the empanelled private hospitals, clinics and laboratories free of cost. The state health and family welfare department on Thursday asked all civil surgeons to empanel the private hospitals, clinics and laboratories willing to join the government panel to get their samples tested free of cost. However, the department made it clear that such healthcare outlets would not charge more than Rs 1,000 for the collection of samples. Punjab has a total testing capacity of 6,810 samples per day, out of which the state government facility caters to 88% samples, central government laboratories to 2% samples and the rest 10% samples are tested by private laboratories. The state government has also come out with certain terms and conditions for such private health facilities. To become eligible for empanelment, private health facilities should have a separate isolated area for the suspected Covid-19 patients where samples can be collected. The health facility staff authorised to collect samples should also ensure complete personal protective gear. It would be the responsibility of private hospitals, clinics and laboratories to arrange the required logistics and collect samples, pack them and send samples to the nearest government laboratory as per protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-will-test-pvt-health-facilities-samples-for-free/articleshow/76204467.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad sees more cases, recoveries too||AURANGABAD: A total of 65 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Aurangabad district on Thursday, taking the number of patients to 1,769, even as 1,126 have recovered so far. Four more deaths were reported due to the contagion across the district on Wednesday and Thursday, taking the total death count to 92. A 43-year-old Covid-positive man died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital at 6pm on Wednesday while an 85-year-old man died at the GMCH, here, at 6.30pm the same day. A 64-year-old man from Kaiser Colony died at the GMCH at 11.15 pm on Wednesday and a 50-year-old woman died at the same hospital at 8.30 am on Thursday. Shivaji Sukre, in-charge dean of GMCH, said that as on Thursday evening, 112 Covid-19 patients under treatment at the hospital were in critical condition. According to Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, delay in going to hospital, old age and co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension and obesity have primarily been the reasons for Covid-19 deaths in Aurangabad. Subsequently, the AMC is forming 1500 force to conduct door to door screening of people above 55 years with tye help of thermal gun and blood oxymeter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-sees-more-cases-recoveries-too/articleshow/76202550.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 5, 2020||Kanpur||Labourer injured in crude bomb blast in Chaubeypur||Kanpur: A 19-year-old labourer suffered injuries after a spade with which he was digging and levelling road hit an abandoned crude bomb, causing explosion in Chaubeypur area of the district on Thursday morning. The injured, Shiva, is a resident of Maharaj nagar in Chaubeypur block. He was injured in eye and he was rushed to a nearby hospital. Police said the blast apparently occurred at around 9 am in Jadhepur Dhassasa village where work on the road construction under district panchayat scheme project was underway. It could be because of the abandoned crude bomb stuffed inside an old sack buried by the side of the road getting hit by spade during construction work causing explosion. Shiva who along with other labourers was digging and levelling road with spade was injured. “Nothing else was damaged in the blast, and prima facie, it was not a blast caused with any motive, but we are trying to ascertain about the identity of man who abandoned the bomb’. The area has been cordoned off and a Bomb disposal squad and Forensic Sciences Lab (FSL) experts visited the spot and examined chemicals in the area,” said official further. SP (rural) Pradyumna Singh said, “Minor explosion of an abandoned crude bomb occurred and a labourer working in the road construction project was injured.” He was admitted to a hospital and surgery was conducted. The doctors said his condition is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/labourer-injured-in-crude-bomb-blast-in-chaubeypur/articleshow/76204886.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t ignore elected people’s representatives, mayor to Mundhe||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Thursday said the Nagpur Municipal Corporation has ignored elected representatives while taking measures to fight Covid-19 pandemic. “Had the administration taken the corporators into confidence to declare containment zones and quarantining suspected people, the city’s coronavirus cases could have been lesser,” said Joshi. He called for coordination between the administration and the people’s representatives in fight against Covid-19. Joshi on Thursday had convened the first-ever review meeting with municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Covid-19 arrangements, water scarcity and other city related issues. The meeting witnessed heated exchanges with senior corporators cutting across political parties. They expressed anguish over “civic chief ignoring elected representatives”. Most of the senior corporators complained about “mismanagement” in arranging facilities at quarantine centres across the city. Former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke said that NMC failed to provide food at shelter homes where thousands of migrants had stayed. Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve, senior congress corporator Praful Gudadhe, former deputy mayor Sandip Jadhav and others were present in the meeting which lasted for nearly three hours. Wave, Gudadhe, Shiv Sena group leader Kishore Kumeriya, NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe too pointed out there was lack of coordination on part of the administration with the corporators while charting out steps to contain the virus. “Being elected representatives, citizens approach us. Without knowledge of any administrative decisions, we cannot solve their doubts,” said Wave and added, “had the NMC taken the corporators into confidence the measures against Covid-19 could have been more effective,” he said. The civic body has been proactively picking up close contacts of positive patients across the city and compulsorily placing them into 14-day quarantine centres. Datke raised the issue of allegations regarding NMC adopting different yardsticks for institutional quarantine. TOI on Thursday had reported that how NMC had quarantined common people for 14 days but applied different yardsticks for it officials who were quarantined only for a day. Mundhe said that all the decisions were taken in the interest of people and in accordance with the guidelines issued by the government from time to time. “The decisions about containment zones too were as per the government guidelines,” he told the corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-ignore-elected-peoples-representatives-mayor-to-mundhe/articleshow/76203618.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Drug peddler tests positive, SSP, CJM isolated||BARNALA: Around 50 police personnel in Barnala district are being sent in home quarantine, after an arrested drug peddler tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, a police official said. These cops were involved in the operation to arrest the peddler and later came in contact with him during his interrogation. Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel, SP (investigations) Sukhdev Singh Virk, ASP Pragya Jain, chief judicial magistrate Vaneet Kumar Narang have been asked to go in for home quarantine. The samples of police officials have been taken whereas samples of the judicial officer is yet to be taken, said Barnala civil surgeon Dr G B Singh. District and session judge Virinder Kumar Aggarwal has ordered to lock the court of CJM as precautionary measure. Cops from Mehal Kalan in Barnala district had arrested the man, Zulfikar Ali, from Malerkotla in Sangrur on May 23 and 12,000 tablets of Clovidol 100 SR were recovered from him. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against Zulfikar and he was taken to the CIA staff headquarters at Barnala for investigations. Later, his swab sample was sent for test and the report on Thursday showed him positive for Covid-19. When contacted, Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel said, “Nearly 50 cops came in his contact during his arrest and subsequent investigations to know his sources of getting the habit-forming drugs and the persons to whom he was supplying the same. Now, all the all cops are being sent for quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drug-peddler-tests-positive-ssp-cjm-isolated/articleshow/76204490.cms||Neel Kamal
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Iskcon slams brakes on its 49th Ratha Yatra in Kolkata to minimize coronavirus risk||KOLKATA: Ratha Yatra, conducted by the Kolkata International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon), has been cancelled this year. The authorities took the decision on Thursday to prevent the gathering of thousands of people on the road to pull the chariots, thereby increasing the risk of spreading the novel coronavirus. This time, there will be no city tour of the three chariots, a tradition that has been part of the city’s annual calendar for the past 48 years. The Mayapur headquarters of Iskcon is also likely to cancel Ratha Yatra, though a formal announcement is awaited. The Iskcon temples in Kolkata and Mayapur will, however, celebrate Ratha Yatra on the premises. “We will dress up the deities in their first-floor abode and bring them to the ground floor where they will stay for eight days in a temporary set up. Pujas and offerings will be performed there. We will request chief minister Mamata Banerjee to visit the temple on Ratha Yatra,” said Radharaman Das, spokesperson for Kolkata Iskcon. “We are trying to see if restricted entry to the temple is possible during Ratha Yatra. Social distancing will be an issue and we will have to be careful.” Starting from Albert Road in Kolkata, the three chariots of Jagannath, Balaram and Subhadra, tour the city and then roll into the Maidan, where they are kept for eight days. A fair is organised by Iskcon there and prasad is distributed among the large number of devotees who converge on the spot. A week later on Ultarath, the chariots are pulled back to the temple. In Mayapur, Ratha Yatra covered a 6-km stretch from Rajapur, where a Jagannath temple is situated, to Mayapur Dham, where the chariots are kept for eight days. The decision to cancel the festival came a day before Jagannath’s Snan Yatra on Friday, which sets the mood for the festival. This year, both Kolkata and Mayapur have barred the entry of devotees to witness the Snan Yatra rituals that will be conducted by a few monks staying on the temple premises at both the places. Mythological details from the Jagannath lore says that to help the God beat the heat, an annual bathing ritual is organised during which the idol is anointed with sandal and bathed in milk and water for more than four hours. According to the lore, Jagannath comes down with fever the next day, and he has to be quarantined for two weeks before he gets well and sets out for a public darshan on Ratha Yatra. “Jagannath is given a fever diet of hot milk, fruits, kadha and herbal medication, not the usual chhappan bhog. One can draw parallel to today’s Covid-19 situation,” said Subrata Das, spokesperson for Mayapur Iskcon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iskcon-slams-brakes-on-its-49th-ratha-yatra-in-city-to-minimize-corona-risk/articleshow/76203598.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kite accidents: Drone watch near flyovers||Kolkata: Cops have started deploying drones in and around Maa and AJC Road flyovers around three days ago to crack down on those flying kites with illegal Chinese thread (manja). The drive began after the death of a Watgunge resident on AJC Bose Road flyover around 10 days ago when a manja had been entangled around his neck. During the lockdown 11 accidents involved with the illegal thread have been reported. The latest accident was reported around 6.22pm on Wednesday when Prabhat Swarnakar (22), a resident of Sodepur in Purba Barisha, who was riding a bike on AJC Bose Road, was injured by the manja in front of the KMC Borough Office under Shakespeare Sarani police station. This is for the second time that such an accident was reported from a non-flyover location. Cops said more surprise raids would continue in the areas under Karaya, Beniapukur, Tiljala and Topsia police stations, which are close to the two flyovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kite-accidents-drone-watch-near-flyovers/articleshow/76203627.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Hoteliers in Nainital, Mussoorie oppose govt’s decision to use hotels, resorts as quarantine centres||Nainital/Mussoorie: Hoteliers in Nainital and Mussoorie have written to the state government and administration against the government’s decision to use the hotels and resorts in the state as quarantine centres. In the letter, the hoteliers have stated that instead of taking a number of properties across the state, the authorities must take just a few properties located outside the cities for quarantine purpose. Speaking to TOI, Dinesh Sah, president of Nainital Hotel and Restaurant Association, said that they wrote that staff in most of the hotels have gone back to their villages and therefore they do not have the facility to manage hotels as quarantine centres. Moreover, most of these hotels are in the cities and if the people are quarantined in them, there is a threat that the virus might spread. "Till now, most of the positive cases have been reported in returnees and if they are quarantined in the hotels there is a threat that the virus might spread," Sah said. He added that several hotels in Nainital have already been converted into quarantine centres despite the fact that the town is several km from the state border as well as the nearest railway station. "We had closed our hotels in March itself and since then our revenues have plummeted. Now that guidelines were eased we were finally planning to open up, however, if the government decides to use our hotels as quarantine centres the hotel association will protest," he said. Echoing similar sentiments, Sanjay Aggarwal, Secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association, said, "Developing quarantine centres in a number of hotels scattered across the town could pose safety issues for residents of the town. In fact, on knowing about shortlisting of certain hotels as quarantine centres the residents living nearby have already started raising objections." In their letter to the administration, the Mussoorie hoteliers have suggested a few hotels, schools and hostels located outside the main town where quarantine centres could be established. Notably, around 20 hotels across the town have been shortlisted by the local administration for quarantine centres. These properties are located in various parts of the town and many of them are located in the heart of the town on the Mall Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hoteliers-in-nainital-mussoorie-oppose-govts-decision-to-use-hotels-resorts-as-quarantine-centres/articleshow/76202576.cms||Prashant Jha
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Man employed as cook in intn’l cricketer’s restaurant alleges misbehaviour, withholding of salary||Dehradun: A man employed as cook in a restaurant owned by the family of an international cricketer on the Delhi-Haridwar highway, has written to the state minority commission about ‘misbehaviour’ by the cricketer’s family when he asked for his pending salary. Faiz Alam, 23, a resident of Roorkee, in a letter to state minority commission and national commission for minorities alleged that he was employed as a cook in the restaurant run by the cricketer’s sister since December 2019 on a salary of around Rs 9500 per month. “A total of Rs 20,110 was due to me as I had worked in the restaurant in January and February 2020 and also in the first five days of March. But when I asked for my dues, my employers misbehaved with me over phone and threatened that their son is a renowned cricketer and knows all the top people and if I continue to demand my salary, they will hand me over to police,” Alam alleged. Meanwhile, the cricketer’s family in a statement said that “this is a clear case of misunderstanding.” “We had shut down the operations of the restaurant in March around Holi. We had given our manager all the money to settle the dues of every staff. The manager is absconding after that. The complainant had come to us and asked us to settle his dues. We had also paid for the accommodation of the staff. We are still trying to trace our manager. Later, we got to know that the manager is apparently in Bhopal and hasn’t been responding to our repeated calls. It was very difficult to keep track of things because of the lockdown.” The family said that they had told the complainant that they needed to clear things out with the manager first. “We are just asking for some patience till we sort things out with the manager. We assure that he won’t be cheated. In the meantime, we are figuring out what action could be taken against the manager.” Meanwhile, when queried about the matter, RK Jain, chairman of Uttarakhand Minority Commisison confirmed to TOI that they had got a letter from the complainant in May and had forwarded it to police in Haridwar to get a fair investigation done. “We wrote a letter to Haridwar police on May 18 asking them to respond in 15 days. It’s almost 17 days now and we will be sending another notice to them seeking a report in the matter at the earliest,” Jain said. Station officer of Kotwali Civil Lines, Roorkee, Rajesh Sah told TOI that both the parties were called for their statements at the police station on Thursday. “We will share the report with our officials soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-employed-as-cook-in-intnl-cricketers-restaurant-alleges-misbehaviour-withholding-of-salary/articleshow/76202591.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Shifting tigers key to avoid conflict, says forest minister||Nagpur: Maharashtra forest minister Sanjay Rathod has said translocating healthy tigers from higher density to lower density areas was the most acceptable solution to mitigate man-animal conflict. Affected people are desperately looking for immediate action from forest department. Talking to TOI on the burning issue of translocating tigers from Chandrapur on the eve of World Environment Day, Rathod said, “Desperate situations need desperate measures. Chandrapur district alone has 160 tigers which is almost half of the state population of 312.” “Most alarming thing is that 21 tigers are around 5km periphery of Chandrapur city. Humans and tigers are living together. Tigers become very aggressive when they are with cubs. Many of them have territory on the boundary of villages and city,” he said. The minister added times humans knowingly or unknowingly crossed these boundaries and are attacked. In the last six years, 113 human deaths have been recorded with 13 of them in last five months, he added. Maharashtra has 61,936 sqkm forest area, which is 20.13% its total area. Ideally, it should be 33%, but growing population has limited growth of forest area. Forests and wildlife are an integral part of the environment and state forest department was one of the oldest and innovative departments in the country, said Rathod. The six tiger reserves in the state— Melghat, Tadoba, Sahyadri, Pench, Navegaon-Nagzira and Bor— covering 9,113 sqkm area have come up well in the last 25 years, increasing tiger numbers from 169 in 2010 to 312 in 2018. It is almost doubled in last eight years. Rathod said all these reserves had collaboratively worked on conservation and protection of tigers. However, conservation of tigers didn’t mean only controlling poaching, but also included avoiding man-animal conflict, welfare activities for tribals, farmers and forests-dwellers, which had yielded positive results, he said. The forest minister stressed the need for working on increasing prey base for tigers. He said officials were working for developing new prey base areas in different forest circles. “Increase in number of tigers is a matter of pride for us but their territory is limited and hence officials should focus on strengthening corridors,” Rathod said. “We expect tiger numbers to grow by 270 in Maharashtra in a few years. Of these, number in Chandrapur alone will grow by 60. This will lead to more conflict as locals will continue to venture in forest areas for collection of forest produce,” said Rathod. The minister said any decision on translocation will be taken after National Tigers Conservation Authority (NTCA) nod. It was already discussed in governing body meeting of NTCA. “We will develop new guidelines and processes for translocation,” he said adding, “The issue of tiger population and conflict needs to be addressed at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shifting-tigers-key-to-avoid-conflict-says-forest-minister/articleshow/76203639.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana crosses 3,000 mark with 327 new patients||CHANDIGARH: With 327 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the past 24-hours, the total number of positive cases in Haryana crossed 3,000 figure. The total number of coronavirus infection cases has reached 3,281. One death was also reported in the state on Thursday. With this, the total number of deaths in the state has been recorded to 24. The maximum numbers of 215 cases have been reported from Gurgaon district. With the total number of cases from the district reaching 1,410. Faridabad is at number two with 522 cases. Other cases have been reported from Faridabad (35), Jhajjar (2), Nuh (4), Ambala (1), Palwal (7), Panipat (1), Jind (1), Karnal (8), Sirsa (1), Fatehabad (2), Bhiwani (12), Rohtak (13), Narnaul (3), Hisar (8), Rewari (11) and Kaithal. Till Thursday, the state of Haryana had tested 1,32,575 persons for Covid-19. The total active cases in the state have reached 2,134, while 1,123 persons have recovered from the infection. Kurukshetra civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said the Covid-19 samples of nine people, including two women, in the district reported positive on Thursday. He said five patients were discharged from MMU Hospital Mullana, Ambala after they reported negative on Thursday. “Till now, 23 patients have recovered from Covid-19,” Dr Singh said. Among those who tested positive is a 50-year-old woman from Ladwa’s Gobindgarh village, who contracted infection from a member of her family. A 20-year-old man, who works as a cook in Umri village, also tested positive and 22 samples have been collected from his chain. A priest, 65, from an ashram in Kurukshetra had returned from Delhi and has tested positive. A 28-year-old railway lineman, living in Thanesar Railway Colony, had returned from Rajasthan. A 52-year-old man of Samaspur village, whose a family member had returned from Dubai, has also contracted the infection. In Ambala, a 34-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Ambala district on Thursday, said district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “The woman, who returned from Delhi after three months by train tested positive. She belongs to Sector 10 area of Ambala,” he added. The district tally now stands at 70 positive cases, 24 active cases, with two deaths and 44 discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-crosses-3k-mark-with-327-new-patients/articleshow/76204439.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 16-year-old boy, a homosexual, says father forced him into marriage with underage girl||NAINITAL: Nainital police on Thursday booked a man under the Prohibition of Child Marriages Act, 2006 after his 16-year-old son wrote a letter to the child welfare committee (CWC) claiming that he is homosexual yet his father forced him to marry a 16-year-old girl from Rampur. According to the letter written by the boy to the CWC and the FIR filed by the police, he was married to the girl on March 20. “I am homosexual and my father knew it. Yet my father took me to Tanda in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh and got me married to the girl in a banquet hall there. The girl is also aged 16 and I kept pleading with my father that I don’t want to marry her but my parents did not listen to me. I was also threatened that I would be killed if I did not marry her. Finally, I yielded and I was forcefully married to her on March 20,” the letter read. The boy who lives in Nainital’s Mallital area with his family added that police should act against his father and those who forced him. “I was married to the girl forcefully and I am still scared since my parents and relatives threatened me. I plead to you to take action in the matter,” the boy said. Meanwhile, police told TOI that they have registered an FIR against the boy’s father and have charged him with the sections of the Prohibition of Child Marriages Act, 2006. “The boy had written to the CWC and soon he wrote a complaint to us as well. Therefore, we have filed an FIR against his father and charged him under sections 3 and 10 of the 2006 Act,” said Mallital SHO Ashok Kumar. Kumar, however, added, “Since the wedding took place in Rampur and the girl’s parents are also from there, we have forwarded the FIR to the police of the state concerned to investigate the matter and take necessary steps,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/16-yr-old-boy-a-homosexual-says-father-forced-him-into-marriage-with-underage-girl/articleshow/76202567.cms||Prashant Jha
June 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Medical staff to be trained for faster sample collection||CHANDIGARH: To increase collection of samples across the state, the Punjab government has decided to train community health officers, staff nurses and pharmacists in collection and packing of swabs for RT-PCR Covid-19 testing. At present, samples are collected by medical officers only. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab had completed testing of over 1,00,000 samples for Covid-19. He said the state had increased its testing per million figures to 3,259 per day, as on June 3, better than the national average of 3,046 tests per million per day. As part of its efforts to ramp up the testing capacity of labs in the state, the state government recently procured three new RT-PCR machines for its government medical college labs. Sidhu said the department of health had started TruNaat testing in five districts of Punjab at Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Barnala and Mansa. The department has also started CBNAAT testing at Faridkot and Patiala. For the purpose of surveillance, around 995 rapid response teams have been formed in the state in order to conduct active surveillance and identification of people with influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory Illness by house to house visits. “State has conducted Elisa-based antibody tests for sero-surveillance in four high-burden districts of Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana and Patiala,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/med-staff-to-be-trained-for-faster-sample-collection/articleshow/76207465.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Medical staff to be trained for faster sample collection||CHANDIGARH: To increase collection of samples across the state, the Punjab government has decided to train community health officers, staff nurses and pharmacists in collection and packing of swabs for RT-PCR Covid-19 testing. At present, samples are collected by medical officers only. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab had completed testing of over 1,00,000 samples for Covid-19. He said the state had increased its testing per million figures to 3,259 per day, as on June 3, better than the national average of 3,046 tests per million per day. As part of its efforts to ramp up the testing capacity of labs in the state, the state government recently procured three new RT-PCR machines for its government medical college labs. Sidhu said the department of health had started TruNaat testing in five districts of Punjab at Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Barnala and Mansa. The department has also started CBNAAT testing at Faridkot and Patiala. For the purpose of surveillance, around 995 rapid response teams have been formed in the state in order to conduct active surveillance and identification of people with influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory Illness by house to house visits. “State has conducted Elisa-based antibody tests for sero-surveillance in four high-burden districts of Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana and Patiala,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/med-staff-to-be-trained-for-faster-sample-collection/articleshow/76204499.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Total lockdown in Dehradun on every weekend for sanitisation drive: CM||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday announced a complete lockdown in Dehradun on every weekend, i.e. Saturdays and Sundays, during which sanitisation drives will be conducted in the city. He added that only essential services would be allowed to function on these two days. The chief minister also announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of the kin of victims who died due to novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the state. The CM made these announcements after concluding a review meeting with senior administrative and police officials. During the meeting, Rawat called for strict compliance of lockdown guidelines in containment zones and random inspection of persons under home quarantine. Presently, there are 39 containment zones in Uttarakhand —18 in Dehradun, 17 in Haridwar, and two each in Pauri and Tehri. In view of a large number of Covid-19-positive cases emerging from Niranjanpur vegetable mandi, the CM directed closure of the wholesale vegetable market temporarily and asked officials to make alternative arrangements. The wholesale market has been declared a containment zone till June 11. District magistrate Ashish Srivastava said that all the blocks of the market would observe total lockdown. The locals living in the area have been asked to stay under home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, state secretary (finance) Amit Negi said that a total budget of Rs 686 crore has been allotted to fight Covid-19. “This includes Rs 166 crore sanctioned by the central government for the National Health Mission. Apart from that, Rs 16 crore of the State Disaster Relief Funds has been allotted to boost health facilities, Rs 150 crore to district plan, Rs 70 crore to DM Fund, Rs 50 crore to CM Relief Fund and Rs 90 crore to district magistrates from State Disaster Relief Funds.” (With inputs from Abhijeet Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/total-lockdown-in-doon-on-every-weekend-for-sanitisation-drive-cm/articleshow/76202603.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||Wrapped in a purse, autodriver leaves his stamp of integrity||PALANPUR: Amid news of chicanery and all-round moral turpitude, a trickle of good news, like honesty, ushers in hope — of good over evil. So it did, when an auto-rickshaw driver in Modasa retuned a purse to a passenger who had left it in his auto — even when it took him two months to trace the owner. The incident happened before the lockdown took effect, recalls Salim Suthar alias Raja, a resident of Anjuman society in Modasa, when some college girl left behind her purse after travelling in his auto. Unmindful of it, Salim went on dropping passengers. While he was waiting for more passengers, two college girls boarded the rickshaw and handed him the ladies purse lying in the back seat. Assessing by its looks, the girls told Salim that it must be of some college girl. But before he could act on his hunches, lockdown happened, followed by Ramzan. But even amid all the uncertainty and financial hardship, Salim held on to the bag to return it to the rightful owner. “When lockdown eased, I went to the commerce college, which was still closed. I kept visiting the college till I could meet the principal and teachers, who gave me her name and mobile number,” said Salim, adding that the girl was a second year commerce student living at a village near Bayad, 40 km away from Modasa. After calling her on the given number, Salim succeeded in contacting the girl and asked her to collect her belonging. The girl was overjoyed, said Salim. However, she couldn’t come personally to collect it owing to ill health and instead an uncle received the purse on her behalf. “After proper identification, I returned the purse and am now light hearted as it was big burden on my soul,” said the humble man, who didn’t seek a prize for his priceless efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wrapped-in-a-purse-autodriver-leaves-his-stamp-of-integrity/articleshow/76202598.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Woman, kids jump into canal; children survive||Vijayawada: A 32-year-old woman in a bid to commit suicide jumped into the Bandar Canal near VMC administrative office along with her children Abhishek (14) and Keerthana (12) on Thursday. While the woman identified as M Swaroopa Rani died, her children survived. Police said Rani, who was from Morta village, West Godavari district, had a fight with her husband, who is a farmer, on May 3. After the fight, she took her children and left the house and came to Vijayawada. Cops said that Rani stayed with her children on the footpath. Later, on Thursday she woke her children up saying that they were to visit the Kanaka Durga temple. While she was walking, she suddenly jumped into the canal along with her two children. Luckily, a fisherman passing in a boat noticed Rani and her two children. By the time, he rescued the children, the woman was dead. The children sustained minor injuries and were given first aid,” said Krishna Lanka CI P Satyanandham. Rani’s body was sent to Government General Hospital for post-mortem and later, the body was handed over to the husband. A case has been registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-kids-jump-into-canal-children-survive/articleshow/76202589.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Shiv Sena demands action against dy civic chief||Nagpur: Shiv Sena, which claimed to have exposed a scam involving BVG India mixing soil to increase weight of waste dumped by it at Bhandewadi landfill area on Thursday demanded departmental inquiry against deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar for giving a clean chit to the company. Shiv Sena city coordinator Nitin Tiwari met additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and pointed out that the official holding the post of health officer (sanitation) should have minimum qualification of MBBS with DPh and MD. However, Dr Dasarwar was an SSC pass out with diploma in homeopathy. Dr Dasarwar holding additional charge of deputy municipal commissioner (sanitation) was violation of Maharashtra State government resolution (GR), Tiwari claimed. Sena alleged the BJP-ruled NMC promoted Dr Dasarwar to commit the garbage scam. “Despite exposing BVG India’s involvement in increasing garbage weight by mixing soil, Dr Dasarwar gave a clean chit to the firm,” Tiwari said in the memorandum. Additional municipal commissioner Joshi has assured to look into the matter. Tiwari also brought up the issue of illegal excavation of soil with Nagpur city tehsildar Suryakant Patil, who directed patwari Ajay Chauhan along with divisional officer Sanjay Anawane and talathi Prashant Sahare to inspect the parking space of BVG India near Bhandewadi garbage dumping yard. The team found 1,800 cubic meters of land excavated and around 12,133 feet of soil had been removed from the parking space of BVG India, said the panchnama report of the revenue official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shiv-sena-demands-action-against-dy-civic-chief/articleshow/76203656.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Agra||600 jumbos tortured, killed in Kerala every year: Maneka Gandhi||AGRA: Speaking on the death of a pregnant elephant after firecracker-filled pineapples exploded in its mouth in Kerala, Lok Sabha MP and vocal animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi slammed the Kerala government and raised the issue of some 600 elephants tortured and killed in the coastal state every year. “There is nothing one can do with the government and wildlife department in Kerala. They take no action. Every year, about 600 elephants are killed in the state -- by the temples by breaking their legs, beating and starving them and otherwise by private owners by insuring them and then deliberately drowning them or giving them gangrene by putting rusted nails on them,” she said. Responding to the issue raised by Agra-based activist Naresh Paras, Gandhi wrote, “I talk to the department almost every week about one elephant or another and they do absolutely nothing. Currently, there is a young elephant who is being beaten in a temple and his legs have been stretched out and tied to the ground in four directions. It has been one month since I have complained and no action has been taken. He will also die soon.” Paras had sent a complaint to the Animal Welfare Board of India, which was marked to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Sultanpur MP who is also the chairperson of NGO People for Animals. On Thursday, the Kerala chief minister in a series of tweets said, “In a tragic incident in Palakkad dist, a pregnant elephant has lost its life. Many of you have reached out to us. We want to assure you that your concerns will not go in vain. Justice will prevail.” The Kerala forest department also said that significant headway has been made in the investigation into the recent death of the elephant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/600-jumbos-tortured-killed-in-kerala-every-year-maneka-gandhi/articleshow/76202601.cms||Deepak Lavania
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 37 spots plagued by waterlogging||AHMEDABAD: If Ahmedabad Municipal Corportation (AMC) standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt is to be believed, the city has 37 spots that have perennial waterlogging issues. After the standing committee meeting, Bhatt said that the AMC has worked out solutions for 25 such spots. He said some of these are Helmet Circle, Srinanandnagar, Jivraj Park, Jawahar Chowk in Maninagar and Hatkeshwar Circle. The AMC has worked out solutions so that in case of heavy to very heavy rainfall the areas become motorable in one or two hours after the rains stop. Under the Guruji Bridge in Maninagar, a sump has been built with a pump to drain the area as soon as the rain stops. A duct line has also been laid to clear waterlogging. Moreover, due to the lack of workers and the Covid-19 situation, work on the main line in Asarwa and a duct line in Vasna is still going on. Bhatt said the standing committee even reviewed pre-monsoon activity and checked the progress on cleaning of the 46,000-odd catch pits in the city. Bhatt said that even the health department, which is dealing with Covid-19, has been asked to be alert and ensure that there is no major outbreak of any disease associated with waterlogging problems. He said the AMC is prepared to deal with any situation. AMC officials said that the first round of pre-monsoon cleaning is over and the second round, clearing manholes and storm water drains has been taken up. The 33,120 catch pits are yet to be cleared for the second time. The AMC stated that cleaning of catch pits was not done in containment zones. AMC officials said to prevent waterlogging, 54 small sumps have been built. Preventive maintenance of sewage pumping stations has also been completed, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/37-spots-plagued-by-waterlogging/articleshow/76204054.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Two more Covid patients dead, toll reaches 10, health dept still in denial||Dehradun: Two patients, both from Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh, admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, who had tested positive for Covid-19, were reported to have died at the hospital on Thursday. With this, the death toll of Covid-positive patients reached 10 in the Himalyan state of which nine deaths took place in the past two weeks. The health department has, however, refused to attribute any death to Covid-19 and has instead said that co-morbid illnesses are behind the deaths. Speaking about the recent deaths, authorities of AIIMS Rishikesh told TOI that the first patient, a 26-year-old man from Muzaffarnagar’s Purkazi locality, was admitted to the hospital on June 1 after he complained of breathing issues and high fever. The second patient was a 25-year-old woman from the same city who had been complaining of loose motion and vomiting for over a fortnight. “She was unconscious for the past four days,” said Dr Madhur Uniyal, Covid-19 nodal officer at AIIMS who added that a report is being prepared to ascertain the exact cause of the death. Both the patients had tested positive for Covid-19. State health officials meanwhile continue to maintain that of the 10 deaths of Covid-19-positve patients in the state, six were due to co-morbid illnesses. As for the remaining four, Abhishek Tripathi, nodal officer of Covid-19 war room at the health directorate, said, “Cause of the death at a quarantine centre in Pauri is still not known even after post mortem. We are also waiting for death audits in the three other cases.” Attacking the state government over its denial to accept Covid deaths, Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana, said on Thursday, “How can the CM announce compensation for family of Covid victims when the health department is not ready to accept any death as Covid death? The tall claims are simply an eyewash to fool the people.” Meanwhile, 68 new Covid-positive cases were reported in Uttarakhand on Thursday, taking the state’s tally of Covid patients to 1,145. The total count of active cases in Dehradun now stands at 324, followed by Nainital at 310. Providing a breakup of the fresh cases on Thursday, Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health), said that 36 new cases were reported from Dehradun and 10 from Nainital. He added, “Champawat reported three new cases, followed by 10 in Tehri, four in Pauri, two in Bageshwar and one each in Uttarkashi, Almora and US Nagar.” In another related development, the state government on Thursday signed an MoU with CSIR-IMTECH Chandigarh to enhance the Covid-19 testing capacity in the state, which now has a sample pendency of over 6,000. After the MoU, samples from the states can also be tested in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-more-covid-patients-dead-toll-reaches-10-health-dept-still-in-denial/articleshow/76202613.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Teen among 12 Tamil Nadu fatalities; must test more, say experts||CHENNAI: A teenage girl was among the 12 people reported dead because of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 220. The state’s case tally reached 27,256 with 1,384 fresh cases, 1,072 of them in Chennai. The 17-year-old, the youngest Covid-19 casualty in the state, was insulin-dependent (or type 1 diabetes). She was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai at 5.28pm on Wednesday, but died four hours later following a cardiopulmonary arrest. “She was brought too late to hospital. She had complications including uncontrolled diabetes and acute kidney injury,” said a doctor who attended on her. As concerns grow over the rising toll, senior doctors and public health experts say increasing testing will help the state detect cases early. On Thursday, the state increased the number of people tested to 15,991 after pressure from the expert medical committee that includes epidemiologists, public health experts and doctors. “We told the state that if we don’t increase tests, we will not be able to detect cases early. Late admissions will increase case load, complications and fatalities,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganantham. National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur had said the state should daily test at least 18,000 people, including 10,000 in Chennai and excluding migrants. “Most of those who succumbed to the viral infection were either brought in late or had serious health conditions,” said Kilpauk Medical College Dean Dr P Vasanthamani. A 25-year-old woman’s death was brought into the Covid registry four day after doctors at Uthangarai Government Hospital in Krishnagiri had declared it. Doctors said the woman with a history of asthma was brought to hospital with breathing difficulty. A 33-year-old woman, who died on Wednesday, was referred to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 23, ten days after a C-section delivery. Doctors said she has a history of recurrent gestational diabetes. One of the twins she delivered prematurely died within minutes awhile the other boy is stable at the neonatal care unit of the Institute of Child Health. The day’s toll registry had two people in their 40s, two in the 50s and four in their 60s. The oldest was a 76 –year-old man. All of them had complications such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac ailments. Chennai’s case tally is now 18,693 after the highest single-day spike of 1,072. The city has seen 167 deaths. After Chennai, neighbouring Chengalpattu has the largest number of cases, 1,533, and deaths, 14. Another of Chennai’s neighbours, Tiruvallur, has logged 1,127 cases and 11 deaths so far. All the other districts in the state have recorded below 500 cases so far. Among the eleven returnees who tested positive on Thursday was one passenger from Kuwait, five were from Maharashtra, four from Telangana and one from Kerala. So far, 1,718 returnees have tested positive, with the most in Tirunelveli (266), Kallakuruchi (182), and Tuticorin (168) and Salem (129). The state discharged 585 patients on Thursday, taking the number of those cured to nine short of 15,000. At the end of the day, there were 12,132 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/teen-among-12-tn-fatalities-must-test-more-say-experts/articleshow/76204539.cms||Pushpa Narayan
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||RKC teacher alleges harassment by principal over following Covid norms||RAJKOT: Sumen Ray Chaudhari, a senior teacher with the Rajkumar College (RKC) in Rajkot has accused the principal of the prestigious educational institute of harassment for seeking adherence to coronavirus guidelines issued by the government. He has further alleged that he was suspended without a show cause notice or hearing for raising his voice against the school principal S S Adhikari. Chaudhari, a history teacher, has submitted a written complaint to the Rajkot district education officer (DEO) and demanded inquiry into the matter. However, Adhikari maintained that Chaudhari was suspended for his alleged misbehaviour and misconduct and refuted all allegations levelled against him by the senior teacher. Chaudhari has been teaching at RKC for last 12 years. RKC is a CBSE affiliated institute where children of royal families used to studying before the independence. According to Chaudhuri, after CBSE postponed the board exams and suspended evaluation work, the school principal asked teachers to report to duty from 9am to 1pm. Chaudhri raised concerns over the attendance of teachers though the SMS and over online teaching method adopted by the school. “On March 19 principal (Adhikari) called a meeting in which 200 people participated, including teaching and administrative staff, which was against government directives prohibiting assembly of more than four people,” Chaudhri told TOI. “During the meeting Adhikari made mockery of concerns raised by me without taking my name and said that if those who don’t want to attend the school should find some other job,” he said adding that when he went to clarify his point, the principal shooed him away and later suspended him on March 20 without giving show cause notice or opportunity to be heard. When contacted RKC principal S S Adhikari said “Chaudhari’s allegations are baseless. I did not take any arbitrary decision. A committee will be formed as per rules to inquire in his allegation and the truth will come out.” DEO R S Upadhyay denied having received Chaudhari’s letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rkc-teacher-alleges-harassment-by-principal-over-following-covid-norms/articleshow/76202609.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||2 held with Rs2.20cr cash, cops not ruling out Maoist angle||Nagpur: Gadchiroli police on Wednesday seized Rs2.20 crore cash rounding up two persons, identified as Sanjay Awthare and Sudhir Raut, in separate actions before handing over the cases to the income tax department. Cops are not ruling out that the duo could be involved in delivering money to Maoists. Two vehicles carrying the cash were intercepted at a nakabandi point on the Godavari bridge at Sironcha after some intervals. It’s learnt, the vehicles were entering from Telangana and heading towards Bhamragarh. Police said Awthare, manager working for a Telangana-based tendu contractor, was caught with more than Rs one crore in his vehicle. SP Shailesh Balkawade said that Awthare has claimed that he was going to make payment to labourers who collected tendu. “There was cash of around Rs99.30 lakh in another vehicle. There were supporting bank documents with this cash which made it less suspicious then,” said Balkawade. The SP also said that the cash and both the cases have been handed over to the income tax officials for scrutiny. The Maoists, having suffered setbacks after losing senior cadres in police encounters, are learnt to be trying to regroup in the district. Earlier police sources had claimed that Maoists are targeting tendu contractors for extorting money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-held-with-rs2-20cr-cash-cops-not-ruling-out-maoist-angle/articleshow/76203659.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Deeply regret what happened 21 years ago, says Manu Sharma||NEW DELHI: “I deeply regret what happened 21 years ago, every single day,” says 45-year-old Manu Sharma, out of jail after remission of his life term in the 1999 Jessica Lall murder case. In an online interview with TOI from Chandigarh, Sharma (Siddharth Vashisht) spoke about his life behind bars for 17 years and his remorse. The case had united people across the country and triggered an unprecedented outrage in 2006 when Manu Sharma and nine other accused, including Vikas Yadav, were acquitted. Delhi HC later convicted them and Supreme Court upheld the HC verdict in 2010. Yadav, while on bail in the Jessica case, murdered Nitish Katara in 2002 and remains behind bars for a rigorous imprisonment of 30 years after being convicted in both cases. Sharma was released from jail earlier this week for “satisfactory conduct in prison.” His lawyer, Amit Sahni, said the sentence review board recommended premature release on the basis of reports from the jail authorities and lack of any opposition from Delhi Police. Recalling the fateful night of April 29-30, 1999, when he shot Jessica at Tamarind Court as she refused to serve him a drink, Sharma says: “I would do anything to undo what happened, I only wish that I could,” he says. He says he feels “eternally sorry for what happened, far more than I can express in words.” Son of a powerful Haryana politician, Venod Sharma, Manu had escaped from the scene but surrendered a week later after a massive manhunt was launched across NCR and Chandigarh. He was later released on bail when a Patiala House court acquitted him and others in the case in February 2006. Sharma says his years in isolation taught him some of life’s hardest lessons and helped him reform. Life in jail, away from his family and a luxurious life, was difficult “but in time you get accustomed to it”. He dreaded the possibility of other inmates coming after him. “They can come at you any time. And when you sleep in barracks — as I did for quite a few of my earlier years — you have to be constantly alert, even at night, as that is the best time for them to attack,” he recalls. “However, in my latter years, when I was more used to jail life, I tried to spend my time in more constructive ways. My first assignment was to tend to the gardens and that gave me a lot of peace and tranquility. Thereafter, I was asked to work in the Tihar Jail factory, and I can say today that my 10 years spent there helped me keep my sanity. I also tried to read as much as possible and completed my degree in human rights and studied law as well,” Sharma revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/deeply-regret-what-happened-21-yrs-ago-manu/articleshow/76204552.cms||Abhinav Garg
June 5, 2020||Agra||Sold and raped, three women walk with migrants to flee attackers||AGRA: Sold and raped many times, three women from Hazaribagh, including a teenager, walked for three days along with migrant labourers across the Uttar Pradesh-Rajasthan border and stayed in a jungle as cover to escape from their rapists. After crossing the state’s border, they reached a police outpost at Fatehpur Sikri, from where they were rescued by the Agra district police. The father of one of the survivors told TOI, “On April 26, my neighbour lured my daughter promising to get her married to a Bharatpur-based man." " She sent my daughter along with her brother-in-law in a truck to a village in Bharatpur.” Recounting her horror, the 22-year-old survivor said, “I was sold to one Nandlal Yadav, 53, for Rs 1.5 lakh. He raped and confined me. I wanted to escape, but he physically tortured me. A few days later, I came across a teenage girl in the village who was raped by her step uncle and another woman whose father-in-law was making advances towards her. We decided to run away.” “We walked for three days along with migrant labourers using them as cover as henchmen of our tormentors kept looking for us. We also hid in a forest during our journey to Agra’s Fatehpur Sikri,” the survivor said. Before leaving for Agra, one of the survivors had managed to call up her family members and alerted them about her situation. The family then came in touch with the New Delhi-based NGO ‘The Alternate Space’ run by lawyer and activist Khadijaj Faruqui, who helped them contact Agra police. “As soon the girl and her family contacted me over the phone, I got in touch with Agra SP Ravi Kumar. They were travelling along with migrant labourers and I asked them to reach the nearest Agra police outpost,” added Faruqui. Agra SP Ravi Kumar said, “Once rescued, they narrated their ordeals to us. The youngest of the survivors, who is just 14, told us that she was raped by her stepfather’s brother. The other woman, 22, also said she was raped and tortured. We alerted the Hazaribagh police about the rescue.” On May 31, the three women were handed over to the Hazaribagh police. Speaking to TOI, Hazaribagh superintendent of police Karthik S. said, “The neighbour of one of the survivors, who had sold her, has been arrested and further investigation is on. However, we were not alerted by Agra police about the 14-year-old rape survivor and neither the girl told us about her ordeal. But, we will investigate it.” The accused, Hardev Sharma, his wife Rekha Devi and Nandlal Yadav, have been booked under IPC’s section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). (The victims' identity have not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sold-raped-many-times-3-women-walk-with-migrant-labourers-to-hide-themselves-and-escape-from-rapists/articleshow/76202625.cms||Arvind Chauhan
June 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||HC declines to issue stay on online classes||KOCHI: The high court on Thursday declined to issue a stay on the online classes for school students being conducted by the state government in view of Covid-19 lockdown. Justice C S Dias declined to issue a stay after considering during admission hearing a petition filed by Girija C C of Kasaragod. At the hearing, the state government had contended that it has formulated guidelines for conducting online classes and that virtual classes are being conducted now only on trial basis. The government has also promised the court that all necessary facilities would be provided to students before commencing regular online classes. Regular online classes are expected to commence by June 14, the court was told. While declining to issue a stay, the court said, “They have envisaged the online mode only to ensure that students do not miss out on classes as regular classes cannot be commenced due to pandemic. Also, the online classes are in a downloadable format, which can be compiled together and shown to students who have missed out on classes. In view of the above submission, I do not find any exigency warranting an interim order at this stage.” The petitioner had alleged that the directive for conducting online classes was issued on May 29 and the classes began on June 1 without making necessary arrangements to ensure online access for those without the necessary facilities. Such a hurried implementation has resulted in denial of education to students from financially-backward families in the tribal and rural areas, the petition said. Meanwhile, All India Confederation of SC/ST Organizations and Aided Sector Samvarana Samara Samithy have also filed petitions highlighting denial of access to education. Both these organizations demanded that the state government should be ordered to pay compensation to the family of Devika, who committed suicide as she was not able to attend online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hc-declines-to-issue-stay-on-online-classes/articleshow/76214728.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Petrol dealers’ body calls for cut in VAT||NEW DELHI: Urging the AAP government to reduce value added tax (VAT) on petroleum products, Delhi Petrol Dealers Association (DPDA) on Thursday said the sale of diesel in Delhi had decreased due to higher rate in comparison to the neighbouring states. In a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia, DPDA said that despite easing of lockdown in a graded manner since the first week of May, petrol pumps in Delhi registered 79% less sale of diesel last month, compared with the same period last year. The association said this happened after Delhi government increased VAT on both diesel and petrol to a historic high. With its revenue collection down to just 10%, Delhi government increased VAT on diesel and petrol to 30% from 16.75% and 27% respectively. This led to an increase of Rs 6-7 per litre in diesel prices in the capital in comparison to the neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Petrol dealers said due to this Delhi lost a big share of diesel sale to the neighbouring states. No immediate reaction was available from Delhi government on the issue. “The decision to increase VAT, though taken to increase revenue, was proving to be counter-productive as Delhi was losing both sales and revenue,” DPDA president Anil Bijlani said. According to DPDA, VAT on fuel was increased to the highest slab of 30% (it couldn’t be increased beyond that) on May 5. “The sale of diesel dropped in April by about 84%. Even with partial unlocking of the state in May, the drop in sale was still 79%, while it improved considerably in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The association members said that if Delhi made diesel cheaper by Rs 2 per litre in comparison to other states, the government could earn maximum revenue through VAT due to increase in sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/petrol-dealers-body-calls-for-cut-in-vat/articleshow/76204569.cms||Atul Mathur
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Health department gags AMC on Covid-19 data||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the state health department has prohibited the AMC from giving out Covid-related information.  The AMC had stopped giving out names of patients since May 17, and has now stopped giving addresses of patients after new directions from the state health department. Bhatt said, “We have been asked by the state health department not to pass on any information about Covid-19 patients hence the AMC has stopped issuing the daily list. These instructions were passed specifically for Ahmedabad city only. The health department was issuing different guidelines for different cities.” Speaking to the media after the standing committee meeting, Bhatt said the city now has 117 containment zones. The civic body has also begun giving medicines and treatment to people at their doorsteps. While 50 Dhanvantari and Aarogya Raths were treating people earlier, the city now has 82 Arogya raths. Bhatt said the AMC has also started distributing medical kits to people and 2.5 lakh such kits have been distributed. The civic body first distributed these medical kits in red zones or wards under containment, and it is now distributing them in other parts of the city. About the issue with private hospitals, Bhatt said that initially there were some issues, but these have been sorted out and all notified 42 private hospitals are now accepting patients as expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/health-department-gags-amc-on-covid-19-data/articleshow/76204056.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kochi||HC declines to issue stay on online classes||KOCHI: The high court on Thursday declined to issue a stay on the online classes for school students being conducted by the state government in view of Covid-19 lockdown. Justice C S Dias declined to issue a stay after considering during admission hearing a petition filed by Girija C C of Kasaragod. At the hearing, the state government had contended that it has formulated guidelines for conducting online classes and that virtual classes are being conducted now only on trial basis. The government has also promised the court that all necessary facilities would be provided to students before commencing regular online classes. Regular online classes are expected to commence by June 14, the court was told. While declining to issue a stay, the court said, “They have envisaged the online mode only to ensure that students do not miss out on classes as regular classes cannot be commenced due to pandemic. Also, the online classes are in a downloadable format, which can be compiled together and shown to students who have missed out on classes. In view of the above submission, I do not find any exigency warranting an interim order at this stage.” The petitioner had alleged that the directive for conducting online classes was issued on May 29 and the classes began on June 1 without making necessary arrangements to ensure online access for those without the necessary facilities. Such a hurried implementation has resulted in denial of education to students from financially-backward families in the tribal and rural areas, the petition said. Meanwhile, All India Confederation of SC/ST Organizations and Aided Sector Samvarana Samara Samithy have also filed petitions highlighting denial of access to education. Both these organizations demanded that the state government should be ordered to pay compensation to the family of Devika, who committed suicide as she was not able to attend online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-declines-to-issue-stay-on-online-classes/articleshow/76202641.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Civic body extends deadlines for roadwork||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided that ongoing work on road resurfacing and the drainage and storm water drain projects will continue till June 15. The deadline for such projects was May 31 earlier. The standing committee had also decided that work on projects of public importance will continue even after June 15. These are the project which are of emergency nature would continue even after June 15. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed work and hence the deadline has been extended, specially for road projects. Bhatt said operation and maintenance projects that were to be completed soon have been given six-month extensions from the date of expiry to prevent hardships for citizens. About road projects, Bhatt said these were taken up for execution after Diwali. There were complaints about the Odhav main road, but it has been repaired. He also said that the work of an urgent nature or related to roads and the monsoon have to be directly put before the standing committee. Earlier these projects were routed through the committee concerned and then brought for clearance by the standing committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-body-extends-deadlines-for-roadwork/articleshow/76204090.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||‘Shivaji’s life was dedicated towards Hindu empire’||Nagpur: Maratha king Shivaji’s life is a message on commitment towards establishing a Hindu Samrajya (empire). Hindus remained subdued by invaders for 800 years until Shivaji ascended the throne, said Bhaiyaji Joshi, sarkyayavah (general secretary) of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Joshi, who is the second-in-command in the organization, was addressing an online session to mark the Hindu Samrajya Din, the day when Shivaji ascended the throne in 1674 AD. “Shivaji spent his life fighting the Mughals in the north and Muslim rulers of the south,” he said. “The first victory of a foreign power on Indian soil was that of Mohammed Bin Qasim who defeated King Dahir. Four hundred years later again, Mohammed Ghori attacked the country and Prithviraj Chauhan laid down his life,” he said. “The entire mindset of Hindus was changed for 800 years after that. Hindus saw no hope and slavery was accepted and they were known as a defeated race. So much was the influence that the king of Delhi was considered king of the world. This ended after Shivaji,” he said. This campaign was further continued by Maratha general Peshwa Raghunath Rao. He established a kingdom stretching from Cuttack in modern day Odisha to Attock in the north (now part of Pakistan), said Joshi. “Perhaps it was an attempt to unite India that now stands divided,” said Joshi. About Shivaji, he said a letter written by him to Mughal general Mirza Jai Singh, who was Hindu, offers deep insight. Shivaji wrote “If Jai Singh had marched to annex the Maratha kingdom into his, he would have given up without resistance. But if Jaisingh came on behalf of Mughals, he may have to face the sword. The letter is a reflection of Shivaji’s policy,” said Joshi. Joshi said there could be no comparison between the Mughal king Aurangzeb and Shivaji. The former jailed his father, brother and even his son for selfish motives. Shivaji on the other hand dedicated his life to the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shivajis-life-was-dedicated-towards-hindu-empire/articleshow/76203662.cms||Shishir Arya
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu insurance to cover coronavirus care in private hospitals||CHENNAI: As cases surge, TN has brought Covid-19 care under the CM’s health insurance scheme — which covers 1.57 crore families — to help patients get treated at private hospitals. Hitherto, TN patients were offered free treatment at government hospitals. As per the package released by health department, empanelled hospitals admitting patients with mild or no symptoms can charge up to Rs 5,000 a day for general wards. While A1 and A2 hospitals can charge between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a day from patients admitted to ICUs, A3 and A4 hospitals can charge between Rs 9,000 and Rs 13,000. The list of multispeciality hospitals and their categorisation is available on the scheme’s webpage (https://www.cmchistn.com). The state has laid out a set of conditions for private hospitals admitting patients under the scheme. All hospitals should reserve at least 25% of their beds under the scheme, and beneficiaries will not make any cash payments. Action would be taken against hospitals that take more than the prescribed amount for treatment, a state government press release said. “The battle against the virus should be fought by both private and public hospitals,” the release added. Earlier this week, health minister C Vijaya Baskar said the state was receiving complaints about hospitals fleecing patients. He said the state would soon fix rates for testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients. Foe details and complaints about the scheme, people can call free helpline number: 1800425 3993.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-insurance-to-cover-virus-care-in-private-hosps/articleshow/76204544.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Relief: Prakasam Barrage opens to vehicular traffic||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada and Guntur police on Thursday opened the barricades on Prakasam Barrage after 70 days to inter-district vehicular traffic. Heavy vehicles, however, are not allowed.  Hundreds of farmers from Penumaka, Undavalli, Bethapudi, Inavolu, and other Amaravati capital region villages pass through the bridge to sell their produce at wholesale markets in the city, including the Kaleswara Rao Market. “It is easier to reach Vijaywada via Prakasam Barrage. During the lockdown we had to travel an additional 12 kilometers to reach Vijayawada as the barrage was closed,” said K Narasiah, a banana farmer from Mandadam. Police set up a check post on both sides of the barrage and inspected the vehicles. Overcrowded vehicles were not permitted on the bridge and masks were mandatory for all passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/relief-prakasam-barrage-opens-to-vehicular-traffic/articleshow/76202637.cms||Venu Lanka
June 5, 2020||Agra||2 Covid-19 deaths each in Agra, Meerut; 6 new cases in Bareilly||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Two Agra residents, who tested positive for Covid-19, died while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College on Thursday. Also, at least 13 new cases surfaced in Agratill Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 937. While there were two cases of deaths and at least eight fresh positive cases in Meerut, taking the total tally to 482. The two Agra residents who died were a 69-year-old man from Shahganj and a 60-year-old man from New Agra locality. According to the health department, the two patients died due to comorbid conditions. Also, three Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 937 cases, 86.23% have been declared "cured". There are now 81 active cases in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) RC Pandey said, "So far, 802 people have recovered and discharged. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door checks of those in hotspot areas." In Meerut, a 17-year-old girl died on Thursday while a 50-year-old man succumbed late on Wednesday - taking the death toll to 32. Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, "As many as eight cases were reported on Thursday. These included residents of Dabai Nagar, G block of Shraddha Puri, Shatabdi Nagar, Shastri Nagar L block, and two lodged in temporary jails." Six people tested positive in Bareilly on Thursday, taking the district tally to 58, including 35 active cases and two deaths. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "All new cases are migrants who recently returned to Bareilly. Of these six cases, one person belongs to Pratagarh district." In Pilibhit, the health officials received on Thursday evening the positive reports of three more people aged around 25. Of the three, two belong to Pansoli under Amaria block and had come from Delhi on May 29 while the third youth of Meerpur under Bilsanda block had returned home from Surat, Gujarat. Their samples had been sent for testing to Indian Veterinary Research Institute on June 1. There were 18 new cases in Bijnor district, taking tally to 136. Of them, 72 are active. Bijnor's CMO Vijay Yadav said the patients are from Afjalgarh, Najibabad, Noorpur, Seohara and Jalilpur areas. Family members and contacts of patients are being quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-covid-19-deaths-each-in-agra-meerut-6-new-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/76202639.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||FOKIA wants Covid relief for Kutch units||RAJKOT: The Federation of Kutch Industries Association (FOKIA) has demanded relief for various industrial sectors of Kutch for survival during the critical period of coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to Hasmukh Adhiya, chairman of expert advisory committee formed by Gujarat government for economic revival of the state units, FOKIA had further demanded reforms to strengthen the industries in Kutch which has investement to the tune of Rs 1.25 lakh crore. FOKIA had demanded redevelopment of the region on the lines of one initiated post the 2001 earthquake. The apex body of industries in Kutch has asked mining department to procure Digital Total Station Machine (DTM) for pit measurement of mining. Currently, the department of geology and mining is using GPS system to measure minerals. It wants the the environment clearance process to be further simplified in case of mining of minerals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fokia-wants-covid-relief-for-kutch-units/articleshow/76202638.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||MP reports highest tiger deaths in 8 yrs||As many as 750 tigers have died in the country in the last eight years due to poaching and other causes, with Madhya Pradesh reporting the highest casualties at 173, according to an official data. Of these total tiger mortalities, 369 were due to natural causes, 168 due to poaching, 70 deaths are under scrutiny and 42 due to unnatural reasons, including accident or conflicts events, it said. There was also seizure of 101 big cats during the eight year period between 2012 and 2019 by different authorities across the country, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) said in reply to an RTI query filed by this PTI correspondent. The NTCA was asked to share the details of tiger deaths between 2010 and May 2020. However, it provided data only for the eight years beginning 2012. Environment, Forest and Climate Change Minister Prakash Javadekar had in December said that tiger population in the country has increased by 750 in the last four years from 2,226 to 2,976. Of the highest of 173 deaths reported by Madhya Pradesh during this period, 38 were due to poaching, 94 natural deaths, 19 under scrutiny, six due to the unnatural causes and 16 seizures, the data said. Madhya Pradesh has the highest number of 526 tigers in the country. Maharashtra has reported second highest deaths, as it lost 125 big cats during this period followed by 111 in Karnataka, 88 in Uttarakhand, 54 each in Tamil Nadu and Assam, 35 each in Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, 17 in Rajasthan, 11 in Bihar and West Bengal and 10 in Chhattisgarh, it said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-reports-highest-tiger-deaths-in-8-yrs/articleshow/76203691.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad slips, Osmania University moves up in THE Asia University Rankings||HYDERABAD: The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) and Osmania University (OU) figured in the Times Higher Education’s (THE) Asia University Rankings 2020 released on Wednesday. The eighth edition of the THE Asia University Rankings 2020 lists 489 institutions from 30 countries and regions. Fifty-six Indian institutions qualified for the rankings with eight of them finding a spot in the top 100. The IIT-H slipped from 135th rank in Asia University Rankings 2019 to 149th rank this year. Osmania University performance was relatively better as it improved its ranking from 251-300 in Asia University Rankings 2019 to 201-250 this year. The institutions are ranked based on performance in five key areas: teaching (learning environment), research (volume, income and reputation), international outlook (staff, students and research), citations (research influence) and industry income (knowledge transfer). The IIT-H, which has 2,088 students, secured overall score of 34.2, 52.4 in citations, 39.4 in industry income, 17.7 in international outlook, 22.3 in research and 29.8 in teaching. Similarly, Osmania University, which has 12,454, secured overall score of 27.3–30.4, 31.5 in citations, 39.6 in industry income, 15.4 in international outlook, 12.6 in research and 42.8 in teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-slips-ou-moves-up-in-the-asia-univ-rankings/articleshow/76204563.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||Coop banks object exclusion from Centre’s loan scheme||RAJKOT: The cooperative banks of Gujarat have raised strong objection to its exclusion from the Central government’s collateral free Rs 3 lakh crore loan scheme for the MSMEs, small businessmen and non-registered retailers, which was announced last month. This scheme was announced The National Federation of Urban Co-operative Banks and Credit Societies (NAFCUB) and Gujarat Urban Cooperative Banks Federation (GUCBF) have written a letter to the union finance minister Nirmala Sitharama, expressing their objections. The NAFCUB president Jyotindra Mehta has argued that one hand the Gujarat government has entrusted the cooperative banks with loan disbursement under the state government’s Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojna, but the union government has excluded cooperative banks from the collateral free Rs 3 lakh crore loans scheme under the scheme Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) by state-owned National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company (NCGTC). Here the central government will give 100% guarantee to the lender on behalf of the borrower. Mehta has said that the urban cooperative banks (UCBs) also lend to MSMEs besides other small businesses. “It is not fair to keep UCBs away from the benefits being offered by the government. When the UCB sector is regulated by RBI in the same manner as the commercial banks, why have the cooperative bansk been excluded,” Mehta questioned. Talking to TOI Mehta said “Indirectly, the benefits under GECL will not be available to thousands of micro and small enterprises which are existing customers of the UCBs.” There are total 217 UCBs in Gujarat having more then 1,000 branches across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/coop-banks-object-exclusion-from-centres-loan-scheme/articleshow/76202658.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||Mantralaya union alleges Covid guidelines ignored||Bhopal: Coronavirus has spared none— the rich or poor or the state’s nerve centre the secretariat, Raj Bhawan or assembly. As cases were reported from these power centres, employees are a worried lot. Recent cases being MP toursim corporation hotel staff, a nationalised bank staff or Raj Bhawan. An employee of the excise department at Vallabh Bhawan was found corona-positive. At least 11 employees in the Governor house were found corona-positive. An employee of the state tourism development corporation was found Covid-19 positive. Besides, a sanitary worker at the local head office of a nationalized bank has been found positive and people frequently visiting the state assembly were quarantined after their contact history was linked to a corona-positive person. Fearing for their safety, the employees have been writing letters and handing over memorandums to top officials expressing concern over inadequate safety measures at the offices. At least four such letters and memoranda have been handed by the Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh. The employees are demanding a health camp for secretariat employees to check for coronavirus and to follow precautionary guidelines. Sudhir Nayak, president of the sangh, on Thursday wrote to the chief minister, chief secretary and other department heads and pointed that the state secretariat which is the war room of the state’s corona crisis is not complying with safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mantralaya-union-alleges-covid-guidelines-ignored/articleshow/76203673.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government announces Rs 14,000 crore economic revival package||GANDHINAGAR: The state government, late on Thursday evening, announced a Rs 14,022 crore economy revival package for the state, which has been hit hard as a result of the lockdown which lasted for over two months because of the Covid-19 outbreak. CM Vijay Rupani, while announcing the package said, “In a bid to help the poor, labourers, self-employed and all sections of the society who have been impacted because of the lockdown, we have decided to initiate remedial action to revive the state’s economy.” He said that the state government had appointed an expert committee to assess the situation and suggest actions to revive the economy after the lockdown. “On the basis of the expert committee report and detailed discussions with all the departments, we have prepared a Rs 14,022 crore `Gujarat Atmanirbhar package’ to revive the state economy,’’ Rupani said. He added, “The package will focus on direct benefit to a large section of the society. There will be Rs 2,300 crore relief in property tax, electricity bill, vehicle taxes etc. Industries and professionals will get Rs 3,308 crore subsidy and other benefits. Industries in GIDC areas will get benefits of over Rs 458 crore.” The CM said that the government has also announced simplification in VAT/GST regime. The affordable housing sector will get benefits worth Rs 1,000 crore in the form of direct incentives, while the agriculture and fisheries sector will get benefits worth Rs 1,190 crore. Self-employed persons will get benefits worth Rs 525 crore, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-announces-rs-14k-cr-economic-revival-package/articleshow/76203744.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Agra||22 years on, law catches up with runaway Aligarh family that killed child over property||AGRA: A runaway family's constant ache to see their ancestral house finally turned them in, also bringing closure to the family of the victim whose body was not found for 22 years. Rajpal, 62, his wife Hardwari, 55 and their son Malua, now 42, had been hiding from police for over two decades. They had fled their home in Aligarh’s Maanpur village on August 8, 1998 allegedly after killing a 5-year-old child in an act of revenge. On Thursday, the family covertly reached their ancestral house in Maanpur village from Faridabad’s Ballabhgarh where they had been hiding for the past few years. But, the information leaked and a police team arrested them from the spot. On the basis of the information provided by the accused, police recovered the skeletal remains of the boy from a well, where the body was dumped soon after the murder. The bones have been sent to a forensic lab for DNA testing. “The samples will now be matched with that of the deceased’s father,” a senior police officer said. After the recovery of the body, a case of murder was also registered against the three accused. Earlier they were just booked for abduction as police had not found the body. In all, five persons were booked when the child went missing. Apart from the three absconding members, a couple was also booked. According to the police, the minor boy, Ashok, was kidnapped in 1998 from his house in Aligarh’s Maanpur village and an FIR was lodged for kidnapping against five persons by his parents at Tappal police station. All of them are relatives of the deceased. Giving details, superintendent of police (rural) Atul Sharma said, “According to the main accused, Rajpal, his father Deepchand has two wives and he and his brother Chandrapal are the sons of the first wife. And their stepmother also has three sons -- Ravi Kumar, Mahipal and Yogendra.” “Rajpal told police that his father had given a share in property to their stepbrothers and that was the bone of contention. They had collectively decided to take revenge and had kidnapped Ravi’s son, Ashok and strangled him. After the murder, they dumped his body in the well,” the SP said. Soon after the abduction, Rajpal fled the village with his wife and son. Now, after so many years, his desire to see his ancestral house brought him to Aligarh and also to book.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/22-years-on-law-catches-up-with-runaway-aligarh-family-that-killed-child-over-property/articleshow/76202654.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Adopt eco-friendly menstrual practices, say doctors||NAGPUR: Whole world is facing twin challenges of coronavirus and climate change. Environmental degradation is largely accelerated by plastic use. Thousands of tonnes of disposable sanitary pads are generated every month throughout the world. According to the doctors attached to Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynecology Society (NOGS), the present time is perfect to go for sustainable menstruation methods to prevent more degradation of environment. “About 33.6 crore women are in menstruation age in India and approximately 12.10 crore of them use disposable sanitary napkins. This results in generation of 9,000 tonnes of sanitary waste. Now is the time to go for sustainable menstruation methods to prevent more degradation,” said Dr Manisha Dhanorkar, executive member of NOGS. She said that these napkins could not be recycled or reused. “They are dumped in the landfills, which attracts bacteria and viruses causing serious environmental and health hazards. When burned, they produce dioxins and furans. Dioxins are a group of chemicals belonging to dirty dozen dangerous that have been labelled as a cancer causing agent by International Cancer Research Centre,” Dr Dhanorkar said. “Sustainable menstruation encompasses practices that are healthy and leave little or no impact on environment. These include the usage of safer alternatives like cloth sanitary pads/diapers and menstrual cups. These are biodegradable, reusable, leak proof, hygienic and cost effective,” she added. “Cloth sanitary pads are made from layers of absorbent fabrics like cotton or hemp which are washable as well as reusable. A cloth pad takes only 4-6 months to degrade in soil,” said Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president of NOGS. “Menstrual cups are also another environment friendly option. They can be easily used by all women. Mobility is best assured with it compared to other methods. By adopting these alternatives, we cannot only ensure menstrual and health hygiene, but also protect nature from further damage,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/adopt-eco-friendly-menstrual-practices-say-docs/articleshow/76203705.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||29 fresh coronavirus cases in rural Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad rural area reported 29 fresh cases of which 22 were from Bavla. The rural area also reported one more death taking the toll to 19 deaths so far. Of the 22 cases from Bavla, 13 cases were from Mithapur in Bavla taluka. With these 29 cases, the district ouside the city crossed the 300 cases mark. In the last 10 days there has been an increase of 84% in the number of fresh cases. As on the evening of May 25 rural Ahmedabad had 164 cases. The figure has increased to 302 cases on June 4. Bavla which only had five cases on May 25, had 35 cases on June 4. More youths are affected in Ahmedabad rural, as of the 29 who tested positive on Thursday 10 were in the age group of 21-30 years while another three were in the age group of 15 to 20 years. The youngest person who tested positive was a 15-year-old male from Mithapur. Of the rest who tested positive, six each were in the age group of 30-31 and 41-50 years and four were above 50 years of age. Apart from 22 cases from Bavla, four cases were from Viramgam and three were from Sanand. Seven patients were discharged from the hospitals. Taluka-wise, of the 302 cases in the district excluding the city, 91 are from Daskroi taluka, 90 from Dholka, 42 from Sanand, 26 from Viramgam, 35 from Bavla, 10 from Dhandhuka, three from Mandal, four from Detroj and one from Dholera. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/29-fresh-cases-in-rural-ahmedabad/articleshow/76203730.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kochi||HC seeks govt’s reply in plaint by ration dealers||Kochi: The high court on Thursday asked the state government to respond to a petition filed by ration dealers seeking to avoid use of biometric authentication for distributing ration articles as it could allegedly cause spread of Covid-19. Justice Anu Sivaraman asked the government to respond to the petition filed by All Kerala Ration Dealers Association through advocate Soloman Baby. The association has challenged the provision in a circular issued by the government directing ration dealers to compulsorily use biometric or fingerprint authentication for portability ration card holders. Such a stipulation would put the ration dealers, their employees, their families, and the entire society at risk of Covid-19, it is alleged. A ration dealer in Palakkad district has been tested positive for Covid-19. Her licence was suspended following this and it has resulted in loss of earnings and livelihood for her family, the association pointed out. Similar cases were reported in Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Palakkad, Kollam, and Thiruvananthapuram districts, the petition said. Ration shops situated in major cities such as Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode will have to deal with many portability ration card holders, which may result in the spread of Covid-19, they said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-seeks-govts-reply-in-plaint-by-ration-dealers/articleshow/76202710.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Meerut||Thieves decamp with cash & jewellery from locked house of retired banker who died of Covid-19||Meerut: Thieves decamped with cash and jewellery from the locked house of a retired bank employee in Bulandshahr who had died of Covid-19 last month at a Greater Noida hospital. The alleged incident happened on Wednesday night in Kayasthwara area of the district.The bank staffer, 71, was admitted to Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida on May 19 with severe acute respiratory infection. He was later put on ventilator support and eventually died. After that his wife, who also tested positive, and other family members were quarantined in Bulandshahr.With all the family members missing, the locked house was targeted by thieves on Wednesday night.In the morning, neighbours alerted police after they spotted a broken lock at the main door of the house. According to police, in the absence of any family member they are yet to ascertain the value of cash, jewellery and other valuables that are missing. “We are yet to estimate the value of stolen items. But we have registered an FIR and probe is on,” said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/thieves-decamp-with-cash-jewellery-from-locked-house-of-retired-banker-who-died-of-covid-19/articleshow/76203697.cms||Piyush Rai
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: Power department staff beaten up by theft accused, three held||ALWAR: A vigilance team of the electricity department was attacked while they had gone to probe power theft at Barhadi locality of Behror town in Alwar district. This was the fifth incident in past two months in which the electricity team was attacked by the locals. Police have arrested three persons for allegedly assaulting the team and causing hindrance to the government work. P D Saini, executive engineer of the power corporation, said that on Wednesday evening a team of officials gone after having a specific information on power theft. “We had a specific complaint that electricity was stolen by one Dev RO plant situated at Badhari locality of Behror,” said Saini. The confrontation began while the team started taking photos and removing the wires illegally joined with the main electricity line. “Suddenly, a group of people attacked our team and also damaged our government vehicle,” Saini added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-dept-staff-beaten-up-by-theft-accused-three-held/articleshow/76204564.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Vadodara||Highest 39 +ve cases hit Banyan City in one day||Vadodara: In the highest single day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases till now, Vadodara saw 39 new cases since Wednesday evening. With this, the total number of positive persons in the city went up to 1,191. The fresh cases included two from the western parts of the city. An elderly couple staying on the Laxmipura Road opposite the Yash Complex in Gotri tested positive. Work to sanitise the residence of the couple was taken up on Wednesday itself when officially there was only one case in the west zone of the city. Opposition corporator Rajesh Ayre, in whose areas the cases were reported, said that the couple was admitted to a private hospital. “They were not included in the bulletin on Wednesday. Similar delays were there in declaring other results from the western parts,” he said. The north zone of the city saw the highest number of fresh cases at 15. This was followed by east zone with 11 and south zone with nine positive cases. The couple that tested positive was the only case in west zone even as the rural areas of the district also saw two cases. In all 148 samples were tested since Wednesday evening. Nineteen persons were discharged from various facilities including eight from home isolation. So far, 720 persons have been discharged in the city leaving 426 persons under hospitalisation. Those hospitalised include 39 on oxygen and 22 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/highest-39-ve-cases-hit-banyan-city-in-one-day/articleshow/76202377.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Meerut||Double murder accused lodged in Meerut jail tests Covid positive||Meerut: A double murder accused lodged in a temporary jail has been tested positive for coronavirus. An old enmity between two groups in Jasaura village in Meerut led to a full-blown clash involving stone-pelting and firing from rooftops. Two brothers — Khaliq and Majid — received bullets in the head and stomach, and both of them died. Out of the five arrested in the case, one person has tested positive. “In fact, two persons lodged in temporary jail tested positive on Wednesday,” said Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. The incident occurred on Tuesday when political rivalry between the families of Niyaz Ahmad former village pradhan and sitting pradhan Mohd Aslam — having a reputation of fighting with each other — had a fresh clash. During the clash, associates of Niyaz Ahmad shot at Khaliq and Majid, and both of them died. According to SP (rural) Avinash Pandey, "Five persons were arrested while the rest are on the run."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/double-murder-accused-lodged-in-meerut-jail-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76203700.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||In week before Env Day, country sees cleanest air in 5 years||Nagpur: This year, the week leading to World Environment Day on Friday has been the cleanest in the country compared to last five years, reveals government data assessed by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). As per the analysis of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the average levels of toxic pollutant particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in the country have seen a drastic fall. From 81 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) in 2016, the seven-day average between May 28 to June 3 came down to 28 mpcm this year. The levels of another toxic pollutant nitrogen dioxide (NO2) too saw similar improvements during the week before World Environment Day. From 31 mpcm in 2017, 2018 and 32 mpcm last year, the levels fell to 17 mpcm this year. According to experts, various factors are responsible for the improvement in the country’s air quality. “In the earlier years, only few major cities were a part of the national air quality monitoring programme. However, now, air quality of more than 100 cities is being monitored which has led to significant fall in the average levels,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at CREA. Another major reason is the reduction in anthropogenic activities due to the nationwide lockdown. “Meteorological conditions too have contributed in making the air cleaner,” added Dahiya. Experts feel there is a need for stringent measures to maintain the improved air quality. “There should be a national air quality policy which will be applicable to all industries as well as government establishments and individual construction. Also, illegal tree felling needs to be stopped and there needs to be authentic compensatory plantation against every development work which need to be controlled by the government and presented on public domain at the planning stage itself,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil Foundation. The government needs to seriously implement the air action plan prepared for cities, said Leena Budhe, director of Nagpur’s Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD). “We cannot afford to have a lockdown for better air quality. Clean air should take the front seat,” she added. Stressing on the need for stricter laws, Chatterjee said, “Laws should be framed in a way that the National Green Tribunal should have more say in projects related to environment. The government should promote sustainable approach related to every activity. More subsidies and financial advantages should be given for adopting less polluting technologies.” Dahiya added that efforts towards implementing the Bharat Stage-6 norms for vehicles, effective public transport and boosting clean energy should be taken for maintaining good air quality. Table 1: Reduction in PM2.5 levels  2016-----------2017------------2018--------2019----------2020 May 28---111-------------47--------------84--------------53--------------34 May 29----78---------------48-------------79--------------59---------------26 May 30------87------------74------------55----------------66----------------24 May 31-------84---------50----------------60-------------64-----------------21 June 1----------59----------68---------------63-------------65----------------28 June 2----------67------------84--------------52--------------57---------------30 June 3-----------84------------79--------------57------------52-----------------32 7-DAY AVG-------81----------64--------------64------------59-----------------28 Reduction in NO2  2016-----------------2017-------------2018------------2019----------2020 May 28---20--------------------27-------------------39-------------35--------------15 May 29---20--------------------28--------------------35-------------39--------------16 May 30-----24-----------------29--------------------28----------------40-------------15 May 31-----29-----------------31--------------------32------------------33--------------14 June 1-------27-----------------33-------------------31----------------31----------------18 June 2-------26----------------35----------------------28---------------22----------------19 June 3----------33-------------36-------------------------26------------------23-----------20 7-day avg--------26-------------31-----------------------31----------------------32-------17||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-week-before-env-day-country-sees-cleanest-air-in-5-years/articleshow/76204603.cms||Manka Behl
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 22-year-old pregnant woman raped||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman who is six months pregnant was allegedly raped by man named Bharat Parmar in the Piplaj area of Narol. The FIR was lodged at Narol police station on Tuesday. The accused also threatened the woman, telling her to keep her mouth shut. The woman told her husband about the offence after which an FIR for rape was lodged at Narol police station. According to the FIR, the woman’s husband had gone to Lal Darwaja to buy cloth. Bharat Parmar then came to their house and asked for her husband. When she told him he had gone out to buy cloth, the man insisted on sitting in the house and waiting for him. “Parmar then suddenly grabbed the woman and pushed her on to the bed and raped her. When the woman’s husband returned she told him what had happened. They then went to Narol police station and lodged a complaint. The woman has been sent for medical examination,” said a Narol police official. The woman stated that when she tried to scream, Parmar gagged her and hit her. “She also has injuries to other parts of her body. We are hunting for Parmar,” added the official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/22-year-old-pregnant-woman-raped/articleshow/76204061.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||49-year-old Brazilian man commits suicide in Rishikesh||Haridwar: A 49-year-old Brazilian man committed suicide by hanging himself in the room of an ashram he was living in since March 17 with his alleged girlfriend. He left a suicide note for his girlfriend which was seized by police. According to the note, his girlfriend moved to a different room in the ashram three days ago to practice yoga. The man, identified as Leandra Kepe Barbey Petra, allegedly took extreme step as he was very upset. His body was sent to the local hospital for autopsy and police has informed the embassy of Brazil about the incident. Station house officer (SHO) Muni ki Reti police station RK Saklani told TOI, “He was living with his girlfriend in an ashram and hanged himself from the window grill in his room. He also left a note in which he has indicated that he was upset the breakup. Autopsy is being conducted and further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/49-year-old-brazilian-man-commits-suicide-in-rishikesh/articleshow/76202675.cms||MS Nawaz
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Mominpura tally over 300 despite being containment zone for 62 days||Nagpur: The total Covid-19 cases from Mominpura containment zone in Central Nagpur swelled to 301 after 15 more persons tested positive on Thursday. The city’s second hotspot is seeing a spike despite restriction on people’s movement inside and outside for the last 62 days.As a proactive measure, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is conducting special camps to test pregnant women, senior citizens and high-risk persons. A special camp was held on Wednesday in which swab samples of 59 were taken. Out of them, nine tested positive on Thursday. Remaining six persons are close contacts and persons quarantined after couple of persons tested positive earlier.Mominpura, one of the most congested areas of the city, had registered its first case when a cap seller, whose digital footprint was traced to Nizamuddin, tested positive on April 4. It has been a containment zone since then but new cases are being reported almost on a daily basis.The zone registered first 100 cases in 34 days following mass quarantine of 316 persons on May 4. Out of them, 85 tested positive on May 6 and 7.Later on, the civic body did only contact tracing. Still, 200 more cases were registered, out of which first 100 in just 11 days and next 100 in 18 days.Seven personnel of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and two policemen who were deployed in the zone contracted the infection. Also, 15 persons including caretaker of NMC’s night shelter have tested positive too. A private medical practitioner who was doing social work was also infected.Over 1,600 persons have been quarantined from this zone which has registered three deaths so far. A 70-year-old man died while undergoing treatment in IGGMCH’s Covid-19 isolation ward on April 29. A 56-year-old woman admitted at IGGMCH for kidney dialysis died on May 17. Her samples were tested positive on May 18. A 54-year-old woman cancer patient was admitted at IGGMCH on May 24 and died on May 25. She tested positive five minutes before death.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We were able to break Covid chain in Satranjipura and around 75% area was excluded from containment zone. The same was done at Gaddigodam. But cases are still coming from Mominpura zone as people are not cooperating with the administration and not giving true and detailed information of contact persons of positive patients,” he said.This zone is probably the only locality from Vidarbha to register 300 cases. Cases from Satranjipura, city’s first hotspot, came to a halt after the count reached 131.NMC zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin said, “People gathered in large numbers on Thursday to oppose quarantine and testing of contact persons of few people. A person from a building in Mominpura Chowk, who was admitted at IGGMCH few days ago, tested positive. Despite our appeal to residents, they said only three persons from the building will be quarantined and tested. The next lot, they said, will come if earlier ones test positive.” “When two of them tested positive, only eight came forward. Out of them five tested positive. People residing in other two wings of building are not ready for testing despite appealing for last three days,” he said.The central government’s Rapid Response Team had noted that city registered fewer deaths due to mass quarantine, proper contact tracing and treatment to positive patients in initial stage itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mominpura-tally-over-300-despite-being-containment-zone-for-62-days/articleshow/76203715.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer woman alleges triple talaq, files case||JAISALMER: A Muslim woman, married for six years, has registered a complaint at a women’s police station in Barmer against her husband for triple talaq. The case is one of the first from a well-educated family. SP Anand Sharma said that a woman has lodged a case of triple talaq and a dispute had been going on between the couple for a long time now. Police are investigating the case. According to information from the police, the woman, a resident of Barmer, in her report said that she is a graduate and got married on February 7, 2014 to Murad Khan, a native of Gagria, who currently resides at officer colony in Barmer. She claimed dowry was also given to her. Relations were good between the couple for three years. She wanted to study further but her husband and in-laws, who are themselves well-educated, did not allow her to study further saying that they do not have money for higher education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-woman-alleges-triple-talaq-files-case/articleshow/76204570.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Siblings kill jobless brother hell bent on getting married||Rajkot: Squabbles over constant admonition over his joblessness coupled with frustration of not getting married reached a flashpoint for a family of fishermen living near Una on Wednesday when two brothers allegedly killed their elder sibling. The 35-year-old victim Ramesh Vanjha was allegedly strangulated to death after he picked up a fight with his mother Jahi, who again reprimanded him for being a slave to worklessness, and yet pressing her to finding him a suitable match for marriage. Police said that Vanjha’s brothers Jayanti (28) and Bharat (30) strangulated him with a rope as they they could no more tolerate his selfish fights with their mother. Ramesh often accused his mother of bias towards the two and ensuring that they get married. After the lockdown eased, and Bharat and Jayanti found some odd jobs as fishing activity is banned for three months of monsoon. “But nothing could make Ramesh take up any sort of work despite the hardships, and he was always an eyesore, idling his time at home,” said VM Chaudhary, inspector, Una police station. Irritated by the regular spats and his lethargy, the mother retorted that no parent would willingly give their daughter in marriage to a jobless man. On Wednesday evening, she also asked him not to while away time and do something meaningful, at least to fulfil his own desire. This led to the initial spark which soon flared up between mother and son. “After hurling abuses at her, Ramesh suddenly lunged at his mother. Jayanti rushed to her rescue with an axe and hit Ramesh on his hand. Hearing the commotion Bharat, who lives nearby, also rushed there and both siblings pinned Ramesh to the ground. The brothers then strangled him with a rope,” said Chaudhary. “We have rounded up the duo and officially be arresting them after testing them for Covid-19,” added Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/siblings-kill-jobless-brother-hell-bent-on-getting-married/articleshow/76202704.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||MP’s swimming champ recommended for Tenzing national adventure award||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh government has recommended Gwalior’s para swimmer Satendra Singh for Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Awards. The Union government presents this award every year to recognize the achievements of persons in the fields of adventure. The aim is to encourage youngsters to develop the spirit of adventure. Last year, the Indian para swimming team, comprising Satendra Singh, had become the first from Asia to have crossed the Catalina Channel in the USA. Last year, the Indian para team had also crossed the English Channel. The Indian para swimming team -- comprising Satendra and five others -- had attempted to the cross the Channel in the USA. Incidentally, Satendra was named in Limca Book of Records for conquering the English Channel in 2018. The Tenzing award is given in four categories — land adventure, water adventure, air adventure and lifetime achievement. Sources said the state government has recommended Satendra for water adventure. Satendra told TOI that it is a big honour for him to be recommended for such a prestigious award. “It is a like a dream for me. My efforts have started paying the dividends. I wanted to prove that physical disability can't stop you from achieving your dream. It only requires courage to prove yourself,” said Satendra, who has physical disability in his legs.The awardees will receive their awards from the President of India along with other sports awardees. They will receive statuettes, certificates and cash awards. Satendra has thanked senior bureaucrat P Narhari and others who supported him in reaching such heights in his career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-swimming-champ-recommended-for-tenzing-national-adventure-award/articleshow/76203710.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||MP man stuck at kin’s house in Rajasthan ends life||KOTA: A 35-year-old man from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, stuck since the enforcement of lockdown 1.0 at his relative’s home in Barundhan village under Talera police station of Bundi district, committed suicide by hanging from a tree outside the house late on Wednesday night. The body was handed over to family members after postmortem by medical board on Thursday noon. The deceased Kamal Bairwa was a resident of Ujjain city in MP. Bairwa had come to his niece’s house in Barundhan village before enforcement of lockdown 1.0 and had been stuck there since then, SHO at Talera police station Ramesh Tiwari said. Bairwa committed suicide by hanging with a towel to a tree branch outside the house, he said and added the locals on Thursday morning spotted his body hanging to the tree and informed police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mp-man-stuck-at-kins-house-ends-life/articleshow/76204566.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Meerut||Double murder accused lodged in Meerut jail tests Covid positive||MEERUT: A double murder accused lodged in a temporary jail has been tested positive for coronavirus. An old enmity between two groups in Jasaura village in Meerut led to a full-blown clash involving stone-pelting and firing from rooftops. Two brothers — Khaliq and Majid — received bullets in the head and stomach, and both of them died. Out of the five arrested in the case, one person has tested positive. “In fact, two persons lodged in temporary jail tested positive on Wednesday,” said Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. The incident occurred on Tuesday when political rivalry between the families of Niyaz Ahmad former village pradhan and sitting pradhan Mohd Aslam — having a reputation of fighting with each other — had a fresh clash. During the clash, associates of Niyaz Ahmad shot at Khaliq and Majid, and both of them died. According to SP (rural) Avinash Pandey, "Five persons were arrested while the rest are on the run."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/double-murder-accused-lodged-in-meerut-jail-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/76203708.cms||Sandeep Rai
June 5, 2020||Kochi||Air quality gradually drops as Kochi returns to normal||KOCHI: The lockdown has given fresh and cleaner air to Kochi, the most-polluted city in the state with maximum pollution levels reported from Vyttila, Eloor and MG Road. However, as the lockdown eases, there has been a gradual fall in air quality in Ernakulam stations. Of the seven stations and three real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations, the levels are fairly high in MG Road and rising in Vyttila and Eloor. These are the three main stations where air pollution levels had shot up from May first week onwards. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the data uploaded by the Kerala state pollution control board, the air quality has been on the better side even though there has been an increase in the traffic in the city. The air quality index crossed the maximum of 100 microns per cubic meter in the third week of May at MG Road and Eloor. However, Vyttila, where the Kochi Metro work and damaged roads contributed to an increased level of PM 2.5 and PM 10, was comparatively in much better condition. Pollution control board officials said that though there was a gradually increasing trend in air quality index of Ernakulam stations, it has not touched anywhere near to an unhealthy (100-150 micron levels) situation. “This may be also because we had good intermittent summer rains and the cyclonic winds also played a role in taking away polluted particles,” an official said. An earlier report of the Kerala state pollution control board for the March 1-April 30 period had shown that the lockdown was highly beneficial for the city. The daily data on concentration of different parameters shows a downward trend during the lockdown period due to the reduction in traffic intensity and shutdown of different facilities. “The key concern is that this trend is not going to sustain unless some very serious measures are being put in place. We are facing so many climatic changes yet we continue to disregard environment. The planted trees don’t last and the huge trees are being cut down in the name of disaster management,” said CM Joy, member of the Ernakulam tree committee. Even during the lockdown, carbon monoxide levels have been high. “Burning of non-biodegradable waste generates higher concentration of CO and particulate matter. During this period, when nothing else is happening, this could be the only reason for such a hike in CO and PM 10 and 2.5,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/air-quality-gradually-dropsas-city-returns-to-normal/articleshow/76202699.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Govt lays down guidelines to be followed at fish landing centres||VISAKHAPATNAM: Apprehending a huge rush from Saturday at the Visakhapatnam fishing harbour, the state fisheries department has formulated a list of dos and don’ts to be followed at the market and all fish landing centres. “The first group of fishermen who set sail late on May 2 would return on early Saturday. We are expecting a huge rush at the harbour fish market from Saturday and hence we have formulated a set of mandates in line with the Covid-19 norms,” K Phani Prakash, joint director of the fisheries department told TOI. The fish market in Visakhapatnam harbour – the largest fish landing centre in Andhra Pradesh – was thrown open from June 1 after around 60 days. This is for the first time in its history that the fish market remained closed. A longtime resident recalled that since its inception in 1976, the market was never closed even for a single day, even during the tumultous December 1992. In December 2004, the harbour and fish auctions remained closed for three days after the boats of the fishermen were damaged in the tsunami. “But this is for the first time that there were no auctions despite the weather being clear and there was no forecast of any cyclone. Usually, during the 61-day mandatory fish ban from mid-April to mid-June, the fish market remains open but the sale remains low — as only the traditional fishermen sell their leftover stocks during the period. But owing to the lockdown, this is for the first time the fish market remained closed,” said Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist in Andhra Pradesh. The fish market in harbour remained closed on March 22, Janata Curfew. After that fish auction continued for a few days before fisheries department imposed a ban from April 1. The fisheries department has distributed pamphlets among the stakeholders who visit the fish landing centres and have also put up posters at these centres to raise awareness about Covid-19 norms. “From fishermen to fish vendors, from fish auctioneers to wholesalers and from hotel and restaurant owners to common people, there are several stakeholders who visit the landing centres to buy fishes every day. We know that not everybody will follow the norms voluntarily. So, we have sought police help and hopefully from Saturday police officials would be posted at the harbour and other landing centres,” added Phani Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-lays-down-guidelines-to-be-followed-at-fish-landing-centres/articleshow/76202695.cms||Arpit Basu
June 5, 2020||India||‘Tiananmen focus to reveal how China treats its own’||NEW DELHI: RSS organ ‘Organiser’ has said its hard-hitting cover story recalling the killing of peaceful protesters in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square was intended to bring out the Communist leadership’s brutality towards Chinese people. Organiser editor Praful Ketkar told TOI the intent behind the cover story was to highlight that China’s response to the Covid-19 crisis, where it has suppressed figures and blocked a probe into the origin of the outbreak, was similar to the way it had crushed student protesters who were peacefully agitating for political freedoms in Tiananmen Square on June 4, 1989. Being an RSS organ, the Organiser is expected to be aligned with the posture of the BJP dispensation. Though the Modi government has not publicly criticised China for failing to alert the world in time about the Wuhan outbreak and blocking demands for an independent probe, it has gradually been upping the ante over the issue. It has joined the demand for a probe and also called for reforming the WHO, a pitch which is seen as shorthand for the global public health body’s indulgence of Beijing’s cover-up. PM Modi breaking away from the traditional restraint to discuss the Chinese bullying on the border with the US and publicising the departure was seen as a signal to China; especially because it came on the heels of home minister Amit Shah’s comment in TOI that Beijing’s attempt to hide facts about the pandemic had justified India’s decision not to join the RCEP. However, by training the spotlight on Tiananmen, Organiser has gone several steps ahead of the Modi government in calling out China over its human rights record. Ketkar said China’s attempt to cover up the Covid-19 outbreak in Wuhan has, besides attracting global opprobrium, generated considerable resentment among its own people. “Even Chinese think-tanks are worried that there might be a Tiananmen Square-like backlash in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis in the country. Although China has tried to whitewash the 1989 people’s uprising, it continues to haunt them,” he said. Ketkar said while the Communist regime in China was so wary about the Tiananmen massacre that it didn't brook any conversation on the People's Liberation Army unleashing tanks on peaceful students, it was indulging in brazen aggression towards other countries. “While the world is battling the Covid-19 crisis, China is involved in aggressive posturing in Taiwan, South China Sea, Hong Kong and now Ladakh. Whenever there is a crisis with the Communist regime, it behaves aggressively internally or with bordering nations,” he said. On its cover, Organiser has used the iconic photograph of a solitary young man standing up to a column of tanks rushed to break up the protests by students demanding, among other things, more political freedom. Titled ‘Revisiting Tiananmen Square’, the Sangh organ mentioned the effort made by the Chinese leadership to gloss over what has been widely seen as a massacre of peaceful protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tiananmen-focus-to-reveal-how-china-treats-its-own/articleshow/76205494.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kochi||Cial duty-free shop offers spot & pick service for international flyers||KOCHI: The duty-free shop at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) has started functioning partially after more than 70 days of lockdown for serving passengers of repatriation flights arriving at the international terminal. The shop situated at the arrival section has not opened its access to passengers but instead opened a separate counter called ‘spot and pick’, where the passengers can place the orders of the available items. Cial has arranged a display of items like liquor, confectionery, perfume, tobacco merchandise etc., from which passengers can choose what they want. “Though passengers cannot enter the duty free area, a counter has been opened where people can give the list of items they want to purchase, including liquor, by getting a token number. Once their immigration formalities and baggage collection are completed they can go to another kiosk where the items will be packed and delivered. They can pay and take it. We cannot allow the passengers to enter the duty free shops now considering the government orders in the wake of the pandemic. Strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol, including social distancing, is ensured at the counter,” said Cial spokesperson. Meanwhile, sources said there won’t be much revenue until international operations are resumed fully and most passengers arriving in repatriation flights are financially not sound to go for a shopping. “The number of international flights arriving is very less. There are maximum three or four flights per day and all are carrying repatriates. Many of them have lost their jobs and many are here for health or other emergencies. Moreover, most passengers do not prefer a shopping before going to the quarantine centres. Only a very few customers have availed the facility so far,” said a source. The entire Duty Free area remains covered and only a small portion has been made visible for the spot and pick facility. Sources said the business will not be normal until international travel is reinstated to its pre-Covid situation. The Duty Free, which is one of the main source of revenue for Cial has suffered huge loss due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-duty-free-offers-spot-pick-service-for-intl-flyers/articleshow/76202741.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Naidu, Sanchaita lock horns on Twitter||Visakhapatnam: Twitter witnessed a war of words between Mansas trust board chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju and TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday. Naidu has asked people to support TDP leader and scion of the royal family of Vizianagaram Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju in his efforts to save the Mansas Trust. The TDP chief tweeted that the trust was established by the Pusapati family. There are 105 temples and several educational institutions under its administration. Successive governments did not interfere with the trust’s affairs, Naidu said. He also alleged that YSRC leaders have set their sights on land worth Rs 1.3 lakh crore under the trust. Countering Naidu’s tweet, Sanchaita said Naidu should know that the trust is headed by her. “I am the eldest surviving legal heir of late Ananda Gajapathi Raju. It was usurped by Ashok Gajapathi in a midnight coup even when my father’s ashes were still smouldering by a GO you issued in his favour,” she tweeted. She further alleged that there have been several questionable decisions during the tenure of Ashok Gajapathi, which impacted Mansas’ finances. “May I request the former CM to please refrain from bringing politics to what is a Pusapati family affair. You (Naidu) have mentored a person during whose tenure the 150-year-old Moti Mahal was bulldozed, Phoolbagh Palace was razed to the ground and the historic fort left in shambles,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-sanchaita-lock-horns-on-twitter/articleshow/76202727.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Locusts pose hurdles at IAF base in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur||JAISALMER: Locusts entering India from Pakistan are not only causing damage to crops and vegetation in border districts, but also posing danger to operational activities of the Indian Air Force (IAF) at its airbase and to the civil flights in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. The IAF and civil airport have taken many precautionary measures. The DGCA, too, has issued guidelines in this regard. On Thursday, a big locust attack occurred in Jodhpur city and various parts of Jaisalmer district. Last Sunday, locusts had entered Jaisalmer city and the IAF premises, but they did not enter the runway and technical area. Jaisalmer shares 471km border with Pakistan and these locusts are entering the district from Sindh and Punjab areas. Defence sources said last year, too, locusts had come on the runway and flying activities had to be suspended. A sweeping machine has been placed near the runway and the ATC has been given directions to stop flying activities if locusts are found on runway. The IAF is in touch with the locust control department and has arranged pesticides to destroy locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/locusts-pose-hurdles-at-iaf-base/articleshow/76208378.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Can’t stay in party with matches fixed’||Ahmedabad: Hinting that he will sever ties with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), former chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela on Thursday said that he cannot stay in a party where match-fixing happens. He was referring to the way the lone NCP MLA, Kandhal Jadeja, may vote in the upcoming Rajya Sabha election in Gujarat. “I cannot stay in a party where match-fixing takes place. I had warned, saying that the MLA could be expelled for voting against the mandate of the party. However, now there is no question. Let them do whatever they want,” said Vaghela. Clearly, Vaghela was referring to the alliance that NCP has with the Congress party in neighbouring Maharashtra. As a logical extension, the NCP candidate is expected to vote in favour of Congress candidates in Gujarat. Speaking to reporters, Vaghela said that if someone is forced, coerced or blackmailed to do something against his or her conviction, then the person has no right to be in public life. “One has to be without fault to stand up to those in power. There is no point in being scared of the ED, or CBI or police or any other agency. Otherwise, one must not stay in public life,” Vaghela said. He added that shortly he will announce his decision on his political future. “Over 1,200 of my supporters and aides have told me that they will stand by my decision. I will soon announce what my next plan is,” the veteran politician said. Veghala stressed that during his entire political career, he has never betrayed the party he was in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cant-stay-in-party-with-matches-fixed/articleshow/76204094.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Locusts pose hurdles at IAF base in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur||JAISALMER: Locusts entering India from Pakistan are not only causing damage to crops and vegetation in border districts, but also posing danger to operational activities of the Indian Air Force (IAF) at its airbase and to the civil flights in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. The IAF and civil airport have taken many precautionary measures. The DGCA, too, has issued guidelines in this regard. On Thursday, a big locust attack occurred in Jodhpur city and various parts of Jaisalmer district. Last Sunday, locusts had entered Jaisalmer city and the IAF premises, but they did not enter the runway and technical area. Jaisalmer shares 471km border with Pakistan and these locusts are entering the district from Sindh and Punjab areas. Defence sources said last year, too, locusts had come on the runway and flying activities had to be suspended. A sweeping machine has been placed near the runway and the ATC has been given directions to stop flying activities if locusts are found on runway. The IAF is in touch with the locust control department and has arranged pesticides to destroy locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-pose-hurdles-at-iaf-base/articleshow/76204578.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||Three peacocks die of heat stroke||RAJKOT: Heat stroke claimed the lives of three peacocks in Chandrasar village of Dhrangadhra taluka in Surendranagar district on Thursday. The forest department officers said that there were four peacocks, of which three had died, while one survived. “The deceased birds were lying on the bank of the village pond. While the postmortem on them was being conducted, another peacock fell from a tree and was rendered unconscious. The postmortem report revealed that the peacocks had died of heat stroke. The peacock that had fallen unconscious had also fallen prey to the heat stroke,” said J A Multani, Dhrangadhra range forest officer. “We have kept the unconscious peacock under treatment at the veterinary hospital in Dhrangadhra,” added Multani. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-peacocks-die-of-heat-stroke/articleshow/76202729.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Gomti water only a tad better, sewage still a culprit||LUCKNOW: The air quality and noise levels in the city improved during lockdown, but pollution in Gomti river still lagged far behind desired levels with only slight dip in pollutants in comparison to pre-lockdown period, reveals a CSIR-IITR study. A team of IITR scientists led by senior scientist Preeti Chaturvedi analyzed water of the Gomti, covering a stretch of around 20 km from Ghaila to Ekana sports complex. The analysis was based on physio-chemical parameters, which include testing of dissolved oxygen (DO), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and microbiological parameters like testing of faecal and total coliform bacteria. Besides, presence of metals like zinc and arsenic in river water was also tested. “To assess the impact of lockdown on the Gomti, an analysis of the study done in January was compared with the results obtained during lockdown in May,” said Chaturvedi. Samples were collected from nine points, covering the entire stretch of the river in the city. Bacterial load at these sites had reduced from 20 MPN to 14, dissolved oxygen (DO) improved by 2 % and Biological Oxygen Demands (BOD) reduced by 37%. DO is essential for flora and fauna to survive. It was found in a range between 5.30-6.70 mg/L during lockdown, higher than January, but still lower than ideal count of 8mg/L when it is fit for human consumption. BOD in May was 37% less than that of January, which is good for aquatic life. “The overall pollution levels in Gomti river, however, had reduced only slightly during lockdown because there was no reduction in untreated sewage discharge. The little improvement was because of reduction of activities near river like washing of clothes and garbage dumping directly in it,” Chaturvedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomti-water-only-a-tad-better-sewage-still-a-culprit/articleshow/76204574.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Students in Kazakhstan seek evacuation||Jodhpur: Medical students stuck in Almaty of Kazakhstan have been desperately urging the Indian government to bring them back. These students have been sitting idle waiting to be evacuated since May 23, when the vacations were announced. The rising prices in markets post lockdown and desperation to be with their family amid the Covid-19 pandemic has made this wait unbearable for these students, who have been constantly approaching the Indian Embassy in order to get a confirmed reply. “We have completed formalities for this purpose at both the college administration-end and the embassy-end, but still nobody has been giving us proper reply,” said Kirti Purohit from Jodhpur, a fourth year student at Kazakh Medical University of Continuous Learning, Almaty in Kazakhstan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-in-kazakhstan-seek-evacuation/articleshow/76204583.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Sister Jeniben’ to echo no more in VS Hospital corridors||AHMEDABAD: “Sister Jeniben”. The VS Hospital’s corridors will now miss the echo of this familiar name usually called out when in need of help at various wards by patients and colleagues. At 48, Jennifer Christian was the first staff nurse to have fallen prey to Covid-19 at VS hospital. A few sisters were present at VS Hospital while her body was being wrapped and later taken to Ghanti tekra in Khodiyarnagar for burial. She was slated to become in-charge in a few months, her colleagues recall. It was only recently that she was transferred to Covid-19 care facility at SVP Hospital where she was looking after critically ill patients. Constantly on her feet, her colleagues remember her dedicatedly serving patients. She was jovial. She would make patients smile and sometimes be strict with them if they were not careful. Her brother Bishop Silvance Christian, who heads the Gujarat diocese for CNI, said, “Our mother was a staff nurse at the Odhav Beggar’s home facility. Jennifer was the second in our family who served for 20 years and now her daughter is in her final year of nursing. Her elder son will become a priest shortly.” Bishop Silvance added, “In her final 11 days she kept saying she would come back to serve her colleagues at the hospital who looked after her well.” Jennifer will be missed by many in Behrampura. Bishop Silvance said, “She was quite well known among various communities in her area.” Senior BJP leader and councillor Mayur Dave said in her remembrance: “I had known her for 20 years. Whenever I went on rounds at VS Hospital, Sister Jennifer was our single point person. During disasters or major accidents she led from the front when it came to patient’s care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sister-jeniben-to-echo-no-more-in-vs-hospital-corridors/articleshow/76203729.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Animal husbandry dept ready to sell wool produced from Australian Merino sheeps||Dehradun: The department of Animal husbandry Uttarakhand is now ready to sell the first wool produced from the 240 Australian Merino sheeps imported to Uttarakhand last year. The department has rolled out the tender inviting people from the textile industry for showcasing the quality of the wool produced. Talking to TOI, Dr Avinash Anand, CEO of Uttarakhand Sheep and Wool Development Board said “The first reap has over 500 kilograms of wool which meets the international quality parameters. The exercise will help us create market for the wool being produced here in Uttarakhand as the samples are also ready”. While the first pure bloodline of Autralian Merion sheep is being maintained at the government sheep breeding farm in Ghansali, Tehri. The officials said that in the later stage of the project, the male merino will be also be given to sheep farmers in the state for improving the indigenous breeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/animal-husbandry-dept-ready-to-sell-wool-produced-from-australian-merino-sheeps/articleshow/76202719.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Air was cleanest in Gomtinagar, Indiranagar during lockdown||LUCKNOW: Residents of Gomtinagar and Indiranagar breathed much cleaner air during the lockdown than otherwise. Air pollution level dropped by nearly 50% during the period as compared to the same period last year. In Charbagh, a commercial area that figures among the city’s most polluted, air quality improved by over 52%. In Amausi, an industrial area, it improved by 25%, shows an assessment report released by CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) on the eve of World Environment Day. Overall, during the lockdown, the mean PM10 and PM2.5 concentration in the city witnessed a drop of 44% and 35% respectively in comparison to last year during the same period, states the report based on data monitored at eight locations—four of them residential—between March 25 and May 31. Gomtinagar recorded the lowest PM10 level of 90.1 micrograms per cubic metre of air in this period followed by Indiranagar and Aliganj with 94.7 and 98.5 micrograms respectively. These figures were within the permissible limit of 100 micrograms. However, despite overall decline, Vikasnagar recorded 112 micrograms PM10 per cubic metre of air. Compared to the same period last year, fall in PM10 concentration was highest in Gomtinagar (50%) followed by Aliganj (45%), Indiranagar (44%) and Vikasnagar (39%). The harmful nano pollutant PM2.5 too declined in concentration with Indiranagar recording the lowest—41.9 micrograms—followed by Gomtinagar at 52.8. Both were within the permissible limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre of air. In Aliganj, it was 65.5 and in Vikasnagar, 65, which was more than the permissible limit. Compared to last year in the same period, Indiranagar witnessed the highest drop (49%) followed by Gomtinagar, Vikasnagar and Aliganj with 37%, 26% and 23% respectively in PM2.5 concentration. “Halting of construction/industrial activities and vehicular movement during lockdown proved to be a boon for the environment,” said senior scientist SC Barman, who led the research. Even the commercial area of Charbagh witnessed PM10 and PM2.5 level drop by 59% and 52% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/air-was-cleanest-in-gomtinagar-indiranagar/articleshow/76204587.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||CISF man tests +ve after reaching home in Bundi||Kota: A 55-year-old man posted as assistant sub-inspector in Central Industrial Security Force in New Delhi tested positive for Covid-19 after reaching his village in Bundi district on Wednesday. His sample was collected in New Delhi before he left for Bundi. The CISF personnel’s doctor son also travelled with him to their hometown. The CISF official, following the +ve test report on Wednesday, was referred to New Medical College Hospital in Kota for Covid-19 treatment, while his son, daughter-in-law and cook at his house in Kawar village of Bundi district were put in isolation of the hospital, said chief medical and health officer, Bundi, Dr Gokul Meena. According to his son, the CISF personnel was home quarantined and was undergoing treatment for diarrhea. Other persons who are supposed to have come in his contact in the village after his arrival from New Delhi were also home quarantined and their sampling for Covid-19 test is underway, the CMHO said. The CISF official was on duty at airport and other places in New Delhi and his contact history is being traced, he added. The sample of CISF personnel was collected in New Delhi so the case would be counted in Delhi’s tally and the total number of Covid-19 +ve cases stands at 2 in Bundi district, the CMHO said. “Zero mobility and Section 144 has been enforced in Kawar village,” SDM, Nainwa Shyoram said. The medical staff at community health centre has also been home quarantined, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cisf-man-tests-ve-after-reaching-home-in-bundi/articleshow/76204591.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Social distancing goes for a toss in Secunderabad Cantonment, Covid-19 cases rise||SECUNDERABAD: From only one case until May-end, the count of Covid-19 cases in the Secunderabad Cantonment area has now shot to eight. It has, however, reported no deaths so far. Local officials of the cantonment area attribute this jump to people’s failure to follow social distancing — something that they strictly adhered to during the lockdown. “Since the time lockdown restrictions have been eased, social distancing norms are not being followed in many areas. Also, people are not wearing masks while venturing out,” in-charge medical officer for Bollarum and Trimulgherry, Dr Punna Sushma, said. She added that many people with Covid-19 symptoms like fever, cough, sore throat and headache, are not consulting physicians. The new cases have emerged from prime locations such as Mahendra Hills, Risala Bazar (Bollarum), Karkhana and Picket. Following the rise in numbers, authorities have identified four containment zones, over the last few days. Talking about a positive case that was reported in Karkhana, another in-charge medical officer, Dr Mary Meena Kumari, said, “A person had visited a market at Ramnagar in Musheerabad and after a gap of nearly 10 days, he complained of having Covid-19 symptoms. He was discharged after being quarantined for a few days at a hospital. People are hiding the symptoms in the early stages and reporting them much later, which is dangerous.” SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender said that maintaining hygiene and taking all necessary precautions can go a long way in protecting people from coronavirus. “The SCB staff, who are working on the field, have not been infected so far as they are following all rules. A proposal to make public announcements to spread awareness among the people on Covid-19 is under active consideration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-cantt-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/76203732.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||Eight held for 16 tonne sand theft from riverbed in Botad||RAJKOT: Eight persons were arrested for the alleged theft of 16 tonne sand from the bank of Bhadar River in Paliad of Botad district on Thursday. Police said Munna Dabhala (24), Nanji Sakaria (28), Nilesh Dharajia (28), Vanraj Chhapara (21), Nilesh Bawaliya (40), Vijay Dharajiya (24), Mehul Kukadia (19) and Lala Vinu (32) were arrested for the crime. “We have seized 16 tonne sand, one loader, two dumpers, four tractors, two bikes and six cellphones, all worth Rs 45 lakh from the accused,” said R H Bar, sub-inspector with Bhavnagar rapid response cell. The police said they effected the arrests after raiding the spot on the bank of Bhadar River, where they had received a tip-off about the illegal racket of sand theft going on. “We have booked the accused for the crime at Paliad police station. A total of 11 persons were booked, of whom eight were arrested,” added Bar, while refusing to reveal the names of the three accused, citing secrecy of the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-held-for-16-tonne-sand-theft-from-riverbed-in-botad/articleshow/76202750.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath chief priest wants Char Dham yatra suspended till June 30, writes to CM||Dehradun: A day after the state government announced that Char Dham Yatra will be started for local pilgrims on June 8, Badrinath shrine’s Rawal (chief priest) – along with other top priests and local residents – has written a letter to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, urging him to keep the yatra suspended till June 30. The request has been made in the wake of the growing numbers of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand as people continue to return from other states. Following the guidelines issued by the Centre, Rawat and urban development minister Madan Kaushik had confirmed that the yatra would be started for pilgrims of the state on June 8. However, the priests have asked for a delay of three weeks. Badrinath Mandir Samiti Mukhya Dharmadhikari Bhuwan Chand Uniyal said, “We are all looking forward to the arrival of the pilgrims. However, the present scenario has to be taken into consideration before making a decision. While locals continue to return from other states, coronavirus cases here are on the rise. Those who have returned need to be quarantined for 21 days. Therefore, in a letter to the CM, we have asked him to allow the pilgrims only after June 30.” Uniyal further added that if devotees were allowed from July, there would be limited rush due to the onset of monsoon. According to him, the number of pilgrims usually peaks during the first two weeks of June. “If we can avoid the rush before July, we are optimistic that by September, it will be much safer to travel,” he added. Every year, the Badrinath shrine witnesses the highest footfall. Last year – of the 32 lakh pilgrims who paid obeisance at the four revered shrines – 11.74 lakh visited Badrinath followed by 10.02 lakh at Kedarnath, 5.3 lakh at Gangotri and 4.65 lakh at Yamunotri. This year, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri were opened on April 26. While Kedarnath was opened on April 29, portals of Badrinath were opened on May 15. Due to the lockdown, only priests are being allowed to conduct religious activities at the shrines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-chief-priest-wants-char-dham-yatra-suspended-till-june-30-writes-to-cm/articleshow/76202742.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Probe launched into alleged gang-rape||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 24-year-old woman residing at Puthanthoppu under Kadinamkulam police station limits outside the city raised allegations that she was gang-raped by her husband’s friends following which the police launched a probe.  The alleged incident happened on Thursday night around 8pm. According to the woman, her husband took her and their one-year-old child to the beach at Puthukurichi near Puthanthoppu on Thursday evening. From there, they went to the residence of her husband’s friend nearby. There, his friends gave them liquor and got both of them inebriated and allegedly raped her. Kadinamkulam sub-inspector R Ratheesh Kumar said that the woman ran out of the house and a group of people who were passing by in a car took her in and dropped her at her house. They also alerted the police promptly. “We have shifted the woman to taluk hospital at Chirayinkeezhu. We will register a case after medical examination. We have already launched a probe,” said the sub-inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-launched-into-alleged-gang-rape/articleshow/76202744.cms||---
June 5, 2020||India||SC seeks finance minister’s view on interest waiver||NEW DELHI: RBI’s misgivings over waiver of interest on loans during the six-month moratorium on payment of EMIs did not impress the Supreme Court, which on Thursday gave the finance ministry a week to think over the issue and file a considered response to interest waiver on borrowings, including home loans. The RBI’s affidavit before the SC had said that banks were intermediaries between depositors and borrowers and apprehended that any move to waive off interest on loans would have a direct impact on interest earned by depositors. Moreover, it could severely impact the banking business, the central bank had said. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah called out the RBI for leaking its affidavit to the media even before its stand could be articulated before the court and made it clear that it was unimpressed with the regulator’s position, which affected crores of borrowers, especially those who have availed home loans. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta argued that banks would charge interest and add that to the principal every month and then charge interest on interest even when the “eyewash” of a moratorium on repayment of EMIs was enforced. “In fact, the borrower will be required to pay much more than what he would have ordinarily paid if there was no moratorium because of this interest on interest concept,” he said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the court that though the RBI has filed an affidavit, it has to be a joint stand by the government and the regulator. “I have not yet consulted the finance ministry on this issue. I will get back with a considered opinion by the next date of hearing,” he told the court. The bench said, “Mehta shall obtain necessary instructions from the finance ministry as well as higher officials of the Reserve Bank of India, for which he prays for a week’s time.” The matter was posted for further hearing on June 12. If the government agrees not to charge interest on interest, or allows waiver of interest, then it would create fresh complications as those borrowers who have regularly paid EMIs without availing the moratorium would be disadvantaged for abiding by the loan agreement. For, they have paid not only the EMIs but the interest accruing on the loan amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-finance-ministers-view-on-interest-waiver/articleshow/76205497.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||E-comic in Marwari on coronavirus released||Ajmer: The district legal aid authority on Thursday released an e-comic in Marwari language to educate students of rural areas about Covid-19. The comic ‘Korona ko bhagano hai’ was released by additional district and sessions judge Shakti Singh Shekhawat and Arvind Sengwa, secretary of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education. Sengwa said the comic is written in local Rajasthani language with pictures so that common people of Rajasthan can understand about coronavirus, its precautions and treatment. The book was written and drawn by lecturer Alok Sharma of Navodaya School Dungarpur and translated into Marwari language by teacher Karn Singh Rawat of Ladpura and the script was written by Dakshvi Verma of Ajmer and colour work was done by Manvi Sharma of Dungarpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-comic-in-marwari-on-coronavirus-released/articleshow/76204596.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Mob ties, thrashes three Sidi youths||RAJKOT: In another case of mob fury, a group of more than dozen people in Veraval of Gir Somnath district on Wednesday evening are seen thrashing three persons in a video of the incident that has gone viral on social media. According to sources, the accused mob includes a member of Veraval Boats’ Association, who is visible clearly in the video. Police sources quote that the attack was the result of an old enmity between the accused versus Samir Majgul (21) and Mustaq Bhalaya (20). The victims, from the schedule tribe of Sidi community, have been admitted to the Rajkot Civil Hospital with severe injuries. The video shows both Majgul and Bhalaya tied to a bench along with a third person and the mob rained punches and kicks on them at Bhidia Port. Not to let matters go out of hand, someone from the assailants was also heard cautioning others: “Thrash them in such a way that they don’t bleed.” However, the police are yet to register a case or take any legal action against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mob-ties-thrashes-three-sidi-youths/articleshow/76202768.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kochi||HC to govt: Protect lives of Chellanam villagers||Kochi: The high court has directed the state government to take immediate steps to protect the lives and properties of people living in Chellanam, a coastal village in Ernakulam district, as they face the fury of nature every monsoon. In an interim order on a petition projecting the plight of the residents of Chellanam near here, Justice V G Arun pulled up the government for the delay in completing the sea wall. The court said it had directed periodical reports to be filed regarding the progress of the construction of a temporary sea wall with geo bags and tubes. “Reports stating various reasons for the delay in completing the sea wall were seen filed. But, in view of the advent of this year’s monsoon and the impending onslaught by the sea, mere filing of reports will not suffice,” the court had said in its order on June 2. “It is necessary that immediate steps are taken to protect the lives and properties of the people living on the coastal reaches at Chellanam,” the court said. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-to-govt-protect-lives-of-chellanam-villagers/articleshow/76202760.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Pvt school in Ajmer holds exams, police close institution||Ajmer: A private school in Vaishali Nagar was found conducting supplementary exams for classes IX and XI on Thursday. A team of police and education department officials went there and closed it. The team submitted a report to the administration who will decide on further action. Parents of students of the private school informed the district administration that during the lockdown, the school issued the timetable for supplementary exams of classes IX and XI and started examination from Thursday. The team found that there were 48 students who were sitting for the supplementary examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-school-in-ajmer-holds-exams-police-close-institution/articleshow/76204594.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Curbs eased but sales down, Cantonment businessmen seek tax waiver||SECUNDERABAD: Despite the lockdown relaxations and shops being allowed to stay open till 9 pm, businessmen in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) area are upset as the sales are yet to pick up. Therefore, the businessmen are appealing to the SCB to waive a part of the property tax for this year. “There are around 6,000 shops and business establishments in the Cantonment area but the sales are yet to pick up. The increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the area and a shortfall in supplies could be reasons for the decrease in footfall,” say a few shopkeepers. In the last few days, several Covid-19 cases have been reported from Mahendra Hills, Karkhana, and Bolarum. These are the areas where major commercial establishments are located. “We spent almost a week in cleaning up the shop and making necessary arrangements as per the norms. But we have failed to stock up the store as wholesale merchants are unable to send us the supplies. All the materials are stuck due to lack of proper transportation. As a result, consumers are not turning up at the shops,” M N Jagadish, who owns a readymade garments shop in Mahendra Hills, said. Consumers are also scared of contracting the virus and are avoiding shops. “We are strictly following physical distancing norms . We are also asking consumers to wear masks but the footfall has decreased drastically due to the new cases being reported in several areas,” said P Chandrakanth, who sells green groceries. “Though the business is dull, we have to pay property tax to the Cantonment board. We urge the officials to waive at least 10% of the tax,” said a supermarket owner in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/curbs-eased-but-sales-down-cantt-bizmen-seek-tax-waiver/articleshow/76203741.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Prisoner incarcerated for last six months tests Covid-19 positive||AHMEDABAD: Murder accused Manu Desai has tested Covid-19 positive inside the Sabarmati central jail, the first prisoner found to have contracted the disease while he was in jail for the past six months. Till date, prisoners who have tested Covid-19 positive are those who had gone out either on bail or parole and returned to prison with infection. To avoid spread of the virus in the state’s overcrowded prisons, the Gujarat high court on March 27 issued orders not to allow entry to any prisoner inside jail without ascertaining that he is Covid-19 negative. Since then, all prisoners who return from bail and parole as well as new prisoners are tested before sending them to jail. While other prisoners are tested for entry in jail, Desai was tested because he wanted to get out of jail on temporary bail. The HC thought his Covid-19 test necessary because he could have put his three children in risk. Desai was insisting on bail because his wife was quarantined after she came in contact with a Covid-19 positive persons and following her quarantine, there was none to look after the kids. Earlier on May 13, when Desai urged the HC to release him on bail claiming that his wife suspected she had contracted the disease, the court ordered tests for the woman. The HC did not release Desai immediately because his house was in a containment zone and the court feared that he might return to jail with infection. But later circumstances led the HC to order Covid-19 test for Desai also. On Thursday, the state government supplied the Civil Hospital’s report to the high court stating that Desai tested Covid-19 positive. Additional director general, prisons, K L N Rao confirmed that Desai’s is the first Covid-19 positive case contracted while the prisoner was inside the jail. 7 others test positive, 100 quarantined in jailAfter Manu Desai was tested for Covid-19 on the instructions of the Gujarat high court and was found to have the infection, Sabarmati central jail authorities tested 40-odd prisoners who were in contact with Desai in prison. Deputy superintendent D V Rana said, “We have sent those who tested positive to Civil Hospital and have isolated 100 other prisoners who were suspected to have come in contact with those who tested positive. We started the process of tracing their contacts.” The jail administration is alarmed with the finding because so far only prisoners returning after bail had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/prisoner-incarcerated-for-last-six-months-tests-positive/articleshow/76203787.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Most of the Covid isolation coaches in the state back in service in Shramik trains||Kozhikode: Around 75% of the coaches converted by railways into Covid-19 isolation wards are back in service, mostly in Shramik trains. The coaches in the two railway divisions in the state were not used for isolating patients. Of the 92 coaches converted to isolation wards under Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram railway divisions, around 70 are used in special trains after removing the additional fittings made for converting them into isolation wards. Palakkad railway division had converted 32 coaches into isolation wards and Thiruvananthapuram division had created 60 isolation wards using non-AC general and sleeper coaches. Division railway manager of Palakkad railway division Pratap Singh Shami said most of the coaches that were converted to isolation wards have been pressed into service in Shramik trains. “Until now there has not been requirement in the state to use the coaches as isolation wards. The coaches used in Shramik trains can be redeployed as isolation wards if need arises,” Shami added. Officials said the middle berth in the sleeper coaches, which were removed to convert them as isolation wards, has not been re-fixed to enable social distancing of passengers in Shramik trains. An official of the Palakkad division said mosquito nets fixed on coach windows of isolation wards have been removed along with additional fittings installed to fix oxygen cylinders. However, one toilet in the coach that was converted into a bathroom is maintained as such in the Shramik rakes. The conversion of coaches into isolation wards under the Palakkad division was carried out in the maintenance sheds in Mangaluru and Shoranur. Thiruvananthapuram railway division officials said 40 of the 60 three-tier sleeper and general class coaches converted to isolation wards are now being used in Shramik and other special trains on need basis. Railway board had recently decided to use 50% of the around 5,000 isolation coaches in the country to run Shramik specials trains. Meanwhile, Confederation of All India Rail Users’ Association has urged the state government to intervene to retain the isolation coaches as such as the state is likely to witness need for more quarantine facilities in view of return of people from outside the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/most-of-the-covid-isolation-coaches-in-the-state-back-in-service-in-shramik-trains/articleshow/76202791.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||E-passes to be issued for medical emergency: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday asked the AAP government to upload on its official website and publicise that despite sealing of the capital’s borders, people with medical emergencies can come to Delhi hospitals after availing an e-pass. The high court gave the direction after being informed by the government that its guidelines for Covid-19 lockdown allowed people with medical emergencies to enter the national capital by applying for an e-pass which would be made available to them. It said the Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had issued an order on June 1 with regard to prohibited and permitted activities, during the phased reopening-Unlock 1.0, and the guidelines permitted entry into the national capital from neighbouring states in case of medical emergencies. The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose. Taking note of the DDMA order, the bench disposed of a plea by lawyer Kushagra Kumar seeking immediate desealing of Delhi’s borders to enable citizens in NCR or other states to access central government hospitals and medical facilities in the national capital. The high court said the government must today itself upload the June 1 order on its various department websites in a prominent manner and have it highlighted for easy access by citizens. Since the beginning of this month, the government had sealed the Delhi borders for one week after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the moment we opened the borders, people from across the country would come to Delhi for treatment. Delhi-Gurugram, Delhi-Ghaziabad and Delhi-Noida borders are shut for a week. Only essential service providers would be allowed and employees could cross the border by showing their identification cards or ID cards, Kejriwal had said. “The order of Delhi government is not only inhumane and illegal, but authoritarian in nature. Instead of creating medical infrastructure and working to ensure medical facilities, it is sealing the borders and thereby stopping people from availing medical facilities in central government hospitals in Delhi,” the plea had argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-passes-to-be-issued-for-medical-emergency-govt/articleshow/76204600.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Trichy||2 weeks on, Trichy gets containment zone at Kottapattu||TRICHY: Trichy city which has been free of containment zones for the past two weeks has a new one at Kottapattu now after eight new cases were reported from the locality. A 45-year-old southern railway employee had contracted the viral infection resulting in seven of his family members also testing positive. At least four houses in the locality have reported positive cases while the railway employee was tested only after he displayed symptoms. As per the new protocol, as more than five positive cases are found scattered in Kottapattu vicinity, a containment zone was established on Tuesday. Around 200 houses were cordoned off and barricades placed at the entrance of Mariamman Koil street where the houses of the patients are. “Contact numbers of essential commodity suppliers were shared with the residents in the containment zone to collect the products near the entrance. Outsiders will not be allowed to enter the zone and vice versa,” an official with Trichy Corporation said. The previous containment zone in the city on Madurai road was vacated on May 20. The total Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy city until May 23 had stood at 32. Owing to the Chennai returnees and local transmission including within the containment zones, cases increased to 58 as on June 4. Cantonment, Kottapattu, Vayalur road and Karumandapam, localities which were Covid-19-free for over two months, have been recording positive cases in the last two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-weeks-on-trichy-gets-containment-zone-at-kottapattu/articleshow/76204610.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Langur sale stops in Andhra Pradesh as forest officials up vigil||HYDERABAD: Traders who have been illegally selling grey langurs in Vissannapeta village of Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh for the last 30 years to customers in AP and Telangana have shut down the entire market in the last couple of days. The thriving illegal business seems to have come under pressure after the forest department increased vigil in the village to curb wildlife crimes in the last one week. Forest department officials took stock of the matter after receiving information and evidence from TOI in the form of images, videos, call records and business cards of the illegal langur sellers that expose the business. Last week, TOI had published a report on how grey langurs, which are protected species under the Indian wildlife law, are being openly sold in the area for prices ranging from Rs 11,000 to Rs 13,000. “I have sent range officers to the village to check on the illegal trade, but it seems like the traders have become cautious after the news. We have increased our vigil to ensure that they don’t start the practice again and are also continuing our investigation to nab the culprits,” said Ananth Shankar, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Krishna district. The forest officials are also taking measures to increase awareness among the buyers and sellers by installing display boards in the village to warn about the consequences of getting involved in illegal wildlife trade. The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, lists the langur as a protected species under Schedule II and they cannot be owned, traded, bought, sold or hired. The law even stipulates a three-year jail term or fine or both. However, the wildlife activists fear that the traders who have shut down the market will be back in business again in a few days if the forest officials do not take them into custody. “Strong action must be taken against the people behind the trade. Wildlife authorities in coordination with the police should immediately arrest people involved,” said Uday Kumar, a wildlife activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/langur-sale-stops-in-ap-as-forest-officials-up-vigil/articleshow/76203756.cms||Moulika.KV
June 5, 2020||Kochi||Four cops suspended for lapse in duty||Kochi: City police placed four personnel, including a sub-inspector, under suspension for lapses in acting on a tip-off that illegally-brewed wine was being brewed and sold at a house at South Paravur. The suspended officials are SI Babu Mathew, ASIs Santhosh, Rajesh and driver Tito. According to sources, the police team raided the house based on a tip-off but failed to find anything. However, an excised team made the seizure of 30 litres of illicit wine from the house the next day and arrested a person. Meanwhile, city police on Thursday registered cases against 136 persons who were found in public places without wearing face mask. Police said that as many as 10 cases were registered in connection with violation of restrictions relating to the containment of the pandemic. As many as 31 persons were arrested and three vehicles were seized in this connection. Rural police registered 37 cases on Thursday for violating restrictions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/four-cops-suspended-for-lapse-in-duty/articleshow/76202798.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Drones to map property, assets of all villages in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the first time, drones will be used to conduct a survey of populated areas in all the 46,543 villages of Rajasthan with the objective of preparing 'village maps' and 'property records' of residents. This initiative will help in settling land-related or property disputes in villages and prevent encroachments. Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said the state government would conduct the survey of populated areas in villages in collaboration with Survey of India using drone technology. During the survey, which will be conducted over the next two years (2021-22 & 2022-23), ownership records of all village residents will be prepared. “Through this survey, properties and assets records will be updated in populated areas of villages; valid record of properties will be prepared and property cards will be issued to owners. This will reduce property-related disputes in populated areas and help in better preparation of the Gram Panchayat Development Plan,” he said. Along with this, a survey of community assets like rural roads, ponds, canals, open spaces such as parks, schools, anganwadis and health centers will be done and their maps prepared. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed between the Survey of India and the state government for implementing the plan. He said that people would be made aware of the scheme and its benefits through gram sabhas. They will be sensitised for cooperating with the implementation of the scheme. The records and maps will be available at gram panchayats, tehsils, district- and state-level offices. The records will also be available online and updated regularly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drones-to-map-propertyassets-of-all-villages-in-raj/articleshow/76204614.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Rajkot||One killed in cyclonic rains in Saurashtra||RAJKOT: Cyclone Nisarga, which weakened into a low pressure drenched different parts of Saurashtra including Amreli, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar districts, bringing relief to farmers on Thursday. However, it claimed the life of a 56-year-old man who got killed after a billboard uprooted by the gusty winds fell on his head on Gondal-Jetpur highway near Gangotri School on Thursday evening. The deceased was identified as Babu Chawda, who was heading for his residence in Virpur village of Jetpur taluka in Rajkot district when the accident occurred. A tree got uprooted in Station Plot locality of Gondal and fell on a car and a bike, damaging them completely. That apart, traffic jam occurred after a tree fell on Bus Stand Road in Jamnabai Chowk in Gondal on Thursday evening. Several electric poles were also uprooted in Gondal, disrupting power supply in the town. There were reports of the villages of Gondal taluka namely Nana Maika, Kumbhvada, Gundala and Kolithad receiving 75 mm to 100 mm rainfall. However, the showers brought delight to the farmers as the rain was sufficient to begin sowing. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), in Amreli district, the maximum rainfall was recorded in Khambha (72mm), followed by Liliya (51mm), Amreli (44mm), Rajula (41mm) and Savarkundala (19mm). In Rajkot district, Gondal had received the maximum rainfall (48mm) since Wednesday night, followed by Kotada Sangani (47mm), Vichhiya (26mm), Jetpur (18mm) and Dhoraji (15mm). In Bhavnagar district, the maximum rainfall was recorded in Mahuva (29mm), followed by Palitana (27mm), Jesar (17mm), Talaja (13mm) and Gariadhar (11mm). In Jamnagar district, Kalawad taluka received 15mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-killed-in-cyclonic-rains-in-saurashtra/articleshow/76202806.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kochi||Cyclist killed in accident||Kochi: A 76-year-old man was killed after his cycle hit a truck at Muppathadom, Binanipuram, on Thursday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Thankappan, son of Kavalan of Kalapurackal house, Muppathadam. Police said that the man fell on to the road after he lost balance and hit his cycle on to the truck. The back tyre of the truck went over him. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead on arrival. Police seized the truck and registered an FIR under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cyclist-killed-in-accident/articleshow/76202773.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad jeweller carries off bank’s CPU||AHMEDABAD: A jeweller was so unhappy with his bank as he was not being provided netbanking services that he stole a CPU from its Makarba branch on Wednesday. The branch manager approached Anandnanagr police on Wednesday and registered a complaint of theft against the jeweller, who has an office in the Prahladnagar area. In his FIR with Anandnagar police, Vineet Gurdutta, 33, the Makarba branch manager of Bank of Baroda, said that the accused, Sujay Shah, who has a business named SP Jewellers, had come to the bank on Wednesday afternoon and began shouting at staffers. When Gurdutta came out of his office and tried to talk with him, Shah told him that he had few days ago sent an email to the bank seeking netbanking service but had still not got it, states the FIR. Shah also told Gurdutta that he did not get any response from the bank. To this Gurdutta told Shah that his netbanking had been activated earlier. This made Shah furious and he began shouting and threatening them, saying that if he was not provided netbanking services in 15 minutes, he would take away one of the bank’s CPUs, states the FIR. Gurdutta told him he had spoke to the bank’s IT personnel and assured him that his netbanking would be activated soon. When Gurdutta was still trying to sort out his issue with his IT personnel, Shah began removing a CPU from the bank. Two bank staffers, Ruchi Patel and Rahul Kumar, tried to persuade him not to take the CPU, but Shah did not listen to them. The CPU contains important details of bank customers. Gurdutta informed his regional manager about the incident. On Wednesday afternoon, Shah came back with the CPU, put it in the bank and went away. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police said that Shah underwent Covid-19 test according to existing legal procedure and his arrest depends upon its outcome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-jeweller-carries-off-banks-cpu/articleshow/76203784.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB tells Telangana, Andhra Pradesh to submit DPRs of all new projects||HYDERABAD: The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has asked both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) of all new projects taken up by them for appraisal and technical clearance from KRMB and Central Water Commission (CWC) and for sanction of Apex Council. The Apex Council has already decided to hold a meeting with chief ministers of both the states soon on resolving the issues. In its six-hour long meeting with irrigation officials of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh chaired by board chairman A Paramesham, KRMB discussed about the issues raised by the two states. Officials of the two states gave presentation on their complaints and concerns. “The ratio of water sharing between AP and Telangana is agreed to be 66:34 respectively as was done in the last year. During this year, they will share same ratio till a final decision is taken on minor irrigation and diversion of Godavari waters. On the setting up telemetry phase III, it was decided to implement on priority and both the states have agreed to provide funds for the purpose,” the KRMB chairman said. Both the states also agreed to share the power generated from the common projects at Srisalam on 50:50 basis. But, when it comes to exemption of utilisation by the states during flooding period (monsoon) when all the dams are full, Telangana and AP utilise the surplus water of the last year 2019-2020, which would be shared equally. On the Telangana government’s demand to use carryover part of water share of Telangana in Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar to account it as part of allocation in previous year, the board members said the matter be taken up in the next meeting after taking views of AP government, the KRMB chairman said. AP officials raised the issue of shifting of KRMB headquarters to Vijaywada from Hyderabad. But the KRMB referred the issue to ministry of jal shakti. “The ministry is also looking into the issue of sharing of water diverted from Godavari to Krishna between AP and Telangana and referred it to jal shakti ministry,” the KRMB officials stated. Recently, both Telangana and AP complained on the proposed irrigation projects proposed. Telangana raised objections when AP issued GO to take 3 tmcft water from Pothireddypadu from Srisalam on Krishna. AP also complained on Telangana projects like Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-tells-t-ap-to-submit-dprs-of-all-new-projects/articleshow/76203764.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 5, 2020||Vadodara||Man jumps of bldg during police raid, dies||Vadodara: A man died after he fell off the second floor of an under-construction building in Fatehpura area while running away from police during a raid on Wednesday late night. The deceased Akhtar Hussain Sheikh alias Bholu went to the second floor of the building when city police conducted a raid on a gambling den based on information. The building is situated opposite Garnala police chowki and is meant for an office of Vadodara Municipal Corporation. “We had received information that some persons were involved in gambling activities and so our team raided the building. We found cash and playing cards ,” said inspector D G Sosa.  When cops reached the building, Sheikh tried to climb down the building using a polyvinyl chloride pipe, but lost balance and fell on the ground, cops said, adding that he was taken to SSG Hospital, but he died during treatment. Sheikh’s family members alleged that he did not fall, but died from police violence. “The cops dropped him at the hospital and left without even informing us. They are claiming that he fell from second floor, but there are injury marks on his legs,” said Sheikh’s sister. While the family did not accept his body and demanded that an offence be registered against the cops. Police bandobusst had to be placed outside the cold room at SSG Hospital to make sure that the family members of Sheikh do not create any ruckus there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-jumps-of-bldg-during-police-raid-dies/articleshow/76202402.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Experts want ‘urban’ species as West Bengal launches green drive||KOLKATA: Even as the state environment department prepared to launch a mega plantation drive on the World Environment Day on Friday, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee leading the initiative, naturalists and tree experts urged the government to learn from past mistakes and plant saplings or semi-grown trees only after deliberating on the species that would be suitable or the urban environment. The urban recreational forestry wing of the forest department, which, along with Kolkata Municipal Corporation, looks after the planting of trees in the city, has lined up a plan to procure 1 lakh trees, aged 3-10 years, to undertake a drive to compensate the loss of over 15,000 trees that were uprooted or damaged beyond repair when Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc on the city on May 20. While the huge loss saddened environmentalists, they also viewed it as an opportunity to replace the damaged trees with new varieties that were suitable for the urban environment and were less likely to perish in storms and cyclones in future. “Many trees that got uprooted on the evening of the cyclone would have anyway perished in 15 or 20 more Nor’westers. Also, not all trees can root firmly in the soft aluvial soil in Kolkata that has a high sand content. Instead of rushing in to fill the void with a big plantation drive, it is time to chalk out a well-planned strategy on areas, where trees will be planted and what kind of species will be planted there,” said naturalist Arjan Basu Roy. The day after the cyclone, environmentalist Bonani Kakkar had flagged the very concern and called for a tree policy before undertaking any plantation drive. “The CM can plant a tree as a symbolic gesture on World Environment Day. But let us wait a while. The soil will get some time to heal and KMC parks and squares department officials can discuss with experts and take a more scientific approach to selection of trees,” she suggested. Kakkar also stressed on the need for a horticulturist to be present when the saplings or trees are planted and not leave it to labourers to dig a hole in the pavement and plant the first sapling they get at hand. “The care for trees has to begin right from their selection. Only then will it be a meaningful exercise,” she said. Green activist Subhas Datta, too, felt plantation for the sake of it should be avoided. “Trees or saplings should be planted to derive maximum environmental benefits. Selection of species and spot for the plantation is important, so is the training for parks and squares department staff to scientifically prune trees so they don’t become lopsided,” said Datta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/experts-want-urban-species-as-state-launches-green-drive/articleshow/76203789.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Yes, we Khan: Delhi’s premium market comes to terms with all-new reality||NEW DELHI: Once a small refugee market of homes and shops, Khan market has transformed, with economic liberalisation, into one of the most expensive commercial addresses in the world. Surrounded by the homes of politicians, civil servants and industrialists, its pavements are a promenade for the who's who in Delhi. But after 70 days of lockdown, the market is a pale ghost of its former self. The shops are open, but only a few shoppers flit around, solemn behind their masks. “Nobody from out of town, nobody who lives further away come now,” says Sanjay Tyagi of Dayal Opticals. No luxury sunglasses or spectacles are being sold, but people do come to fix their broken glasses, get lenses and so on. For a few months at least, people will be wary of spending, saste mein hi kaam chala lenge, that’s the psychology now, smiles Tyagi. Anwar Siddiqui, who is at the shop, adds, “Right now, it’s not about profit, it’s just about survival.” And yet, fear about the coronavirus is secondary to livelihood. The head constable at the police chowki had tested positive for Covid-19, but many aren’t deterred by this. Surinder Mehta, who has run his electronics shop here for four decades, says, “Everything was dead in the first 50 days of the lockdown, but sales are picking up. We have sold ACs and home appliances and a lot of hair trimmers.” He owns his shop space, so doesn’t have to worry about rent. International brands will also bite the bullet because they want to remain in this premium location, notes Mehta. At L’Occitane, a salesperson says, “We make about 20 bills a day now. There are fewer people who come, but those who come always buy something.” The global skincare brand lets in only two people at a time. At Good Earth, which sells expensive clothes, gifts and homeware, the salesperson discloses, “There is no browsing any more —people come with the intention of buying something. In one hour, though, barely 10 people arrive against a few hundred before the lockdown.” While restaurants are in definite trouble, they are soldiering on. The Big Chill is busy with takeaway orders, dousing its packages with a sanitiser-spritzing machine. A young man shows up for a Mississippi mud pie, but it’s not available. “We’re not really shopping, only here to pick up essentials,” says a woman. Perch, which was a trendy bar frequented by young politicians, journalists, think-tankers, those whom the saffron quarters derisively refer to as the ‘Khan Market gang’, is now barely taking 15 orders a day. Before the Covid-19 lockdown, chauffeurs and attendants expertly fitted vehicles into the coveted parking slots available. “Now barely a fifth of the space is occupied now,” reveals Samiruddin, a parking attendant who has been at the market for 18 years. “I could never even have dreamt of such a situation.” Before transport reopened, he had trouble travelling to Yamuna Vihar and slept in a small room in the parking lot. Since the 1990s, Khan Market’s shop fronts are always changing, barely 10-15 shops a constant, including a barbershop in the corner. It is a jumble of fancy and familiar, there are chic boutiques like Good Earth, Ogaan, Ensemble, and Nicobar, as well as old hosiery shops. There are trendy restaurants like Town Hall as well as staples like Khan Chacha. All have been dealt without prejudice by the pandemic. “I used to do daily business of Rs 20,000, but these days I sometimes don’t even make a bohni (a first sale),” grumbles Banwari, who runs an open stand selling kurtas. Rents hover around Rs 8-10 lakh a month for the small shops on the ground floor, and vary depending on location and size. With staff salaries and overheads, these shops have been bleeding money every day of the lockdown. Bahri Sons, the landmark bookstore, is looking at a big income shortfall this year. “We didn’t have a single sale after March 23, but have huge and mounting expenses — rent for all our locations, staff salaries. But dukandaar is not a category the government cares for,” sighed owner Anuj Bahri. “They will bail out big industries and all of you make a fuss about migrant workers. But what about us who pay the bulk of tax, the crores we have paid for 60 years?” While jabbing at his calculator to tell us how much the transport and rations for migrant workers are costing the state, Bahri argues, “Only the woes of the poor are recognised. But we are all suffering. Bank loans, even under the special Covid-19 fund, are at 8.25% rate.” Clearly, Khan Market has many miles to go, but it has started taking tiny steps forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/yes-we-khan-delhis-premium-market-comes-to-terms-with-all-new-reality/articleshow/76203779.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||Surprise showers expose sorry state of roads in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Overnight rains on Wednesday, which extended till late Thursday afternoon, brought back the haunting memories of perennial ‘hotspots’ on the roads of Bhopal, which have been a nightmare for commuters particularly in rainy season. With condition of roads set to deteriorate in upcoming monsoon season, blame game among the agencies responsible for construction and maintenance of roads, has also begun. Superintendent engineer, Capital Project Administration (CPA), Jawahar Singh, when reminded of the pathetic condition of road on both sides of Manisha Market in Shahpura (the road maintained by the CPA) , said, “ Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) had dug up the road to lay the pipeline, they will repair the road.” BMC, which is responsible for maintenance of more than 75% road network in the city seems to be oblivious to its duties. Be it maintenance of service roads connecting colonies or restoration of main roads dug up for laying of sewage or water pipelines, BMC officials seldom appear to be accountable to anyone. “Roads in almost all the colonies of Kolar area are dug up for laying of sewage pipelines, but BMC never asked the contractors concerned to carry out restoration work before letting them go as they should have done. We asked the BMC officials but they kept assuring us that it would be done and now monsoon is almost here. Mandakini, Rajharsh or Sainath Colony -roads in every colony are dug up,” said Saurav Shrivastava, a civil contractor. BMC chief engineer in-charge of roads, P K Jain ,when contacted for comments refused to say anything on the pretext that he was in a meeting and would talk on the issue later. But, later, he never picked up the phone. Confusion over which road belongs to whom among the three major agencies engaged in the maintenance task-BMC, CPA and PWD- still persists as ever. Public works department (PWD) chief engineer in-charge of roads , VK Aarak, said “Majority of roads under our supervision are well-maintained, but as the monsoon is on its way, we have spotted a few roads which need repair under our circle. A fortnight before the monsoon, repair work will start on these patches.” Office of district collector, Tarun Pithode, informed that directives for repairing the bad roads has already been issued .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/surprise-showers-expose-sorry-state-of-roads/articleshow/76203775.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana gets Rs 522 crore GST share from Centre||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday received Rs 522 crore towards GST compensation from the Centre. The Centre had released Rs 36,400 crore as fresh instalment to all the states towards GST compensation. Till now, Telangana has recived Rs 2,874 crore towards GST compensation for the year 2019-20 from the Centre. In April, the state got Rs 269 crore towards its share of GST compensation. Thursday’s compensation could not have come at a better time when Telangana is battling poor revenues and dip in finances due to Covid-19 pandemic and extended lockdown. The amount of Rs 522 crore is the sixth instalment the state had recieved.  In the previous instalments, Telangana had recieved Rs 269 crore, Rs 175 crore, Rs 700 crore, Rs 1,036 crore and Rs 352 crore respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-rs-522-cr-gst-share-from-centre/articleshow/76203780.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||72% citizens paid more for groceries during lockdown||Nagpur: With the government mandate of staying at home as much as possible during lockdown-1 to 4 from March 25 till May 31, consumers juggled between shopping for essentials and at the same time keeping themselves and families safe by minimizing exposure. A survey by LocalCircles, country’s leading social media platform followed by government and agencies, 72% consumers paid more for packaged food and groceries during the lockdowns with traders lowering discounts and charging over MRP main reasons. “Despite lockdown relaxations via Unlock-1, 28% consumers are still getting packaged food and groceries delivered at their doorsteps,” says Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles. Many consumers reported on LocalCircles that during lockdown-1 to 4, they ended up paying more for many essentials and grocery products as compared to pre-lockdown. LocalCircles conducted a survey to get consumer pulse on their experience of buying essentials during and after the lockdown, with respect to pricing. The survey received over 16,500 responses from consumers located in 210 districts. Consumers were asked about purchase of packaged food and grocery items done by them since March 22 and their experience with respect to pricing. Around 25% consumers said for the same items, prices paid were same as before the lockdown, while 49% said prices paid were higher as discounts were lower than before the lockdown; 23% said prices paid were higher as many times they were charged above MRP. Charging more than MRP, online or at physical retail stores, is a violation of Legal Metrology Act. Prior to the lockdown, various retailers and e-commerce grocery apps were offering big discounts as the supply market has been heating up with the arrival of Amazon Pantry & Fresh, Flipkart, Big Basket, Grofers and the latest entrant JioMart. But during lockdown, retailers as well as e-tailers minimized or eliminated the discounts, forcing consumers to shell out more for same products. In an earlier LocalCircles’ survey, 39% consumers had said that during the lockdown, they were charged above MRP by retail stores while 21% said they were charged above MRP by online sellers. The survey indicated that consumers found MRP compliance to be better on e-commerce sites, as compared to local retail stores. Consumers were also asked now that the lockdown has been relaxed, how they and their family are buying most of the packaged food and grocery items — 17% said they have been buying via e-commerce/grocery apps while 8% said they call or WhatsApp retail stores and get them to deliver at the doorstep. However, 19% said they order via the colony/area neighbourhood store and 53% said they have been buying from the local retail stores or market. “This means that despite lockdown relaxations, 28% consumers are still getting packaged food and groceries delivered at the doorstep. The primary reason for this seems to be the effort to keep themselves and their family safe from the coronavirus infection by not stepping out of home unnecessarily,” says Gupta. In the online discussions on LocalCircles, many consumers indicated that with all physical retail now functioning after Unlock 1, they are hopeful that the discounts will once again make a comeback on retail stores as well as on the e-commerce grocery apps, allowing them to save on essentials in this time of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/72-citizens-paid-more-for-groceries-during-lockdown/articleshow/76204631.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government plans extra ‘cover’ for seniors||NEW DELHI: As senior citizens are more vulnerable to the infection by the novel coronavirus, Delhi government has asked the divisional commissioner to prepare a database of all residents of the capital aged above 60 years. Senior government officials said using the database, the health teams will establish a contact with senior citizens and ensure their pre-emptive identification and protection from Covid-19. At present, senior citizens aged 80 years or above, those with co-morbid conditions, those with Covid-related symptoms and those living alone would be categorised as “high-risk” individuals, said a senior government official. A round-the-clock control room and toll-free helpline number will be set up by social welfare department to attend distress calls from senior citizens. In a detailed standard operating procedure released by chief secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairman of the state executive committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, has asked the divisional commissioner office to source the details of senior citizens from various government departments, including Delhi Police, food and civil supplies, social welfare and municipal corporations, which maintain such a database for the purpose of their safety and security, giving ration or distributing old-age pension. The data will have to be uploaded on a weblink with details such as name, age, gender, mobile phone number, address, assembly constituency, polling station number, information about cohabiting relatives, co-morbidities (if any), Covid-19 related symptoms (if any), potential contact with anyone who tested Covid-19 positive, and whether or not the person has downloaded the Aarogya Setu app. Dev has asked the information technology department with developing and maintaining a web portal and a dashboard to generate and provide a list of high-risk patients and other useful datasets to district nodal officers and booth-level officers update it from time to time. The BLOs will have to fill up the forms uploaded on the weblink by calling up senior citizens and talking to them. Officials said about 13,750 teams of corona foot warriors, which was formed in April, have been entrusted with the responsibility of carrying out this exercise. The government is also likely to start a centralised helpline number where senior citizens themselves can call up and register themselves. “Research on the Covid-19 suggests that individuals aged 60 years or above are more likely to have a severe infection, especially if they have co-morbid conditions. Delhi government has, therefore, identified as its top priority efforts to pre-emptively identify such persons and undertake all necessary action to protect them from the infection,” Dev said in his order. According to 2011 Census, Delhi has more than 12 lakh people aged above 60 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-plans-extra-cover-for-seniors/articleshow/76204628.cms||Atul Mathur
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon likely to hit Rajasthan by June 25||JAIPUR: The southwest monsoon is likely to enter Rajasthan by June 25 and expected to become widespread from July 3. The Jaipur meteorological office on Thursday said that the monsoon had hit Rajasthan between June 15 and June 20 over the last few years. However, this year, it appears that it may be delayed. While many districts will get normal monsoon (what they received in 2019), some of them may get heavy rainfall. Attributing the ongoing showers to the upper air cyclonic circulation and westerly winds, the meteorological office said that similar conditions will prevail in the state in the coming days. Kota and Udaipur divisions are likely to get more rainfall. However, this is non-monsoon rainfall as per the office. On the progress of southwest monsoon, Shiv Ganesh, director, Jaipur meteorological office, said, “As per the prevailing system, it appears that it will enter Rajasthan by June 25 and will touch Banswara, Chittorgarh and Kota districts of the state. It appears to cover the entire Rajasthan by July 3. For the onset of monsoon, several factors are looked at, especially widespread humidity and moisture.” He added that people in Rajasthan can expect normal rainfall, except a few districts which may have an abnormal rainfall. The ongoing rainfall in the state has nothing to do with Cyclone Nisarga that affected some parts of Maharashtra, he said. “Whatever rainfall we are getting is due to the local phenomenon of upper air cyclonic circulation. For the next couple of days, similar conditions will prevail,” he added. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued across the state and provided relief from the scorching heat. In its forecast, the meteorological office said that mild to moderate showers will continue in the Kota division, Udaipur division and some parts of Jaipur division in the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-likely-tohit-raj-by-june-25/articleshow/76204625.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad first among Indian universities in research output||HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been ranked no. 1 among the Indian universities on research output by the prestigious Nature Index for 2019-2020. This year, UoH is ranked at 15 overall among all institutions, marking a rise from last year’s rank of 17. The research outputs for UoH published between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020, tracked by the Nature Index were considered for ranking. Life sciences, chemistry and physical sciences were evaluated for output subject-wise. “The Nature Index functions as an indicator of high quality research in the natural and physical sciences. Our competition is from established scientific research institutes and the IITs,” said UoH VC Prof Appa Rao Podile. Additionally, IIT-H secured 46th rank and JNTUH secured 161st rank on the index.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-first-among-indian-univs-in-research-output/articleshow/76204622.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation provides hand sanitizer at bus stops||TRICHY: The Trichy Corporation on Thursday launched a drive to spray hand sanitizer on passengers boarding and disembarking from city buses. “Certain bus stops have no space to establish handwash basins, there is a difficulty in discharging wastewater too. So we opted to spray hand sanitizer, this will be a continuous drive,” said V Tirupati, sanitary inspector, Trichy Corporation. As many as 160 bus stops in Trichy were manned by civic body workers to spray hand sanitizer on passengers’ hands to prevent spread of Covid-19. Forty workers have been deployed in each of the four zones of the corporation to promote personal hygiene. The workers were provided with masks and gloves. Around 35-40 bus stop`s each in Ponmalai, Srirangam, Ariyamangalam and K Abihekapuram zones will be covered in the drive every day, the official added. TNSTC crew members have been tolf to halt the buses at the designated stops to ensure spraying of hand sanitizer. The drive will encourage people to frequently clean their hands, Trichy Corporation added. Handrails and chairs in the bus stops were also disinfected on routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-provides-hand-sanitizer-at-bus-stops/articleshow/76204632.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Nod to Pune-Nashik railway corridor||PUNE: The railway ministry has approved the semi-high-speed railway corridor between Pune and Nashik, the authorities of the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited said on Thursday. “The semi-high-speed double line will provide direct connectivity between Pune and Nashik. The journey between the two cities will be completed in an hour and 45 minutes,” Kumar Jaiswal, MahaRail MD, said. The entire cost of the project has been pegged at Rs16,039 crore. The total length of the corridor will be around 235.15km. The project will not only attract goods trains but also high-speed trains. It would be the first semi-high-speed railway corridor on a broad-gauge line, the official said. “The MRIDC will buy some high-speed trains for plying them on the corridor, along with regular mail/express and passenger trains. A new station in Pune will be developed and trains will be going to Hadapsar on an elevated deck. From Hadapsar to Nashik, the train will run on the ground and will go up to Nashik Road station.,” the official said. The project will open new revenue streams for industries by fast-tracking movement. Important MIDC areas such as Chakan, Sinnar and Satpur will be directly connected by this line. There will be a provision for EMU shuttle also to run on this corridor. The corridor will pass through Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik, providing seamless connectivity to industrial zones of Pune and Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nod-to-pune-nashik-railway-corridor/articleshow/76203792.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: With unlock 1.0, air quality returns to ‘poor’ state||AHMEDABAD: Air pollution levels have started to rise as the city wakes from the two-month slumber after lockdown. Machines have cranked up in factories and the cacophony of vehicles with their characteristic honking has already being witnessed on city streets. The Air Quality Index (AQI) for the city has started to inch slowly towards ‘poor’ from ‘moderate’ when compared to June 1 when unlock 1.0 came into force. Pirana and Rakhial areas continued to have high AQI score of 125 and 89 respectively indicating caution on Thursday. When Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) launched a comprehensive study on air pollution prior to the Janata Curfew and during the first phase of lockdown, it had found that in Vatva, for instance, in the days following the Janata Curfew on March 22 and lockdown, the PM2.5 (2.5 microns or less) reduced by 29.85%, carbon monoxide reduced by 17.80%, while sulphur dioxide had reduced by 87% while NO2 has reduced by 23%. The particulate matter pollution PM2.5 had dropped in Vatva from 82.83 micrograms per cubic meter to 31 on March 31. A real time AQI measurement tool AQI-India has indicated that Vatva GIDC area too has begun to witness a moderate rise in air pollution. The AQI for Ahmedabad city, as per central government’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) tool on Thursday was a high of 83 during the day time while by evening the quality improved to AQI 78. Pirana dumpyard , which before the lockdown had an AQI of over 320, was now at a moderate at AQI of 80. The officials claim that it was mainly because there was no activity of waste segregation at present as the same has been stopped ever since the lockdown. Officials claim that city may have begun to see normal traffic and is yet to see a peak as heavy vehicles especially the buses and transport vehicles are still not on the road, because of which AQI was marked "moderate" and "satisfactory". The officials said that while earlier when there were over 1,000 buses of AMTS and BRT and state transport buses on the road, there are at present only 40% on the road and hence there has been a severe reduction in AQI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-unlock-1-0-air-quality-returns-to-poor-state/articleshow/76203825.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Congress leaders meet governor||GANDHINAGAR: A delegation of the Gujarat Congress met Governor Acharya Devvrat on Thursday and handed over a memorandum, demanding various relief measures for different sections of the society affected by the lockdown. Congress demanded special relief measures for the tribal community and migrant workers from tribal areas. Congress also demanded a series of measures for the welfare of farmers affected by the lockdown. In the memorandum, Congress has demanded a review of the condition of health services in the state and demanded action to strengthen the sector. The party demanded relief measures for poor and middle-class like concession in electricity bill, school fees etc. Party leaders held a meeting in Ahmedabad and decided to launch ‘Gujarat Bolse’ social media campaign to raise people’s issues. The delegation was led by party president Amit Chavda, leader of opposition (LOP) Paresh Dhanani and other senior leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-leaders-meet-governor/articleshow/76203786.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Three cured and discharged in Mohali||MOHALI: Three patients were cured of Covid-19 and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on Thursday, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. They include two men and a woman. While two of them belong to Mohali, one is from Zirakpur. With their discharge, the number of active cases has dropped to 14 and the tally of recovered cases stands at 106.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-cured-and-discharged-in-mohali/articleshow/76203791.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Jamia student denied bail||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of Jamia student Safoora Zargar, facing charges under stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case pertaining to northeast Delhi riots that took place in February this year. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana stated that though no direct violence was attributable to Zargar, she couldn’t shy away from her liability under the provisions of UAPA. “When you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire,” the court said. The court said that exchange of ideas was the stepping stone for human evolution while agreeing with Zargar’s counsel, who had argued that free flow of ideas and dissent through peaceful means of protest, constituted the foundation of a vibrant and strong democracy. “However, the right of speech and expression and for that matter, protest or demonstration, is not an absolute right and is in fact subject to reasonable restriction under Article 19(2) of the Constitution,” it said. Zargar’s counsel had argued that she deserved bail on humanitarian grounds as she was 21 weeks pregnant and suffering from polycystic ovarian disorder with a history of urinary tract infection. It was argued that she was more vulnerable given the current pandemic situation with positive cases being reported from jails. He also argued that the investigating agency was creating a false narrative to implicate innocent students who didn’t approve of the government’s policy or its legislation. Terming her innocent, the counsel said Zargar had merely held a divergent view and it was no offence and by no stretch of imagination she could be branded a “terrorist” or an “anti-national”. The counsel submitted that UAPA provisions could not be invoked against her as no unlawful activity defined under the law was attributable to Zargar. Besides, there was “no material on record” to show that she was involved in any conspiracy to incite violence or to “being any sort of disaffection against our great nation”. Zargar was stated to have been “mischievously” arrested in the present case by Delhi Police’s Special Cell in order to “illegally curtail her liberty” after her release in another case registered by the Jaffrabad police. On the contrary, the prosecutor opposed the bail plea highlighting the presence of “enough material” on record to show Zargar’s complicity in Delhi riots and inclusion of UAPA provisions. The court said it wasn’t concerned with the sanctity of the material available on record. But from available material on record, it couldn’t be said that there was “no prima facie case” made out against her. “During the course of investigation a larger conspiracy is discernible and second investigation by way of a separate FIR to unravel the entire conspiracy sounds not only logical but perfectly legal,” it said. While refusing bail to Zargar, the court directed the jail superintendent to provide her with adequate medical aid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-jamia-student-denied-bail/articleshow/76203816.cms||Aamir Khan
June 5, 2020||Pune||CR removes 292 loose boulders in ghat section||PUNE: The Central Railway has identified 450 loose boulders in the southeast ghat section between Karjat and Lonavla having the potential of triggering a landslide during monsoon. Senior railway officials claimed that around 292 boulders had been removed. The rest would be isolated by June 10. “A total of 52 tunnels have been inspected as well as boulders have been scanned between Karjat and Lonavla. A total of 74 watchmen have been deployed at 19 locations along the section and 54 patrolmen have been deployed at 13 points to keep a watch on the area 24X7,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of Central Railway. Last year, there were disruptions on both the southeast and the northeast ghat sections because of heavy rain, landslides, boulder falls and train derailments. The southeast ghat section had to be closed for over two months, affecting train movement between Pune and Mumbai. Similar was the situation at the north east section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cr-removes-292-loose-boulders-in-ghat-section/articleshow/76203798.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 5, 2020||Trichy||As Covid-19 looms large, households still wary of employing domestic help||TRICHY: Although the lockdown has been eased with public transportation back on track, there is still hesitation among residents to allow their maids back into their houses. This has hit hard the livelihoods of maids as more than 50% of houses have refused to employ the maids back due to the Covid-19 scare. According to unorganised sector sources, there are around 35,000 women employed as house maids in the city, hailing from slums and low-income group localities, as cooks and for domestic chores. After the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown, gated communities and residents’ welfare associations banned the entry of maids into their compounds, even as most of the maids were employed in houses near their settlements. “I was employed in three houses before the lockdown, now only one has employed me back. Employers indirectly convey us that our services are not needed now,” said P Kannagi, a maid from Manjathidal. Residents said that they are hesitat because the maids are employed in multiple houses.“As our employers are working from home, they have time to take care of the domestic chores. Some terminate us to bring down their monthly expenses,” said R Govindammal, a maid from Palakkarai. Even as gated communities have agreed to allow maids on the requests from senior citizens, a section of residents have opposed the move fearing Covid-19 spread. “We found out that the monthly income of maids has dipped somewhere between 50-70% post the lockdown. For essential commodities, maids still rely on NGOs,” said R Maruthanayagam, founder of Needs trust. The reluctance has made maids ponder about their future. As families have adapted to take care of their chores independently, maids said that their employers may permanently refrain from employing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-covid-19-looms-large-households-still-wary-of-employing-domestic-help/articleshow/76204627.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Home quarantine violators warned of action in Chennai||CHENNAI: As the city records 1,000 cases everyday, the city corporation has decided to tighten the screws as far as Covid-19 containment strategy is concerned.  Patients as well as their contacts on home quarantine who violate the discipline and are found roaming outside their homes will be identified and taken to government Covid care centres or institutional quarantine centres. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash and special Covid officer for the corporation J Radhakrishnan announced this at a press meet on Thursday. Such violations have been found, he added. “We will observe the people in home quarantine with the help of the local police as they know of the happenings in the area better. Such people will be tracked and we shall slap cases against quarantine violators,” Prakash said. Prakash said 85% of people were following the rule but 10%-15% weren’t. He added that there were enough beds available in Covid care centres and that such violators would be comfortable there. “On one street, we found people breaking the containment barricades and walking without masks. They apologised for doing so on seeing us. Such people will be dragged to government centres and booked,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that some of the people were unable to comprehend the gravity of the situation. There was a direct co-relation between people wearing masks and case load decreasing, he said citing data. The senior IAS official said everyone should wear masks for one month compulsorily and that people should start questioning those who aren’t. He reiterated how in streets where masks were being worn, there had been a substantial drop in the number of cases. “In Bojarajan Nagar in Royapuram, Thideer Nagar slum, on VR Pillai Street, cases have dropped to 0. It is only because containment practices were followed strictly and people wore masks,” he said. Prakash praised the TN Slum Clearance Board settlement in Kannagi Nagar. “We found 95% of people wearing masks when we went on a surprise visit. The place has 1 lakh people and a high population density. The situation could have gone out of control if not for their discipline,” he said. GCC has started running 100 fever camps apart from those in their primary health centres, Radhakrishnan said. Testing in Chennai was of the order of around 5,500-5,700 a day. “Grocery shop owners, push cart vendors and tea stall owners in and around containment areas were also being tested,” he said. Prakash said volunteers from 98 NGOs were going door-to-door in slums and ensuring that people with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension were taking tablets on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-quarantine-violators-warned-of-action/articleshow/76203794.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||SC: Evolve uniform policy for interstate commuters in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Raising hopes that the conflicting orders of Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments might be resolved soon, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the central government to convene a meeting of senior officials of the three states within a week to iron out differences in permitting interstate travel, which has been frequently causing chaos and hardship to lakhs of daily NCR commuters. Aware of the labyrinthine queues of commuters harassed for hours at interstate borders in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah asked additional solicitor general K M Natarajan to ensure the Centre convened a meeting to evolve a common policy for permitting interstate travel in the NCR. Natarajan clarified that interstate movement of commuters was not restricted by the central government but independently by the state governments, taking into account the Covid-19 situation in their jurisdictions and neighbouring states. Haryana , through additional advocate general Anil Grover, told SC that it had lifted the restrictions to facilitate smooth interstate movement of commuters. The apex court bench was informed by petitioner Rohit Bhalla’s counsel, Mukul Talwar, that Delhi was unrepresented before the apex court in this case despite the petition having been served on the Aam Aadmi Party government. The bench said, “The Centre should convene a meeting of officials of the states/UT and endeavour to find out a common programme for easing interstate movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-evolve-uniform-policy-for-interstate-commuters-in-ncr/articleshow/76203796.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 5, 2020||Business||New SOP: Disposable menus, only 50% seats at eateries||NEW DELHI: Restaurants have been asked to prefer takeaways instead of dine-in while all religious places should ensure sanitiser dispenser and thermal screening at the entrance, the Union health ministry said as it spelt out the standard operating procedures to be followed by offices, eating joints, places of worship and shopping malls when they reopen. Places of worship should have specific markings with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing on the premises, the guidelines suggested. Restaurants should devise seating arrangement in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained and utlisation of not more than 50% of seating capacity will be permitted. Disposable menus are advised to be used and instead of cloth napkins, use of good quality disposable paper napkins to be encouraged. For all categories, masks and face covers are mandatory. Life inside the office is also set to undergo a change with the new guidelines. The new rules stipulate that seating arrangements will be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. Effective and frequent sanitation on the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and hand washing stations/areas. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news In the cafeteria, canteen, dining hall adequate crowd and queue management has to be ensured to ensure social distancing norms. Staff and waiters will wear masks and hand gloves and take other required precautionary measures. The seating arrangement should be done in a manner to ensure a distance of at least one metre between patrons as far as feasible. In the kitchen, the staff will follow social distancing norms, the new rules said. The guidelines prohibit large gatherings. Among the generic measures for shopping malls, religious places, restaurants and offices, physical distancing of at least six feet is to be followed as far as feasible. For air-conditioning/ventilation in religious places, the guidelines of the CPWD shall be followed which stipulates that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius, relative humidity should be in the range of 40- 70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate. Touching of statues, idols and holy books not to be allowed. Read AlsoCentre asks Delhi to ramp up testing, surveillanceAmid rising number of cases, the Centre has asked the AAP govt to immediately ramp up testing, coupled with aggressive surveillance, contact tracing and stringent containment and perimeter control of hotspots after a review by health minister Harsh Vardhan. The Centre’s intervention comes a dayAll workers, customers and visitors are to be allowed entry to malls only if they are using face cover/masks. The face cover/masks has to be worn at all times inside the mall. The guidelines have made it clear that adequate manpower shall be deployed by the mall management for ensuring social distancing norms. Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, adhering to social distancing norms. The use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged, according to the guidelines. Some rules have also been specified to deal with situation when a person shows some signs of illness or Covid-19. The rules stipulate that an ill person be placed in a room or area where they are isolated from others at the workplace. Such a person must have their mask/face cover on till such time he/she is examined by a doctor and the nearest medical facility (hospital/clinic) immediately contacted. Watch Govt issues fresh SOPs for businesses opening from 8 June||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-sop-disposable-menus-only-50-seats-at-eateries/articleshow/76205509.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Man killed over love affair; 2 more murders rock Nagpur||NAGPUR: City police were on their toes on Thursday after three murders were reported from different locations in city. Including Wednesday’s murder of dreaded goon Anuj alias Annu Thakur, there were four killings in 24 hours. In the first incident, Kartik Sarave, 25, was bludgeoned to death by two persons while he was riding his bike near Gopal Nagar. Cops suspect the murder was an outcome of a love affair. Sources said Kartik used work at the office of a cable operator. Two persons on another bike approached his bike from behind. One of them slammed an iron rod on Kartik’s head who lost control and fell. The assailants then bludgeoned Kartik to death and fled. Eyewitnesses called the police and Rana Pratap Nagar cops rushed to the spot and sent Kartik to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Senior PI of Rana Pratap Nagar police station Bhimrao Khandale said, “We are looking for brother of the woman Kartik was reportedly involved with. He is currently untraceable.” Sources said Kartik had called for help but no citizen came forward. The incident was also recorded on CCTV. The video of the incident was also making rounds on social media on Thursday. In another incident, Vaibhav Murte alias Matre, 30, was murdered by two persons who first threw chilli powder in his eyes. Vaibhav was also riding his bike when attack happened. Besides stabbing him, the assailants also stoned Vaibhav before fleeing. Hudkeshwar police are scrutinizing CCTV footage from nearby spots to identify the attackers. Sources said one Hrutik and Suraj who had old enmity with Vaibhav are prime suspects. In the third incident, a mutilated body of a 45-year-old man was found at an open space near Empress Mall. Police have also arrested the accused Roshanlal Verma and Mehboob Khan in this matter. On Thursday morning, Ganeshpeth police had found the body with a hand and leg missing. The deceased was identified as Golu and he hailed from Chattishgarh. The accused had allegedly murdered Golu over a petty issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-killed-over-love-affair-2-more-murders-rock-city/articleshow/76204669.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 5, 2020||Trichy||Officials told to speed up disbursal of crop loan: Minister||TRICHY: A total of 22,172 farmers have been disbursed with crop loan to the tune of Rs 173.77 crore during this year, of which Rs 43.88 crore was sanctioned for farmers in the delta districts alone, minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju said here on Thursday. He also said officials have been instructed to sanction loan to the needy farmers without delays. The announcement comes even as farmers have been alleging that no cooperative or primary agriculture credit societies are sanctioning any loan, especially with water going to be released into Cauvery from Mettur on June 12 for kuruvai cultivation. The minister convened a meeting in Trichy on Thursday to take stock of preparations of kuruvai paddy cultivation, availability of required inputs like seeds, fertilizers and speeding up of disbursal of crop loan to the needy farmers. “A total of Rs 11,000 crore has been allotted for crop loan in the state for 2020-21, in which a total of 22,172 farmers across the state have so far availed loan to the tune of Rs 173.77 crore, till May 22,” Raju said. The required volume of urea, DAP, MOP and complex fertilizers of 29,889 tonnes have been kept ready, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/officials-told-to-speed-up-disbursal-of-crop-loan-min/articleshow/76204649.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Amol Palekar remembers Basu Da: His film club friend, collaborator & mentor||PUNE: Veteran filmmaker Basu Chatterjee, who died on Thursday at the age of 90, was a prominent member of the film society movement in Mumbai in the 1960s and a young actor he had met then later became a frequent collaborator. That actor, Amol Palekar, was part of the Film Forum for the same reasons as Chatterjee — to experience world cinema, other than traditional Hollywood fare. “At the forum, young people were exposed to world cinema, be it Japanese, Italian or other European movies. We were generally fed only Hollywood cinema otherwise. That had a tremendous impact on us, and it explains why Basu Da made non-mainstream cinema and expanded parallel cinema. He became a perfect bridge between parallel and mainstream cinema,” Palekar told TOI, recounting his association with Chatterjee. That partnership between Chatterjee and Palekar in the 70s and 80s brought a new kind of character to Indian cinema, a departure from the traditional larger-than-life heroes and villains. Be it in “Rajnigandha”, “Chhoti Si Baat” or “Baaton Baaton Mein”, the characters portrayed by Palekar and his fellow cast members were based on everyday people, out and about to make a living or to find love all while overcoming, sometimes embracing, their shy personalities or other flaws. “The flaws and insecurities made the characters very real. The audiences would look at the man, who makes mistakes, or can’t even say the three words I Love You to women they liked. Look at ‘Rajnigandha’. Over two hours, my character never says those words to the leading lady. Leading ladies changed over the years in the films I made with Basu Da, from Vidya Sinha to Zarina Wahab to Shabana Azmi to Tina Munim, but I don’t remember uttering those words. His characters expressed love by drawing a picture of a girl while sitting in a local train,” Palekar laughed. When he became a filmmaker himself, Palekar took Chatterjee’s career path as an inspiration itself. “He gave me the conviction of being in the non-mainstream cinema as a filmmaker. It requires tremendous courage and Basu Da had that. As a director, he knew how not to be seen by the audience. He took everyone watching along with him in his films. He didn’t try to impress his audience with a certain style or techniques. Basu Da did that by creating real situations and believable characters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/palekar-remembers-basu-da-his-film-club-friend-collaborator-mentor/articleshow/76203815.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||A global, virtual concert to help Bengal||Kolkata: Stay Alive, a Facebook group that some non-resident Bengalis created at the beginning of the Covid-19 lockdown in the UK, is set to bring together various fund-raisers and stars on one platform for a mega concert, titled ‘Pray for Bengal’ this Saturday. The virtual concert is aimed at urging Bengalis all over the world to contribute to any fund-raiser revive from the devastating Amphan impact. When Stay Alive founder members Suranjan Som, Ani Bardhan and Surojoy Bhowmick heard about the Cyclone Amphan destruction, they planned a joint fund-raiser with Bengalis worldwide. But with different groups working on their own fund-raisers, they decided to tie up with Sangeeta Datta and Piloo Vidyarthi to hold a concert that would bring together all fund-raisers and stars. “The two-three-hour show starting at 6.30pm India time will be hosted live on Stay Alive Concerts on Facebook. We have confirmations from over 40 including Aparna Sen, Sharmila Tagore, Rupankar, Rupam Islam and Raima Sen as well over 30 charites and fund-raisers worldwide,” said Som, who studied at South Point and JU and is now the vice-president of financial services at Hitachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-global-virtual-concert-to-help-bengal/articleshow/76203820.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmers’ association slams new ordinance||HYDERABAD: Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farmers’ body on Thursday slammed the new ordinance ‘One India, One Agriculture Market’ approved by the Centre to bring in agricultural reforms. Members of the body opined that it will dilute the existing Essential Commodities Act, which protects the interests of both consumers and farmers. Ravi Kanneganti of Rythu Swarajya Vedika on Thursday issued a statement saying that during the lockdown, the prices of essentials have skyrocketed, but the new ordinance will only help big companies. “The Centre’s decison to not allow the sale of oil in loose will also benefit the big companies and not the small farmers or consumers. The new ordinance is nothing but legalising of contract farming. There is no truth in saying that the ordinance will get farmers remunerative prices for their produce,” he said. He further alleged that agricultural corporations like FCI, CCI and NAFED were procuring only a small percentage of farm produce. “The new ordinance will dilute the bargaining power of farmers for the produce. Farmers and activists should join hands to fight this ordinance,” Ravi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-association-slams-new-ordinance/articleshow/76203810.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Gomtinagar quietest in day time||Lucknow: Gomtinagar witnessed maximum improvement in day noise levels during lockdown, while Indiranagar was best at night. IITR found average noise level of 54.4 decibels in Gomtinagar during day was lowest among all residential areas monitored and also less than CPCB permissible limit of 55 decibels. It was 25% lower in comparison to same period last year. In Indiranagar, nights were quieter with average noise level of 42.7 decibels, lowest in the city’s residential localities and lower than 45 decibel permissible limit. It was also a drop of 32% over last year. However, the average noise level 60.2 decibel in the area was above permissible limit during daytime, despite almost 9% fall in comparison to last year. The noisiest locality in day time was Aliganj with average 62 decibels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomtinagar-quietest-in-day-time/articleshow/76204640.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR: 82% aware of air pollution’s effect on lungs, 77% willing to switch to public transport, finds study||NEW DELHI: Almost 58% of people in NCR feel the air is ‘bad’ or ‘very bad’ in the region, while 82% know that air pollution has an impact on their health, say the findings of an air pollution awareness survey carried out by non-profit organisation Lung Care Foundation ahead of World Environment Day. Shockingly enough, almost 84% of people did know what the Air Quality Index was and what it depicted, while despite acknowledging the health impacts of air pollution, 60.6% respondents say they did not use a face mask to protect themselves from pollution. A large chunk (77%) is also willing to switch to using public transport, which the survey states gives hopes for more participation and acceptance from the public. The survey collected data from 1,757 respondents in Delhi-NCR. Each of Delhi’s districts were targeted with busy metro stations and people in a 1km radius questioned for the survey. However, almost 87% of the respondents had never been to school or had studied up to 8th standard or 12th standard only. For World Environment Day, David Kennedy, minister counsellor for public affairs at the US Embassy in Delhi also launched a website Saaf Hawa Aur Naagrik (SHAN) — an initiative of the NGO supported by the embassy. The SHAN website ( www.shan.org.in), available in English and Hindi, is aimed at providing information to understand air pollution, its causes, and health impacts, enabling citizen action for clean air. The survey also highlights that almost 92.2% people did not know the difference between PM2.5 and PM10, while 38.8% admitted they or their family members visited a hospital in the last one year due to respiratory ailments. “Though 76.5% of participants said air pollution impacts the lungs, only 14.7% said air pollution impacts the heart, 9.2% said air pollution impacts brain, and only 1.7% said air pollution impacts the reproductive system. This highlights that the public is aware that poor air quality affects their health but is not aware of the extent of the damage,” said the survey. Abhishek Kumar, founder and CEO of Lung Care Foundation says the survey findings will be crucial in developing a comprehensive, innovative and multipronged public education campaign as part of project SHAN to combat air pollution in the Delhi-NCR. “The project aims to equip citizens with the information they need to understand the problem of Air Pollution and take reasonable steps to reduce it,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/82-aware-of-air-pollutions-effect-on-lungs-77-willing-to-switch-to-public-transport-finds-study/articleshow/76203805.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 5, 2020||Pune||June rain bounty for Maharashtra, mercury plummets by 10°C||PUNE: Even before the monsoon enters the state, the weather bureau’s data on rainfall shows that Cyclone Nisarga left Maharashtra with a June rain bounty. The entire state’s rainfall in four days of June has been 52.9mm, five times more than the normal of 10.6mm. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI rain in early June benefits pre-sowing activities for kharif crops after soils have partially dried following the rabi harvests. “The moisture will now help farmers across Maharashtra prepare their lands for sowing. Konkan is expected to get more rain spells in the next seven days, while south-central Madhya Maharashtra is expected to get rain at isolated places in the next five days. Pune district is also expected to get light rain over the next three to four days. Isolated places in Marathwada and Vidarbha are also expected to get rain till June 8.” The biggest impact of the constant rain has been a perceptible drop in day temperatures across the state. Kashyapi said the day temperatures across various locations in the state dropped by an average of 10C. Till last week, the maximum temperatures were close to 40C.  “Locations like Shivajinagar, Lohegaon, Malegaon, Aurangabad, Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Chandrapur, Gondia and others on Thursday showed negative day temp departures to the tune of seven to 13C. Day temperature in Shivajinagar was 26.6C on Thursday, while the minimum temperature was a close 21.6C. At Lohegaon too, day temperature was as low as 26.7C, while its minimum temperature on Thursday was 22.3C,” Kashyapi said. D S Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services, IMD, Pune told TOI that the amount of rain expected from the cyclone did not occur. “Maharashtra was lucky that the rain due to the cyclone were initial June rains. A cyclone affecting a region once the monsoon has already begun can cause flooding. Accidents that occurred on Wednesday were mostly because of the strong, gusty winds. Also, the timely forecast and government evacuation efforts helped avert loss of lives from the impact of the cyclone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mercury-falls-by-10c-june-rain-bounty-for-state/articleshow/76204639.cms||Neha Madaan
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Some private labs giving Covid-19 negative certificate, it’s illegal: Chennai corporation chief||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash on Thursday hinted at a scam in the city, involving private labs and agents luring people who were being asked to produce Covid-19 negative certificates by employers for returning to work. In response to a question asked by a reporter, Prakash said this was patently illegal and that they had come to know about it. “I don’t want to name them, but some private labs are doing this using agents. Some private hospitals are also involved. We will be taking action,” he said. Prakash said as far as testing was concerned, state government and Centre’s norms were to be followed. Prakash said anybody who has recovered from Covid-19 can go to work and that there was no need for such a certificate to be provided, as per existing labour laws. “Though we have said it earlier, it shall be reiterated with a circular and a clarification,” he said. It was a wrong practice to insist or compel people cured of Covid-19 to provide such certificates, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/some-pvt-labs-giving-covid-ve-certificate-its-illegal-corpn-chief/articleshow/76203811.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Missing woman, 40, reunited with her family after 2 years||TRICHY: A 40-year-old woman with learning difficulties from Thiruvottiyur who went missing for over two years was united with her family. While most of her family members believed that Shanthi, 40 would have died, her 20-year-old son Aravind didn’t give up and kept searching for her. His hope was restored when he found her in a destitute home in Pudukottai district and took her back with his family members on Wednesday. One of the volunteers from Nesakkaram – a home for destitute in Pudukottai had rescued her near Erode railway station in October 2019. The volunteer had posted details of Shanthi on social media platforms which was spotted by Aravind. Shanthi had developed mental health issues while she was living at her mother’s place with her son after the death of her husband. She left her home in March 2018. Aravind was in college then. His grand-mother and uncle took care of him. Her family members searched for her, and registered a missing complaint. However, she was spotted by volunteers a year later. V Maheshwari, managing director, Nesakkaram said that they tried to get details of her family members but in vain. We took her to the doctors who said that she could be cured if kept under medication, said Maheshwari. Now, Shanthi could identify her mother and her younger brother Vinod but could not identify her son. Since she recognized her family members and the details furnished by the family members about Shanthi were authentic, we allowed her to go with her family members, said Maheswari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/missing-woman-40-reunited-with-her-family-after-2-years/articleshow/76204637.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 80-year-old woman of Bapu Dham tests +ve||CHANDIGARH: After a day’s lull, a Covid-19 positive case was reported in the city on Thursday. An 80-year-old woman, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, is the latest case. She is a community contact of a positive case. The authorities said after her test reports were received, six of her family contacts were sampled. One of her contacts, who was sampled earlier, has tested negative. With this, the case count of Chandigarh now stands at 302, including 75 active ones. Besides, eight patients, all residents of Bapu Dham Colony, were discharged on the day, taking the number of cured patients to date to 222. The eight treated ones include a 27-year-old woman, a 14-year-old boy and six men aged 18, 29, 19, 42, 56 and 26. They have been shifted to post-discharge quarantine center at Sood Dharamshala, Chandigarh. To date, 5,059 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 4,735 were negative. Reports of 21 persons are awaited. The death count in the city so far is five. On June 1, the city had recorded five new cases, including a Canada returnee. The next day, three cases and a death were reported. On June 3, no case was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/80-yr-old-woman-of-bapu-dham-tests-ve/articleshow/76203797.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||HSP, e-way teams clear fallen trees off stretch||PUNE: The Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) and expressway control room worked overnight to clear several fallen trees from the Pune-Mumbai expressway. The trees had fallen due to strong winds and rainfall caused by Cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday. “The teams responded to over 25 distress calls relating to uprooted trees. In some cases, two to three trees had fallen, most on the Mumbai corridor of the eway,” said Milind Mohite, superintendent of police, HSP. As of now, only about 22,000 vehicles engaged in essential services and those issued travel passes are being allowed to ply on the expressway but the authorities expected a traffic build-up if the trees were not cleared, Mohite said. “Some trees were huge enough to cover a lane or two of the expressway. It was necessary to remove them as quickly as possible to avert any untoward incident,” he said. The expressway traffic was thinner than usual on Wednesday so the work of clearing trees was eased. Similarly, over 40 trees fell on the old Mumbai — Pune highway. “These trees covered a major part of the carriagway but police teams, along with local authorities, removed the trees from the road between Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsp-e-way-teams-clear-fallen-trees-off-stretch/articleshow/76204660.cms||Gitesh Shelke
June 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Probe into vicar’s source of infection inconclusive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government, which has shrugged off even the slightest mention of chances of community spread, may also have to tackle the possibility of hospital-acquired infection (HAI) or nosocomial infection (NI), especially after the confirmation of Covid-19 in a person who spent over 40 days in two hospitals. Fr K G Varghese, whose test results came after his death, was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) from April 20 to May 20 following an accident. He was shifted to district hospital, Peroorkada, and was readmitted to MCH on May 31. The presence of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) prompted test for Covid-19. The epidemiological investigation team has centred its study around healthcare workers, visitors and patients who were admitted in surgical ward of the District Hospital around the same time Varghese was shifted there. Visitor entry is learnt to have been restricted since the patient had been treated for a serious head injury. The interviews of other patients have been completed and the team has not come across evident symptoms among healthcare workers or other patients. Apprehensions were earlier raised over NI after Abdul Azeez, a resident of Pothencode, had died of Covid-19 in MCH in March. He had been taken to a private hospital and then to MCH on March 23. He was put on ventilator for five days and died around March 30 midnight. Around 230 samples of contacts were tested following his death and source of infection remains unknown. Fr Varghese also had to be put on ventilator during his initial period of hospitalization between April 20 and May 20 at MCH. According to authorities, none of the medical staff have shown any symptoms so far. Sample collection will be repeated after five days. “Till now, Kerala has been able to adhere to strict triaging and screening process. As cases with undetected sources tend to increase, we will reach a point, where we have to screen patients who come to hospitals for unrelated/non-respiratory illness,” said a health official. An article published in the internal medicine journal ‘Annals of internal medicine’ says there has to be aggressive measures about respiratory hygiene and placing restrictions on patients, visitors and health care workers with even mild symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection. Standoff over burial ends: The stalemate over the burial of Fr Varghese, who died on Tuesday, was resolved as city corporation stepped in to initiate discussions with the parish and identified an alternative site for the burial in a cemetery at Malamugal on Thursday. Locals had protested on Wednesday against the burial on a site initially chosen by the authorities citing legal dispute over landownership, forcing them to put off the priest’s final rites. Mayor K Sreekumar held discussions with the priest’s family and the parish and pitched other alternatives, including cremation as the last option. The cemetery of Kumarapuram’s St Thomas Orthodox chapel, at Malamugal, which was near the first site, was then finalised for the burial. The corporation deployed the machinery to prepare the burial pit as per Covid-19 protocol for management of dead bodies. Police personnel were deployed in the wake of the protests from local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-into-vicars-source-of-infection-inconclusive/articleshow/76202884.cms||Aswin J Kumar
June 5, 2020||Trichy||Over 5,800 who returned to Pudukottai to get loan to start business||TRICHY: The Pudukottai district administration has identified over 5,800 people who returned from across India and overseas to be given working capital to the tune of Rs 12 crore for self-employment. A total of 167 of them will get long-term loans through the village poverty alleviation association. The state government had announced a special assistance of Rs 300 crore last week for rejuvenation of rural enterprises. Official sources said the scheme would benefit 5,879 people in Pudukottai. It will be implemented in 172 panchayats in Pudukottai, Thiruvarankulam, Aranthangi and Viralimalai. A total of 1,376 people will get a maximum of Rs 50,000 as long-term loan through panchayat-level federations. While the total value of the loan amounts to Rs 6.8 crore, another Rs 1.03 crore will be given to 69 producers’ groups having 1,380 members. Each group will be given Rs 1.50 lakh as one-time working capital. Besides this, eight business groups with five members each will get Rs 1.5 lakh each. A total of 167 returnees will get Rs 1 lakh each under village poverty eradication organisations to start their own business. Working capital of Rs 10 lakh each will be given for a producers’ federation with 500 members each. A total of 1,376 people from the transsexual community, widows, differently-abled and destitute will be identified and given Rs 20,000 each to revive their small business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-5800-who-returned-to-pudukottai-to-get-loan-to-start-biz/articleshow/76204672.cms||Sampath Kumar
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Noise level at night was often below CPCB limit||LUCKNW: The silence was deafening in Charbagh commercial area, particularly before the first Shramik Special trains trundled in, while in the rest of the city, decibel levels at night were low to the point of haunting. During the 68-day lockdown period between March 25 and May 31, noise levels in the state capital dipped by 20-30% in various localities at night, compared to the same period last year, often veering below permissible limits set by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Day-time average noise levels also witnessed a sharp dip of 8-25% in different localities as compared to same period in 2019, but continued to be above prescribed limits. These facts were revealed by the CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) study based on data recorded at seven locations in the city. CPCB fixed 55 decibel level for residential and 65 decibel for commercial areas during day. For the night, the corresponding figures were 45 and 55 decibels. Charbagh which remains busy 24x7 due to constant clank of moving trains and vehicles witnessed average noise levels dipping between 21-29% during the day and night during the lockdown period compared to last year. In fact, at night, Charbagh recorded an average of 47.8 decibel, well below prescribed limit for commercial area and almost equal to a residential area. Similar was the case with Alambagh commercial area. “Noise levels dropped significantly both during day and night in residential areas because of no vehicular movement and construction activity. However, levels could not drop below permissible limit during the day due to movement of essential services, use of electrical appliances like ACs at homes, generator sets in offices and other human activity,” said experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/noise-level-at-night-was-often-below-cpcb-limit/articleshow/76204679.cms||Mohita Tewari
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: 20 charged with killing four youths in Gokulpuri||NEW DELHI: A chargesheet was filed by Delhi Police Crime Branch on Thursday against 20 men in the murder case of four Muslim youths whose bodies were found in a drain near Johripur in northeast Delhi’s Gokulpuri. All the accused were members of a WhatsApp group created during the intervening night of February 25-26. The group had 125 members, some of whom had allegedly participated in the riots. While most members just forwarded messages, the two administrators and a few others were involved in active rioting, police claimed in the chargesheet. Police zeroed in on the two administrators through technical surveillance and arrested seven members of the group based on an eyewitness’s statement. They were found involved in the murder of Hashim Ali, a resident of Gokulpuri. Eleven others from the group were arrested later for murdering Hashim’s brother, Amir Ali. Amir’s mobile phone was recovered from one of the accused and is now a part of evidence. The brothers were reportedly murdered on February 26 between 9pm and 10pm, the chargesheet mentioned. Meanwhile, a second chargesheet was filed against 12 people for setting fire to a sweets shop near Kardampuri in which an employee, Dilbar Negi, was charred to death. Negi had gone to the godown of Anil Sweets for lunch and was taking rest. He was charred to death when the rioters set fire to the godown. His body was recovered by police the next day when fire officials reported its presence. Around 3pm on February 26, riots broke out in Kardampuri-Chand Bagh area. A mob came from Brijpuri pulia in Chand Bagh and set fire to properties like Anil Sweets, a book shop, Anil Dairy & Pastry shop, DRP School and a godown of Anil Sweets. Rioting continued till late at night before police and the fire brigade could enter the area, the chargesheet mentioned. A resident of Mahalaxmi Enclave, Rahul Solanki, was also shot dead around the same time from a close range. Police registered 12 cases of rioting, arson and murder after this incident. “The call detail records of the suspects were analysed based on eyewitness accounts and technical evidence. Twelve accused were arrested between March 7 and 9 and booked for riots, arson, murder and causing damage to public and private property,” the chargesheet stated. The bail pleas of all the accused have been denied several times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20-charged-with-killing-4-youths-in-gokulpuri/articleshow/76203860.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Citizens fume as MSEDCL struggles to restore power in Pune||PUNE: The power supply disruptions continued in several parts of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural as the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) struggled to repair snapped supply lines, damaged underground cables and reinstall 1,440 electric poles uprooted by strong wind because of cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday. “We are hoping to restore supply to all the affected areas by tonight (Thursday night) as our employees have been working round the clock since Wednesday. But the persisting strong wind is posing a challenge,” said an MSEDCL official. Power supply to some parts of the NIBM Road area, Ambegaon, Sahakarnagar, Market Yard, Janata Vasahat, Baner, Yevalewadi, Hadapsar, Vimannagar and Vishrantwadi was expected to be restored late on Thursday night. Repairs were on to restore power supply to 47 transformers, said an MSEDCL statement. As many as 45 electric poles were uprooted in the Pune municipal limits, while over 100 power supply cables snapped after trees and branches fell on them. As many as 45 electric poles and four transformers collapsed in Pimpri Chinchwad and Bhosari. Water seeping into feeder pillars and underground cables made the matters worse. As many as 1,330 electric poles were uprooted in Maval, Khed, Junnar and Ambegaon. The damage to power infrastructure is pegged at Rs20 crore, affecting 5.57 lakh consumers in 794 villages. Residents in the city struggled to cope with the prolonged power failure. “We are suffering from frequent power cuts for two days. The power went off around 2am on June 3. The electricity came back in the evening and then went off for quite some time. Even on Thursday, we had a power cut,” said Hitesh Kamchandani, a resident of Prithvi Park. “Water cannot be pumped up to the tank because there is no electricity. Our generators have stopped working. I got a text from the MSEDCL informing me that the power would come back by noon, but it was 3pm when the supply was restored,” said Debashmita Paul, a resident of an independent building in the NIBM Road area. Wagholi resident Yogesh Patil said the power went off on Wednesday afternoon. “We need to be prepared better. The MSEDCL staffers have been working hard to fix the issue in Wagholi. I think it’s time the utility increased its staff strength and upgraded infrastructure in areas like Wagholi. These power cuts can’t go on like this,” he said. Pushpal Talukdar from Kondhwa said many residents were unable to get in touch with the MSEDCL during the power failure. “The helplines were either engaged or not being answered,” said Talukdar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-struggles-to-restore-power-residents-fume/articleshow/76204680.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two cops in trouble for negligence||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday shifted the Sangvi police station in-charge, a senior inspector, to the police control room and suspended a sub-inspector for negligence in the investigation of a cheating case involving Solapur’s deputy mayor Rajesh Dilip Kale (42). Kale has been accused of selling a flat at Pimple Nilakh to multiple buyers. The Sangvi police had summoned him for questioning on May 30. During the process, Kale started sneezing and complained about flu-like symptoms. Police then allowed Kale to go home after issuing him a notice to return for questioning after a week. The Sangvi police station’s officer in-charge, senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Sable, claimed that Kale’s medical examination had shown that he was running a fever and, so he was served a notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-cops-in-trouble-for-negligence/articleshow/76203827.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Farmer killed in tiger attack||Chandrapur: A farmer was killed in tiger attack while his wife had a lucky escape while they were working in a farm in buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve on Thursday evening. Officials informed that the victim, Rajpal Nagose (40) and his wife were building wooden fence around their farm in Bahmhangaon under Khadsangi range. The farm is close to border of TATR core. Nagose left to chop some branches from distant trees but did not return for a long time. The farmer’s wife started searching for him and found a tigress with its cubs prowling in their farm. She fled to the village to later return with villagers who found the mutilated body of the farmer. RFO, Khadsangi range, Kiran Dhankute confirmed that the farmer died in tiger attack and claimed that an ex gratia aid of Rs50,000 has been given to kin of the victim. This is 19th human kill in predator attacks in Vidarbha this year. Predators have so far killed 13 people in Chandrapur this year. Out of these, 12 have been killed in tiger attacks, while one person was killed by leopard. Last year 23 people were killed in predator attacks in Chandrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmer-killed-in-tiger-attack/articleshow/76217197.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nashik||After Malegaon, Nashik city is the new Covid-19 hotspot||Nashik: Nashik city has registered a surge in coronavirus cases in the last 12 days between May 24 and June 4 with 168 active cases. The city has become a new hotspot for the contagion. Malegaon, which was earlier a Covid-19 hotspot, has only 104 active cases as of now. The Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) health officials said that Covid-19 hotspot in the district has been shifted from Malegaon to Nashik city. “Raiways have started its operations and people from Mumbai and other destinations have started coming to Nashik city. This increases the risk of virus transmission,” said NMC officials. “The influx of people from the affected places like Mumbai, Malegaon and other destinations have increased in the city after relaxation in lockdown rules. It has overall led to rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the city,” the officials added. Civic officials said that there has been a rise in Covid-19 cases by around 20 per day on an average. “We are expecting the same rate of Covid-19 patients in the city for the next 10-12 days. But, there will be a drop in the cases thereafter,” the officials further said. Malegaon city had recorded its first patient on April 5 while Nashik city had recorded its first Covid-19 case on April 6. By May 24, there were only 88 positive cases in Nashik city with fur coronavirus-related deaths. However, there has been a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in Nashik city since the last 12 days, taking the total number of cases to 288 so far. Of these 288, 107 patients have recovered while 168 are being treated at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/after-malegaon-nashik-city-is-the-new-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/76201765.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Burglars strike at Sector 8 temple||CHANDIGARH: Two masked burglars broke into a temple in Sector 8 and escaped with gold and silver jewellery early on Thursday.  The theft came to light around 5am when Sanatan Dharm Shiva Temple sewadar Ganesh and security guard Shri Om woke up and saw a CCTV camera covered with a piece of cloth. The duo was sleeping in the temple but did not hear anything. Later, they found an iron grille of a window broken and gold and silver jewellery missing. They raised the alarm and informed the temple officials and the police about the theft. Temple officials said burglars stole two gold nose pins, a gold mangteeka, four silver thrones of idols, two silver idols of goddess, two silver bowls, three silver crowns, a silver flute from Krishna’s idol and a silver plate. The thieves also broke the donation box and stole cash. “At present, we cannot say how much cash was in the box,” said a temple official. A CCTV camera has captured the thieves, who entered the temple at 3.05am from the rear and left at 3.47am. Sector 3 police and a forensic team reached the spot and collected fingerprints and other evidence. A case has been registered. On March 12, burglars had stolen gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh from Sector 43 temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/masked-men-steal-jewellery-and-cash-from-sec-8-temple/articleshow/76203818.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: A few districts bear brunt of more returnees testing coronavirus positive||Return of Tamils, stuck across the country during the lockdown, to their native places over the past few weeks has resulted in a steep surge in Covid cases in several districts. While a few places like Chennai have higher number of indigenous cases, there are districts where ‘imported’ cases have overtaken local incidence of Covid-19. Most of these districts are in southern Tamil Nadu, where hundreds from the rural hinterland go up north seeking better livelihood. These people started returning in droves once the lockdown restrictions were eased towards the third week of May, spiking Covid cases in their native districts. Some districts like Tirunelveli and Tuticorin are badly hit by the influx of workers. Tirunelveli, a backward district in south Tamil Nadu which is largely rural, has only 115 ‘indigenous’ Covid positive cases while reporting 266 imported cases comprising people who returned largely from Maharashtra. Neighbouring coastal district of Tuticorin had 149 cases on May 23. In the next days it had more than doubled the Covid incidence with 301 cases on June 3, most of which were imported cases. Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts in south TN too had more imported cases than indigenous cases as of June 3 while in the central TN it was Pudukottai, west Salem and north Kallakurichi districts to emulate this trend. State health minister C Vijayabaskar said the influx of people from other states has emerged as the latest challenge in the battle against Covid 19 in Tamil Nadu. “However, we are testing each and every one returning to the state,” Vijayabaskar said. From May 14 when the Delhi – Chennai train entered the state, to June 1, Tamil Nadu has received 1.26 lakh people stranded in various parts of the country. A majority of them, close to 90,000, had reached the state through road either by own vehicles or buses. Though not all of them are migrant workers, government officials say 80% of them could be those working in other states like Maharashtra or Gujarat. Of these returnees, about 1,740 such returnees have tested positive so far, most of whom are from rural pockets. Though the returnees are tested at the district borders and hospitalized if found positive, there are instances where they test negative initially but develop symptoms later thus resulting in a spread. J Nirmalson, deputy director of health, Salem district, says they have also come across instances where a person tests negative at the checkpost but during the follow up test after a week, they test positive. “When they test positive after a week, we consider them as indigenous cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-few-districts-bear-brunt-of-more-returnees-testing-ve/articleshow/76203832.cms||Mayilvaganan
June 5, 2020||Pune||PWD engineer arrested for taking Rs 2.5 lakh bribe||PUNE: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested an engineer of the Public Works Department (PWD) for demanding and accepting Rs2.5 lakh bribe from a contractor on Thursday afternoon from a contractor. The 53-year-old contractor had executed a government road project and wanted to get his pending bills of Rs50 lakh cleared by the PWD office. The suspect, Vilas Gopalrao Tambhale (57), demanded Rs3 lakh to clear the bills, before settling for Rs2.5 lakh. The Bund Garden police have registered a case against Tambhale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pwd-engineer-arrested-for-taking-rs-2-5l-bribe/articleshow/76203834.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||TANA virtual event on environment day||Hyderabad: TANA President Jai Talluri on Thursday announced that on the occasion of World Environment Day on June 5, 2020, Telugu Association of North America (TANA) is collaborating with United Nations to organise a three-day online event to spread awareness on protecting the environment. The theme this year is ‘Time for Nature-Celebrate and Protect Biodiversity’. Sirisha Tunuguntla, TANA women's coordinator, is executing the event.“The virtual event will offer a global opportunity for inspiring positivechange. It pushes for individuals to think about the importance of countering climate change. The three-day event will involve a series of interactions, literary and artistic activities.The partipants must know English, Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada,” said TANA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tana-virtual-event-on-environment-day/articleshow/76203829.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Fish stall of Covid patient attacked||Kozhikode: Miscreants ransacked the fish-vending stall owned by a Covid-19 patient at Purameri near Nadapuram on Thursday. The owner of the shop, J J Chombala, contracted the disease suspectedly from a fish market in Thalassery. The fish-vending tray in front of the shop and the grill were damaged in the attack. Police have registered a case. Health department has prepared fish merchant’s contact list containing more than 100 people. Some panchayats near Nadapuram and a ward in Vadakara municipality were declared hotspots after the person was found positive. He was the in the contact list of the relatives of the woman, also a fish merchant, who died of Covid-19 in Dharmadom. Some fish markets in Vadakara and Nadapuram areas were closed down after the person was declared positive. Many people in his contact list were tested negative and the results of the remaining are expected soon. Meanwhile, a total of 10 people were tested positive in Kozhikode on Thursday. One among them is a person who arrived on scooter from Chennai on May 24. He was under observation at the house of a relative and was admitted to Medical College on June 1. Another is a 22-year-old woman who arrived from Russia on May 20. A pregnant woman from Maniyoor who was admitted to Medical College Hospital on May 24 was also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/fish-stall-of-covid-patient-attacked/articleshow/76202899.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man peeps into woman’s room, booked||PUNE: The Dehu Road police on Wednesday registered an offence against a peeping Tom after his neighbour lodged an FIR against him. The woman stated in her complaint that the suspect was peeping through the bedroom window around 1.30am on Wednesday. “She also alleged that the suspect might have filmed her and her husband. He left after the woman’s husband raised an alarm on spotting him,” said an officer from the Dehu Road police. Suspecting that the neighbour may have recorded them, the woman approached the police and filed a complaint. “The man has been booked under the charges of outraging one’s modesty. Our probe is on,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-peeps-into-womans-room-booked/articleshow/76203831.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Controversial Laldhang-Chillarkhal road construction begins||Dehradun: After getting clearance from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) for the road construction at Laldhang-Chillarkhal, state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat on Thursday instructed his staff to prepare the needful documents to begin work. The proposed 11.5 kilometres (kms) road includes 4.5 kms stretch from Chamaria Bend to Siggadi Sot, which is the sole wildlife corridor between the Corbett Tiger Reserve and Rajaji Tiger Reserve. The project had run into controversy after the Supreme Court in June 2019 raised objections for beginning work without getting permission from the National Tiger Conservation Authority and MoEF. After that, the ministry gave permission, but with some riders. “We have been given certain guidelines to adhere to for making the road. I have directed the officials to stick to them and start the work on priority," said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/controversial-laldhang-chillarkhal-road-construction-begins/articleshow/76202905.cms||Shivani Azad
June 5, 2020||Trichy||Southern Railway to operate special trains till Chengalpet||TRICHY: Southern Railway has proposed to operate special trains between Trichy – Chengalpattu – Trichy shortly. This follows a request made by the Tamil Nadu government to resume a few more trains within the state. The government is communicating with the Southern Railway headquarters and expressing willingness to resume train services without violating any protocol imposed by the health department to combat Covid-19, officials said. So, it has suggested the railways operate trains up to Chengalpet as Chennai continues to remain a hotspot due to daily surge in Covid infection. As per the proposal, a superfast intercity special between Trichy and Chengalpet will be operated via Ariyalur, Villupuram, Melmaruvathur on the chord line. Another service between the same destinations would operated on the mainline via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Villupuram and Melmaruvathur. A superfast intercity special between Arokkonam and Coimbatore is also on the anvil, railway sources said. A senior official from the operating department in Trichy railway division told TOI that there was a proposal to operate these trains. However, no communication has been received in this regard. “We are ready to operate trains for the benefit of passengers, as the state government is willing to operate trains in a phased manner based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation,” the official added. Meanwhile, patronage for train services which commenced between Trichy – Nagercoil, Madurai – Villupuram and Coimbatore –Mayiladuthurai on June 1, have started picking up, as there is a steady surge in the number of commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sr-to-operate-special-trains-till-chengalpet/articleshow/76204688.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyd-bound flight grounded||Pune: An Alliance Air flight from Pune to Belgaum (9I868), slated to fly to Hyderabad, was grounded on Thursday afternoon at the city airport because of technical reasons, leaving several flyers stranded for hours. The Alliance Air airline’s officials managed to fly in another aircraft from Kolhapur to Pune and adjusted some of the Hyderabad-bound passengers in vacant seats. The remaining passengers have been rescheduled in another aircraft, which will fly to Hyderabad on Friday., the airline said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-bound-flight-grounded/articleshow/76203835.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||Crops damaged after govt ignored cyclone Nisarga warning, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday urged the state government to fix responsibility on officials for the damage of freshly acquired wheat and gram in purchasing centres across several districts. Due to cyclone Nisarga, heavy rains destroyed tonnes of freshly purchased food grains lying under the open in purchasing centres across Madhya Pradesh. “Out of sheer negligence, tonnes of wheat are now soaking wet, amounting to losses worth thousands of crores of rupees,” Nath said in a statement. “Warnings were given in advance about the cyclone, which the government ignored,” he alleged. Nath said that in the last couple of days, tonnes of wheat kept in the open got wet. “Government’s responsibility is not just to sit comfortably in rooms and purchase wheat. Transportation and storage only exist in state’s statistics and data. There is no proper arrangement for the transportation and storage of the acquired wheat and gram,” he said. He said there has been a bumper wheat crop this year but because of Covid-19, acquisition of wheat under MSP started late from April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/crops-damaged-after-govt-ignored-cyclone-warning-says-nath/articleshow/76203837.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Maharashtra cops seize Rs 1.2 crore, book Telangana beedi leaves contractor||HYDERABAD: After seizing Rs 1.2 crore cash from two persons working for a Warangal-based tendu (beedi) leaves contractor, Maharashtra police have booked a case under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) against four persons, including two workers and the contractor, on suspicion that the cash was meant to be handed over to Maoists. Acting on specific information provided by informants on Tuesday morning, police intercepted a Scorpio (MH 34 BF 7221) travelling from Telangana to Maharashtra at Sironcha near the interstate border. Police seized Rs 1.2 crore cash from the men travelling in the Scorpio vehicle and took them into custody for questioning. Two men nabbed by police were identified as Sanjay Awathare and Sudhir Raut from Ashti in Maharashtra. “We have intercepted two men from Maharashtra in the vehicle and seized Rs 1.2 crore cash from their possession. We have registered a case against the two men, their colleague Mohammed Alliuddin of Warangal and their employer Mohammed Basu Mia, a tendu leaf contractor from Warangal under Sections 17,18 and 21 of the UAPA,” Gadchiroli superintendent of police (SP) Sailesh Balkawade said. The SP said that income tax sleuths were trying to trace the origin of the seized cash. “We have not taken the two men from Warangal into custody. Along with IT sleuths, we are investigating about the source of the cash and the reason for carrying the amount,” the SP said. On the same day, Gadchiroli police had intercepted another tendu leaves contractor Ch Narayana Reddy of Mancherial at Sironcha and seized Rs 99.3 lakh cash from his possession. That amount was also handed over to I-T sleuths for examination. However, Telangana police sources said no case has been booked against Narayana Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maha-cops-seize-rs-1-2cr-book-t-beedi-leaves-contractor/articleshow/76203844.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Maintenance of parks: Mohali MC losing Rs 6 crore annually||MOHALI: The Mohali municipal corporation (MC) has been incurring losses to the tune of Rs 6 crore annually for the last four years over maintenance of 569 big and small parks in the city, as the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) has backtracked on its promise to transfer the maintenance charges to the civic body. In 2016-17, the corporation and the Gmada had inked an agreement, after which the latter had handed over the maintenance of all parks to the MC and agreed to pay Rs 50 crore for the same. The Gmada had also been making payments to various RWAs for maintaining around 142 parks, which was also to be transferred to the MC. However, after transferring Rs 9 crore to the civic body in instalments, the Gmada refused to pay the balance amount. Many in the civic body feel that spending Rs 6 crore annually on maintenance of parks would soon leave the MC funds starved and that it is advisable to surrender the ownership of parks if the Gmada does not pay. The MC has also proposed for maintenance of parks under the Public Private Partnership (PP) mode, which could save it Rs 6 crore annually, but the proposal is also stuck in the Punjab local bodies department. Municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have not lost hopes as the negotiations are not over with Gmada. Recently, we had a meeting with the new chief administrator of Gmada. She said Gmada is working out plans to pay the amount. As far as PPP mode is concerned, the proposal was sent to the local bodies department and approval is awaited. Once approved, we may adopt the parks policy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/maintenance-of-parks-mohali-mc-losing-rs-6cr-annually/articleshow/76203840.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
June 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three deaths in Andhra Pradesh, Covid-19 tally crosses 4,000 mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday registered three deaths and 141 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 4,112. The state’s death toll rose to 71, even as health officials tested 9,986 samples and of them, 98 residents and 43 migrants tested positive for novel coronavirus. Officials said 19 of the 98 cases pertaining to locals were linked to Koyambedu market in Chennai. Many merchants, who frequent the wholesale market in Chennai, from Nellore, Prakasam, Chittoor, Kurnool and other districts have tested positive. The market has emerged as a super spreader in the state. Andhra Pradesh also achieved the dubious distinction of crossing the 4000 Covid-19 mark on Thursday. The first Covid-19 case was reported in the state on March 12 and the caseload touched the 1,000 mark on April 25. As many as 65 patients, including 33 people, who returned from other states and three foreign returnees, recovered from the virus and discharged from hospitals since Wednesday. The total number of those recovered from the coronavirus in the state now stands at 2,521 including 244 people from other states and four foreign returnees. Now the active cases in the state stand at 1,520 (1033 from Andhra Pradesh, 372 from other states and 115 foreign returnees). On the Covid-19 toll front, Kurnool district has reported 27 Covid-19 deaths (highest in the state) followed by Krishna district with 20 deaths and Guntur district with nine deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-deaths-in-andhra-pradesh-covid-19-tally-crosses-4000-mark/articleshow/76203871.cms||Nalla.Babu
June 5, 2020||Trichy||SHG women heckle loan collection staff||TRICHY: Enraged over the persistent attempts insisting on repayment of loans during the lockdown, a group of women heckled three staff of a private microfinance company at Muthamizh Nagar in Thalakudi in Trichy on Thursday. As many as 50 women attached to self-help groups (SHG) in Muthamizh Nagar registered their strong protest against the three field staff from the branch of a nationwide microfinance company in Thiruverumbur. “We have no income since March. The government had also advised the lenders not to harass the borrowers. However, today the staff urged us to pay one month due failing which we should accept that we will pay the extra interest next month. As it is unfair, we confronted them,” said a member Chandrakala. A total of 18 SHGs comprising 10 members each borrowed loan of Rs 48,000 for each member in June 2019 with monthly repayment of Rs 2,000 for 24 months. Being daily-wage workers employed in gem cutting industries, construction workers and agriculture activities, income of these women and their spouse were reduced to almost zero during the lockdown. “Some women were ready to pay the instalment fearing consequences. Finance companies don’t consider the plight of the poor people,” said S Sundarajan the husband of an SHG member in the area. As the issue came to notice of the police, the officers attached to Kollidam police pacified the women protestors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shg-women-heckle-loan-collection-staff/articleshow/76204683.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt gets permit for sand mining, extraction of other minor minerals till June 30||Dehradun: With the state’s coffers running dry due to Covid-19-incduced lockdown, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday got permission for sand mining and extraction of other minor minerals till June 30 this year to tide over the crisis. This year in March and April, minor minerals extraction and sand mining could not be conducted and on May 31 the rivers were officially closed for mining. Notably, chief minister Trivendera Singh Rawat on May 29 had requested the Union envrionment ministry to allow mining beyond the permissible date, keeping in mind the plight of the state. The permission has been given for mining at seven river stretches, out of which four are in Nainital (Gaula, Kosi, Dabka, Nandhaur/Kailash) and one each at Haridwar (Kotawali), Pauri (Malan) and Chamapawat (Sharda). “Citing it as one-time relaxation, the ministry has extended the duration of mining for Uttarakhand,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, chief conservator of forest, Western Circle, Uttarakhand. The sudden and unplanned lockdown had rendered over 50,000 people jobless in Uttarakhand. This year, Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation (UKFDC) fetched just over Rs 231 crore revenue and failed to meet the target of Rs 379 crore for the year 2019-20, due to which this special permission was sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-gets-permit-for-sand-mining-extraction-of-other-minor-minerals-till-june-30/articleshow/76202897.cms||Shivani Azad
June 5, 2020||Pune||Cyclone kills 3 in district, Pune worst-hit in division||PUNE: The death toll caused by the cyclone in Khed, Maval, Ambegaon, Bhor, Velha and Junnar in Pune district rose to three on Thursday with one of the victims succumbing to injuries in the hospital. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “At least 1,350 temporary and 114 pucca houses have been damaged. Crop damage occurred over 402 hectares. A primary and final assessment would be readied in two days. The kin of the deceased will be given Rs4 lakh compensation through the state disaster relief fund.” Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “Pune, among the five districts in the division, was worst affected by the cyclone in terms of casualties and damage to property and crops. Kolhapur and Satara recorded heavy rains. Solapur and Sangli districts remained unaffected.” He said, “In Pune district, 31 Zilla Parishad schools, 57 anganwadis and four gram panchayat offices were damaged. In Satara, five schools were damaged and 69 electric poles were uprooted.” Pune ZP’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad, who visited the worst-hit Khed taluka, told TOI, “Roofs have blown away in most places and the structures damaged include homes, anganwadi, schools, panchayat offices, funeral ghats, shops etc. Roofs with Mangalore tiles have not been affected. Wall collapses took place only at places under construction.” Post-harvest structures such as onion stores, polyhouses and poultry shed roofs were affected. Unsold inventory in these structures suffered damage. Electrical wires were damaged due to falling trees and hoardings in a few places. Jowar crop was bent,” he said. Thirty households were shifted in Mulshi. Fallen trees and hoardings were removed in less than two hours using JCBs and cutters, volunteers in each village, first aid kits, ambulances, doctors and officials were ready in each village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyclone-kills-3-damages-crops-houses/articleshow/76204685.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 5, 2020||Pune||PCMC vows to clear uprooted trees in 48 hours||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Thursday said the civic administration would to redress all Nisarga-related complaints, such as tree felling and waterlogging, within 48 hours. Hardikar said this during the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s general body meeting. Corporations of the BJP, NCP and the Shiv Sena had accused the civic administration, particularly the garden department officials, of not answering their phone calls and not removing the uprooted trees from the roads. Hardikar said, “The garden department received 224 complaints, of which 127 have been redressed. The fire department received 107 complaints and resolved 74 of them. Work is in progress and will be over on Friday, for which the civic body will ensure additional manpower He said the civic administration has completed around 90% of nullah cleaning work and the rest would be done in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-vows-to-clear-uprooted-trees-in-48-hours/articleshow/76204691.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Crooks steal Rs 30 lakh in 3 cases of SIM swap in Pune||PUNE: The city cybercrime cell recently registered five SIM card-swapping cases, in which three people collectively lost around Rs30 lakh. The fraudsters had used the same method to swap all SIM cards — they obtain a SIM card’s unique 20-digit serial number and then have the telco issue a duplicate SIM, thus deactivating the original card so the victim doesn’t receive any calls or messages. The suspects then use the new SIM to access the victim’s bank account. In one case, the fraudsters obtained a pre-approved loan worth Rs18 lakh from a bank under their victim’s name. Senior inspector (cyber) Jayram Paygude said the fraudster had contacted the man to update his 3G SIM card to 4G. “The man shared the 20-digit serial number with the fraudster and subsequently got his SIM card swapped,” Paygude said. The fraudster then got access to the man’s bank account. The bank had a pre-approved loan offer. “The fraudster availed the facility and obtained a loan of Rs18 lakh from the bank,” Paygude said. The probe revealed that the loan amount was transferred to a bank account in Sangli district and further transferred to different e-wallets. “The fraudsters are based in Jharkhand,” Paygude said. Similarly, fraudsters obtained a loan of Rs11 lakh on another city-based victim’s name. By using the same method, the fraudsters also duped a Bavdhan resident of Rs1.15 lakh. The amount was transferred from his e-wallet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crooks-steal-rs-30-lakh-in-3-cases-of-sim-swap/articleshow/76203842.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kochi||E-learning results in gadget shortage||KOCHI: With more parents and organizations purchasing laptops, tablets and television sets for facilitating online classes for students in the state, there is a dearth of such electronics items in the state. Inability to import electronic gadgets coupled with high demand has seen most dealers and shops running out of stock. There was a two to three-fold leap in the sales of electronic gadgets, especially laptops, in May. “Normally, the average sales of laptops had been 7,000-8000 pieces a month. But, the combined sales of laptops brought out by all brands in the state in May were more than 20,000. This is the data pertaining to the sales through retail outlets or consumer sales. If the commercial sales or bulk sales are also taken into consideration, the total number will go up further,” said Aji Thomas, area sales manager, AMD, a US-based processor manufacturer which supplies the product to major brands. “All the stock with distributors had been sold out. Normally, the distributors will have a stock that is adequate to meet the requirements for a month or more. It will take at least a month for laptops to reach the hands of customers through the sales network comprising manufacturers to retailers. But, now it takes only a few days to complete this process,” Thomas, who takes care of the sales of the consumer division of the company across the state, said. The organizations and people’s representatives who have announced a “laptop or TV challenge” also said shortage of the electronic items is a hindrance in the way. “Many have offered support to laptop challenge announced by me. But, shortage of laptops is a problem,” Hibi Eden MP said. Retail chains across Kerala complain of shortage of supply of smart phones as well. “Greater demand is for the smartphone below Rs 10,000. But, the availability of such phones is almost nil. Similarly, many people demand tablets supporting 4G SIM, but only Wi-Fi tablets are available, with limited numbers though,” said Anver K M, director, TecQ, which has 26 retail outlets of cell phones across the state. Some of the organizations who have started tablet challenges or smartphone challenges to help poor students are now approaching the public to handover additional smart phones, tablets etc with them for the purpose. “Our objective was to purchase around 1,000 tablets as part of tablet challenge announced by Eden. It is after much effort, we expect that we may be able to get the distributors to supply at least 200 tablets. So, we have decided to approach the public for donating their unused tablets for the purpose,” said Yasir Arafath, secretary, Penta Menaka Owners’ Welfare Association in Kochi which has joined hands with the laptop challenge announced by Eden. The demand for TV sets also has increased considerably. “Our objective is to collect at least 500 TV sets and hand it over to government schools in Kannur district. But, the distributor could give only a few so far owing to the shortage,” said Shibin Kanai, secretary, SFI Kannur district committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/e-learning-results-in-gadget-shortage/articleshow/76202929.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
June 5, 2020||Trichy||117 stranded in Kuwait arrive at Trichy||TRICHY: A Kuwait Airways flight carrying the first batch of 117 people stranded there due to lockdown, touched down at the Trichy International Airport on Thursday evening. The passengers hail from 23 districts across the state, including 43 from the central region. A passenger from Andhra Pradesh was also part of the flight. Health workers screened all the passengers as per protocol laid down by the Union ministry of the health department. Swabs were also collected from the passengers for Covid-19 test at the airport itself. Of them, two passengers were found suffering from mild fever during the screening process. Following that, they were sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) for further medical examination, district collector S Sivarasu said. Other passengers were sent to their respective district where they have been asked to quarantine themselves for 14 days at their homes. Meanwhile, of the 178 passengers, including women and children who arrived here by a special flight from Dubai on Wednesday night, 38 have been put under quarantine at the government polytechnic college in Sethurapatti in Trichy and others in hotels on their own cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/117-stranded-in-kuwait-arrive-at-trichy/articleshow/76204693.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Youth kills father over money||Hyderabad: After a tiff over money, a young carpenter allegedly hit his father with a brick on the latter’s head, leading to bleeding injuries at their residence in Mustabad in Rajanna Sircilla district on Wednesday night. Though the man was rushed to a hospital, he succumbed to injuries a few hours later while undergoing treatment. Sircilla police said Surya Kanakaiah,44, died after his 22-year-old son Naveen hit him with a brick on his head. On Wednesday evening, Naveen asked his father Surya to give him money. “On the issue, they had an argument at their residence and Naveen hit his father with a brick,’’ Mustabad Sub-Inspector Laxma Reddy said. The victim’s wife and mother were at home when the quarrel happened. As Naveen left the residence, his other family members rushed a profusely bleeding Surya to hospital, where he underwent treatment for three hours and succumbed.A case was registered and Naveen was taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-kills-father-over-money/articleshow/76203856.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Kharar flyover work will hit Chandigarh water supply||CHANDIGARH: The city will face water shortage on three days — June 6, 9 and 12, as the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has to shift its transmission lines at Kharar flyover. After the civic body received a letter from the PSPCL, its engineering department started planning on how to maintain the supply so that residents don’t suffer. Sources in the MC engineering department said though the supply would be normal during morning hours, it would be severely affected during afternoon and evening hours. Water tankers will be kept ready and officers concerned of all divisions have been intimated. “Since the power supply will be shut from 9am to 5pm, the evening water supply will mainly be through reserved tank situated in Sector 39. After 5pm, the supply will resume but at a slow pace. Therefore, residents will have to fill their tanks in the morning. After June 12, supply will remain normal without any interruption,” sources said. A senior MC officer said, “As the Kharar flyover work is on, the PSPCL has to shift their transmission lines. The work was shut earlier due to Covid-19 and now it has resumed. They have to shift all the lines coming between the flyover and new lines have to be erected. We are ready with our plan and residents will not face any major problem.” This is not the first time that PSPCL has shut the power supply due to construction of the flyover. Earlier too, such requests were sent to the authority and more are likely in the future till the work completes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharar-flyover-work-will-hit-city-water-supply/articleshow/76203847.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 5, 2020||Pune||Residents try to reach Kalyaninagar waterlogging roots||PUNE: Residents, corporator and ward officer came together in Kalyaninagar on Wednesday to identify the reasons for the poor stormwater drainage in the area. Monday's rain had choked many lanes in Kalyaninagar, forcing residents to clear the garbage that had got stuck in the drains. Nagar Road ward officer Rajesh Bankar said a slew of measures, including installation of new pipelines, steel mesh drainage covers and clearing of clogged drains would be undertaken on an immediate basis by the municipal corporation to prevent waterlogging in the area. Many lanes in Kalyaninagar were waterlogged in the season's first rain on Monday. Society members said that the overflowing water from the road entered the society gates, causing major inconvenience to residents. The housing societies mainly in lanes 6, 11, 12, 13 and other adjoining areas faced the brunt of heavy rains for over two days. Following this, a meeting of Nagar Road ward officer Rajesh Bankar, corporator Yogesh Mulik, civic engineer Dnyaneshwar Lakhe and other staff members was called by the residents. "There is an inherent issue with the designing of the stormwater drainage system in this area. The nullah which comes out of Palace View Society is almost over six feet, but the moment it comes out on North Avenue Road, it splits into two small stormwater lines. This nullah chokes during the monsoon. Then it overflows on all sides, including North Avenue Road, and enters lanes 12,13,11 and 6," residents Ajay Bulbule and Mallika, who took up the issue with administration, said. Mallika said that the pre-monsoon cleaning has no meaning as the entire junk flows into the nullah after one or two downpours. "The big cables running through nullah add to the problem as garbage gets stuck in them. Even the water flowing into the nullah has gone up due to increase in residential area over a period of time, putting pressure on the nullah. So, there is flooding in the area during heavy rains." For a long term solution, the residents said that the behaviour of the nullah should be studied right from its beginning. Bulbul said, "This can be done by professional organisations, which act as consultants to the PMC for similar projects."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-measures-to-tackle-waterlogging-in-kalyaninagar/articleshow/76204697.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Woman, 23, sets ablaze mom-in-law, 58, held||TRICHY: A 23-year-old woman was arrested on Thursday for killing her mother-in-law by setting her ablaze when she was asleep. The incident took place at Vallathirakottai in Pudukottai on Tuesday when Raajambal, 58, was fast asleep in her house after returning from work in the evening. According to police, Pratibha poured kerosene on her sleeping mother-in-law and set her ablaze. Rajambal ran out of her house in flames seeking help. She was rescued by onlookers and rushed to Pudukottai medical college hospital where she died on Wednesday without responding to treatment. Vallathirakottai police carried out investigations and picked up Prathiba for inquiry. She confessed to the crime saying she was unable to bear being tortured for dowry by the woman. Married to Ramesh for the last two years, Prathiba has a nine-month-old child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-23-sets-ablaze-mom-in-law-58-held/articleshow/76204699.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||MLA wants action against doc||Hyderabad: BJP MLA Raja Singh demanded action against Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao for alleged negligence. In a video, the MLA alleged that a pregnant woman, who had tested Covid-19 positive, died because of negligence by doctors. “She had attended the last rites of her father, who had passed away due to Covid-19 and later, she too tested positive. I tried calling Dr Raja Rao to take care of the woman and not let her die. Despite several calls, Raja Rao did not answer the phone,” he said. Raja Rao said that the MLA’s allegations were baseless and that the woman’s husband Sanjay was already briefed about her medical condition. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mla-wants-action-against-doc/articleshow/76203863.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Spurt in drug smuggling: 16 arrested this month in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The city has witnessed a spurt in drug smuggling cases after relaxations in the curfew norms. After May 4, the police have arrested 16 drug smugglers so far. According to the cops, addicts have now started coming out of their houses and are approaching peddlers. Dalip Kumar (name changed), 32, a resident of Nayagaon, was a drug addict. His family came to know about his addiction only a few days back. His father said Dalip is married and has a two-year-old daughter. He said his son has been taking medicinal drugs for over five years. “We came to know about his addiction after he developed withdrawal symptoms during the lockdown,” he said. Dalip used to buy banned capsules from Bapu Dham colony, but due to the lockdown, he could not get capsules for more than a month. “His voice has changed and he cannot walk properly without capsules. We took him to a private doctor and his treatment has been started,” his father said. According to the data, the UT police have arrested 65 drug peddlers while trying to smuggle heroin, charas, ganja, banned injectable vials and medicines from different parts of the city, from January 1, 2020 to May 28, 2020. The data reveals that 16 police stations of the city have registered a total of 60 FIRs under the relevant section of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act this year till date. According to the police record, maximum drug peddlers were arrested with heroin and banned injectable vials. The police have recovered a total of 1326.26 gram heroin and 398 banned vials from peddlers. The police have also recovered 41.600 kg ganja from peddlers and 5.850 kg charas from drug smugglers till date. The cops have recovered 2,430 banned capsules and 15 cough syrup bottles from the peddlers. The data reveals that maximum 24 drug peddlers were arrested in 23 FIRs in January. In February, the cops caught 14 peddlers and registered the same number of FIRs. In March, the police arrested 10 peddlers and registered nine FIRs, while four drug peddlers were held in May. Sector 31 police had arrested a peddler with 50 gram heroin, one pistol, five cartridges and fake currency notes of Rs 39,900 value on February 21, 2020. Harinder Singh Shekhon, inspector, crime branch, UT police, said the cops have adopted a zero tolerance policy towards drug trafficking. The main reason behind the spurt in the drug peddling cases is the rise in the demand. After the relxations in the lockdown norms, the demand from addicts has increased and therefore drug peddlers are more active. However, the crime branch and other wings of the UT police are equally active in nabbing peddlers. ----------------------------------------- Box: On May 24, the crime branch police had arrested a Delhi-based woman with 260 gram heroin worth Rs 20 lakh. It was the biggest seizure made by the police this year so far. The accused woman had revealed the names of some small drug peddlers in the city. The crime branch has been looking for possible hideouts of the peddlers. The police said the accused woman bought vials from Saharanpur in UP and Ambala in Haryana for Rs 60 to Rs 80 per combination of vials and used to sell the same to addicts between Rs 250 and Rs 350. The drug peddlers are also selling heroin for Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 per gram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drug-smuggling-thrives-post-curfew-relaxations-16-held-this-month/articleshow/76203854.cms||Pawan Tiwari
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Vendors find lack of customers crippling in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: While it’s true Covid-19 has affected every business or industry, street vendors have been hit the hardest, as their day-to-day expenses were met by their daily transactions. Now, most of them are reduced to borrowing to run their daily livelihood. The relaxations of the lockdown gave them also a breather -- they were allowed to conduct their businesses, following the safety protocols set by the government. Most of them are at their designated places across the city to sell their items, but in the absence of customers, they are unable to recover even the amount invested. Sector 19-based Tilak Ram, who irons clothes for a living, said, “I have been doing this for almost a decade now. Earlier, I was quite busy, but now I hardly get work. Somedays, I don’t get even a single customer. I am borrowing money these days to get even my basic needs. This is the first time in all these years that I am feeling totally helpless.” The story of Sector 17-based cobbler, Rajbir, is no different from Tilak Ram. Tilak too is struggling hard to meet his expenses. “I have been in this profession from almost 19 years, but never faced this kind of situation until now. I make almost nothing these days. We are daily earners and if we don’t get any work, we go hungry.” Sumer, who sells tea from a shack in Sector 17, said, “I hardly get 10% of customers that I used to get. I have been doing this for the last 14 years and never thought I might have to look beyond this for my living. But it is becoming extremely difficult to meet our daily needs these days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vendors-allowed-to-do-business-but-find-lack-of-customers-crippling/articleshow/76203861.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Seafood exporters await Tamil Nadu policy for better catch||CHENNAI: Much before the lockdown, a marine food exporter from Chennai bumped into state fisheries minister D Jayakumar on a flight from Delhi to Chennai. "How is the industry doing," asked the minister, in all keenness. "It is doing very well sir, in every other state except Tamil Nadu," the exporter replied. "We will do something," the minister promised. While the industry continues to wait, the conversation sums up the state of the seafood industry in Tamil Nadu. The marine products export industry has had an appreciable performance over the past decade, registering a growth of 500% during the period and clocking an estimated turnover of Rs 50,000 crore last financial year, Seafood Exporters’ Association of India said in a recent letter to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal. Of this, around 65% comes from shrimps, with Andhra Pradesh alone accounting for 70% of that. Tamil Nadu, which has the second longest coastline in the country after Gujarat, has remained a small player with an insignificant share, with industry estimates ranging from Rs 4,000 crore – Rs 5,000 crore, thanks to some of the export consignment papers moving through authorities in Chennai. "Beyond the geographical reasons like limited or near absence of perennial riverine areas and brackish water sources, there is lack of focus on the part of the state government as well as entrepreneurial spirit among rural farmers in the coastal belt," feel experts from the marine food industry. "Indian marine food exports have the potential to touch Rs 1 lakh crore by 2025. With West Bengal and Odisha joining Andhra Pradesh to focus on shrimp cultivation and exports, it is high time Tamil Nadu gets the much needed focus to grab this industry’s growth opportunity," said Elias Sait, secretary general, Seafood Exporters’ Association of India. According to the industry, there is a need for more proactive measures from the state including land allotment and numbering. "Saleability of shrimps is linked to its traceability. The state has the potential to make this a Rs10,000-crore industry, from the present Rs4,000 crore if it gets into the act," Sait said. In the late 1980s and 1990s, Tamil Nadu indulged in scientific farming of shrimps, but lost focus somewhere down the route, with lack of perennial rivers, brackish water and creeks adding to the problem. The state could have focused in a different way with sea water-based farming. "While the state government could have unveiled a policy for aquaculture, the social atmosphere too was not conducive as one gets closer to the coast. Unlike Andhra Pradesh, the farmers were not ready to take risks," said D Ramraj, president, All India Shrimp Hatcheries Association (AISHA). While the acreage under shrimp cultivation exceeds 1.5 lakh acres in Andhra Pradesh, it is not more than 15,000 acres in Tamil Nadu. "We don’t have much brackish water here, while just one creek in Nellore offers shrimp farming opportunities nearly 25,000 acres. In Tamil Nadu, we need to identify zones for shrimp farming and create common infrastructure for farmers," Ramraj added. The industry generally seems to be wary about the increasing demands for cash, which at times gets to extortion levels, from the locals in Tamil Nadu coast. "Shrimp farming is a legal and legitimate act. But, the situation on the ground is totally different with locals (fishing communities). They find hatchery operators to be easy prey. They disrupt the pipeline to bring seawater time and again. It was there 15 years ago and has grown to be a bigger issue recently," says Ravi Kumar Yellanki, a leading shrimp hatchery operator and former president of Society of Aquaculture Professionals. A senior government official with the state’s Fisheries department denied lack of a conducive atmosphere. "Extortion is only a perception. Whenever we get information, we inform police and action is taken," the official said, on condition of anonymity. "We are coming out with an aquaculture policy for the state soon. There is going to be a national policy on aquaculture and our policy will be in tandem to it. Tamil Nadu exported around Rs 5,500 crore of seafood last year (2018-19)," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/seafood-exporters-await-tn-policy-for-better-catch/articleshow/76203819.cms||D Govardan
June 5, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand, UP to jointly conduct 3-day elephant population survey using drones||Dehradun: To check elephant population in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh (UP), the forest department of both the states will kickstart a three-day exercise to count the number of pachyderms. The counting would be conducted after a gap of almost three years. Before that, the annual estimate of the elephant population was released in 2017. The chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, Rajiv Bhartari, said, “We aim to check the population of each species possible in Uttarakhand so that we can initiate our conservation works accordingly and tackle the human-wildlife conflicts too.” The exercise will be conducted in some parts of the state, primarily in Bhagirathi and Yamuna circle, Rajaji Tiger Reserve and Western Circle, where tusker population is predominant. The officials said drones would be used to conduct the physical count of the tusker population. “It will be a total count method which will be implied while analysing the population of tuskers,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, chief conservator of forests, Western Circle. The forest officials added that on the request of Uttarakhand, neighbouring state UP would also undergo the same exercise. “Often, the population graph varies a lot because tusker is a long-range animal and it keeps on moving from one range to other. Therefore, to get the correct estimate of their population, we requested the UP govt to also join the exercise,” added Bhartari. This is not the first time that the Uttarakhand forest officials would use drones for the survey. Earlier, the officials conducted population check of alligators, otters and crocodiles, the results of which are still awaited. The officials said they are waiting for some more details from a couple of ranges and then would announce the results. “While Uttarakhand was a part of Uttar Pradesh, we had a trend of estimating wild animal population annually which gradually got off track and now, we are restarting the culture to give a boost to our wildlife,” Bhartari said. According to the elephant estimate of MoEF for 2017, Uttarakhand has 1839 tuskers and was ranked at sixth position in the country. The All India Synchronised Elephant Estimation of 2017 in its survey stated that Karnataka has the maximum of 6, 049 elephants, followed by Assam (5719), Kerala (3054), and Tamil Nadu (2761).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-up-to-jointly-conduct-3-day-elephant-population-survey-using-drones/articleshow/76202911.cms||Shivani Azad
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Barauli villagers turn vigilantes, tonsure heads of three ‘thieves’||Lucknow: Three men were arrested on Thursday for theft after a group of villagers allegedly caught them red-handed, shaved their hair, smeared black polish on their faces and then paraded them around. The incident reportedly occurred in Barauli village, under SGPGI police station area. The video of the incident also went viral, spurring police action. Police reached the spot and took the three suspects — identified as Dilip, Hansraj and Rakesh — into their custody. The three also disclosed the name of their aide Upvan, who is still on the run. According to police, one Nitin Dixit on Thursday morning spotted Dilip carrying his cooler after dismantling it. Dixit locked the room’s door and then raised an alarm. Other villagers gathered at the spot, opened the door and nabbed Dilip. They also managed to nab his aides Hansraj and Rakesh, after he revealed their names. The villagers thrashed the trio and then tied them to a tree near the room. “The villagers first shaved some of the hair on the trio’s heads, then smeared black shoe polish on their faces and hung a garland of shoes around their necks. They were then paraded around the village,” said station house officer (SGPGI) KK Mishra. Later during the day, a police team reached the spot and rescued them. The three were then arrested, based on a complaint filed Dixit. “My cooler was installed at the window of the room which is near the door. I found it missing when woke up in the morning. When I came out of the house, I saw Dilip fleeing with it. He later disclosed the names of his aides. Two days back, they also had stolen my mobile phone from the room,” Dixit said in the FIR. Villagers also said the three had been active since the past several months and used to steal coolers, mobiles phones and bicycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/barauli-villagers-turn-vigilantes-tonsure-heads-of-three-thieves/articleshow/76204707.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Give schedule of charges for treatment, hospitals told||NEW DELHI: All private hospitals and nursing homes with more than 50 beds have been directed by Delhi government to provide their respective schedule of charges for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Among others, the government has asked hospitals for daily charges for routine ward, ICU without ventilator and ICU with ventilator support. The government has also asked for the cost of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Covid testing, CT scan, MRI, PET scan and medicines used commonly for managing patients suffering from moderate to severe symptoms of the disease. “All private hospitals identified for the purpose of treating Covid-19 patients are hereby directed to provide the directorate (directorate general of health services) their respective schedule of charges for treatment of Covid-19 patients in the given format latest by 6 pm on Friday,” the government, a copy of which is with TOI, says. Sources said the directive is followed by multiple complaints of overcharging by patients and their relatives. In its order, Delhi government has also directed hospitals to display charges shared with them at conspicuous places in the hospital, for example the holding area, reception area, and adjacent to the billing desk or counter. “Non-compliance would be considered as violation of Clause 15 of the Schedule appended to Rule 14 of Delhi Nursing Home Registration (Amendment) Rules, 2011 and action, as deemed fit, would be initiated against the defaulter nursing home or private hospital,” the order issued by Dr RN Das, medical superintendent-Nursing Home, stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-schedule-of-charges-for-treatment-hospitals-told/articleshow/76204701.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Year on, Delhi University asks 28 colleges to form governing bodies||NEW DELHI: After over a year and multiple tussles with the AAP dispensation, Delhi University has finally asked 28 government-funded colleges to start forming their governing bodies, whose terms had ended on March 7, 2019. However, questions have been raised over the advisory issued by the university on how to conduct the elections of chairperson and treasurer of the bodies. It is being claimed that this may be an attempt to interrupt the autonomous functioning of the colleges. The decision to form the new bodies was taken in a meeting of the Executive Council held on March 12 after yet another letter was sent by the government in this regard. However, six names nominated by Delhi government were disapproved by the EC’s apex committee. It was only after deputy CM Manish Sisodia in a letter on May 26 alleged that the DU administration was indulging in corruption due to “inordinate delay” that the announcement was made about forming the GBs in the first week of June. On June 3, DU sent the advisory asking colleges to follow certain guidelines, but by then four colleges had already held their elections. “The elections should be convened in a transparent manner following due process,” the advisory stated. Certain steps were also given for colleges to follow during the elections. These includes principals convening introductory meeting of all the members before the elections. The advisory also suggested that since there was a pandemic, arrangements should be made for those members who were unable to participate in the meeting to vote through online modes. One of the principals of the 28 colleges, however, said, “We will not follow the advisory as we have our own setup. The DU administration is creating a perception that there is corruption going on.” EC member Rajesh Jha alleged, “This is nothing but intrusion by the university in the autonomy of colleges. The administration has reduced the process of GB formation into a political battleground.” DU, however, said that the advisory was routine and sent after receiving complaints and requests from some GB members. “A similar advisory was sent last year. We have only reiterated on the Union home ministry’s guidelines to ensure that pregnant women and senior citizens don’t travel. We had to intervene because GB members of a college sent us a complaint about being denied e-voting,” said a senior DU official. Welcoming the formation of the bodies, a government official said, “We are happy that after a delay of two years, DU has finally realised the importance of GBs in colleges. Norms for elections are detailed in the university statutes and need to be followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/year-on-du-asks-28-colleges-to-form-gbs/articleshow/76203884.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||UT works for financial security of Bapu Dham residents||CHANDIGARH: In a unique exercise to ensure job security and timely salary to the working class of Bapu Dham colony — the city's biggest Covid-19 hotspot, the UT administration has started calling their employers and asking them not to remove these workers from jobs and pay salaries regularly, so that they can live without any financial worries. According to a senior official of the UT administration, the initiative was started after the residents’ welfare association of Bapu Dham wrote to senior officers of the UT a few weeks back, expressing concerns over their social boycott and job-related issues. Before launching the exercise, the administration conducted a survey in the colony to identify the residents, who are the earning hands of their respective families, he said. “Having been a Covid-19 hotspot of the city, now jobs and salaries are the key priorities of Bapu Dham residents. We have identified approximately 10,000 people, who earn their livelihood by working at government establishments as contract or temporary workers, or at private establishments. We have managed to get salaries to over 95% of them and also ensured job security for them by asking their employers,” said the official. “We came to know that some residents are facing issues with their jobs and have not been paid for some time. So, we collected necessary details and started calling their employers. Finally, they gave their salaries and also assured that their jobs are secure. We have been making almost 2,000 phone calls every day to the employers of Bapu Dham residents,” he added. A UT administration source revealed that since in government establishments, people are hired through contractors and outsourcing agencies, the officers did not face any major problem, but convincing the private sector employers to pay was a tough call. “In many cases, we also managed to get maids and other domestic helps paid by their employers,” sources said. BOX 32 migrants evacuated The UT administration on Wednesday evacuated 32 migrants from Bapu Dham colony and sent them to their native places in Uttar Pradesh. All of them were living in the buffer zone of the colony and not in the containment zone. They were first taken to Sector 26-based engineering college for medical check-up and from there, they were moved to Chandigarh railway station to board the train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-works-for-financial-security-of-bapu-dham-residents/articleshow/76203866.cms||Deepak Yadav
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Covid-19 hits doctors hard, health authorities in a bind||HYDERABAD: Authorities went into a huddle on Thursday after 16 more doctors and 7 healthcare workers tested positive for Covid-19 and cases began spreading among PG and resident doctors in six state-run hospitals. With 47 doctors and 10 healthcare workers testing positive and many being symptomatic, few of the hospitals are likely to have turned into super-spreading zones, health experts said. Fresh samples of 50 doctors and 20 health workers were taken to the lab for tests. The latest to test positive are four cardiology residents from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), one professor and eight other doctors from the remaining hospitals. Majority of those who tested positive were asymptomatic, a reason for further concern. Now, the demand for testing of all doctors and contract health workers is also gaining strength with the Telangana State Medical Employees and Workers Union raising the demand for testing about 3,000 workers. The workers union has demanded a 10% salary incentive, which was announced by the state government three months back, be given to them immediately, failing which they will begin an agitation from June 8. “At the King Koti hospital, sanitation workers and security staffers tested positive recently. While there are over 10 workers who tested positive so far, they are all asymptomatic. If the government doesn’t test, many others might go unnoticed and spread the virus to their families and within the hospitals. Also since we are paid a meagre Rs 9,000 salary for working in such risky conditions and many are getting infected with the virus, the incentive must be paid upfront,” said M Narasimha, president of the union. The junior doctors and resident doctors have already been demanding that all doctors who wish to be tested be allowed to do so without any protocol. “Several PG residents who wanted to get tested have been unable to undergo tests so far as hospital authorities did not allow them to go for testing. Already, the lack of proper measures have resulted in the spread of the virus and its high time that measures should be put in place,” said a representative of the Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA). Meanwhile, in the wake of the increasing cases, state health authorities issued special directive to all teaching medical colleges in GHMC area, announcing measures like dividing faculty and staff into two batches and keeping each batch in quarantine consecutively for a period of 7 days, cancellation of leaves and PPEs for staffers as per protocol. Junior doctors at the Modern Government Maternity Hospital (MGMH), Peltaburj where nearly 10 doctors have tested positive, alleged that they were not allowed to undergo tests and had approached health authorities on Thursday. However, as per the directive testing will be done in symptomatic cases only. “If any staff member develop symptoms, immediately he/ she should be isolated and tested. If found positive for Covid-19, they should be sent for treatment and a replacement should come from the quarantine pool of staff. All precautionary measures should be strictly followed as per standard protocols,” said Dr K Ramesh Reddy, Director Medical Education (DME), Telangana in the directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-hits-doctors-hard-health-authorities-in-a-bind/articleshow/76204706.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 5, 2020||Pune||Fire brigade gets 60 calls to report tree falling, 15 vehicles suffer damage||PUNE: The fire department of Pune Municipal Corporation received over 60 calls between 7am and 7pm on Thursday relating to trees fallen on roads due to rainfall and strong winds. Most calls were made from Kothrud, Yerawada, Dhanori and Wadgaonsheri. No injuries were reported in any of the instances. Since Wednesday afternoon, the city fire brigade had received 175 distress calls. According to the city fire brigade officials, as many as 15 cars and two-wheelers were damaged in the tree-falling incidents at Panchavati in Pashan, near Aga Khan Palace on Ahmednagar road, Kharadi, Rasta Peth and Bavdhan. At Bavdhan, eight scooters and motorcycles were damaged after a huge tree fell on the vehicles. The fire brigade did not receive any calls of waterlogging on Thursday. However, officials of the department were clearing various waterlogged areas until late Thursday night. In a number of cases, trees fallen on roads had blocked the carriageway. The fire brigade removed the blockage with the help of specific equipment. Vehicular movement was restored quickly in most cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-brigade-gets-60-calls-to-report-tree-falling-15-vehicles-suffer-damage/articleshow/76204703.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi back on top of Covid graph||Mangaluru/Udupi: A day after it ceded numero uno position on Karnataka Covid-19 graph to Kalaburagi, Udupi accelerated to the top with 92 fresh cases reported on Thursday. Languishing in 5th place at the start of this month, fresh 377 cases reported in the last 96-hours has sent this district to the top on a list that the district administration would not have envisaged being seen on at the beginning of May when it was one among the green zone districts. G Jagadeesha, DC, Udupi said all 92 cases reported are those who returned from Maharashtra and include 78 men, 13 women and a child, taking total positive cases to 564. “One of the patients is from DK district and will be referred to authorities there for treatment,” he said. Udupi has discharged 82 patients so far. Asymptomatic patients without any symptoms for 3 days will be discharged after 7-days if tested negative, he said. Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda, district health and family welfare officer, Udupi told TOI that barring five symptomatic patients, rest have been admitted to taluk Covid care centres in Kundapura and Karkala. Only symptomatic patients deemed vulnerable are being shifted to TMA Pai Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital for the district. Dakshina Kannada district on the other hand that discharged three patients from district Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid hospital, recorded four positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-back-on-top-of-covid-graph/articleshow/76201805.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: One more arrested in Sector 33 house firing||CHANDIGARH: The UT police on Thursday arrested one more accused in the May 31 case of firing at the house of a liquor baron’s brother in Sector 33. Police produced him before a local court and obtained his five-day remand. The accused has been identified as Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, 40, a resident of Sarangpur. Cops said on a tip-off, a team nabbed Kala from near a hotel in Sector 34 and on checking his car, recovered 80 live bullets of a 7.67 bore firearm. Now the police are investigating if he provided weapons to the accused for firing or offered any other support. Sources said on the orders of Lawrence Bishnoi, who is lodged in jail, Kala was assigned the work of providing safe passage to the assailants after they had attacked Arvind Singla. Besides arresting Kala, the police have rounded up one more person, but are not revealing his identity. The crime branch, on Thursday, produced Sewak, alias Guri, who was arrested earlier in the case, before a local court and got his five-day remand for interrogation. The crime branch has identified the assailants and claimed they would be arrested soon. It demanded seven days’ police remand of Guri, but the court granted only five days. On the directions of Bishnoi, Guri had provided a Ford Ikon car to the assailants after borrowing from his friend, Gurdeep Singh, of Banur on May 31. Guri, however, claimed that he was not aware that Bishnoi’s men were going to kill liquor barons in the city, but had an intuition they would commit a crime, so he did not give his car to them and borrowed his friend’s vehicle. He had come in contact with Bishnoi through Deepu, who is lodged in Ambala jail. Police will interrogate them to know the hideouts of assailants and about other firing incidents that had taken place in the city in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/firing-at-sec-33-house-police-arrest-one-more-accused/articleshow/76203869.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Mourning in the time of Covid-19||CHENNAI: When Prabha Natarajan’s brother passed away in April, she couldn’t travel to Delhi to attend his last rites. Instead, she and her sister did a prayer and puja for him in Chennai. Read the entire story on TOI+Mourning in times of Covid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mourning-in-the-time-of-covid/articleshow/76203878.cms||Priya Menon
June 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Patil Estate slum now out of containment, new areas in||PUNE: The Patil Estate slum, which in late April had 75% of the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward's 175 Covid-19 cases, is no longer a micro containment zone. The turnaround in the slum pocket would've come as some much-needed relief for the city if it weren't for one new development: The Aundh-Baner ward now has a couple of locations marked as micro containment zones for the first time since the PMC started earmarking Covid hotspots. The announcement of new hotspots is part of a redrafting of the list of micro containment zones. On June 2, the PMC declared a total of 66 micro containment zones — 38 on the list were new. Most of the newer hotspots are tiny clusters: limited to small lanes or individual housing societies that have registered enough Covid cases to quality for containment measures. The rearrangement of Covid clusters has also shrunk total impacted area in the city to 9.28sq km from an earlier 10.46 sq km. The PMC said while old micro containment zones will continue to remain sealed, barricades will be erected in newer clusters to control movement of people. “For example, some areas of Pandavnagar, Wadarwadi, Janwadi, Gokhalenagar are now micro containment zones. As soon as these areas reported more cases, we erected barricades at key spots. People are being told to stay homes,” a PMC official said. All parts of the old city, including Bhavani Peth, Kasba Peth, Ghorpade Peth, Nana Peth and Mahatma Phule Peth continue to have micro containment zones. Two localities from Bopodi area near Aundh road, which fall under the Aundh-Baner ward have been included in the new micro containment list for the first time. Similarly, areas of Parvati, Ambegaon, Sant Gadgebaba Vasahat from Koregaon Park and areas of Panmala along Sinhagad Road are on the list of new micro containment zones. “People from these areas are undergoing health checks. Close contacts of positive patients will undergo swab testing,” an official from the PMC's health department said. Authorities in Pune said containment measures within the Patil Estate slum had been extremely successful. “Efforts made by the administration and cooperation of local residents proved crucial in containing the spread. Some of the steps taken in the locality included immediate shifting of positive cases to quarantine centres; symptomatic patients were closely monitored and swab collection was intensified. All shops were shut and small lanes were closed for people,” said Nitin Udas, the deputy commissioner of zone-2 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patil-estate-slum-now-out-of-containment-new-areas-in/articleshow/76204709.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||AP IPS officer’s kin test +ve for Covid-19||Amaravati: With the wife and son of a senior IPS officer working at the DGP’s office testing positive for Covid-19, the state administration has directed all personnel who came in contact with the officer to undergo screening. While the IPS officer has gone into self-quarantine, the officials who worked with him have also been directed to remain in self-quarantine. The police officer, who worked in districts in the past, had moved to the state police headquarters about a year ago. An IAS officer had died at the government general hospital (GGH) in Guntur last week. GGH officials had said samples of the IAS officer tested negative for Covid-19. Sources, however, said the IAS officer had complained of fever and breathlessness. —Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-ips-officers-kin-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/76203887.cms||Samdani MN
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Floyd killing: Body seeks justice||Hyderabad: Representatives of the All India Peace and Solidarity organisation submitted a letter to the security officer addressing the US Consul General in Hyderabad on Thursday in which they raised the issue of the killing of George Floyd in the US and sought measures to restore peace. The letter read: They demanded that their concerns on racism be brought to the notice of US President and the guilty be punished. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/floyd-killing-body-seeks-justice/articleshow/76203877.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||UT to open more clean pockets of Bapu Dham||CHANDIGARH: After opening six clean pockets of Bapu Dham, the UT administration has proposed to open more in the colony, which had turned into a Covid-19 hotspot of the city. A senior UT official said in the first phase, they removed sealing restrictions from only six pockets. But in the next phase, they would lift it from more pockets where no positive case was reported. The affected area committee of the UT administration will soon hold a review meeting in this regard. The final decision, however, will be taken by the UT administrator, officials said. Recently, the UT had opened six pockets. Since March 23, when the curfew was imposed in the city, these six pockets did not report a single coronavirus case. These include pocket numbers 2, 3, 9, 17, 18 and 19, where over 10,000 lived. The affected area committee, comprising municipal corporation commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director, health services, sub-divisional magistrate (east), state surveillance officer and superintendent of police, had submitted its recommendation to the UT adviser, who further discussed the issue with the administrator. The colony, which turned into a Covid-19 hotspot with over 200 positive cases, has 20 pockets, in which 60,000 live. Two pockets were declared containment zones, and the remaining 18 fell under the buffer zone. In all these 20 pockets, the UT has restricted entry and exit. Recently, a committee, under the chairmanship of UT adviser, had invited area councillor Dalip Sharma and discussed the opening of clean pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-open-more-clean-pockets-of-bapu-dham/articleshow/76203875.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||UT will take call today on Sector 30-B containment zone||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration will take the final call on opening of Sector 30-B EWS Colony, a containment zone, on Friday. UT adviser Manoj Parida said administrator VP Singh Badnore would take the decision in the war room meeting. However, earlier in the day, area councillor Devinder Babla claimed that the UT officers had agreed to open the entire containment zone. The residents of the colony, who have been facing problems since their area was sealed on April 22, had come out on streets on Wednesday, demanding removal of the containment zone tag. Thereafter, the SDM had assured them that the UT would soon hold a meeting in this regard. In a WhatsApp voice message, Babla claimed that the administration had agreed to open the containment zone and only paper work remained. He told the TOI that he had held a meeting with the deputy commissioner and other officials and when he told them about the problems being faced by the residents, they agreed to remove the tag. On Wednesday, angry residents had warned that if the barricades were not removed in a day, they would do so themselves. To control the situation, the SDM had reached the spot and assured them that the administration would hold a review meeting. A UT official said the containment zone tag can only be removed after the condition of statutory 28 days from the detection of the last positive case was met. To date, two deaths have been reported from this containment zone, including that of an 80-year-old woman, who was found positive posthumously. Declared affected pocket on April 22 The area, which has 600 houses, was declared an ‘affected pocket’ after a number of positive cases were reported on April 22. Later, the UT administration, on May 2, converted six affected pockets, including a part of Sector 30-B, into containment zone. So far, the UT administration has removed containment zone tag from three areas and as many are left, including Sector 30-B, Bapu Dham Colony and Kachi Colony, Dhanas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-30-b-containment-zone-ut-to-take-call-today/articleshow/76203880.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 test is possible in 50 mins in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: The tribal district of remote Gadchiroli district is now set to implement the TrueNat system, as per the guidelines of the Indian council of medical research (ICMR), for comprehensive screening of Covid-19.The portable TrueNat diagnostic machine, the latest induction in the arsenal to fight Covid-19 for the Maoist-affected district, was inaugurated by guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar in presence of the collector Dipak Singla and Civil surgeon Dr Anil Kumar Rudy on Thursday. The apex body of medical research in India had approved the diagnostic machine for Gadchiroli which has a testing capacity of 22 samples within 24 hours. The district administration, which has 20 active patients now, is also mulling a full-fledged pathology laboratory for RT-PCR testing for Covid confirmation. The proposal has now been sent to the AIIMS, Nagpur, which has been designated as the mentor laboratory for Vidarbha. The district administration would send a final proposal for the approval of a dedicated Covid pathological laboratory in the district soon. Dr Rudy said TrueNat machine can help conduct emergency testing in the containment zones, in cases of urgent surgeries, to gauge the status of a high-risk contact and such requirements where the Covid-19 status is crucial within a short period of time. “TrueNat gives a confirmed negative testing. In case of positive result, the sample needs to be sent for confirmation through RT-PCR methods in Government Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur,’ said Rudy.“In the coming days, TrueNat’s upgraded version would have the confirmatory positive testing facility too. After the TrueNat is upgraded and the district gets the approval to set up an independent laboratory for Covid, we will become self-reliant for testing and sampling,” said the civil surgeon. Dr Rudy said a few technicians and doctors have been already trained to use the system. Collector Singla sounded hopeful about a competent Covid pathological laboratory in his district soon. “We have already sent a proposal and are following it up regularly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-test-is-possible-in-50-mins-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/76202957.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 5, 2020||Kochi||Online classes a blessing in disguise for disabled boy||KOCHI: Even though online classes are a trouble for many students and parents, it is a boon for some others, especially disabled kids and their parents who struggle to ensure their uninterrupted education. Take the case of Jyothis Raj Krishnan, a Class IV student of Airapuram NSS School, near Muvattupuzha. Krishnan had to sacrifice most of his school days for the treatment as he was suffering from paraplegia for the last four years following a car accident and the online classes help him to undergo his treatment without missing lectures. The Peace Valley, a charitable organisation in Kothamangalam, has offered him free physiotherapy sessions for last two weeks and now they have arranged facilities, including a tilt-table and laptop, for him to attend the online classes during the treatment. The kid is now happy that he neither has to miss classes nor uninterrupted treatment, which is decisive in helping him to walk with assistive devices. It was in 2016, a speedy car rammed Krishnan who was returning home after a temple-visit along with his sister, mother, grandmother, aunt and her daughter. His aunt, daughter, and grandmother were killed and Krishnan, who was five then, his mother Preeja Rajesh and elder sister suffered nearly-fatal injuries. Though mother and sister survived the injuries and returned to normal life, Krishnan’s lower body and right hand was paralysed due to cervical spine injury. Following the accident, Preeja lost her job as a private school teacher and Krishnan had to be shifted to another school near his house. Over the last four years, Preetha, who too suffered serious back and hand injuries, had been taking Krishnan to the school on her shoulders as he couldn’t walk. Most days, he had to miss the classes either due to his physiotherapy treatment or his mother’s sickness. “We are surviving with the income from a grocery shop run by my husband Rajesh and we have lost a lot of money for his treatment. The only hope now is getting him walk with the help of assistive devices through continuous physiotherapy sessions, which we cannot afford as it takes nearly Rs 3,000 per week for one-hour session every day. His academics too were in disorder as he could go to school one or two days and I had to accompany him throughout. The online classes give him the option to study along with his treatment,” said Preeja. Sabith Umer, a staffer at Peace Valley, said they are providing five hours of physiotherapy sessions each day and are considering Krishnan’s application to be accommodated as an inmate. “We have given a laptop and speakers for him to attend the classes. The treatment is not monotonous for him now as he can attend the classes along with it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-classes-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-disabled-boy/articleshow/76203105.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Nod to reduce mask rule violation fine||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The standing committee of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) approved a short-notice resolution on Thursday to reduce the fine on people flouting face mask rule from Rs 500 to Rs 200.  Standing committee chairman Santosh Londhe said, “Many people have lost their jobs or not received salaries for the past two months due to the lockdown. So, it is unjust to collect a huge fine of Rs 500 from people caught maskless in the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nod-to-reduce-mask-rule-violation-fine/articleshow/76204711.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Dishwashers in, maids out for many upper middle-class families||Nagpur: In what is seen as an impact of Covid outbreak, dealers in consumer durables say that there is a sizeable increase in demand for dishwashers. There is likelihood that domestic hands, who were kept away during the lockdown, may be now replaced with the machines in many homes.Dealers said that there has been a spike in the demand for hair trimmers too, as people may avoid going to barber shops and do the grooming themselves.Activists taking up the cause of domestic workers have expressed concern over the trend.Before being shut down again on May 22, some of the stand-alone shops were open for around couple of weeks. The dealers saw inquiries pouring in during the period. Telephonic queries continued after the fresh lockdown. The shops are set to open again on odd-even basis from Friday.Dishwashers are a high-end product costing between Rs30,000 to Rs55,000. Though most of the demand has been from the upper middle-class even others are buying the machines on EMIs, said traders.Ashok Kumar Gandhi of M/s AK Gandhi, a consumer durable agency, said that he has seen a 10-time increase in the demand for dishwashers, especially. “A number of housing societies have barred the entry of domestic helps. So, people are looking for alternatives. Being costly, dishwashers were not sold as much as washing machines or other items, but a tangible jump in the demand has been seen now,” said Gandhi.Vedprakash Jayaswal of Vedom’s store at Dharampeth also accepted that there was a 25% to 30% increase in the demand for dishwashers.An official in LG, one of the dishwashers manufacturers, said that the demand had increased nearly four times. As against a normal average of six in a month, it has gone up to 23 dishwashers. Avoiding domestic help on account of Covid is also perceived as one of the reasons.“Curiously, the demand for hair trimmers has also gone up. Earlier it used to be a slow moving item,” said Sanjeev Pande of MS Pande and sons.Roopa Kulkarni, an activist for domestic servants’ rights, said that even if the upper middle class buys the dishwashers they may still need domestic hands to operate it. “Currently, many living in posh areas have asked domestic hands not to come and have also refused to pay them for the period. Their families are now dependent on food packets donated by do-gooders,” said Kulkarni.“It was expected that the upper middle-class may support their domestic servants during the lockdown, but there is huge segment that has not only denied them entry into their homes but also refused to pay the wages,” said Jammu Anand, the president of Nagpur Zilla Gharelu Kamgar Sangathana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dishwashers-in-maids-out-for-many-upper-middle-class-families/articleshow/76202967.cms||Shishir Arya
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||DGP: Act stern with fake seed sellers||Hyderabad: DGP M Mahendar Reddy on Thursday instructed field level police officers to open history-sheet of those selling spurious seeds. Mahendar Reddy on Thursday held a video conference with field level policemen across the state. The DGP said that stern action should be taken against those found to be involved in the sale of spurious seeds. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-act-stern-with-fake-seed-sellers/articleshow/76203888.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Babri case: Katiyar, Vedanti, 4 others appear before court||LUCKNOW: BJP leader Vinay Katiyar, former MP Ram Vilas Vedanti and four other accused appeared before a special CBI court, Lucknow, on Thursday to give their statements under Section 313 CrPC in the 1992 Babri demolition case. The court, however, could record the statement of only one accused, Vijay Bahadur Singh, for want of time and asked others to appear on Friday. Special judge S K Yadav directed the accused to furnish in writing the defence evidence, if any, after recording the statement. Thirty-two accused are facing trial in the mosque demolition case. Those who appeared before court on Thursday included Vinay Katiyar, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Vijay Bahadur Singh, Pawan Pandey, Santosh Dubey and Gandhi Yadav. The court had exempted personal appearance of other accused on Thursday, while recording in its order that appearance of former Deputy PM LK Advani, former Union minister M M Joshi and Uma Bharati is exempted through their counsel till further order. This stage of the trial is also meant to explain to the accused the evidence gathered against them by the prosecuting agency, CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babri-case-katiyar-vedanti-4-others-appear-before-court/articleshow/76204726.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Civic chiefs to get pep talk||Hyderabad: Municipal minister KT Rama Rao on Thursday said a day-long training programme will be held for municipal commissioners soon. Experts would talk to them on transforming and upgrading every town into a model one, he added. The minister also informed them that he would visit Warangal and Khammam later this month. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-chiefs-to-get-pep-talk/articleshow/76203897.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Gaur sighted in Bor Tiger Reserve after 8 years||NAGPUR: An adult Indian gaur was sighted in the 138 square kilometre Bor Tiger Reserve (BTR), 60 kilometres from the city in Wardha district, on Wednesday. The big mammal has been spotted in the reserve after eight years. Pench chief conservator of forests (CCF) and field director Ravikiran Govekar confirmed sighting of the gaur in Bor. “I suspect the gaur entered the park travelling between Pench-Mansingdeo-Bor corridor, or from Tadoba or Melghat. Due to lockdown for the last two months, traffic on roads was sparse and this may be one of the reasons. We will record it in the new management plan of Bor.” As reported by TOI earlier, gaur sightings have been rare in Bor — though it has a sizeable population of other herbivores. A pair of bisons was sighted on January 5, 2012 by tourists from Nagpur in Manoli area of the park during safari. Prior to that, the herbivore was sighted in 2009 by a forest officer in Khorikhapa area of the park. In 2004, a solitary bison was recorded inside the park. A scientific study is needed to ascertain from where the gaurs are coming, said an expert. Indian gaurs are a common sight in protected areas (PAs) in Maharashtra, barring some exceptions like Tipeshwar and Bor. Last month, a solo gaur was sighted in Pandharkawda (Yavatmal) near Khuni river, 15 kilometres from Tipeshwar. This was the first recorded gaur in Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gaur-sighted-in-bor-reserve-after-8-yrs/articleshow/76204734.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Gun Park: 5 cops get charge memos||Hyderabad: After a contract driver of GHMC’s Disaster Response Force (DRF) caused a security scare by intercepting CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s convoy at Gun Park on Tuesday morning, five police personnel, including four inspectors, were issued with charge memos, while explanation was sought from an ACP by Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar. The incident happened on Tuesday morning on the state formation day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gun-park-5-cops-get-charge-memos/articleshow/76203894.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Farm activists, merchants welcome move to deregulate farm produce||Nagpur: Farm activists and merchants have welcomed the central government’s decision to remove certain agricultural items from the purview of Essential Commodities Act (ECA) while stressing the need for setting up a mechanism to ensure farmers get good prices for their produce. They also welcomed the decision allowing farmers to sell their produce outside mandis too.Farmer leader Vijay Jawandhia said a major question was whether farmers would get good prices after deregulation. “For that, import of cheap agricultural commodities will have to be stopped. Farmers are not getting good prices due to coronavirus recession. If they store their produce, the government must ensure they get good prices later,” he added.“Sugar exporters get subsidy while there is duty on import of sugar. Similar policy should be implemented for tuar, gram, cotton etc. Cotton is not fetching more than Rs 4,500 per quintal. Tur and gram are also not fetching good prices due to cheap imports. Steps need to be taken to remedy the situation,” said Jawandhia.Ram Newale, former president of Shetkari Sanghatana, while welcoming the decisions, said all 249 anti-farmer laws should be scrapped. “Whenever prices of onions went up, government brought them down using ECA. It should not go back on its words and do it again. Whenever, you take a decision, the interests of farmers should be kept in mind,” he added.A source in Kalamna agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) said the Devendra Fadnavis had allowed farmers to sell potatoes, onions, vegetables, etc anywhere they wanted in 2016. “It needs to be seen whether the current state government implements the same for food grains,” he added.Pratap Motwani, secretary of the Wholesale Grain and Seed Merchants Association, welcoming the decisions said that traders could now do business without unreasonable restrictions. “This will benefit traders as well as farmers. Common people will also be benefited,” he added.“ECA is a strict law and hence we were unable to trade freely. India has become self-sufficient in food grains and is no longer dependent on imports. Now there is no need for a strict law,” he said.“The reality is that farmers were selling their produce at far lower than the minimum support price (MSP). Now they will be able to take advantage of free market conditions,” said Motwani.Farm activist Chandrakant Wankhade, however, struck a cautionary note. “This government has promised several things but not implemented them. I will comment on the decisions only when they are implemented,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farm-activists-merchants-welcome-move-to-deregulate-farm-produce/articleshow/76202975.cms||Ashish Roy
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Father forces minor girl to live with fiancé||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has asked the state government to seriously investigate a case in which a girl’s father forced her to stay at her fiancé’s house even though she was a minor. The HC found the case “quite disturbing” and asked the state government to treat the matter seriously. This happened after the father and the fiancé, from Surendranagar district, approached the high court by filing a habeas corpus petition claiming that the girl was forcibly detained by another person. When the court read the case, it said that if the girl was a minor and the father had actually forced her live with her fiancé at his house, the court may take the view that it may constitute an offence under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/father-forces-minor-girl-to-live-with-fianc/articleshow/76204099.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||No exams for over three lakh Delhi University undergraduates||NEW DELHI: Delhi University will not be conducting examinations for over 3 lakh first and second-year undergraduate and over 12,000 first-year postgraduate students. Citing that pen-paper examinations couldn’t be conducted while following social distancing norms, the university said this was a one-time measure for students of regular colleges as well as School of Open Learning (SOL) and Non Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). The students would be evaluated on the basis of 50% marks for internal assessment and assignments and the rest on scores of the previous semesters. Teachers had suggested a similar calculation for final-year students, but the university, despite opposition, decided to conduct online open book examinations (OBE) from July 1. DU, however, has not given any clarity about students enrolled in diploma and certificate courses, especially in the language departments. In the notification issued on Thursday, dean (examination) Vinay Gupta said, “In view of Covid-19, the intermediate, semester and term-year students shall be graded with alternative mode of examination. Conducting exams in the conventional mode, ie pen and paper, is not feasible as per the existing social distancing norms.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news This is not the first time that students are being promoted on the basis of internal assessment. Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, mathematics teacher at Zakir Hussain College, said, “This has been done twice earlier. First, when the four-year undergraduate programme was implemented and, later, when it was removed. But at that time promotion was conditional. Attendance was compulsory and internal assessment had to be completed.” Students having no previous semester performance would be completely graded on the basis of assignment-based evaluation. This pertains to first-year students of SOL under the semester system as exams couldn’t be held under Choice Based Credit System. As per the datesheet notified by SOL and NCWEB, these students would have to submit the internal assessment for both the semesters together. However, students who had failed in the previous semesters would have to appear for OBE. Those with arrears marked as Essential Repeat and students who wish to improve their grades would be allowed as per the semester’s cycle — for odd semester in January and for even semester in May or June 2021. Watch Major reprieve for DU students, over 3 lakh to be promoted without exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-exams-for-over-3l-du-undergraduates/articleshow/76203909.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Burglars rob house of Covid-19 patient||HYDERABAD: Taking advantage of a Covid-19 patient and his family being away for treatment at Gandhi Hospital, burglars struck at their independent house in Alwal during the lockdown and decamped with gold jewellery, laptops and other valuables. Though the burglary is suspected to have taken place between May 12 and 26, it only came to light on Thursday. The patient and his family members got admitted to hospital on May 12. His wife and other family members were discharged on May 26. When they returned home, they found a breach in their sliding door, which gives access to their independent house. “When my family went inside, they found the almirah open and valuables inside their house missing,’’ the person, who has since recovered, said in his complaint. According to him, 10 tolas of gold, Rs 30,000 cash, two laptops, three tabs and 18 watches were stolen. The family members returned to their residence on May 26 after undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital and were shocked to find the house burgled. A case was registered on the same day and investigation is still under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglars-rob-house-of-covid-patient/articleshow/76204043.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Greens oppose diluting existing EIA regulations||MANGALURU: A section of greens across India are in no mood to celebrate the World Environment Day on Friday. They are objecting to the Union government’s move to dilute the existing Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) regulations. Recently, the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) came up with a new draft EIA notification 2020 that will replace the existing regulations. The draft notification is currently at the stage of public comments, is intended to bring significant changes by minimising existing levels of environment protection, said Sandeep Anirudhan, core team member, United Conservation Movement (UCM). The UCM has launched a month-long online campaign #NoEIADilution. As part of the campaign on June 1, they are releasing posters everyday, explaining reasons why India should demand a stronger EIA. “The time has come to reverse the damage especially at a time when we are noticing how cyclones are turning more severe and all recent zoonotic epidemics are related to deforestation,” Sandeep said. Pointing out reasons for objections, he said, the power of public consultation in both public and private projects is either being removed or diluted to a large extent. Heavily polluting industries like coal, chemicals, and acid manufacturing are being allowed to operate in forests, riverbanks and close to human settlements. Large, medium and small industries are being allowed to operate, expand and modernise up to 50 years without necessary environment clearance and infrastructure projects are being given access to build in ecologically fragile areas. The objections have to be sent by the end of this month. “Draft EIA 2020 legitimises what is illegal today. When 23 critically polluted industrial clusters are published in India, this draft gives easier permission for more, thus pushing our children to live inside a toxic soup,”said Sandeep. WHAT IS EIA? EIA is the process of examining the anticipated environmental effects of a proposed project, from consideration to environment aspects at design stage, through consultation and preparation of an Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIAR), evaluation of EIAR by a competent authority and the subsequent decision as to whether the project should be permitted to proceed, encompassing public response to that decision, Sandeep said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-oppose-diluting-existing-eia-regulations/articleshow/76203275.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR contract worker killed, body torched||Hyderabad: A 22-year-old railway sanitation worker was murdered by unidentified persons in Secunderabad. The incident came to light when locals found the decomposed body of the man and alerted the cops on Thursday. He was identified as Krishna of Bansilalpet. According to Gandhinagar police, Krishna was working as a contract sanitation worker for South Central Railway. “On Sunday morning, Krishna left his home for work. As he did not return home for two days, family members lodged a complaint on Tuesday and a missing case was registered,” Gandhinagar inspector S Sreenivasa Rao said. While police were trying to locate Krishna, his family members told the cops that they have suspicion over four men from the locality who are Krishna’s friends. Police picked them up for questioning. “ The assailants had torched the body. Family members identified Krishna based on teeth and nails,” the inspector said. Police are questioning the suspects to find out the reasons behind the murder. CCTV footage near the crime scene is also being analysed. A case of murder under IPC Section-302 has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-contract-worker-killed-body-torched/articleshow/76203974.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Pune||Parlour operator booked in Pune||PUNE: The crime branch of the city police on Thursday booked a beauty parlour operator in Kalyaninagar on the charge of secretly operating the facility in violation of the lockdown directives. Police said the operator was allowing clients to enter the facility from the rear gate. During questioning, the operator told the police that she started contacting clients on phone and WhatsApp and started giving them appointments. Inspector Anjum Bagwan (unit IV) said the district administration had not given permission to beauty parlours and salon operators for doing business during the lockdown 5. The operator has been booked the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, National Disaster Management Act and Covid 19 Rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parlour-operator-booked/articleshow/76204732.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of PPE reason for spread: Hyderabad doctors||HYDERABAD: Lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) or poor quality PPEs given to doctors, are the primary reasons for the spread of the coronavirus in government facilities, say healthcare workers. While the minimum standard of PPEs for hospital staff, as per health officials, should be of 60 gsm quality — the recommended thickness for Hazmat suits is between 60 and 80 gsm — junior doctors manning emergency OPs at the hospitals have PPEs that are only 40-50 gsm. Worse, at other times they have to work with just N-95 masks. In fact, doctors on regular outpatient duties, are often given normal surgical masks, said sources. “Sometimes we are given N-95 masks and PPEs while at other times we work with just N-95 masks. When we ask for the protective gear from our superiors, they say that it has not been supplied by the government and we will be given as and when it is supplied. It has been more of a formality than a measure to ensure protection. The PPEs supplied are of grade 2 quality,” said a doctor at Osmania Hospital. Another senior resident at the NIMS said that only doctors screening patients at OPD are being provided with PPEs. “While some doctors performing surgeries or procedures too are given PPEs, not all of them have protective gear,” he added. The superintendent of a hospital maintained that doctors were being provided quality PPEs as per protocol. “Some PPE kits might have some issues, but the rest are of good quality. If there is any problem with PPEs, doctors can report it and we will replace them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-ppe-reason-for-spread-doctors/articleshow/76204728.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Another twist in New Club case: Managing committee still operating despite dissolution||HYDERABAD: Alleged liquor movement from New Club during the lockdown took a new turn with club disciplinary committee convenor Naresh Yadav objecting to the dissolved managing committee still being active at the Marredpally club. Naresh Yadav has sent a communication to all members of the club stating that the disciplinary committee had on June 1 dissolved the management committee. Yadav, in the message, said the membership of club president P Laxman Goud and seven others was terminated. Three club staffers were dismissed from service. “Despite action by the disciplinary committee, these members are still acting as management committee and using the club,” Yadav said in the communication. Marredpally police on May 30 had registered a case against Laxman Goud and seven others under Section 188 (violating public servant order), 269 (Negligent act leading to the spread of the disease) 270 (malignant act to spread infection and to cause danger to life) of the IPC and violations of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Committee member Modem Ramesh lodged a complaint alleging: “Due to government orders of lockdown, our club was closed from March 15, 2020. President P Laxman Goud and seven others have moved large quantities of liquor meant exclusively for our club members to outsiders. They violated state government excise rules.Staffers of the bar also aided them. On April 27, excise officials sealed our bar and stocks of liquor.” The New Club is an 82-year-old club in Marredpally. While the police investigation is on, the club disciplinary committee had conducted its own inquiry. The disciplinary committee had dissolved the management committee and appointed a new election officer for conducting elections by fixing the schedule after lockdown period. They had also issued letters to all associated banks with the club stating terminated staff and managing committee shall not operate New Club bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-twist-in-new-club-case-managing-committee-still-operating-despite-dissolution/articleshow/76204000.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Mines officials to send report on SCCL mishap to Centre||HYDERABAD: As the director of mines safety, south central zone, Hyderabad, began probe into explosion in Singareni mines, those responsible for mishap, which resulted in death of four workers, may get prosecuted under provisions of the Mines Act, 1952.  This is in addition to action that will be initiated by Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SSCL) and also prosecution under IPC sections and Explosives Act by Ramagundam police. A senior official of mines safety said it would take more than a week to complete every aspect of investigation. “Report will be submitted to Union labour ministry for action to be initiated based on findings,” he said. Director of mines safety, south central zone, Hyderabad, Shyam Sunder Soni visited the mishap site at Ramagiri mandal on Thursday. “Charges against individuals will be based on their responsibility they had to discharge and lapses that occurred,” he told TOI. According to sources, deputy director general of mines, south central zone, Hyderabad, Malay Tikadar is at the site, while technical personnel of mines safety are investigating the mishap. Official sources said Singareni Collieries area in Telangana is not a gaseous place unlike other mines, especially in Dhanbad area, where different types of gases are found. Since there is no scope for gases to get mixed and perhaps be the cause for an explosion, the investigation is outlining the process was followed in setting up explosives. Although no conclusion has been arrived as yet, human negligence is not ruled out. “Those found guilty can be given imprisonment as deemed fit by the court,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mines-officials-to-send-report-on-sccl-mishap-to-centre/articleshow/76203905.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||No clarity on alternate day move, say shopkeepers as markets open today||Nagpur: The long-awaited reopening of commercial activities in the city is set to happen from Friday. But the formula has left shopkeepers at sixes and sevens as they are unable to crack the NMC’s order.A day before the order comes into effect, shopkeepers were worried about deciphering the NMC’s plan and told TOI that even customers too seem confused with the order.Parag Thakkar, a shopkeeper from Sitabuldi, welcomed the ‘alternate day’ formula and termed it a good initiative. “This will ensure that markets aren’t completely crowded,” he said. But, Thakkar was quick to add: How would a customer know which shops were open on a given day?As per state government’s amended guidelines, all shops on one side of the road/lane/passage will open for full working hours on one day while shops on the other side will remain open on next day and so on.Municipal commissioner along with police commissioner would actively involve market/shop owner associations for giving effect to the arrangement.Most shopkeepers hope that customers maintain discipline by adhering to Covid distancing. Some shopkeepers from Sitabuldi argued, “If shops on one side of the road are closed on an even date, hawkers and street vendors would switch over to the other side thus putting shopkeepers at a disadvantage while defeating the very purpose of odd-even formula”.Their biggest worry was: How will Covid distancing and hygiene be maintained if hawkers operate from the main road. “I see loads of them spitting on road every day,” pointed out a shopkeeper requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that NMC would come up with new guidelines on Friday. Mundhe also said he will clear issues pointed out by shopkeepers.“Assistant municipal commissioners from 10 zones, 200 nuisance detection squad men will be on toes to implement the order,” said additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi.Secretary of Parivartan The Citizens Group Dines Naidu said: “The vague trade unlocking rules set by the NMC once again shows its recently-acquired attitude of anarchist behaviour, the citizens of Nagpur are now perplexed to the core and hunting for compass to know the direction of their shops which they want to open after the long lockdown which has already broken their backbone.” According to Naidu, the NMC itself seemed confused about its diktats a few days before it allowed to open shops of certain trades on certain days, but immediately rolled it back as maintaining physical distancing was difficult and now with its new dictum they want the entire crowd to be on one side of the road which will throw physical distancing to a toss. “The I, Me, Myself attitude and not involving other stakeholders in the decision-making process will keep troubling the hapless citizens of Nagpur for a long time to come,” he pointed out.Though shopkeepers appeared confused, the NMC geared up to resume business activities with fresh guidelines to contain coronavirus spread. “Apart from assistant municipal commissioners (AMCs) from 10 zones, around 200 nuisance detection squad (NDS) personnel will be on toes to implement the order,” said additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi.TOI also found shops opened in many areas blatantly violating the civic body’s rule to start business from June 5. Shopkeepers from crowded Itwari, Jaripatka, Pachpaoli among other areas from the city have reportedly started their business without adhering to the unlocking order of the NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-clarity-on-alternate-day-move-say-shopkeepers-as-markets-open-today/articleshow/76202989.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur dairy lowers price of ghee due to surplus stock||Jaipur: The Jaipur dairy on Thursday lowered the price of ‘Saras ghee’ by Rs 20 per litre, facing a loss of Rs 12 crore on the stock ready for sale. The coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown badly affected the economy of Jaipur dairy, where stock worth around Rs 400 crore is piling up in the absence of buyers. All hotels, restaurants and temples are shut, due to which the losses kept on mounting and it is estimated that Jaipur dairy will not be able to recover from it in the near future. Om Prakash Punia, chairman of Jaipur dairy says, “Due to lockdown, we couldn’t find any distributors. The supply chain demand was broken because of which we had to lower the prices. We faced losses but we have no choice. If all the products in the market are getting cheaper, we have to follow it. In near future if the stock is not disposed off by August, Jaipur dairy union will be facing really difficult times soon. ” According of Jaipur dairy officials, stock of around 6,000 ton ghee and 7,000 ton milk powder is lying in Jaipur dairy’s godown. It is estimated that this year, Jaipur dairy will face around Rs 100 crore loss. Officials are expecting that prices of ghee will be further reduced looking at the market condition. In the month of May, Tonk dairy tried to find a solution to their piling ghee stock. Dairy administration issued an order of giving ghee instead of money in return for the milk supplied to them. People protested against this move and threatened that they will stop their milk supplies if this order was not taken back. Reluctantly, the dairy had to take back the orders. According to the new prices, one litre ghee which costs Rs 470, will be sold for Rs 450.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-dairy-lowers-price-of-ghee-due-to-surplus-stock/articleshow/76204736.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Two teachers held for misbehaving with teen||Hyderabad: Two school teachers were booked for reportedly misbehaving with a 15-year-old girl student while taking classes online in Shabad in Rangareddy district. The two teachers are said to have been taken into custody by the Cyberabad police. On Wednesday, the parents of the 15-year old student lodged a complaint with Shabad police alleging that the two teachers had misbehaved with the girl while taking classes online. About a month ago, the physics teacher took the girl’s phone number during an online class in the guise of clarifying doubts about the lessons taught during class. “Subsequently, the accused started sending her vulgar messages and started video calling. He also sent some nude photos through WhatsApp. The girl did not inform her parents immediately. When she complained about the physics teacher to social science teacher, he too started talking to her in a vulgar way,” Shabad inspector B Shankaraiah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-teachers-held-for-misbehaving-with-teen/articleshow/76203987.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Schools may reopen in July, Bihar government consults stakeholders||PATNA: The state government may reopen its schools in July following the Centre’s announcement of Unlock 2.0. The state education department on Thursday directed the district education officers (DEOs) to consult the schools administration, teachers, students and their parents about the reopening of schools from July. Education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma told this newspaper on Thursday that the schools will reopen only after the consultation with the stakeholders concerned. “We are waiting for the Centre’s guidelines regarding the resumption of normal classes in government and government-aided schools. We will formulate our own guidelines based on the Centre’s recommendations,” he said. “Before reopening the schools, we have to take several precautionary measures to ensure social distancing, fumigation of premises and other safety measures of sanitation,” the minister said. Secondary education director Giriwar Dayal Singh has written letters to all the DEOs about resumption of classes in schools after consultation with the stakeholders concerned. He has also enlisted 10 questions in the letter that the DEOs need to ask the stakeholders, such as date of resumption of classes, duration of school hours and classes, number of students in each class, sitting arrangements, morning assemblies to be conducted or not, criteria for sanitization and maintaining social distancing norms. Singh has asked the DEOs to compile the consultation data of each government school in their respective districts by June 6 and submit the report to the department by June 7. Meanwhile, the Christian Minority Education Society (CMES) is to conduct a meeting by June-end with all Christian schools regarding their reopening in the state. Alfred George de Rozaria, president of the CMES, told this newspaper that they were looking forward to a meeting to discuss the resumption of classes in minority schools. “After consulting the society members, we will take the final decision,” he said. Private School Children Welfare Association president Shamael Ahmed said the district president of the association has started taking feedback from all the stakeholders about resumption of classes in private schools in Patna. “We will send the draft of the feedback to the state government because it has to take the final decision on resuming classes in schools,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-plans-to-reopen-schools-in-july/articleshow/76202997.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 5, 2020||Pune||Death toll inches closer to 400 in Pune, 43 test +ve||PUNE: Thirteen more patients succumbed to Covid-19 and as many as 243 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, pushing the casualty and case counts in the area to 391 and 8,717, respectively. Of the fresh cases, 193 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 35 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits and 15 in the rural and Cantonment areas of the Pune district. District health officials said there were 2,914 active cases of Covid-19 admitted in the hospitals and quarantine centres. About 206 patients were critical, they said. The officials said 1,014 swab samples were sent for testing on Thursday. About 209 patients were discharged after they were declared cured, taking the discharge count in the region to 5,412 so far. Among the 13 deaths, two were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital, while the rest at private hospitals. These included a 23-year-old man from Yerawada, a 61-year-old from the Navi Khadki area, a 67-year-old man from Papal Wasti, a 55-year-old man from Yerawada, a 70-year-old man from Wadarwadi, a 67-year-old woman from the Pandavnagar area, a 53-year-old man from Yerawada, a 57-year-old woman from the Parvati area, a 61-year-old woman from Bhawani Peth, a 99-year-old man from Hadapsar and a 72-year-old woman from Nana Peth. Details of two more deceased was awaited till going to the press. As many as 228 positive patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals in PCMC limits till Thursday night. So far, 366 patients from PCMC areas have been discharged after recovery. Besides, 22 people have succumbed to the contagion in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. In PMR, over 44,000 people are still in quarantine. Of these, 36,026 are from PMC limits, while 5,857 from PCMC limits. A total of 31 samples have remained inconclusive till 9pm on Thursday. Health authorities have appealed to the people to avoid venturing out unnecessarily and always wear mask while going out in public. People have also been appealed to abide by social distancing norms to arrest rising coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/death-toll-inches-closer-to-400-in-pune-43-test-ve/articleshow/76204715.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hired drivers not paid for over a year by govt||HYDERABAD: Over a hundred drivers hired by the women and child welfare department (WCWD) across various districts in Telangana are yet to receive their payment. Some of the drivers claimed that they have not received their payments for over a year. One of the drivers, Sagar from Suryapet, said that he had to mortgage his wife’s jewellery as he had stopped receiving payments while working with an ICDS officer in the district. “During the lockdown, I had to take a loan from a private financier for daily household expenses and EMI of Rs 18,000 every month for the car. I have not received payment for over 15 months now. Last year, the schools complained thrice about the delay in school fee payment for two of my children but somehow I managed by borrowing money from relatives,” said Sagar, who is now worried about finding money to pay the accumulated debt. Another driver, Hamid from Nalgonda, said that he had last received his payment in June 2019. He too had to mortgage his mother’s gold and took loans from various sources to make ends meet. According to the department however, four months’ worth of payments towards hired vehicles for ICDS officers had been sanctioned recently and bills for the same had been submitted to the treasury for clearance. Officials said that the lockdown in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic has also impacted the release of funds, thus adding to the delay. Like Sagar, as many as 126 drivers from various districts — primarily Suryapet, Vikarabad, Siddipet, Sangareddy and Nalgonda — have been facing hardships due to the delay in payment. According to the WCWD, the government had issued orders for continuation and sanction of new hired vehicles in March, however, the budget could not be allocated immediately then due to end of the financial year. “Recently, four months budget was sanctioned. Over Rs 7.20 crore is required to clear the retrospective bills,” said a source in the department. (Names of hired drivers have been changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hired-drivers-not-paid-for-over-a-yr-by-govt/articleshow/76203967.cms||Aditi Mallick
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Reserve 20% beds or get converted into a Covid-19 hospital, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Private hospitals in Delhi, which are unable to reserve 20% beds for the treatment of the novel coronavirus patients, will be fully converted into Covid-19 hospitals, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Thursday. Addressing a digital press conference, Sisodia said that the corona cases were on the rise and the government was trying to increase the number of Covid-19 dedicated hospitals. He added that 61 private hospitals had been asked to reserve 20 per cent of their bed capacity for patients coming for Covid-19 treatment. While some agreed to keep the beds for the coronavirus patients, others had issues in adhering to the government’s directions. “They have time till Friday to decide. Those private hospitals which are facing difficulties in following the mixed system will be completely converted into Covid-19 designated hospitals,” the deputy CM said. Sisodia said the reason behind this order was to make sure that no hospital refused to treat patients suffering from Covid-19. He added that the government’s focus was to save lives of people by providing them with proper medical facilities without getting into any kind of data competition with other states. “Our aim is to make sure that Covid-19 patients in Delhi do not get to suffer due to unavailability of beds in hospitals,” the deputy CM said. He, however, added that asymptomatic patients were not required to get scared and rush to hospitals. “Home isolation is a very good option for patients with no or very mild symptoms,” he said. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who accompanied Sisodia, said, there were three types of coronavirus patients — asymptomatic, moderate and severe. “Asymptomatic or those with slight fever and mild cough can be treated in home quarantine. Those with moderate symptoms (respiratory rate of more than 15 per minute) and severe category patients (respiratory rate of more than 30 per minute) should be hospitalised. Delhi government has taken various measures to treat patients under moderate and severe categories and help them recover fast,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reserve-20-beds-or-get-converted-into-a-covid-hospital-says-sisodia/articleshow/76204735.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: NGO files 10-year-old’s rape complaint after parents refuse due to fear, stigma||NAGPUR: Activists ensured 48-year-old Ravi Tumdam was behind bars after parents of the 10-year-old girl whom he exploited fled their home and refused to lodge a complaint. The Standard III student was being lured by Tumdam, a neighbour, with Rs 10-20 or even a chocolate. An offence of rape and unnatural sex was registered at Kapil Nagar police station in north Nagpur amid much drama after parents of a minor rape survivor refused to approach the police. The girl’s parents even fled the house in order to avoid the legal hassles after learning their daughter was being abused for three months. Kapil Nagar police were also reluctant in the beginning as the parents were uninterested. This was despite the activists having recorded the statement of the survivor and presented it before the police. This led to two more days of delay in launching the legal action before FIR was finally lodged on June 2. Tumdam was arrested subsequently. Chhaya Gurav, representing Indian Centre for Integrated Development (ICID) which works for Childline, became the complainant in the case with parents choosing to remain away citing threat and social stigma. On May 27, Childline activist Ankita Gadpayale had visited the home of the survivor after being alerted through an anonymous call on 1098 which is meant for rescuing or helping children in distress. Gadpayale was told by the girl about her plight during preliminary inquiry by her. She said Tumdam would lure her everyday after returning from school at 2 pm when her parents would be away to earn livelihood and elder brother would not be in the vicinity. He used to threaten her with strong words stating the family would face consequences if she revealed anything. As the NGO workers started building pressure on police and family, they were supported by the district women and child development department and child protection officer Mushtak Pathan. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-files-10-yr-olds-rape-complaint-after-parents-refuse-due-to-fear-stigma/articleshow/76202981.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hubballi||A historic town, Lakkundi now gripped by panic after resident dies of Covid-19||HUBBALLI: Lakkundi is a small hamlet in the backwaters of Gadag district, but this small village houses a veritable treasure of Karnataka’s rich past, the spires of hundreds of temples dotting its short skyline. However, the village is now gripped by panic after a resident of the village died of Covid-19. Gadag district administration has now declared the historic village a containment zone. On Wednesday, a 44-year-old man, a resident of Lakkundi, died of Covid-19 at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi. Suffering from an infection of the urinary tract, he was admitted to a private hospital in Gadag on May 27. The man was also diabetic. Since his condition did not improve, he was shifted to KIMS on June 1. KIMS had sent his throat swabs for medical examination, but he passed away before the results arrived. The results confirmed that he had been infected with Covid-19. That the patient was a Purohit who had presided over several wedding ceremonies in Lakkundi and several surrounding villages. Sources said that he had presided over many closed-door weddings held during the lockdown. This has understandably triggered panic among the residents. The district administration, meanwhile, has its hands full trying to trace his contacts, since it has come to their notice that had performed weddings in containment areas in Gadag, in addition to travelling to Raichur during the lockdown. Members of those families that conducted weddings in secret to avoid the wrath of government authorities are worried no end. The health department in Gadag, along with the cops, however, are keen on detecting the source of the man’s infection. Gadag deputy commissioner MG Hiremath confirmed to TOI that the district administration was currently in the process of collecting all details about those, in the homes of whom, the deceased had conducted weddings. “We have already managed to trace 11 primary contacts, all of whom we have placed in quarantine. As many as 15 healthcare personnel including a doctor and nurses who treated him at a private hospital, too have been placed under quarantine. We have sent all their samples for testing,” Hiremath said. The DC said that law enforcement authorities were busy tracing the places the 44-year-old man had visited in order to get to the source of the infection, which would allay the fear of community transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/a-historic-town-lakkundi-now-gripped-by-panic-after-resident-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/76204429.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Sapling survival rate of 65% gives boost to enhancing area under forest in DK||MANGALURU: With World Environment Day figuring prominently in PM Narendra Modi’s Man Ki Baat on Sunday, there is good news for nature lovers in this coastal district. Around 65% of the 1.5 lakh sapling that Mangaluru forest division is supplying through its nursery in Mangaluru range have weathered vagaries of nature and are on their way to adding to green cover of Dakshina Kannada, which at present is 1.25 lakh hectares covering 26% of total geographical area of the district. The nursery tucked away on a vast expanse of land abutting Bajal road leading to Mangaluru junction railway station has saplings of all varieties of trees that are endemic to Western Ghats. The nursery has kept ready 1.26 lakh saplings for distribution on the occasion of World Environment Day. P Shreedhar, range forest officer, said that while farmers with large land holdings can purchase 160 saplings per acre or 400 saplings per hectare at subsidized rates, others can purchase up to 10 saplings. For those who want more, forest department insists on land records to ensure that the saplings are not resold. “The department gives subsidy of Rs 9 on every sapling for first 10 saplings and Rs 17 on next 10 saplings and we want this to be properly used,” he says. The department gives a staggered incentive of Rs 125 for every sapling cared for under the afforestation scheme in the first three years depending on their survival rate. Mangaluru Smart City Ltd has come forward to purchase 10,000 saplings of 35 varieties. MRPL and OMPL have procured 6,000 saplings. Come June 1, the department will supply saplings in bags of 5x8 and 6x9 cms for Re 1, in bags of 8x12cm for Rs 3. For saplings, contact range forest office, Mangaluru Range, Hoige Bazaar, by submitting application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sapling-survival-rate-of-65-gives-boost-to-enhancing-area-under-forest-in-dk/articleshow/76203000.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Man sets self on fire in Sircilla, dies||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old man died after setting himself ablaze in Sircilla town on Wednesday night. Police said he might have resorted to the extreme step after a woman cop spurned his marriage proposal. A case of abetment to suicide was booked against the constable and her family member. The deceased had known the cop of Sircilla police station for the last one year, police said. “Eight months ago, he proposed to her for marriage. The constable told him to wait,” said a cop. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-sets-self-on-fire-in-sircilla-dies/articleshow/76203906.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||A train full of hope for new beginning chugs out||Gorakhpur/Lucknow: Less than a month ago, it took four days for Balwant Sahni, 50, to reach his village in Kushinagar from Mumbai. On Thursday, he was staning in a queue to get screened at Gorakhpur railway station to board the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Special. Destination: Mumbai. “My factory is operational now and I got a call from the management to come back,” Sahni told TOI. He is aware about the Covid situation in Mumbai but thinks going there is a risk worth taking. It was a desperate escape from a lockdown that seemed to go on and on. His automobile spare part production unit off Mumbai-Pune Expressway he worked at as a gas-cutter had stopped operation and he had exhausted his savings in a month and a half. Back in his village Holia, he remained in home quarantine for 14 days. Although he got registered with the UP government as a skilled worker, the call from Mumbai came before he could get some employment here. There are many like Sahni, who are sure-footedly making the journey back despite knowing the impending hazards. Three trains from Gorakhpur and one from Lucknow to Mumbai carry several similar stories. The numbers are still in trickles but reflect an early trend of reversal of reverse migration. With industries outside the red zone clanking back into action in Maharashtra, migrants who rushed back to their native places in UP have started getting calls for resuming their duties. As per labour department sources in Mumbai, 54,000 industrial units are working to the capacity in Maharashtra now. Among them are 8,000 units which come under Factories Act, with more than 20 employees. “Many of these units which were in Green Zones had started operating in the middle of the fourth phase of lockdown itself. All of them need their workers back,” said a labour department source. Once in Mumbai, these migrants would be stamped at the railway station and will have to spend 14 days in home quarantine before they could resume their work. Waiting to board Pushpak Express in Lucknow on Thursday, Indrajeet from Sultanpur said he was working as a carpenter with a contractor in Mumbai when the lockdown was announced and he had to return home. “Recently, my contractor called up and asked me to come over. He said my job is very much secure so I am going back,” he told TOI. He was accompanied by his distant relative Sunil Kumar of Ambedkarnagar who also worked in Mumbai. Alamgeer and Mohammed Shehzaad of Sultanpur who, too, were on their way to Mumbai, said they worked as drivers with a transport unit in Mumbai and came to their native village in Sultanpur before the lockdown. They had planned to return to Mumbai in March-end but were stranded because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-train-full-of-hope-for-new-beginning-chugs-out/articleshow/76204740.cms||Arjumand Bano
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 gives long-pending boost to health services in state||Nagpur: The unprecedented challenge thrown up by Covid-19 pandemic has given a huge push to Maharashtra’s health services, which will benefit the state in the long run too. Notwithstanding problems in Mumbai, Pune and other cities due to increasing Covid-19 cases, it cannot be denied that the health infrastructure in state has seen a major facelift. Many works pending from years became a reality just because of the pandemic. One example are the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL), the most laudable achievement. In January, Maharashtra had two labs where Covid-19 tests could be conducted. At least seven GMCs in state already had approvals for the VRDL laboratories, but the equipment was present only on papers. As the pandemic situation intensified, all these seven GMCs get the VRDL labs. Many other GMCs, who were not in the scheme, also received the machinery and the lab facility was operationalized. Today, the state has 75 laboratories where Covid-19 tests can be conducted. Out of these, 42 are in government institutions. AIIMS Nagpur has mentored setting up of 23 Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory for Covid-19 testing in a record span of 15 days. A lab that took months of waiting for approval, procurement, and certification at GMCH Nagpur, came up within six days at GMCH Gondia. The concept of isolation wards or independent hospitals for viral diseases was totally new for the state. But, many hospitals were converted into Covid-19 hospitals in record time. Total 17 GMCHs in state are working as Covid-19 hospitals. On the same line, PPE kits and mask production has gone up. Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said many changes happened at rapid space during the pandemic management. “PPE production capacity in the state is now over 1,00,000 per day, and N95 production over 1,20,000 a day. With this, prices will also remain under control,” he said. Doctors have also appreciated the state administration’s decision-making pace. Indian Medical Association (IMA) state president Dr Avinash Bhondve said the government issued a GR in flat four hours after IMA members held a meeting with senior officials. “The issue was to form state and district-level coordination committees for private doctors. The demand was addressed within four hours, which is laudable,” he said. “It’s obvious that the state has been spending a lot on health infrastructure after Covid-19. But our way of life and way of health care is set to change after this pandemic. At least now our health expenditure should increase up to 3% of the total GDP,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of World Medical Association. BLESSING IN DISGUISE RT-PCR labs | In Jan, Mah had 2 VRDL labs, now has 76 — can conduct 30,000 tests a day PPE kits | Mah producing 1 Lakh PPE kits/day, 1.2 lakh N95 masks Covid hospitals | 32 District hospitals, 17 medical colleges converted into Covid hospitals Covid Care Centers | Covid care centres came at 200-plus tehsil places Infrastructure | Covid wards were created in 17 GMCH across state Oxygen | Centralized Oxygen supply systems pending from years came to many GMCs Ventilators | Pending from months together, but now procured immediately||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-gives-long-pending-boost-to-health-services-in-state/articleshow/76204744.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Kathputli artistes from Jaipur cry for help on Tiktok||JAIPUR: Kathputli artistes from Jaipur have started uploading videos on Tiktok, seeking help from the government for artistes who are worst affected due to the lockdown. They have put up a Kathputli dance on Tiktok on a background music that states, “Everyone will go back to their normal lives after the lockdown is over but where are we artistes going to go. Our situation is degrading every day and we need some help from the government.” Kartik Bhatt, a resident of Kathputli Nagar in Jaipur, whose team made this video says, “Making Kathputlis (wooden dolls) is our ancestral profession. We are daily wage earners and ever since lockdown, all the cultural activities have stopped. It is for the better of the people, but this is a direct blow to our livelihood. My team and I made this video because we wanted the attention of the people in power towards our issues.” More such videos of Kathputli dance on folk songs and songs spreading awareness about coronavirus, are being uploaded every day by artistes on Tiktok. There are thousands of families living in Kathputli Nagar in Jaipur who perform every day in places of tourism, fairs, marriages and cultural events. With the lockdown, entire country was shut down including the cultural events that were bread and butter for these artistes. Most of the artistes in Kathputli Nagar are finding it difficult to make ends meet due to the sudden loss of income. Rampal Bhatt, another 65-year-old Kathputli artiste from Jaipur says, “With growing technology, our work is already out of fashion. I do not know anything else and if the situation remains the same, our younger generation will stop following it. We are on the verge of starvation.” During lockdown, most of the residents of Kathputli Nagar survived on their savings and the ration distributed by government and social workers. Out of job for at least another five months or until tourist flow starts, these artistes are desperately seeking help from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kathputli-artistes-cry-for-help-on-tiktok/articleshow/76204750.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
June 5, 2020||Delhi||60-year-old Covid-19 patient dies without treatment in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases spiralling in Delhi, it is becoming difficult to secure a bed at a hospital within a reasonable time. The death of a 60-year-old man, Lakhjeet Singh, after he failed to get a bed in any hospital has brought out this stark reality. His daughter, Amarpreet, went on Twitter to break the news, saying, ‘The govt failed us.’ Speaking to TOI, Amarpreet’s husband, Mandeep Singh, recalled the nightmare they had undergone in the past few days. He said his father-in-law was tested at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on May 31, when he had persistent fever. “Since it was raining heavily and there was no proper arrangement in the waiting area, all of us, including my father-in-law, got drenched. We had to wait for over three hours,” he said. A day later, his report came in: he had tested positive. “We persistently tried calling Sir Ganga Ram Hospital but there was no response. For the next two days, we reached out to Max, Apollo, AIIMS and Safdarjung to know if we could get him admitted as his condition was deteriorating, but they all said they had no beds. Ganga Ram was still unresponsive,” he said. “When all our efforts were in vain, we started calling the helplines, but the phone was constantly busy. This was when we took to Twitter seeking help since all doors seemed to have been closed,” said Singh. “On Wednesday, we decided to take him to LNJP Hospital since there was no other option. We were ready to stand in the queue but couldn’t have stayed at home and tried the board numbers any longer. His fever had touched 102 by now. So, we couldn’t stay there for long and returned home.” His fever kept rising and his condition worsened. So, at 5am on Thursday, they called up some hospitals again but with no luck. Finally, the helpline responded and they were asked to go to LNJP as they had 1,100 vacant beds. They rushed to the hospital at 6.50am. “We were very hopeful now and kept telling my father-in-law everything would fall in place. However, when we reached there, we were told that we should take him to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital since he was a “patient” from there. “While this was going on, my father-in-law dropped unconscious,” said Singh. “I quickly put him on a stretcher with the help of a passer-by and rushed to one of the doctors and begged him to treat him. After a lot of persuasion, when he finally agreed to see my father-in-law, he was already dead,” he said. Expressing their condolences, the hospital has denied that the patient was refused admission and claimed that he was examined by doctors upon being brought in. The statement said the patient was brought to the hospital between 7.10 am and 7.30 am. “It was found that the Lok Nayak Hospital’s auto-generated electronic casualty record had registered the patient in question as “Brought Dead” at 7.37 am. When incorrect and false claims are made about the hospital staff and widely publicised on the internet, it severely demoralises them and hurts their morale,” said the hospital. Ganga Ram Hospital said “there is no truth in the allegations. However, we sympathise with the family for their loss.” Meanwhile, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar said the Delhi Corona App has turned out to be a non-starter as despite the availability of beds in hospitals earmarked exclusively for Covid-19 patients, people were not being admitted. Watch Medical apathy: 60-year-old corona patient dies without treatment in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-yr-old-covid-patientdies-without-treatment/articleshow/76204747.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 5, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Stalled monsoon makes progress over Kerala with help from Cyclone Nisarga||PUNE: The monsoon that had stalled after its onset over Kerala picked up pace as Cyclone Nisarga rolled north-north-eastwards and inland. Had Nisarga moved away from the Maharashtra coast, it would have taken the monsoon current with it, spelling bad news for its advance. The India Meteorological Department on Thursday declared the monsoon’s further advance into the country. According to weather scientists, the anti-clockwise winds of a low pressure area pull a monsoon trough. Sathi Devi, scientist and head of National Weather Forecasting Centre, told TOI, “The severe cyclone so close to the coast strengthened the monsoon flow and we could see it advance further on Thursday. The monsoon’s flow to the south of Nisarga strengthened with rainfall activity increasing along the west coast and some parts of the interiors.”The cyclone could no longer influence the monsoon flow as it has further weakened. The depression, a remnant of the severe cyclonic storm, over south Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Vidarbha has already moved north-north-eastwards. It is now a low pressure area and the monsoon may need another push, Devi added. D S Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services, IMD, Pune, told TOI that the monsoon could be expected in Maharashtra within one week to 10 days. There may be a slight delay of a day or two in Pune and Mumbai.  He said the low pressure system over Arabian Sea which later turned into a depression, a deep depression and finally into a severe cyclone had also helped the monsoon advance over Kerala, marking an early onset before June 5 date. “The severe cyclone further strengthened the monsoon’s advance on Thursday. Now it has become weak and the monsoon current seems to have lost some energy. It will take a little time for the monsoon to reorganise. It may take another week to reach Mumbai and Pune,” Pai added. The monsoon progressed to some parts of central Arabian Sea, entire Kerala and Mahe, parts of Karnataka, some parts of Comorin Area and southwest Bay of Bengal, parts of southeast and east-central Bay of Bengal. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, told TOI, “After the passage of Nisarga, almost parallel to the west coast, the Arabian Sea branch of the monsoon seems to have strengthened with development of westerly and southwesterly wind component. But the Bay of Bengal branch seems a bit sluggish. It will strengthen in a couple of days bringing more rain from June 6. Both branches have to be strong for a further progress of the monsoon.�||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stalled-monsoon-makes-progress-over-kerala-with-help-from-cyclone-nisarga/articleshow/76204746.cms||Neha Madaan
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University examinations to be held in two phases in July||AHMEDABAD: After days of dilly-dallying, Gujarat University today announced that it will conduct college level exams in two phases for terminal semester undergraduate courses as well as for semester 2 and semester 4 candidates in postgraduate courses. For courses like MA, MCom, MSc, BEd, LLB, TY degree drama, diploma in film making, where the number of candidates are expected to be about 2,000 to 4,000 in a given semester, the exams are to be conducted from July 2 onwards, said sources. In cases where the numbers are higher, that is in the range of 15,000 to 30,000 candidates, the exams will be held from July 13 onwards. These includes courses like BA, BCom, BSC, BBA, MA, MCom, MSC, BEd, among others. In all, 61 semester course exams will be held from July 2 while annual examination for 15 semester courses will begin from July 13. The exam dates were finalized at the GU academic council and executive council meeting on Thursday. The state government issued fresh directives on June 3, where it said that for courses including BEd, LLB and BLib, exams will be conducted in lines with PG exams. The annual exams for colleges got deferred this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the directives by GU, the exams will be conducted by following proper sanitization methods and social distancing norms at the exam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-examinations-to-be-held-in-two-phases-in-july/articleshow/76203982.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhopal||Showers bring big relief from heat as mercury dips to 22C||BHOPAL: The entire state has been drenched in showers from Wednesday evening, providing solace from terrible heat. Winds and showers continued for the entire day on Thursday in Bhopal and other parts of MP. Bhopal recorded 51 mm showers in past 24 hours till 5.30 pm on Thursday. Day temperature sharply dipped in the city and night temperature also came down substantially. The variation between the day and night temperature was just that of a degree. A similar weather is likely to prevail for a day more, many places in the state may also witness heavy showers. Met officials said the widespread showers in the state are caused by cyclone Nisarga. It would impact the weather in the state till June 5 and rainfall would recede after that, but soon after, pre-monsoon showers would continue in parts of the state. Strong winds and showers would continue due to moisture in air. The day temperature in Bhopal on Thursday was recorded at 22.6 degrees Celsius, which was 17 degrees less than normal mark while night temperature in city was recorded at 21.4 degrees Celsius, five degrees less than normal mark. In the forecast for Bhopal on Friday, met officials said, there would be cloudy sky with a few heavy spells of showers. Day and night temperature would be at 25 degrees Celsius and 20 degrees Celsius, respectively, while average wind speed will be 20 kilometres per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/showers-bring-big-relief-from-heat-as-mercury-dips-to-22c/articleshow/76203936.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Injured worker loses eyesight||Out of three workers injured, one of them lost his eyesight. CITU union leader Raji Reddy demanded that compensation be paid to injured persons also. “They will get whatever compensation is laid down under SSCL rules but our main focus is to ensure that families of deceased do not get a raw deal,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/injured-worker-loses-eyesight/articleshow/76203916.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal cloth washing by tie-and-dye units resumes||Jodhpur: The illegal trade of washing cloth by the tie-and-dye units has started rearing its ugly head with the lockdown being lifted.In a first such action post-lockdown, the Special Task Force (STF) seized an illegal washing unit in Belwa of Balesar subdivision in Jodhpur district and filed a case against the owner of the unit on Wednesday. Incharge of the STF, Sunil K Panwar said the team raided the unit following information about an illegal unit functioning in an agriculture field in Belwa under Balesar police station. “When the team raided the spot, the agriculture field of Hameer Singh, work of washing and drying was found in progress,” Panwar said. On the spot, Singh had built six water tanks for washing the fabric. Water was being taken from a tubewell just beside the tanks and the coloured water, which was contaminated, was being released in the field. The STF seized a total of 70 big bales of cloth from the spot, which had been brought for washing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-cloth-washing-by-tie-and-dye-units-resumes/articleshow/76204749.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra deaths leap by 123, tally inches closer to 78,000||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 123 Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, its highest for a day. With this, the state’s toll jumped to 2,710. The highest toll reported in a 24-hour period earlier was 122, on Wednesday. The state recorded 2,933 new cases, its third-highest addition in a day, taking the tally to 77,793. Mumbai’s toll crawled towards the 1,500 mark as 48 deaths were reported by BMC; the toll is now 1,465. The city also added 1,439 cases, its count hitting 44,931.Of the Covid cases reported in Maharashtra, the state update said, 41,393 are active cases under treatment, while 33,681 patients have been discharged. The state government attributed Thursday’s 123 fatalities to book-keeping and said 30 of the 123 deaths were reported in the last two days, while the other 93 were those that had occurred between April 30 and June 1 but added to the count now. Of the 48 deaths reported in the city, 33 patients had chronic health conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and obesity, among others. While 15 patients were women, 33 were men. Seven of the victims were under the age of 40 years, 18 were between 40 and 60 years of age, and another 23 were above 60 years old. The BMC update said 626 patients were discharged in a 24-hour period ending on Thursday afternoon, taking the total number of discharged patients in the city to 18,098 so far. “We keep patients for a minimum of 10 days in our civic hospitals because of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. However, our doctors feel many patients can be discharged earlier given the improvement in their health status within a week,” said a senior BMC health department doctor. The ward-wise breakup of cases showed that Dharavi area (G North ward) recorded 23 cases on Thursday. The ward has recorded the highest number of cases in the city at 3,258. The number of cases seem to be gradually increasing in two wards -- N (Ghatkopar) ward that has recorded a total of 2,127 cases and M East (Govandi) that has recorded 2,124 cases. Former CM and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday claimed the number of tests being conducted in Mumbai had been reduced drastically. As on May 1, of the total tests being conducted in the state, 56% were from Mumbai; the number was brought down to 40.5% on May 15 and as on May 31, of the total tests, 27% were from Mumbai, he claimed. He said the reduction in testing and high number of deaths were a cause of concern. The BMC has asked people to be on their guard for the next 7 to 10 days – the incubation period for many monsoon illnesses ranging from dengue, malaria, H1N1, jaundice and leptospirosis. “Post-cyclone and rain, there could be a rise in cases of monsoon-related diseases in addition to coronavirus illness,” BMC officials said. People who develop symptoms such as fever, cough, joint pain, rashes and breathlessness within the next week should immediately consult a doctor, they said. Meanwhile, the Covid crisis seems to be worsening in the satellite cities around Mumbai. In Navi Mumbai, 84 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 2,557. Civic officials there informed there were three deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 83. In the highest 24-hour spike, Ambernath region with a population of around 3.5 lakh recorded 73 new cases on Thursday. The number of patients there reached 287, while the toll is seven. 194 fresh cases, including that of a doctor from the Kalwa CSM hospital, were reported in Thane, taking the tally there to 3,643 even as five more patients succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 108. The recovery rate of the state is 43% as on Thursday, with a total of 33,681 people having been treated and sent home, the state update said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-deaths-leap-by-123-tally-inches-closer-to-78k/articleshow/76204770.cms||Bhavika Jain
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: With 2 deaths, 74 new cases, Vidarbha surpasses 2,000 mark||NAGPUR: Total confirmed Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha surpassed the 2,000 mark on Thursday and settled at 2,039, with 74 cases reported from eight of the 11 districts. Two patients — a 62-yr-old woman from Satna (MP) and a 65-yr-old man from Amravati — died in Nagpur on Thursday. Both were referred to GMCH from the respective towns due to their critical condition. Being outstation patients and showing symptoms, their Covid-19 test was conducted and both tested positive yesterday. Both had comorbidities and died during treatment. Vidarbha has reported 73 deaths till now. Out of these, 30 have been reported in last 14 days. Akola continued to report high number of cases. Total 45 people — 27 men and 19 women — from 11 localities of Akola tested positive on Thursday taking the total number to 712. Akola recorded its first case on April 7 and 700th on June 4 — within 60 days. The last 500 cases in Akola came in just 10 days — from May 14 to June 4. Akola also has the highest number of deaths in Vidarbha, 34 out of 73. In Amravati, a 32-year-old resident of Farshi Stop locality tested positive in a private lab in Nagpur. Officials said the person has been shifted to Amravati on his request and admitted to ‘Best Hospital’, a private Covid hospital recognized by the government. With this, Amravati has 258 cases. On Thursday, 20 patients were discharged from Covid hospital. With recoveries going up, Amravati has only 76 active patients in isolation ward. In Chandrapur, two more patients were detected on Thursday taking the total to 26. Two new patients belong to Mul and Bhandrawati towns. A 30-year-old had arrived at Nagpur from Gurgaon in Haryana by plane on May 25. He had travelled in a personal vehicle to Mul and was in home quarantine. His samples were collected on Wednesday and tested positive. Administration has now gathered swab samples of six other family members. In another case, a person working at Bhadrawati was found Covid positive on Thursday. He is native of Hyderabad and had arrived here on June 1. He was examined and put in home quarantine before he tested positive. Both the new patients have been shifted to isolation ward in the Covid hospital. All 26 positive patient, save one, have either travel history or are contact of positive patients. Health administration has relived and discharged 22 patients and only four active patients are now left in the district. Yavatmal has recorded four more patients, three from Mahagaon and one from Nagapur of Umarkhed. The three are youths of 28, 33 and 36 years, who are contacts of a deceased person from village Mudhana of Mahagaon. The fourth patient is a minor girl of 15 years, relative of the deceased woman from Nagapur of Umarkhed. Five positive patients were also discharged on Thursday. Thus, total active cases in Yavatmal are now 41. Patients were discharged from Wardha for the second consecutive day, and no new patients were reported for the fifth day in a row. Four more Covid-19 patients were discharged from Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram and AVBRH, Sawangi on Thursday. All four had returned from Mumbai. They were told to stay in home quarantine for seven days. Now only three patients remain in the district, while one patient is in treatment at Secunderabad. Gadchiroli, Washim and Buldhana also recorded new cases on Thursday. The only relief was that all of them were from institutional quarantine facilities, so the chances of infection are negligible. Vidarbha’s recovery rate continued to be above 65% for last eight days. The region now has 626 active cases in hospitals, which accounts for nearly 30% of total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-2-deaths-74-new-cases-vid-surpasses-2000-mark/articleshow/76204767.cms||Mazhar Ali
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Did not sell detonators to SCCL: IDL Explosives Ltd||HYDERABAD: IDL Explosives Ltd at Kukatpally has clarified that it did not supplied detonators to the SCCL mine, where a blast occurred on May 2 in an open cast mine. The company’s chief financial officer, Ravi Jain, issued the clarification after a report was published regarding the issue, quoting the police, on May 4. During their investigation, in which four workers died, the Ramagundam police questioned the private contractor about the detonators which were used for blasting the stones in the open cast-1 mine in Ramagundam area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/did-not-sell-detonators-to-sccl-idl/articleshow/76203926.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Biometric verification must for ration from today||JAIPUR: The government functioning is gradually moving back to normal. From June 5, distribution of ration in the state will be done only after biometric verification through the point of sale (PoS) machines. There would be no offline distribution from June 5. The beneficiaries would have to follow social distancing norms. Food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena said ration would be distributed from fair price shops only after biometric verification with PoS machine from June 5 to the beneficiaries of the National Food Security Scheme. All the transactions of ration distribution will be done after biometric verification, he said. Meena said that to start biometric authentication again on PoS machine, social distancing, frequent hand washing and sanitising will be necessary to protect against Covid-19 pandemic. The guidelines issued by the central and state governments will have to be fully adhered, he said. Meena said that fair price shopkeepers and workers working at the shop will inevitably have to wear masks at the time of ration distribution. Before the distribution of ration, it will be necessary to clean the fair price shop or the vehicle from where the ration is distributed. The beneficiary must also wear mask at a fair price shop. Also, to maintain social distancing, they should wait for their turn, he said. Meena said that the fair price shopkeeper will have to sanitize daily before starting the PoS machine after which the beneficiary’s hands will also have to be sanitized before putting the thumb or fingerprint of the beneficiary on the PoS machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biometric-verification-must-for-ration-from-today/articleshow/76204753.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt to monitor all MoUs since February, 2018 investors’ meet||LUCKNOW: The UP government has initiated a mechanism to monitor all Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) signed by the government for investments in the state. The decision taken by chief minister Yogi Adityanath will now see senior officials tracking every MoU which the government has signed since the 2018 February Investors’ Summit. Industries minister Satish Mahana said that this was the first time such an intensive system was being put in place under which each potential investor would be contacted personally and helped through the entire process of investment in the state till the start of commercial production. “Other than those who participated in the ground breaking ceremonies, there are many who are at various states, from those who have to participate in public-private partnership projects to those who showed interest initially but then did not follow up. We will track each of these people to handhold them through the investment process,” Mahana said. On Thursday, chief secretary RK Tiwari issued directions to the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, agriculture production commissioner, all additional chief secretaries, secretaries and divisional commissioners to comply with the provisions defined under the new mechanism to facilitate willing investors and aid in timely implementation of their projects. Under this, details of all the existing MoUs have been made available on a portal and each MoU has been linked with a dedicated department. The department will be solely responsible for implementation of the MoU. Details of all new MoUs signed by any government department will have to be entered on the portal. All MoUs can be tracked through the portal but monthly meetings will also be held to review the progress. Review meetings of MoUs with investment proposal of over Rs 2,000 crore of agriculture and allied sectors will be presided over by the APC, while those of other sectors will be chaired by the IIDC. Additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries will hold review meetings for MoUs with an investment of Rs 500 crore to Rs 2,000 crore while divisional commissioners will review MoUs worth less than Rs 500 crore. A project monitoring unit will be set up in departments where the total proposed investment in an MoU is more than Rs 1 lakh crore or where number of MoUs is more than 200. Those departments with less than that will have to set up an MoU monitoring cell. Udyog Bandhu, the investment facilitation agency of the UP government, will be the nodal agency for technical management of the mechanism. IIDC Alok Tandon said that 371 of 1,045 MoUs signed during the 2018 summit were under various phases of implementation and as on March 17, 2020, 106 of these 371 MoUs had started commercial operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-monitor-all-mous-since-feb-18-investors-meet/articleshow/76204759.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 5, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Health science students can write exam from hometown||NASHIK: Nearly 70,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students of health sciences in the state will have the option of appearing for summer 2020 university exams from any health science college of their choice at their hometown or from their own college. Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has firmed up its plans to give such options to the students in view of Covid-19 crisis and the on-going lockdown in the state. These students are pursuing allopathy, dental, homoeopathy, nursing, ayurveda, unani etc. in 373 affiliated colleges across the state. “MUHS vice-chancellor Dileep Mhaisekar held at least 15 online meetings in the past one month with various stakeholders including deans/principals of all the colleges. The stakeholders have agreed to this plan,” a dean of medical college told TOI. When contacted, senior MUHS functionaries said the aim is to ensure that the students do not face any inconvenience. However, they refused to reveal anything more on the topic. “The university will share all details with colleges and students soon,” said an official. The MUHS had to defer the UG and PG exams scheduled in May-June due to the Covid-19 crisis. The PG medical (allopathy) students were also involved in treating Covid-positive patients in hospitals. As a result, they did not get time to prepare for the exam. “The varsity’s examination department, led by the controller of examination Ajit Pathak, is working overtime to identify over 300 health science colleges across the state which could be available as exam centres. The students can choose a centre in their hometown from that list. Alternatively, students can also appear for the exam in their choice of college,” official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-science-students-can-write-exam-from-hometown/articleshow/76201939.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Call on opening health facilities for all by Saturday, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said Delhi government would take a final decision by Saturday on whether the health facilities in the capital should be restricted for the residents of the city during Covid-19 pandemic or kept open for everyone. The AAP government had on Monday sought suggestions from public on restricting health facilities. “We have got about 5-6 lakh suggestions and some of them are really interesting. Some people have suggested that Delhi government’s hospitals should be reserved for the residents of Delhi, while Central government’s hospitals should be opened to all. The specialised facilities, such as transplantations, should be opened for everyone,” Kejriwal said. “We are evaluating the suggestions. A team of experts will also give its opinion. By Saturday, we will decide if health facilities should be restricted for a few months till corona patients are being treated,” he further said. The chief minister, however, added that he was in favour of opening the economy and the state borders. “We had some concerns and we will soon find solutions for them,” Kejriwal said. In an interview to a private news channel, Kejriwal said Delhi currently had about 8,500 beds and 5,000 of them were vacant. Kejriwal said the government would soon make about 20,000 beds available for serious patients. “In two months of the lockdown, we have made adequate arrangements,” Kejriwal added. He accepted that a lot of people who came from Covid-affected countries earlier this year went back home without following any quarantine protocol. “But not much was known about the virus at that time. The nationwide lockdown helped in delaying the spread of the virus and gave time to states to prepare to deal with the crisis,” the CM said. Over plight of migrants, Kejriwal said about 7.5 lakh people had registered on Delhi government’s website, but only 4.5 lakh actually left the capital. “Those who left Delhi didn’t do it because there was no food. They left because they didn’t know when would the restrictions be lifted. Now when the economy is opening up, the migrant workers are staying back,” Kejriwal said. He added that the migrant workers should have been allowed to go home at least a month earlier. “If that had happened, lakhs of people would not have walked down and faced inconvenience,” Kejriwal said. Talking about the Rs 20 lakh crore rehabilitation package announced by the Centre, Kejriwal said a part of it should have been give to people as direct money transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-call-on-opening-health-facilities-for-all-by-saturday/articleshow/76204769.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Will clear all dues of city manufacturers, assures Atlas Cycles||Ludhiana: Even as bicycle parts manufacturers of Ludhiana are nervous after Atlas Cycles (Haryana), Sahibabad, shut down its plant, the latter have given an assurance that they will clear all dues of city-based cycle parts manufacturers. According to sources in the bicycle industry, the company has several crores rupees pending towards Ludhiana bicycle part factories against the material supplied by them to the company. Now, with company shutting down its plant, Ludhiana businessmen are jittery as they fear about the safety of their payments. On Thursday, president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) D S Chawla spoke to senior functionaries in the Atlas Cycles (Haryana), Sahibabad, on behalf of Ludhiana industrialists and he has been assured by the company representatives that the payments of suppliers are safe and moreover, the company will start functioning normally after the resolution of a legal matter. Giving more information to TOI, Chawla said, “On the subject of reports about the permanent closure of the Atlas Cycles (Haryana), Sahibabad, I spoke to very senior officials of the company on Thursday regarding the payments to be made to the Ludhiana vendors. In this connection I also spoke to other officials, including senior functionary N P Singh Rana. I have been informed by all of them this is not a permanent shut down and this is a temporary phase to save day to day expenses of the unit which are in crores (apart from the labour salaries).” He added, “The company has an ongoing case in the NCLT, hearing on which is due on June 18. The company intends to get permission for sale of land in Sonipat, which is nearly 25 acres. The unconfirmed estimate of the pending dues of the Ludhiana industry are around Rs 100 crore, whereas the value of this land they intend to sell is much more than these dues. After disposing of the land with the permission of the NCLT, the company will have liquid money surplus and they will be in position to pay off all debts.” “Moreover, the company has made it clear that they do not have any ill intentions of any kind to keep anyone’s dues and once the case is settled, they will resume the bicycle production like before and the bicycle parts manufacturers of Ludhiana will keep getting business from the company like before,” Chawla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/will-clear-all-dues-of-city-manufacturers-assures-atlas-cycles/articleshow/76203040.cms||Mohit Behl
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Minister directs officials to clean drains before rains||Jaipur: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Thursday inspected the drainage system of Sushilpura area. After receiving many complaints by residents of the area of choking drains, Khachariyawas along with officials of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) and Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) inspected the area.People have complained that due to lack of cleanliness of drains, sewage water is entering their houses. Khachariyawas ordered the municipal officials to clean up the drains in the entire area before the arrival of monsoon, to resolve this long-standing issue and provide relief to people.“Due to the coronavirus outbreak and lockdown, all civic work was put on hold. But now with the opening up of economy, construction of roads and cleaning up of drains must become a priority of JDA and JMC officials. When the work will start progressing, it will provide employment to people,” said Khachariyawas.JMC has already taken up the process of cleaning drains in the city. The contract has already been given to workers to clean 800 drains and 20 big nullahs. However, the contract was given in the month of May and monsoon is expected to arrive in June end. Usually, it takes three months to complete the task, but with only a month left, it is considered to be a difficult task to complete.Block president Manoj Mudgal, JDA directors Virendra Singh Sunda and N C Mathur, additional chief engineer Devendra Gupta, B D Shama and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-directs-officials-to-clean-drains-before-rains/articleshow/76204764.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Already fighting Covid, NMC faces dengue challenge||NASHIK: The health machinery of the civic body has been put on high alert to ensure mosquito breeding spots are not created following the recent rainfall and the dengue problem does not arise while the city is fighting the coronavirus crisis. “There have been a few cases of dengue since the onset of the monsoon last year. But there was a sudden spike in the cases thereafter (July rain). We are already fighting against Covid-19. Hence, instructions have been given to the health machinery to ensure that mosquito breeding spots are not created in the city,” mayor Satish Kulkarni said. The mayor conducted a meeting of health department officials and asked them to take measures to prevent outbreak of dengue. The city had recorded only 12 cases of dengue between January 1 and June 30 in 2019, but there was a sudden spike in dengue positive cases from July onwards after the monsoon became active. The city had recorded 48 dengue positive cases in July alone, followed by 165 and 117 cases in August and September, respectively. In October, 207 positive cases were registered which increased to 322 in November. The city had recorded 253 cases in December 2019. In 2018 (Jan-Dec), 844 dengue positive cases were recorded in the city with three deaths, but the city recorded 1,124 cases of dengue positive in 2019 with two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/already-fighting-covid-nmc-faces-dengue-challenge/articleshow/76201945.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 5, 2020||Nashik||TrueNat test to detect Covid-19 at Zakir Hussain Hospital in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to conduct TrueNat test for Covid-19 detection at its Zakir Hussain Hospital in the city. The state government has provided a machine required for the tests to the civic body and the same is being installed at Zakir Hussain Hospital. The machine can test around 25 throat swab samples of high risk contacts every day. This will help the NMC to decide immediately whether to isolate the high risk contacts for further treatment. It takes around two-three days to get test reports of the throat swab samples. However, by using TrueNat it will be possible to detect Covid-19 within one-and-a-half hour. If the machine reports comes out as positive, the samples will be then sent to the lab in Pune for confirmation. This test will also enable the NMC to detect prospective Covid-19 patients from the high risk contacts and start their immediate treatment. “There have been a rise in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Once the person is tested positive, we immediately trace out the high risk contacts of the patients and the number is usually high. Hence, it takes time to send their swab samples to the lab in Pune and get reports,” an NMC official said. “We can conduct test of 25 high risk contacts in one go. If the test detects a person to be Covid-19 positive, we will isolate the high risk contact, start treatment and also send the swab sample to the lab in Pune for confirmation,” the official added.Training is also to be provided to the staff by the experts about tests in a day or two. “We are expecting to start the TrueNat test within a week,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/truenat-test-to-detect-covid-19-at-zakir-hussain-hospital-in-nashik/articleshow/76201947.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Govt planning to bring back labour: Industry minister||Ludhiana: Industry minister Sundar Sham Arora on Thursday visited Ludhiana and interacted with city businessmen at Circuit House. In a big announcement Arora claimed that soon Punjab government was planning to run trains and buses to ferry migrant workers back to Punjab, who want to come back and join work at factories. He said, “About 12 lakh migrant workers from Punjab had registered to go back to their home states, of which almost 50% changed their mind and stayed back because chief minister Amarinder Singh took a bold decision to open factories in the state. As far as workers who went back home are concerned, they too are now wanting to come back after coming to know that factories are running here. Based upon the input received from the industrialists that workers want to come back our government is looking at ways to do so and we might plan running trains and buses from the home states of migrant workers to Punjab.” Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “We raised several issues and urged him to expedite GST and VAT refunds which have been stuck for a very long time. In addition to this, other issues discussed were restarting of mining, resolution of labour issues and waiver of fixed charges for industrial power consumers. The minister has also assured us that skill centres will be upgraded and Halwara airport will be completed on time.” Rahul Ahuja, chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (Punjab) , added, “We took up the matter of shortage of labour in factories, responding to which the minister assured that government will do what so ever it can to overcome this problem. Besides, the state is planning to bring back workers via buses and trains from their home states to Punjab.” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “The main demands put forward by us included one time settlement for old C-forms from businessmen, allowing the export of PPE kits because the manufacturers of these kits are facing shortage of orders. The industry minister gave us a patient hearing and assured us that all our demands will be looked into.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-planning-to-bring-back-labour-industry-minister/articleshow/76203081.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Opposition targets govt over cycle unit closure||Lucknow: As Atlas Cycles announced the closure of its factory in Sahibabad, citing a major financial crunch, Opposition parties hit out at the government for failing to help industries in distress. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: “The news of the famous Atlas cycle shutting down production in UP due to the economic slowdown is extremely worrying. It has left thousands of workers staring at an uncertain future. Where will these poor people go in this time of rising unemployment? Another bandi or closure due to the wrong policies of BJP.” BSP chief Mayawati advised the government to pay immediate attention to the issue. Calling this a worrying move, she said: “At a time when the government is talking of giving economic package to help industries that were closed due to the lockdown, the news that a major cycle factory belonging to Atlas has had to shut down due to shortage of funds is extremely worrying.” In a statement issued by Atlas on Wednesday, it had said that after the lifting of the lockdown from June 1, the Sahibabad unit of the company was not in a position to resume manufacturing operations due to financial constraints and, therefore, the workforce will be laid off with effect from June 3, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/opposition-targets-govt-over-cycle-unit-closure/articleshow/76204771.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||‘Claims of 91% farmers settled under PM crop insurance scheme’||Jaipur: The state government claimed that 91% of farmers under the PM crops insurance scheme got their claims settled for damage to their crops during the previous Kharif season. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said that under the scheme, insurance claim of Rs 2,261 crore involving 13 lakh farmers have been settled in the state. This constitutes about 91% of the total claims. An insurance claim of Rs 2,496 crore was estimated, out of which Rs 2,261 crore has been given to farmers. All claims have been settled in 14 districts. Follow up action is being taken to pay claims of the remaining five districts, he added. Kataria said farmers got insurance amount from companies due to special efforts by the state government, even in adverse circumstances like the pandemic. Under the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme, from January 1, 2019 till now, an claims of Rs 6,041 crore has been settled involving 42.31 lakh farmers.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/claims-of-91-farmers-settled-under-pm-crop-insurance-scheme/articleshow/76204768.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nashik||Nine positive cases emerge in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: A person from Kanpur, who travelled from Delhi to Hyderabad and arrived at the Kolhapur airport, has tested positive for Covid-19. He was among the 18 passengers who arrived in Kolhapur airport on Wednesday morning, and was taken to D Y Patil hospital for screening. He was put under institutional quarantine at a private hotel. His throat swab samples returned positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. According to district health authorities, 11 passengers were from Kolhapur and the remaining from Sangli, Satara and Sindhudurg districts. The administration has put the passengers under institutional quarantine and their throat swab samples too have been sent for testing. Director of Kolhapur airport Kamal Kataria confirmed the development. “Neither the person (Covid-19 patient) nor any passenger who arrived at the airport has come in contact with any of our staff at the airport,” Kataria told TOI. Meanwhile, a one-and-half-year old girl and another eight-year-old girl were among the nine positive cases identified in Kolhapur district on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 654. Four new cases in SangliTwo teenagers, a five-year-old boy and a 60-year-old person from Sangli district tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally of positive cases to 128. All the four patients are among the high-risk contacts of the persons who have travelled from red zones. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhari has decided to provide daily travel pass to workers commuting from the nearby districts and working in various industrial units in Sangli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nine-positive-cases-emerge-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76201965.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Private hospitals in Solapur get a stern warning||KOLHAPUR: Solapur district guardian minister Daata Bharne has asked the administration to take stern legal action against private hospitals that are refusing to treat non-Covid patients. Bharne, along with other officials, visited private hospitals on Wednesday, in view of the increasing number of complaints that non-Covid patients are not being admitted or treated by them. The minister also instructed the district administration to register an offence against few doctors of a private hospital who did not resume work even after government instructions. Guardian minister’s stern warning comes in the wake of continuous surge in Covid-19 patients. The number of patients has crossed the three-figure mark, but has only 128 ventilators that are needed for the treatment of critical patients. Health department officals said the existing infrastructure is inadequate in view of the increasing number of patients, which has forced the district administration to issue an order for the requisition of the private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pvt-hospitals-in-solapur-get-a-stern-warning/articleshow/76201961.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Air passenger load picks up, to boost frequency & connectivity||JAIPUR: Passenger load on inbound and outbound flights from the city is gradually improving since flights resumed across the country on May 25. The increase in demand has led to operators increasing frequency of flights. To maintain Covid protocol at the airport, the authorities are now planning to open the newly constructed departure hall for passengers to ensure social distancing and avoid overcrowding. According to airport authorities, when the domestic flight operations started on May 25, they were stunned to see that in a flight from Delhi only two passengers had arrived. “That day, we had received 520 passengers in eight flights, while only 140 left from Jaipur in four flights to different cities. However, it appears to have improved now,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport, while quoting the figures on inbound and outbound passengers of various flights on Thursday. He added that the improvement is evident from the figures of June 1 and June 2. “ On June 1, as many as 1,353 passengers arrived in Jaipur and 1,081 flew to other cities. Fear of the pandemic among the passengers is gradually fading away, since they know that be it flight operators or airport authorities, everyone is taking complete precautions,” he added. Authorities added that by June 15, Jaipur airport would have more connectivity to cities like Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Pune and others. “If the passenger load keeps increasing, we will open our departure hall to ensure social distancing and avoid overcrowding. Flight details would be clear only after we receive the new flight schedule. But there will be an increase in the frequency of existing flights and also, new operators will join us,” said a senior airport official, connected with operations. From May 25 to June 3, the number of passengers who came to Jaipur was 9,019 while the number of those who went out of Jaipur by air was 5,385.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-passenger-load-picks-up-to-boost-frequency-connectivity/articleshow/76204772.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Malls chart Covid-19 SOP, set rules for patrons to stem virus spread||KOLKATA: When malls open for business on June 8, they will be the same facilities that had shut two-and-a-half months ago but feel very different. Customers, too, are set to behave differently as they adapt to life anew in a Covid-19 world. “Malls have been drawing two categories of customers: those who window shop and the serious buyers. The first category loved to amble around, browse through what’s on offer and spend hours at the food court. The second came with a purpose: to shop, watch a movie and grab a bite. When malls reopen, we expect those walking in to arrive with a list of things-to-do and leave after completing it in the shortest possible time,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. Sensing the change in customer behaviour, malls are also set to reposition themselves and metamorphose from being hangout zones to safe and hygienic places to shop. The ambiance of the facilities will be very different. The buzz and zing that earlier defined the character of malls will be conspicuously absent. “Social distancing markers isn’t the only change that will happen in malls. The place will be a lot more muted as there will be fewer people in malls. The maximum number of people allowed will be nearly a third or a fourth of the footfall that malls used to record on a weekday,” said Quest mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra. With the Shopping Centres Association of India, the umbrella body representing all malls, drawing up a 75 sqft per person, including shoppers, retailers and support staff, footfall will be severely restricted. For instance, at the 7.4 lakh sqft South City mall that would record footfall of 30,000-40,000 on weekdays and 1-1.2 lakh during weekends, only 10,000 can be present at any given time. With 2,500 retail staff and employees, that leaves room for only 7,500 customers. Similarly, Mani Square with 5 lakh sqft can accommodate 6,500 people, including customers and staff. However, with the average time spent per customer at malls set to go down from 2 hours 45 minutes earlier to an hour now, both because cinemas are yet to open and wariness about catching the infection in a public space, the churn in customers will be higher. The buzz will also be absent as events and promotions that were a regular feature feature at mall atrium will no longer be held. “Instead, there will be awareness messages on precautions to avoid Covid-19 infection,” said Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan. Retailers Association of India CEO Rajagopalan Kumar believed retail sales would be down by half for at least two-three months and pick up once the health situation improved and customers gained confidence. Non-essential retail sales have seen a frightening drop from 50% in March 2020 to 80% in May. That should revive a bit. But essential retail, which has been the lifeline of the nation, was also down by 40% in April and may further slide to 30% given its current run rate. “And that is worrying,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-chart-covid-sop-set-rules-for-patrons-to-stem-virus-spread/articleshow/76203050.cms||Subhro Niyogi
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: No merger plan, but revenue department’s wings to be clipped||HYDERABAD: Dropping its earlier proposal to merge revenue department with either panchayat raj or irrigation department, the Telangana government has now decided to vest some of the powers and duties of revenue department in other departments. Official sources said a draft on revenue reforms has been prepared. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao will take a final look on the draft later this week. “If it gets approved, it will be one of the major administrative reforms and shake-ups in bureaucracy in Telangana in last five years,” an official said. Sources said tehsildars and VROs would be relieved from responsibilities and powers soon. These responsibilities would be given to respective departments. For instance, crop damages due to unseasonal conditions and natural calamities and agriculture-related census would be given to agriculture department. The major issue of ration cards would be handled by civil supplies department. Livestock census would be given to animal husbandry department which was handled by revenue department. “Reforms are aimed at providing corruption-free, transparent, speedy and hassle-free administration. Withdrawing some of the powers and duties of revenue officials at mandal level and abolishing some age-old Acts are part of reform agenda,” a senior official involved in drafting revenue reforms told TOI. Not long ago, the CM had made adverse remarks on functioning of revenue officials and rampant corruption in the department, inviting sniggers from officials. Population census where revenue department has crucial role would be givrn to police department. Implementation of Irrigation Act, cases of breach and disputes would be looked after by irrigation department and record of births and deaths would be managed by the mandal parishad development officer of panchayat raj department. The revenue department will continue to deal with maintenance of land records, land acquisition, disaster management, protocols, public health, preparation of electoral rolls, protection of government land and general enquiries. “Some duties will be taken off the list. Like implementation of Tenancy Act and inspection of survey numbers,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-merger-plan-but-revenue-depts-wings-to-be-clipped/articleshow/76203952.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||Home minister inspects security at c-zones across Nagpur||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, along with police chief BK Upadhyay and other officials, on Thursday inspected security layer around containment zones across the city. Apart from officers posted at the spots, Deshmukh also spoke to local residents to understand their grievances. Deshmukh visited Tandapeth-Hiwri Nagar, Srikrishna Nagar, Wathoda, Gaddigodam and such places. He also reviewed law and order situation in and around the containment zones. This was his second visit to containment zones in the city. Several containment zones like Mominpura, Parvati Nagar and Pandhrabodi, have witnessed tension in the past with citizens protesting against restriction on movement over a prolonged period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-minister-inspects-security-at-c-zones-across-city/articleshow/76204775.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC to extend its services to other states by next week||JAIPUR: A day after starting its inter-state bus services to Haryana, the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) saw an increase in the passenger footfall on Thursday. Compared to only one bus that was sent to Gurugram on Wednesday, three buses were sent on Friday. Now the RSRTC is moving ahead with its bus services to Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. On Thursday, a good number of passengers were seen boarding the super luxury bus to Gurugram. Passengers, including those who work in Delhi, said they will stay back in Gurugram until Delhi opens its borders. “Facility wise it is happy to be boarding the RSRTC super luxury bus, but I would suggest the authorities to open the eateries at the bus stand,” said Anuj Yagnik, who works in a multi-national company at Gurugram. Authorities, after starting its buses to Haryana, are now in touch with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. “Every day, things are improving. As we had announced to open our buses to Harayana we have started it. Now we are aiming at starting our inter-state services to other states including UP, HP, Uttarakhand and Punjab from next week. We are waiting for their final nod,” Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC told TOI on Thursday. He added that these buses are likely to be city specific. “We have to follow that our services go not enter any containment zone within Rajasthan or outside the state. Things are moving in positive direction and we are hopeful to start our services to other states by next week,” he added. On the rider ship to Haryana, he said, “It will take some time. We were better on Thursday compared to Wednesday and gradually the number of passengers in various buses will improve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-to-extend-its-services-to-other-states-by-next-week/articleshow/76204780.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ajmer||RSRTC to extend its services to other states by next week||JAIPUR: A day after starting its inter-state bus services to Haryana, the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) saw an increase in the passenger footfall on Thursday. Compared to only one bus that was sent to Gurugram on Wednesday, three buses were sent on Friday. Now the RSRTC is moving ahead with its bus services to Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. On Thursday, a good number of passengers were seen boarding the super luxury bus to Gurugram. Passengers, including those who work in Delhi, said they will stay back in Gurugram until Delhi opens its borders. “Facility wise it is happy to be boarding the RSRTC super luxury bus, but I would suggest the authorities to open the eateries at the bus stand,” said Anuj Yagnik, who works in a multi-national company at Gurugram. Authorities, after starting its buses to Haryana, are now in touch with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. “Every day, things are improving. As we had announced to open our buses to Harayana we have started it. Now we are aiming at starting our inter-state services to other states including UP, HP, Uttarakhand and Punjab from next week. We are waiting for their final nod,” Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC told TOI on Thursday. He added that these buses are likely to be city specific. “We have to follow that our services go not enter any containment zone within Rajasthan or outside the state. Things are moving in positive direction and we are hopeful to start our services to other states by next week,” he added. On the rider ship to Haryana, he said, “It will take some time. We were better on Thursday compared to Wednesday and gradually the number of passengers in various buses will improve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rsrtc-to-extend-its-services-to-other-states-by-next-week/articleshow/76215452.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||At 14,500, Delhi is now second only to Maharashtra in terms of active Covid-19 cases||NEW DELHI: After Maharashtra, Delhi has maximum active cases of Covid-19. According to the data shared by states, while Maharashtra has 39,935 active cases, the corresponding figure for Delhi is 14,456. It is much higher than the number of active cases in Tamil Nadu (12,135) and Gujarat (4,779), two other states that are most affected by the Covid-19 crisis. The spike in active cases in the national capital, officials said, has been caused due to sudden increase in new cases. Delhi’s daily count of Covid-19 crossed the 1,000 mark for the first time on May 28 when 1,024 new cases were reported. Since then, the numbers have been going up daily – except on June 1 when only 990 new cases were reported. On Thursday, the city reported 1,359 new cases of Covid-19 taking the state’s total tally to above 25,000 mark to reach 25,004. Authorities also confirmed 44 deaths due to the disease, 22 of which were reported over the last two days, taking the death toll to 650. Of all active cases in the state, officials added, only 3,307 (23%) are requiring hospitalisation. “Majority of people are under home isolation (65%). Some others have been kept under isolation at the Covid health centres and Covid care centres,” a senior official said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Epidemiologists say chances of cases coming down anytime soon are less because the infection is spreading. “We need to be prepared to deal with more patients by arranging more hospital beds, in government as well as private facilities,” said a senior doctor. Delhi government has asked all private hospitals with more than 50 beds to either dedicate 20% of beds for Covid-19 patients or, if mixing of Covid and non-Covid patients was a problem, turn themselves into complete Covid facility. To deal with the critically ill, the government has directed state-run hospitals that have been designated for Covid management – Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, GTB, Lok Nayak, Deep Chand Bandhu and Shri Raja Harish Chandra Hospital – to upgrade their facilities in three weeks. It would include adding more ventilator beds, beds equipped with oxygen support and recovery or observation beds. The government order also states that if bed is not available in a hospital, it will be sole responsibility of the hospital to transfer the patient to other hospital and till that happens, the hospital will provide available medical facilities. Another crisis is lack of testing facilities. With as many as eight labs being barred from testing pending investigation into certain complaints raised against them, many people said they were finding it difficult to get tests done. “The government should tell hospitals which private labs are authorised to do the testing. There is lot of confusion and patients are being refused testing by labs,” Dr Harish Gupta, coordinator of the Covid task force set up by Delhi Medical Association, said. Watch At 14,500, Delhi is now second only to Maharashtra in terms of active cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-14-5k-delhi-is-now-second-only-to-maha-in-terms-of-active-cases/articleshow/76204778.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Menu on WhatsApp, live-stream of cooking when restaurants open next week||KOLKATA: Visiting a restaurant in the Covid-19 era is set to be a more ‘contact-less’ and digital experience than ever before. Set to reopen on June 8, most city restaurants are gearing up with a new set of norms that will mark the entry of virtual menu cards, disposable crockery and cutlery, fumigation of guests’ shoes, thermal checks and introduction of a compulsory briefing for each guest to ensure compliance of safety rules. While the number of seats will go down by 30%-40% on an average to ensure social distancing, some are planning to live-stream their cooking process on giant TV screens to gain customers’ confidence. Even as tables are being rearranged in several restaurants to stick to the new norms, almost all of them have rejected the conventional menu card. It will either be replaced by a menu list sent to the customers’ WhatsApp number or will be displayed on a tablet screen. Some will display the menu on disposable table mats. At Oudh 1590, menu will be sent to customers over WhatsApp after they have gone through a temperature check and their shoes have been fumigated. “Each guest will be briefed on the safety steps and the precautions that they should be taking during the visit. Our seating capacity will be reduced to 50% to maintain distance between tables,” said owner Shiladitya Chaudhury. That apart, the restaurant will be using disposable crockery and cutlery — which could be charged — as a safety measure. “People may not be confident about the hygiene of cutlery, so disposables are better. Apart from thermal checks and sanitizers, we will be restricting contact between our staff and guests. Orders must be placed in one go and our staff will only carry the food to the table but won’t serve them,” added Chaudhury. Specialty Restaurants chairman Anjan Chatterjee, though, remains wary. He said his chain of restaurants is ready with all safety protocols but doubts whether he will at all open them to guests. “In restaurants, the peak dinner time is between 8.30pm and 11pm. If malls shut down at 9pm, we can only do half the usual business. That may not be viable given our overhead costs,” he said. At Song Hai in central Kolkata, customers will have the menu list on their WhatsApp and they can opt for disposable cutlery, though the crockeries will be reusable. Bills, too, will be sent on their phones. “People could be wary of sharing forks and spoons. We will be charging for them and live-stream our cooking so that guests can be sure about our hygiene standards,” said owner Sudesh Poddar. Mughlai chain Aminia will reduce seating capacity by 30%. “We are creating a digital menu and payment solution for customers. Those who do not have smartphones will receive a disposable printed menu. Our waiters will use masks and gloves and there will be temperature check and sanitisers at the gate,” said owner Kabir Azhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/menu-on-whatsapp-live-stream-of-cooking-when-restos-open-next-wk/articleshow/76203055.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man kills wife over choice of grooms for daughters||JAIPUR: A 45-year-old woman was strangulated to death by her husband in a room of a local dharamshala (rest house) at Mehandipur Balaji town of Dausa district. The accused called up police and surrendered. The deceased was the second wife of the accused and had five children including three daughters. According to police, the couple from Noida had come to Menandipur Balaji on Wednesday evening and stayed at Bajrang Mandal Dharamshala. “The deceased identified as Roli Kumari was the second wife of accused Nirmal alias Tinku (35). Both have been on and off to Mehandipur Balaji. The accused strangulated the woman late on Wednesday evening. He called up police control room and informed about the murder,” said a senior officer of Dausa police on Thursday. According to police, both had a quarrel over marriage of their three daughters. “Both of them were not from affluent families and both wanted their daughters to be married off to grooms of their choice. This gave rise to a feud between them which led to the murder,” said Naresh Sharma, Mehandipur Balaji SHO. “A team of senior police officers along with the FSL team rushed to the spot and accused was taken in custody. “He was arrested by our team after completing some formalities,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-wife-over-choice-of-grooms-for-daughters/articleshow/76204779.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Seven child marriages prevented in Kolhapur and Sangli||KOLHAPUR: As many as seven child marriages — five from Kolhapur and two from Sangli district — were prevented after the intervention by the authorities during the lockdown period in April and May. The parents have been warned against such acts and the village-level committees have asked them to not make such attempts or else they will face serious action including imprisonment. According to the data from the women and child development department and childline centres of both the districts, the child marriages were going to take place due to the economic distress the families have been facing. B G Katkar, Kolhapur district women and child development officer said, “In the past years, one or two such attempts were reported in a month but this year the number is higher. Economic problems were the primary reason in the child marriage cases reported in the district.” “We have provided counselling to the parents informing them about the disadvantages of marrying off a girl child. We have appealed to the local teams to be more vigilant in the coming days,” the officer said. The complaints are made to 1098 childline number. The team carrying out the action of preventing the child marriages said that the girls are around the age of 16 while the grooms are between 23 to 27 years old. One of the team coordinators requesting anonymity said, “Usually, the parents justify such acts by saying that they cannot look after the girl child once they leave for work as they suspect that their daughter might elope. However, we ultimately find that the girls are not ready for marriage and are forced to hide the truth. We warn the parents and a complaint is lodged by the village coordinators with local police station.” Another coordinator, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The sex ratio is skewed (more number of boys than girls) in rural parts. We have observed that the parents of the grooms are also responsible for such acts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/7-child-marriages-prevented-in-kolhapur-and-sangli/articleshow/76201971.cms||Abhijeet Patil
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||Tipplers say cheers on 1st day of liquor delivery in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Rijit Kumar couldn’t be happier when he found a ‘liquor section’ on his food delivery app while ordering lunch on his 15th wedding anniversary on Thursday. Like Kumar, thousands of tipplers in the city couldn’t believe that ordering their favourite drinks had finally come to their fingertips. The result was obvious — food delivery majors got an ‘overwhelming response’ in Kolkata on the first day of doorstep liquor service. TOI was the first to report on Thursday that food delivery majors Swiggy and Zomato, specialised liquor delivery app HipBar and retail chain Spencer’s Retail have signed an agreement with Bevco, the state’s wholesale and distribution arm, for starting doorstep delivery of alcoholic beverages. All four players have started offering their services on their mobile apps and websites by enrolling interested people of permissible age across Kolkata and Siliguri to begin with. For Spencer’s Retail, it was a welcome relief. The head (east) of the retail giant, Kaushik Ganguly, said: “We have received a good number of orders on the first day. The number is expected to grow in the coming days.” Sources said Swiggy had also got a positive response while Zomato noted that it was too early to comment. Stakeholders of the alcohol trade in the city believe that this initiative will not just open a new avenue for liquor sale in the midst of the Covid-related restrictions, but would also indulge the elderly, physically challenged, busy and shy people to order their preferred bottle with ease. “This service will no doubt help maintain social distance and let you avoid prying eyes,” said Animesh Saha, a liquor merchant in north Kolkata. For many, the new sales channel offers such a hassle-free option that they don’t mind shelling out a bit extra for getting their booze. Rajrupa Banerjee, a brand manager in a top FMCG firm, said: “It’s easy. I don’t have to depend on anyone now, even if it means paying some extra money to the e-delivery executives.” Mainak Sarkhel, an IT executive, ordered four bottles of beer, for which he was charged a delivery fee of Rs 100. “Simply put, people who cannot stand in the queue for whatsoever reason got a reason to cheer, ” said Apurba Santra, a floor manager of a wine shop in Jadavpur. Ranojoy Pramanik of S K Pramanik, an off-shop, got first liquor order within five minutes of registering for HipBar. “I am planning to register my shop and my bar ‘Booze’ for Swiggy as well. I did not expect such response on the very first day,” Pramanik added. A Swiggy spokesperson said, “We will expand our services to 24 other cities across the state.” Lauding the government move, Siddharth Wadia, director & GM (IMENA Region) of Jack Daniel’s whiskey-maker Brown-Forman, said: “It will definitely help in ensuring social distancing and easing crowd at liquor shops. Our experience in other markets tells us that home delivery of alcohol is a feasible and a safe channel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tipplers-say-cheers-on-1st-day-of-liquor-delivery/articleshow/76203063.cms||Sovon Manna
June 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad elderly woman beats Covid-19 after 11 days on ventilator||AURANGABAD: A 60-year-old woman, who had contracted Covid-19 and was kept on ventilator for 11 days during her treatment, has recovered from the viral infection and was discharged from MGM hospital in Aurangabad on Thursday. The woman, a resident of Begumpura area in Aurangabad city, was initially suffering from fever, cold and cough along with respiratory problems. Her son, a doctor, recognised the symptoms and got her tested for Covid-19. The woman also had high blood pressure, obesity and diabetes. Anand Nikalje, chief coordinator of the Covid care centre at MGM hospital, said that the woman was immediately admitted to the intensive care unit set up for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The patient was having difficulty breathing, her blood sugar level had shot up and her oxygen level had dropped drastically. She was at a high risk due to old age and comorbid conditions. Apart from Covid-19, she was simultaneously being given treatment for her other ailments,” said Nikalje. Nikalje, along with his team of doctors Rohan Gundre, Prashant Akkulwar, Pradeep Taur, Yogesh Adki, successfully treated the woman under the guidance of dean of MGM Hospital and Medical College Rajesh Bohra, deputy dean Praveen Suryavanshi and medical superintendent H Raghavan. Expressing confidence, Nikalje said that the doctors at the hospital would be able to cure the 25 other elderly patients undergoing treatment at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-elderly-woman-beats-covid-19-after-11-days-on-ventilator/articleshow/76201972.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Udaipur||RSRTC to extend its services to other states by next week||JAIPUR: A day after starting its inter-state bus services to Haryana, the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) saw an increase in the passenger footfall on Thursday. Compared to only one bus that was sent to Gurugram on Wednesday, three buses were sent on Friday. Now the RSRTC is moving ahead with its bus services to Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. On Thursday, a good number of passengers were seen boarding the super luxury bus to Gurugram. Passengers, including those who work in Delhi, said they will stay back in Gurugram until Delhi opens its borders. “Facility wise it is happy to be boarding the RSRTC super luxury bus, but I would suggest the authorities to open the eateries at the bus stand,” said Anuj Yagnik, who works in a multi-national company at Gurugram. Authorities, after starting its buses to Haryana, are now in touch with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. “Every day, things are improving. As we had announced to open our buses to Harayana we have started it. Now we are aiming at starting our inter-state services to other states including UP, HP, Uttarakhand and Punjab from next week. We are waiting for their final nod,” Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC told TOI on Thursday. He added that these buses are likely to be city specific. “We have to follow that our services go not enter any containment zone within Rajasthan or outside the state. Things are moving in positive direction and we are hopeful to start our services to other states by next week,” he added. On the rider ship to Haryana, he said, “It will take some time. We were better on Thursday compared to Wednesday and gradually the number of passengers in various buses will improve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rsrtc-to-extend-its-services-to-other-states-by-next-week/articleshow/76215449.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Goa crosses century mark as Mangor Hill Covid-19 cases swell||PANAJI: Goa witnessed another big jump in its Covid-19 count on Thursday, crossing the 100-mark, as 40 new cases were reported—32 of them from Mangor Hill in port town of Vasco, a containment zone. In less than 48 hours, Goa has reported 82 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the active cases count to 109. Among the 32 persons testing positive from Mangor Hill is a health worker from Margao, who had visited the area for field work on Saturday and possibly picked up the infection. Top government sources said another 8-9 health workers have come positive in the screening and their confirmatory tests are awaited. Other eight persons who have been reported positive have travelled from Maharashtra. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who on Thursday visited Mangor Hill, said a decision on bringing more areas in Vasco under containment zone would be taken on Friday. “We have taken a review and we feel that the situation is under control and that the cases will come down. However, let’s see how many more positive cases are detected on Friday based on which we will take a decision,” the chief minister said. Of total 166 cases reported since March, 57 patients have been cured. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said they had collected 202 swabs of people of Mangor Hill, of which 42 reported positive on Wednesday, and of the 352 swabs collected on Thursday, 32 have shown positive result for Covid-19, while results of 400 swabs collected would be known on Friday. She said contact tracing work at Mangor Hill will continue till health department is satisfied. She said the health department was yet to conclusively establish the source of infection among the fisherman’s family—from where the first case of the area originated. She said they suspected that the fisherman had visited a godown, where he came in contacts with drivers from Andhra Pradesh. Mohanan said they had got in touch with the Andhra Pradesh authorities to establish the possible links with truck drivers who may have come to Goa. Meanwhile, due to heavy rush at the North Goa district hospital, Virnoda college in Pernem has been taken over by the district administration set up swab collection centre. “We want to reduce the crowd at district hospital. There is a huge inflow of people crossing over from Patradevi and coming to the district hospital to give their swabs. We wanted to keep the rush away from the district hospital so that it can continue to provide normal hospital services,” she said. Mohanan said the health department is planning to start swab collection at Virnoda college from Saturday. “It will only serve as a collection centre,” she said. Further tightening the monitoring of travellers, she said, officials of directorate of panchayat and municipal administration will be posted at swab collection centre and they will intimate respective ward members about the travellers in their wards. “Till such time their test results are not known, ward members will be asked to keep a watch on travellers in their area and ensure that they maintain self- isolation,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-crosses-century-mark-as-mangor-hill-covid-cases-swell/articleshow/76204789.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Dr Sudhakar Rao Kolaventy’s mother moves habeas corpus petition in AP high court||VIJAYAWADA: Kolaventi Kaveri Lakshmi Bai, (pic) mother of suspended anaesthetist Dr Sudhakar Rao Kolaventy, on Thursday moved the AP high court with a habeas corpus petition seeking directions to authorities to produce her son before court. She pleaded in her petition that her son was neither in police custody nor in judicial custody. “He is under illegal confinement based on a false report that he is suffering with mental illness and is being given wrong medical treatment by administering clozapine or typical antipsychotics like haloperidol,” she said in the petition, adding that her son has already developed side-effects due to his diabetic condition at the mental health hospital in Vizag. As the high court in its earlier judgement allowed to move a house motion in case of emergency, she said she has no alternative but to move the habeas corpus given the condition of her son. While the petition of Lakshmi Bai is yet to be heard, the high court on Thursday raised some technical aspects in the petitions moved by Dr Sudhakar requesting that he be shifted to another hospital. The HC said the advocate, who appeared on behalf of Dr Sudhakar, mentioned in his verification that his client’s statement was verified at Amaravati while he was in the mental health hospital in Vizag. They have not produced any certificate from the hospital that his counsel came to the hospital to take the affidavit, the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dr-sudhakars-mother-moves-habeas-corpus-petition-in-hc/articleshow/76203965.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Team reviews Covid arrangements at Ramganj, Central jail||JAIPUR: A two-member central team, led by joint secretary Rajiv Thakur, inspected the Ramganj area and the central jail on Thursday while taking stock of the arrangements there in view of Covid-19 crisis. Thakur enquired about the facilities being provided to the prisoners at the central jail and asked them to use masks, sanitizers and maintain social distancing.  Chief Medical and Health Officer-I (CMHO-I) Dr Narottam Sharma, who was also present, said they visited a Covid-19 positive person’s house and also went to the place where sampling was done. He said, only six Covid-19 positive cases were left at the central jail, of the 210 positive cases diagnosed.  Authorisation letters of 3 fair price shops suspended: The authorisation letters of three fair price shops were suspended as some irregularities came to light. One Krishna Mohan Agarwal’s letter was suspended for procuring wheat with a fake Aadhar card. The authorisation letters of other two shops - Jaipur Kerosene Ricksha Polar Union and Rasthtriya Kerosene Trolley Union - were suspended for suspicious transactions without generating OTP, said district supplies officer (DSO) Kanishk Saini. The manager of the both the shops was Bishram Singh.  Free helpline for senior citizens receives over 1,300 calls: The free helpline “Sharing-Caring” - 7428518030 - launched by district administration and J K Lakshmipat university for the senior citizens has already received over 1,300 calls. Now, they have decided to hold free online interactive sessions for senior citizens through webinars and social media. During these sessions, information about government schemes and doctors’ advice will be given by experts, said additional district magistrate (II) Purushottam Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/team-reviews-covid-arrangements-at-ramganj-central-jail/articleshow/76204774.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Five spl trains for migrants to Odisha||Hyderabad: The India Railways has arranged five Shramik Special trains to ferry migrant workers to Bolangir and Naupada in Odisha after the intervention of Telangana high court. Around 8,000-9,000 brick kiln workers at Rangareddy, Sangreddy, Peddapalli, Vikarabad and Devarakonda were sent home on Thursday. Some of the migrants have started flocking to the Nampalli railway station and Medchal highway. Advocate Vasudha Nagaraj said, “The migrant workers are living in open areas at Rethifile at Secunderabad.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-spl-trains-for-migrants-to-odisha/articleshow/76203978.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Dhule city, Shirpur turn into hotspots||NASHIK: The Dhule district administration is focussing all efforts in curbing the spread of Covid-19 in Dhule city and Shirpur taluka in the district, which have emerged as major hotspots . According to district health authorities, 10 of the 102 Covid-19 patients registered in Dhule city have succumbed to the infection. In Shirpur taluka, 23 of the total 37 patients are currently undergoing treatment while two people have died of the infection. “We are baffled by the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Shirpur. The civic body there is doing a good job on the cleanliness front,” said the health officials. “We have stepped up surveillance and contact tracing in the 27 containment zones drawn up in Dhule city and 14 in Shirpur taluka,” said officials. So far, Dhule district has registered 171 Covid-19 cases, of which 92 patients have recovered and 21 have succumbed to the infection. “We are concerned about the death toll in the district. Of the 21 deaths, six were brought dead to the hospital and later tested positive for Covid-19,” said health officials adding that on Wednesday, the district did not report a single positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-city-shirpur-turn-into-hotspots/articleshow/76201983.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||In a 1st, tiger count to cover big cats hiding in cane belts||LUCKNOW: To assess the exact number of tigers in the country, the forest department has decided to cover not only reserve forests, but also localities adjacent to protected areas. Thus, this year the Phase IV estimation of tigers, currently underway in Dudhwa tiger reserve, will try to find out how many tigers or tiger-dominant areas exist outside contours of the reserve. Phase IV is an annual exercise conducted across the country to assess the minimum number of tigers present in the protected area. It’s for the first time that tigers taking shelter in sugarcane belts and other such areas outside but adjacent to reserves will also be counted. Dudhwa lies in terai region. It has sugarcane fields forming the periphery of the protected area. Tigers that are pushed out of the core area of the reserve by dominant big cats take refuge in sugarcane belts. These tigers, who keep moving in and out of the cane belts, are mainly juveniles and females. Often, the females with cubs. Tiger estimation done by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in every four years nationally might be missing on these transient tigers, or so allege tiger activists. This year, when the estimation started in January, cameras were installed close to cane belts in Kishenpur sanctuary. The estimation is being done in Pilibhit tiger reserve also. Tiger-dominant areas outside Pilibhit reserve will also be under camera trap. Director, Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, Sanjay Pathak, said, “We will be able to cover Dudhwa National Park and adjoining area before onset of monsoons. Katarniaghat part will be taken up during winters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-a-1st-tiger-count-to-cover-big-cats-hiding-in-cane-belts/articleshow/76204785.cms||Neha Shukla
June 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: MLAs testing Covid-19 positive a worry for parties||Gandhinagar: With the crucial Rajya Sabha election barely a fortnight away, both the BJP and the Congress are worried about their MLAs testing positive for coronavirus. Just ahead of the high-stakes election, three BJP MLAs have tested positive for Covid-19 and are being treated while one Congress MLA has recovered after being hospitalized for Covid-19. Both the BJP and the Congress are hopeful that the Election Commission of India will allow proxy voting in case MLAs cannot remain physically present for voting in the state assembly on June 19. However, the representation of peoples act (RPA) allows only physical presence of eligible voters. S Murali Krishna, chief electoral officer (CEO), Gujarat, said, “The RPA act allows only physical assistance during voting if the voter requests in advance however he/she has to come at the voting booth. There is no provision in the act of allowing proxy voting. Postal ballot voting is allowed, but that has to be requested before the nomination process ends. Period for allowing postal ballot vote is over now. If one cannot come for voting due to coronavirus infection, we cannot do anything as per the present law. However we will arrange for a health check up at the voting area and if anyone has symptoms we will make special arrangements for voting.” Jitu Vaghani, state BJP president, said, “An extraordinary situation has arisen because of the coronavirus outbreak. We will request the ECI to allow proxy voting or make arrangements to ensure that an MLA can vote even if he or she has tested positive for Covid-19. This issue is affecting all parties across the country and we are hopeful that the ECI will take this issue into consideration.” State Congress president Amit Chavda said, “MLA from any party is likely to be infected by coronavirus. Even ECI staff can get infected by the virus. The ECI ought to look into this matter and allow for proxy voting or make some arrangement where MLAs who are Covid positive can cast their vote.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mlas-testing-ve-a-worry-for-parties/articleshow/76203980.cms||Kapil Dave
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Autorickshaw driver arrested for raping 15-year-old girl||COIMBATORE: Police on Thursday arrested a 32-year-old man for raping a 15-year-old girl near Podanur. They also arrested his two friends for helping him in the crime. The arrested people were identified as Selvam, a goods autorickshaw driver and resident of Gandhi Nagar in Podanur and his friends Rajan, 35, a tea seller in Podanur and Suriyaraj, 30, of Eachanari. The victim is an inmate of a children’s home in another district and a class X student, police sources said. “She had returned to her hometown near Podanur due to the Covid-19 lockdown. On June 1, she went to visit her friend, but the family did not allow her to enter the house. Selvam noticed the girl, who was in tears, and offered help. He was a casual acquaintance of her family and took her to Rajan’s house in Podanur, where Rajan’s family gave her dinner. Selvam, who was under the influence of alcohol, raped the girl several times at night,” a police officer said. The next day, Selvam asked Suriyaraj to bring his car to Podanur. Selvam, Suriyaraj and Rajan took the girl to Pollachi in the car. Though they decided to keep the girl in a home in Pollachi, the trio later left her near her house in Podanur. Meanwhile, the girl’s father had lodged a missing complaint with the Podanur (law&order) police. The girl told police that she was raped by Selvam. Police arrested Selvam for raping the girl and his two friends for helping him. They have been lodged in the Avinashi sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/autorickshaw-driver-arrested-for-raping-15-year-old-girl/articleshow/76203969.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP: People make videos & watch 2 farmers die of severe burns after bike accident||BAREILLY: Two farmers on a bike were burnt to death after their two-wheeler caught fire following the impact of a strong collision with a stationary tractor-trailer in Mitauli area of Lakhimpur Kheri district, in Uttar Pradesh, late on Wednesday – even as onlookers were said to be busy making videos, instead of trying to save the two lives. Post-accident video clips are being widely shared on social networking sites. The two farmers succumbed – at the site near Shivala turn under Neemgaon police limits – before the arrival of police. The accident occurred when farmers Rinku Singh and Zandel Singh from Muglipur village were on their way home from another village on an old Yamaha bike. After colliding with the parked vehicle, both could barely move. Soon, the impact of the collision caused the petrol tank to catch fire. And both of them suffered severe burns. Mitauli SDM Digvijay Singh said they are aware that some people even made videos, instead of trying to help the injured. They could have at least thrown soil to douse the fire and two lives could have been saved, Singh said, adding, "I have asked the police to identify these people and take action against them. It was a terrible accident." Neemgaon SHO Raj Kumar said, "Both the farmers had already died when the police reached the place. They were riding an old bike and belonged to a poor family. Their bike's petrol tank started to leak which triggered the fire." Circle officer Seetanshu Kumar and SHO of Mitauli police station reached the accident site. The two bodies were handed over to their families following an autopsy on Thursday. District administration is expected to conduct a survey for "compensation under the farmers’ accidental insurance scheme".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/people-make-videos-watch-2-farmers-die-of-severe-burns-after-bike-accident/articleshow/76201986.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Unlock-I: UP to follow guidelines of Centre||LUCKNOW: The first phase of ‘unlock’ is scheduled to start from June 8 and Uttar Pradesh government has started preparations to enforce strict social distancing guidelines as more activities are permitted. Religious places, malls, restaurants, hotels and other hospitality industries will be permitted to open up from June 8. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath has started holding reviews to chart out social distancing and safety protocols to be enforced once these places are allowed to function. “The chief minister has said that we should wait for the central government guidelines on the opening of these places. Once they are released, the departments concerned should study the guidelines closely and then prepare protocols for safety and security,” Awasthi said. As markets have already opened up in the state, the CM has directed the police to ensure patrolling in public places, especially crowded markets. The CM has said that there should be zero tolerance towards people flouting rules under the Epidemics Act and the police should strictly enforce rules about covering one’s face in public places, maintaining social distancing among other norms. “The CM has asked the police to issue challans in case of violations, and also hand over two masks worth Rs 10 each to a person who is caught without face covering,” Awasthi said. Following central guidelines so far, UP has allowed all industrial activity and permitted markets to open, unless they are located in containment zones. Strict guidelines have been set on thermal scanning, face covers, hand sanitizers and social distancing. Under Unlock-II, on which a decision will be taken by the Centre in July, schools, colleges and coaching centres will start functioning, while in the third phase, a decision will be taken on international flights, Metro rail services, gyms and cinemas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unlock-i-up-to-follow-guidelines-of-centre/articleshow/76204793.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||‘Dead’ batteries as vehicle rentals slump||CALANGUTE: Reeling under the impact of shutdown in tourism activities, operators of vehicle rental businesses in the Calangute-Candolim belt now have to deal with another unique problem: batteries going dead. A rent-a-bike operater in Calangute who owns around 10 two-wheelers said he has to keep the engine of his vehicles running for a few minutes everyday to maintain battery charge. “Or else, the batteries will go dead and the loss will be more,” he said. With many having purchased their vehicles through bank loans, they're now saddled with payment of instalments, and with this new problem, they will have to buy new batteries when business picks up, he said. “We've never experienced something like this before,” Santan Teles, a Candolim local who rents out vehicles, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dead-batteries-as-vehicle-rentals-slump/articleshow/76203988.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||RTOs commence driving tests with limited candidates||PANAJI: Regional transport offices (RTOs) in the state have started conducting written tests and the subsequent practical exam for issuing driving licences. However, it has kept to a limited number of students in order to ensure social distancing norms. Only ten students a day are being allowed to perform the driving test while only 15 people a day are given appointments for the online test at the RTO. “We have resumed our normal procedure for issuing fresh driving licences. However, only for the tests we have received instructions that they be conducted with only a few students,” an RTO official said. He said that decreased footfalls at the RTOs have so far enabled them to maintain limited numbers. “The fear of infection is still there so people have been careful not to crowd the office. Besides, there is time to renew licences and vehicle registrations till June 30, owing to which there is no rush to get the work done,” he said. The state has been following guidelines from the Union ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) to extend the validity of documents like vehicle registration, driver’s licence, fitness certificate, and other documents, till June 30. Currently, driver’s licence applications pending prior to the lockdown are being cleared while fresh applications are also being received. “The RTOs will have to complete the pending works in this month itself because the offices are now fully functional,” transport director, Rajan Satardekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rtos-commence-driving-tests-with-limited-candidates/articleshow/76203979.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||3 students held for vandalising madrassa in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Three students of a madrassa at Arivozhi Nagar near Madukkarai were arrested on Thursday for vandalizing the facility. Lights, a ceiling fan and benches of the madrassa, attached to Nazrual Islam Sunnath Jamath mosque, were found damaged on Tuesday. Madukkarai police registered a case under Section 427, 448 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of the Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act, 1992. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the teacher of the madrassa, Syed Mohammed, often reprimanded three minor boys for not focusing on studies and also allegedly caned them. Police picked up the trio on Wednesday night. The boys told police that they vandalized the madrasa to teach Mohammed a lesson. Madrassa in-charge Abbas told police that he will withdraw the complaint and requested them not to pursue the matter further. However, police arrested the boys and later let them off on station bail.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-students-held-for-vandalising-madrassa/articleshow/76203972.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown effect: Nomadic tribes in Rajasthan struggle for survival||JAIPUR: Pandemic has hit nomadic tribes in Rajasthan hard. The two-month lockdown has forced them to live in temporary sheds and trek long distances to reach home. Nayak Bhopa, a semi-nomadic community, is mostly staying in tents on the outskirts of the city or villages. They are surviving on donations received from the government and generous people. Travelling to different places, Bhopas sing in front of phad (a scroll) depicting story of a deity, are now barely making their ends meet. Plight of migrant workers has been on news as they are travelling on foot long distance to reach home. Not many are aware that migrant workers include nomadic tribe as well. Many of these workers are under huge debt taken during the lockdown. Dhanraj Kalbeliya, from Bundi explains that hundreds of Kalbeliya community workers are travelling from all over the country on foot to reach Rajasthan. “I believe 70% of our people do not have permanent house. Most of us have no documents and survive on daily wages we receive performing dance in front of tourists. We expect tourism will not revive in future. People in our community who have permanent houses are travelling back on foot sometimes for 20 days to get back home. We need some support from the government as lockdown has completely destroyed our livelihood,” said Kalbeliya. Cultural activist and anthropologist Madan Meena, who have been working with nomadic communities, explains, “There is an urgent need to give special attention towards these tribes as lockdown has hit them hard. Rajasthan has maximum number of nomadic tribes in the country. Without any source of income from tourism and cultural events, state government need to provide some assistance immediately.” There is a De-notified Nomadic Tribe (DNT) Board in Rajasthan which is not functioning for many years. Gopal Kesawat, former chairman of this board says, “Without any chairman or budget allocation the DNT board is not functioning. Most of the nomadic tribes perform in cultural events and are daily wagers. Nat community people used to perform on street and in circuses are all out of work. I believe that if period of pandemic increases, nomadic tribes will be infected in maximum numbers. Government needs to allocate special budget for these tribes or they will die of starvation.” Other nomadic tribes are Kanjar, Nat, Banjara, Jogis, Garasia, Gadiya Lohar and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-effect-nomadic-tribes-struggle-for-survival/articleshow/76204795.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Leopard attacks forest guard, cop, 4 others near Katarniaghat forest||BAREILLY: A two-year-old sub-adult leopard attacked and injured six people, including a forest guard and a policeman, on Thursday morning at Durgagaudi village, situated on the fringes of Katarniaghat forest range in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Anil Patel, DFO (north) said forest guard Brijesh Shukla and police SI Rajkumar Rawat went to Durgagaudi village after receiving information that a leopard had injured four farm labourers working in a field. On their arrival, they found that the villagers had encircled a few fields where the leopard was suspected to ne hiding. They along with a few others were following the pugmarks to track the big cat and push it back into the forest area when suddenly it charged at them. The duo sustained minor injuries while the leopard escaped. Rescue teams were called and a cage was placed at the village to trap the leopard, said Patel. He added that all the injured are recuperating. "We may use a drone camera to locate the animal as it is probably hiding in the fields. The rescue team will camp at the village till the operation is complete," the DFO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-attacks-forest-guard-cop-4-others-near-katarniaghat-forest/articleshow/76202005.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||KHS employees pledge day’s salary, contribute Rs19L to PM Cares fund||Wardha: Kasturba health society (KHS) handed over a cheque of Rs19,20,648 to district collector Vivek Bhimanwar for PM Cares fund on Thursday at collector office. KHS trustee PL Tapdiya, secretary Dr BS Garg, and MGIMS dean Dr NM Gangane handed over a cheque of Rs19,20,648. 1077 employees of Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical sciences, Kasturba Hospital, Kasturba Nursing School and Kasturba Nursing College pledged their one-day salary to help government fight against Covid-19. Soon after the Prime Minister urged organizations and individuals to donate money for the Prime Minister Relief Fund, KHS appealed to its employee to give away their one-day salary to strengthen the Centre’s efforts to tackle the situation. The contribution was voluntary and those wishing to opt out were exempted. “With nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 and economic activities almost coming to a standstill, we, the employees of KHS are conscious of the fact that the government is in need of huge funds to tackle the pandemic”, said Tapdiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/khs-employees-pledge-days-salary-contribute-rs19l-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/76204797.cms||Balwant Dhage
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Directorate of elementary education offers personnel for board exam duty||COIMBATORE: With more examination centres for Class X board exams to be held from June 15 to June 25, the need has arisen for more hands for exam duty. After the state government increased the number of exam centres in view of the pandemic and the lockdown, all students can write exams at their own schools and need not travel to other exam centres. Schools have been asked to ready their campuses for the exams. In Coimbatore district alone, the exams will be held in 548 centres, 400 more than what was initially allotted. To meet the demand for personnel, the Tami Nadu directorate of elementary education said its officials, headmasters, and teachers can be used for exam duty. “If need arises, officials, headmasters and teachers can be used for Class X board exam duty and other board exam-related work. Also, graduate teachers working in middle schools can be give preference in exam duty,” a communication from the directorate said. Teachers said students, especially those from rural areas, should be informed properly of the timings and exam centre details. “Many government school students were confused seeing ‘F.N.’ in the timetable. They called us for clarification. So, the state government should inform students clearly about the timings and that they have to write the exams in their own schools,” said a teacher. Teachers have also been in touch with students through phone calls and messages and have been helping them prepare for the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/directorate-of-elementary-education-offers-personnel-for-board-exam-duty/articleshow/76203999.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest department pulls up crude bomb-makers||COIMBATORE: After a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala’s Silent Valley forest fell victim to a home-made bomb, the Tamil Nadu forest department has warned those who make such explosives (ottukkai). “We seized six outtukkai used to hunt wild boars in the Coimbatore forest division during the lockdown. The bombs were handed over to police for further action. We can register cases under the Wild Life Protection Act Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, for hunting or attempting to hunt wild animals,” district forest officer D Venkatesh said. The department is collecting details about those who make outtukkai. “We will submit the list to the superintendent of police for further actions,” Venkatesh told TOI. On July 29, 2016, a three-year-old female elephant sustained severe injuries in its mouth when it bit an outtukkai in an agricultural field at Periya Thadagam here. Unable to eat, it died inside a brick kiln unit near Mangarai. The department arrested 41-year-old R Murugan of Kuppanaickenpalayam village for planting the explosive. He was an agricultural labourer and used to stay in the field. He used to make such bombs with the help of two friends to hunt wild boars for meat. “Such bombs can injure other animals and humans also,” said Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-pulls-up-crude-bomb-makers/articleshow/76203989.cms||A Subburaj
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP nears 100% feat in digital foodgrain distribution system||LUCKNOW: In a strong indication of robust mechanism of foodgrain distribution through ration shops, the state government has inched closer to putting in place 100% biometric and Aadhaar card based public distribution system (PDS). Food commissioner Manish Chauhan told TOI that they have achieved 99% biometric-based food distribution in May itself. Likewise, he said, the Aadhaar seeding target to ensure that only eligible beneficiaries avail ration from the PDS shops touched 99.5%. According to the food and civil supply department, foodgrains were given to 3.34 crore people in May. Of them, bio-authentication was done in the case of 3.30 crore people, while only 4.3 lakh people or 1.29% were given foodgrains with the help of proxy methods involving authentication of beneficiaries through phone numbers and other methods. This was during the second phase of PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana, which was executed during the lockdown. “Efforts are on to make PDS a completely foolproof system in which all loopholes are plugged,” Chauhan said, and added that it was only in case of some labourers whose fingerprints could not be matched as they get rubbed off over a period of time. Some of them were authenticated through Iris identification technique, he said. The stealthy mechanism is significant in the backdrop of CM Yogi Adityanath asking officials to devise a mechanism to prevent corruption in the foodgrain distribution system. Chauhan said the government has already equipped all 80,000 ration shops with electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) machines. Also, he said, the department has deputed a nodal officer for ration shops and godowns from where foodgrain is being collected by ration shop owners. “This has been done to ensure transparency at both the levels,” he said. The impact of biometric and Aadhaar card PDS was recently seen when the state government weeded out 25 lakhs ghost ration cards and managed to save about Rs 1,600 crore. Officials said ration shop owners cannot tamper with the entitled amount of foodgrains to a beneficiary. Biometric authentication has ensured that the beneficiary gets the right quantity at the right price, officials said. Digitization has provided significant convenience to beneficiaries as it ensures quick distribution of food grains and minimizes queues to a great extent. As soon as a particular ration shop owner gets the food supplies, the linked beneficiaries will get an automated SMS intimation on their mobile phones, unlike earlier times when the beneficiaries had to check multiple times, with the ration shop owner, about the availability of the foodgrains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-nears-100-feat-in-digital-foodgrain-distribution-system/articleshow/76204827.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 5, 2020||Pune||Doubling rate slows in Pune: From 8 days in April to 15 days now||PUNE: Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said on Thursday that with a better doubling rate of Covid-19 than the one in April and through enhanced testing, the city is projected to have 7,500 active cases by the end of June. “Cases were doubling within eight days in April. Based on that, the city would have had 10,000 cases by the end of May. But we fared better with a little over 8,000 cases. After recoveries, we now have over 3,500 active cases. Also, the doubling rate now is 15 days. With aggressive testing, we are projected to have 7,500 active cases by end of June. And with current containment measures, we are looking at a doubling rate of 20 days,” Gaikwad said during a teleconference on Thursday. He added: “Most of the dead have been people with comorbidities. The younger and healthier have recovered. Our focus now is to ensure the recovery of all at-risk patients, including the elderly, pregnant women and those with serious underlying conditions such as heart ailments or diabetes.” The commisssioner said there are plans to home-quarantine positive cases with less serious symptoms. “Opinions are varied on this move,” Gaikwad said. “But we are building consensus among the elected members. Some feel home-quarantining of people who have tested positive could trigger anxiety among a patient’s neighbours. But we have to build confidence amongst citizens; prove that they can deal with Covid-19 just like any other flu. We will implement this measure once a collective decision is made." District collector Naval Kishore Ram, while referring to an audit report of 367 deaths, said: “Nearly 12% of the deaths were last-minute admissions. They died within 24 hours of hospital admission. Comorbidities play a major factor here. Early admission and involvement of specialist doctors and trained nursing staff are important. We need senior specialist doctors to control the 4.45% mortality rate in Pune district.” He said the administration will contact private doctors at hospitals with comorbid patients. “We cannot have a homogenised treatment. Issues with comorbidities should be addressed by specialists. In the past, late detection was an issue but now the administration wants to work towards a better treatment protocol,” Ram added. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI that authorities were also in talks with officials from Kerala to secure more frontline staff. With cases expected to rise during the monsoon, Mhaisekar said talks are on with the World Malayalee Council to ensure nursing staff returning from from the Gulf are rerouted to assist with Covid care in Pune division. City-based public health expert R Jotkar, who has been studying the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the state said the value has now improved to 3.4% from the 6.86% in mid April. “There has been a decline over time and the state has tried to address the silent hypoxia cases via proactive measurement of oxygen saturation in elderly or at-risk patients through house to house surveillance. But there is a need to pay more attention to this by taking up various measures. “The delay in detection of silent hypoxia can be curtailed by using pulse oximetry tests, toll free helplines and improved ambulance accessibility for general public. We also need assessment of cases — mild, moderate, severe and critical cases. There is also a need to conduct death audits to find out the shortfalls in triaging and case management. We then must take appropriate corrective actions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doubling-rate-slows-from-8-days-in-april-to-15-days-now/articleshow/76204794.cms||Vishwas Kothari
June 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Now, job seekers can get alerts on vacancies||PANAJI: After taking the employment exchange online, the state government on Thursday launched an online notification mechanism to inform employers as well as job aspirants every time a vacancy opens up in the public and private sector. The “job matching” facility will enable the candidates to get notifications whenever an employment opportunity is available while also help the state government gather data on Goa’s employment trends, said minister for labour and employment Jennifer Monserrate. “The additional service we are adding today are submission and placement of candidates for private employers as well as government departments and agencies,” said Monserrate. “By developing an online end-to-end online service, we hope to build an automatic flow of data which will benefit private companies as well as government departments at the state and Central level.” From a physical register, the state’s employment exchange has moved to an online database, and with the new feature, both job aspirants and employers can register on the portal. While registering, job aspirants will have to provide details about their educational qualifications, skills and salary expectations. Private companies as well as government departments will be able to post all their job vacancies on the portal. There are around 75,000 people registered on the Goa employment exchange. The government, said chief minister Pramod Sawant, is in the process of segregating the registered candidates based on their preference for government jobs and private sector employment. “Investors in all sectors, not just MSMEs, even hospitality sector will get a boost as they can choose directly. The first preference should be through this employment exchange for Goans,” said Sawant, before adding that he hoped by the next year at least 5,000 Goans should get employment through the portal. “When a vacancy is posted, a notification will be send to the candidate matching the required criteria. The candidate can view the posted vacancy, apply or contact the employer directly. Similarly, employers will be able to reach out to a wider pool of job seekers,” said Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-job-seekers-can-get-alerts-on-vacancies/articleshow/76204005.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||No scam, will probe if any lapses: Jennifer Monserrate||PORVORIM: While denying allegations that the monetary relief meant for registered construction workers in Goa was diverted to BJP workers, labour and employment minister Jennifer Monserrate said that the department would hold its own inquiry to identify if there were any lapses in the direct benefit transfer of funds to these beneficiaries. Refuting Goa Forward Party’s (GFP) accusation that the scheme was a scam, Monserrate said that “some confusion” could have taken place when people submitted forms claiming that they are construction and building workers. “What happens is that when we registered these people, we take a self declaration. Their names are registered and maybe on this ground there was some confusion because we go by the self declaration given by the people,” she said. The minister said that the department would go through the list of beneficiaries to see if any mistake had been made and she would meet chief minister Pramod Sawant to discuss the allegations. “We will do our own investigation on where this has gone wrong and we will rectify it,” said Monserrate. While GFP claimed that Rs 13 crore was spent out of the “building and other construction (GOBC) workers welfare fund”, Monserrate said that only Rs 5.6 crore was disbursed to 9,393 beneficiaries. Each beneficiary got Rs 6,000, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-scam-will-probe-if-any-lapses-jennifer/articleshow/76203993.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man kills neighbour for resisting rape||COIMBATORE: Police have detained a 22-year-old man for killed his 49-year-old neighbour after she resisted his attempts to rape her in Tirupur city on Wednesday night. The victim, Muthulakshmi, wife of Veerabadran, was alone in her house at Pandian Nagar in Thirumuruganpoondi at the time of the incident. Both of them were construction workers. “Their neighbour Boopathi, who was under the influence of alcohol, entered the house and attempted to rape Muthulakshmi. When she resisted, he hit her using an iron pan. The woman, who suffered severe head injuries, died on the spot,” a police officer said. The Thirumuruganpoondi police registered a case against Boopathi under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and detained him on Thursday evening. Further investigation is on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-kills-neighbour-for-resisting-rape/articleshow/76203992.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hasty job? Hyderabad scientists fault panel report on styrene leak at LG plant||HYDERABAD: City scientists have criticised a report submitted by a joint monitoring committee to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on the styrene leakage in LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam. Scientists — Sagar Dhara, co-convenor, South Asian People’s Action on Climate Crisis, and Babu Rao, representing ‘Scientists for People,’ — said the May 28 report lacked professionalism and appeared to have been “hastily put together with minimal field or desk work”. The scientists said there are far too many loopholes in it, while also not recommending that it should be discarded. “There are differing statements regarding the number of points from where styrene vapour may have leaked,” said Dhara, adding one, two and five orifices were mentioned on different pages. It is also not clear what kind of orifices they were — valves, breather vents, goose necks and dip hatch nozzles, he said. “Information of the orifices is important for modelling vapour dispersion, which can help understand the impact on humans and the environment. Also needed for dispersion pattern is the wind direction data, which was not mentioned,” he alleged. The report makes no mention of whether the department or any other regulatory agency gave guidance to LG Polymers on reopening a plant that was shut for nearly two months during the lockdown. Most importantly, the report should have stated that absolute liability should apply to LG Polymers India Private Ltd and LG Chemical, South Korea, including prosecution of executives, compensation, medical expenses, health surveillance and remediation, Dhara said. Babu Rao said, “We wonder how some of the committee members who never visited the plant have approved the report.” He said he doubts if the members held human and environment sacrosanct. “The committee has failed in both these respects.” Dhara said the time of evacuation of people is not provided and the report does not explain why the siren was not sounded to alert them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hasty-job-hyd-scientists-fault-panel-report-on-styrene-leak-at-lg-plant/articleshow/76204011.cms||Uttara Varma
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Cross-notified cases raise key questions||COIMBATORE: The practice of “cross notifying” cases and segregating them as “indigenous” and “imported” seems to help little in the battle to contain Covid-19 pandemic. But this seems to have added to the woes of health department, which is having a tough time getting the tally of “indigenous” and active cases in the district right. Epidemiologists say this practice is dangerous for multiple reasons. A senior epidemiologist says, “If a district doesn’t report to have any cases just because of this practice, when it is actually having patients, both the health workers and people will have a false sense of security and thus stop taking precautions. When there are many cases and if they don’t get recorded under the right district, the health authorities will not do proper contact tracing and isolating.” Take the case of the taxi driver, who drove a family to a private hospital on Mettupalayam Road from Chennai for a surgery, for instance. While he was tested positive in the city, he was added to the Covid-19 count of the state capital. So was the case of the police officer, who tested positive for the virus three days after she returned to the city from Chennai, where she was undergoing training. Both of them, who are undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital, had met many people in the district. While the private hospital had to quarantine more than 40 people, including some canteen staff, the lady cop had come in contact with 150 people, who have been asked to remain in quarantine. Yet, they were added to the Covid-19 tally of Chennai. However, in a jarring contrast, the four new “indigenous” cases in the district comprise a Race Course resident who travelled to Chennai a couple of months ago where she tested positive and hospitalized, and a 24-year-old flyer from Bengaluru. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “We have informed the state government that the 74-year-old Race Course resident had travelled to Chennai several months ago and that the person must have contracted the virus there, and not from the district.” The health department was equally surprised when the 24-year-old Bengaluru returnee was added to the district’s “indigenous” cases list. According to an official, this was radically different from the guidelines followed until Monday, when returnees from other districts and states were added to the Covid-19 tally of those places, if they tested positive for the virus. While epidemiologists welcome the move to add a patient to the Covid-19 tally of the district from where one tests positive, they say guidelines on reporting and recording cases should be consistent. Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, says the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should come up with a clear guideline on notifying patients to the Covid-19 map of the place where they test positive. “The cases should be added to the place from where they test positive for the virus. If a flyer to the city gets tested positive here, that person should be added to the district’s Covid-19 tally. However, health officials in their city of origin should be informed, so that they can trace the patient’s contacts and travel history.” If ICMR keeps changing guidelines, he says that would lead to both duplication of cases and under-reporting. “There shouldn’t be any obsession with numbers and zoning, because it is not relevant at this stage.” Out of the 22 patients who are admitted to the ESI Hospital, at least 10 are from the district. Meanwhile, five people, who landed in the city from Dubai on Wednesday, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. All of them are from other districts such as Trichy, Erode and Tiruvarur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cross-notified-cases-raise-key-questions/articleshow/76204015.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Five-min video capsules on lockdown make waves in Konkani world||MARGAO: The Konkani language has just got richer. With the introduction of a series of five-minute video capsules on varying themes, primarily centred on the Covid-19 lockdown, Mukesh Thali, a versatile Konkani writer, lexicographer, and playwright, has added a fascinating genre to the Konkani audio-visual arena. The 15 video snippets, with themes ranging from nature and environment to culture and tradition, are structured in a way that the viewer is able to effortlessly take in the philosophy of life and its lessons. “The purpose of producing the videos was to enlighten and entertain viewers so that they remain positive during the lockdown. Misinformation, rumours and worries that people were bombarded with caused much turmoil, confusion and anxiety. The video capsules were aimed at connecting the viewer to his roots so that he experiences peace and solace,” Thali told TOI. Presented in a form of a dialogue, the videos are enriched with verses penned by great Konkani poets, including Bakibab Borkar and Vaman Sardesai, and packed with powerful imagery and symbolism. In the video, ‘Kulagar’, Thali has tried to play on the words, ‘kular’ (maternal home of a married daughter) and ‘kulagar’ (orchard) to drive home the message that a man’s happiness lies in sharing. “Kindness should spring forth from the orchard of one’s life,” so goes the narration. In another video, he has used the blue sky to symbolise inspiration, motivation and speed. The video invites the viewer to reflect on the insignificance of human life in the vastness of the cosmos, even as it exhorts him to draw on patience and courage to face challenges. “Don’t curse the darkness, light a lamp instead,” is another life lesson in the video capsule series. Subhash Jan, a noted artiste, has handled the photography, videography, editing, dubbing and other technical aspects of the videos. The videos have already caught the imagination of Goans as well as the Konkani diaspora. “I never expected the reach of these videos would be so wide,” Thali says. “The allegories, metaphors, symbolism and undercurrents presented in simple lucid style are the salient features.” A self-confessed perfectionist, Thali, who has specialised in mathematics, says his endeavour was to give the viewer value for the time he spent watching his creation. “Study of mathematics has lent precision to my choice of words and dialogues in plays and videos,” he said. “Besides, as the legacy of three generations of music runs in my family, the know-how of Indian classical music is another facet that has helped me to give accurate and apt music and sound effects in plays or videos.” Stressing that brevity has been the hallmark of the production, Thali adds, “Video is a powerful medium. Lens poetry and word poetry has to be a fine blend. The magic that follows is incredibly awesome.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-min-video-capsules-on-lockdown-make-waves-in-konkani-world/articleshow/76204046.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
June 5, 2020||Goa||Ready to provide late night buses to industries: Goa CM||PORVORIM: To encourage employment of local youth, the state government is ready to provide public transport services for all three work shifts - 8am to 4pm, 4pm to 12am and 12am to 8am - at the major industrial estates, chief minister Pramod Sawant said here on Thursday. Speaking at a function at the secretariat, Sawant said that the Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited is willing to operate bus services from four to five locations, within 15 days. Sawant, however, said the initiative is based on the condition that industrial units employ at least 80% locals and can show the numbers to make the buses viable. “If our youth are employed and taken on contract as permanent staff, workmen or executive, and if 80% preference is given to Goans, then the government is ready to provide transport facilities for all three shifts,” he said. The CM said that the government is ready to spend to start the bus services and could start with the Verna Industrial Estate. A meeting of all stakeholders will be held in the coming days to discuss the modalities. Welcoming this decision, industry representatives have said that it will enable MSMEs to employ people from the hinterland. While most industrial units are willing to function around the clock, they struggle to get employees who refuse to take up jobs due to lack of transportation. “The casual workers that industries employ come from outside the state because locals find that the industrial estates are far away. If there is a continuous bus service to the units then we can employ Goan youth. The industries will have to tweak their timings a bit too,” Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kockhar said. Sawant said that there are nearly 5,000 residents from Sindhudurg and Karwar districts who are working in local industrial units and who have sought daily entry passes to come to work in Goa. The state has yet to agree to this request, he said. “We had a meeting with the collectors of Karwar and Sindhudurg, but in the interest of Goans, we have not yet issued the daily passes. Can’t Goans do the work these 5,000 people do?” Sawant said. He also said that the government was willing to provide skills training to locals if these candidates are then absorbed into manufacturing or hospitality units. He encouraged industrial units to use the amended Apprenticeship Act and augmented transportation facilities to facilitate replacing non-Goan workers with Goan youth. “If you tell a Goan candidate that they have to undergo a 10-day or month-long training, they will all be willing to, so long as they have job security. Goan youth don’t want to work in local industries because of lack of job security and due to transportation problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ready-to-provide-late-night-buses-to-industries-sawant/articleshow/76204033.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Vijayawada||80 active rowdies in Vijayawada on police radar||HYDERABAD: The recent murder of a history-sheeter by his rivals in Vijayawada has once again brought into sharp focus the growing gangster culture and land disputes. As per the police records, there are 416 rowdy-sheeters in the city, among whom 80 are active. Police confirmed that a majority of these rowdies have stakes in various land disputes. “We have kept a watch on 80 active rowdies. They are involved in land disputes and other fights. We will be booking those involved in multiple cases under the Preventive Detention Act,” commissioner of police Dwaraka Tirumala Rao told TOI. In fact, a land dispute settlement in Patamata area of Vijayawada had led to the murder of rowdy-sheeter Thota Sandeep on May 31. Five others suffered grievous injuries with gang members attacking each other with knives, boulders and iron rods. Police took the prime accused, Pandu, into the custody. Tirumala Rao said, “Sandeep and Pandu were friends. Due to differences, they started fighting. Soon, the fights turned aggressive. A rowdy-sheet against Sandeep was closed in 2016. Police have now decided to open a rowdy-sheet against Pandu. “Both the rowdies belong to the same community,” a police official said. Their gangs are involved in land settlements n Vijayawada and Guntur, he said. While Sandeep’s murder video has gone viral, top police brass intensified patrolling to stop streetfights. DGP Gautham Sawang took a serious view of the recent murder and held meetings on curbing the activities of rowdy elements in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/80-active-rowdies-in-vij-on-police-radar/articleshow/76204050.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard rescued in Ooty shifted to Vandaloor Zoo||Udhagamandalam: An injured male leopard that was rescued from the government botanical garden in Ooty recently was shifted to the Vandaloor Zoo in Chennai on Thursday. According to Saravana Kumar, assistant conservator of forests, Nilgiris division, the six-year-old leopard was very weak with high temperature, dehydrated and not able to stand up when it was rescued on May 16. “It also had two or three seizure attacks.”After 15 days of treatment at the government veterinary hospital in Ooty, the official said, the animal has recovered to an extent and that it could stand up. The animal was treated by a team comprising Dr Sugumaran, forest veterinarian from Coimbatore, and three other veterinarians with the Animal Husbandry Department.Dr Kosalan, one of the team members, told TOI, “The leopard is able to stand up now. While it was not having food earlier, it has stated to have meat. The leopard has lost the vision in its right eye due to trauma. Maybe it had a fight with another animal, injuring its head.” The source said the leopard was not fit for hunting, if it was sent back to the forest.Meanwhile, Dr Boon Allwin, veterinarian with the Vandalooor Zoo, inspected the leopard at the Ooty veterinary hospital on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-rescued-in-ooty-shifted-to-vandaloor-zoo/articleshow/76204028.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ludhiana||This lawyer’s passion for plants has made him name his abode ‘green house’||LUDHIANA: The ‘green house’ of advocate Tej Parkash Singh on Vrindavan Road catches the attention of passersby and those living nearby. The advocate has kept two big boards in the porch of his house, which are visible from road and on this boards he has written advocate Tej Parkash Singh’s green house. Tej Parkash is fond of plants and in his house he has kept pots everywhere. He is in love with nature to the extent that if any friend asks his help, he not only gifts plants but also visits his house for planting these. Tej Parkash also takes care of the plants in the parks in his locality. While describing about this concept of green house, he said, “If a house can be named as ‘white house’ or ‘lal kothi’, then why not ‘green house’. Moreover I am in love with greenery, so I specially painted my house green and named it ‘green house’.” Ever since, he built this house in 2007, Tej Parkash started bringing various varieties of plants to his house. “There are plants everywhere in the porch, on terrace and even in the small space outside the windows of rooms,” he said while adding that he had not counted how many plants he had in his house. A Canadian immigration advocate by profession, Tej Parkash developed this love for nature when he was a child. He had seen his father growing plants in his old house and since then he developed a special liking for them. “When I got my own house constructed, I found ample space for keeping plants. I prepared manure on my own and started taking care of these plants like my children,” shared the advocate. He claimed that there were over 50 varieties of plants in his house and he had recently started a school on Pakhowal Road, where 2,000 ficus saplings have been planted. “I have already started preparations for the upcoming plantation season and in July, soon after the rainy season, I will plant more trees,” he said. After seeing his passion for plants, Tej Prakash’s wife, daughter and son too have developed a keen interest in taking care of plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-lawyers-passion-for-plants-has-made-him-name-his-abode-green-house/articleshow/76203113.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Kids among 45 fall sick after eating chaat in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A large number of children were among 45 people taken ill after eating ‘chaat’ from a local street vendor at Dalipur village of Khuthar block in Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday evening. Three of them are said to be in a critical condition. Doctors said that it is a case of food poisoning and most of the people are complaining of diarrhoea. After falling ill, the villagers of Dalipur turned to a quack for treatment which further aggravated their health. The matter came to the notice of health authorities after initially 28 people fell sick and a few of them went to the community health centre in Khuthar on Thursday. Thereafter, a health team led by Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Khuthar CHC superintendent, visited the village to ensure proper treatment. The team sent nine patients to district hospital in Shahjahanpur for further treatment where the condition of three is now "critical". The 'chaat' vendor, identified as Rahul Kumar, and his son are also among those taken ill. Food and drugs safety team along with SDM Dashrath Kumar and SHO of Khuthar police station Jai Shankar Singh raided the shop and took samples of vegetable oil and gram flour used for making the 'chaat'. "When we came to know that several people have fallen ill after having 'chaat', we immediately went to the village to ensure proper treatment. All of them have symptoms of diarrhoea probably due to food poisoning. We have referred nine of them to a higher health centre," Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. Inspector Jai Shankar Singh said, "The food and drugs safety team has taken the food samples from the shop and we have released the shopkeeper after questioning him. An FIR will be registered only once the food sample fails the lab test."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kids-among-45-fall-sick-after-eating-chaat-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/76202037.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||‘Ram temple driven by Shivaji’s vow for Hindu Rashtra’||Lucknow: While Babri demolition trial picks up pace and Ram temple construction in Ayodhya receives a fillip with relaxation in lockdown norms, the BJP national joint general secretary (organisation), Shiv Prakash, on Thursday invoked Ramjanmabhoomi to say it was epitome of Hindu Rashtra. While speaking to Swayam Sewaks in Lucknow through Google video-conferencing, Prakash, an influential Sangh member, said, construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya was driven by the pledge of Maratha ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji to establish a Hindu Samrajya (Hindu empire). Maintaining that RSS members draw inspiration from Shivaji, he said, the Maratha ruler had the courage to defeat the Mughals with help of a small army and his emergence came at a time when Mughals were suppressing Hindus, demolishing temples and slaughtering cows. The BJP leader said, Shivaji was a brave son of Jijabai, who dreamt that her son would establish Hindu Rashtra through valour and patriotism. “Many kings drew inspiration from Shivaji and freed their land from Mughal rule,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-driven-by-shivajis-vow-for-hindu-rashtra/articleshow/76204842.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 5, 2020||Ludhiana||‘There should be fixed days with no human activity’||LUDHIANA: Every year, June 5 is observed as World Environment Day. But this year, it is totally different due to coronavirus pandemic. Almost everywhere, people are confined to the four walls of their homes due to lockdown prompted by Covid-19. But even during these times, environmentalists think that even if the usual activity of planting saplings may not be done, yet we should try to save whatever we have. Balwinder Singh Lakhewali, a resident of BRS Nagar and who serves as deputy director, Punjab Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institute (PAMETI), said, “The air quality index has seen a sea change over the last two months and it has improved drastically. Earlier, it was no less than 250 and now it doesn’t cross 100. Nature has revived and water bodies have started getting cleaner. Now, animals and birds which were rarely seen can be spotted. Even common ones like owls and sparrows are being seen in great numbers.” Lakhwali has involved his daughters Roop (8) and Seerat (12) in spreading the message on saving environment through social media. Lakhewali said, “Just like students have winter and summer breaks, to maintain the environment peace, we need to have particular days when human activities should remain off. There should be no vehicular moment and industrial activities. Our lifestyle has majorly impacted environment and children should be guided accordingly for the same.” Another green crusader, Ravneet Singh, of BRS Nagar and project manager, South Asia at Eco Sikh, an NGO, has planted 34 Guru Nanak Sacred Forests at various locations of the district, including eight at Nanaksar, four each at Sajjan and Payal and Laddian Khurd, two at Mullanpur and one each at Focal Point,Tajpur, Tibba Road, Mattewara, Palam Vihar, Gehlewal, Kaind, Verka and Khanna. Delhi Public School, Ryan International School and Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College have also planted such forests. He said , “These forests are doing very well and the environment has improved a lot ever since human activities have come to a halt. However, we are going back to the old state. So, to keep it in a better way, one day lockdown should be mandate, where we should stop such activities. At least for a day, we can compensate for damaging our environment by making people aware of saving it. There should be a government policy on the same. While Brij Mohan, an environmentalist who is working as SDO horticulture with PWD, said, “Even air of places with worst AQI was breathable and environment had shown that the resilient nature can heal. Major source of pollution is vehicles and industry. Now, we have to cut on use of vehicles, by pooling and using more of public transport. If we want to breath good air we need to sacrifice. We have to reduce carbon footprints in any form like less consumption of clothing, vehicles and using 3 R’s (recycle , reuse and reduce).” Another environment saviour, Amarjeet Singh of Major Jagir Singh Vir Chakra Road, suggested, “Firstly, instead of thinking of planting anything new this environment day, we should preserve whatever we have. In the present situation it is important to concentrate on taking care of old plants as the survival rate of saplings palnted in the city is just 10%. We can think of areas which need plantation and plant saplings there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/there-should-be-fixed-days-with-no-human-activity/articleshow/76203130.cms||Mehak Jain
June 5, 2020||Goa||Fatorda stadium put to use as additional shelter home||MARGAO: In view of the impending monsoon, the South Goa district administration is using the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium at Fatorda as another shelter home in Margao. This is in addition to the existing one at the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim. Since the Shramik special trains commenced, thousands of migrants are accommodated in the indoor stadium. Sources said that as there are hardly a few rooms in the Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium, most of the inmates are accommodated in the open areas and parking spaces. “There are less than 250 migrants now. The rest have been shifted to the Fatorda stadium where there is ample space for sheltering large number of people in closed spaces. All those stranded will now be moved here,” an official said. However, sources said that the arrangements for supplying meals to those accommodated at the Fatorda stadium proved inadequate as many had to make do without proper food and water. While several charity organisations and voluntary groups had come forward to supplement government’s efforts in providing meals to the inmates of the Navelim shelter home since the past few weeks, no such activities were seen at the Fatorda stadium. “The migrants in the Fatorda stadium were mainly from Bihar and West Bengal. They are used to having large portions of food before starting their hard day’s work. A single pao that the government provides them for breakfast is hardly sufficient for them,” a social worker who has been coordinating with the hotels for supply of meals to the migrants, said. Vivek Naik, a resident of Margao, who took the initiative of galvanising like-minded citizens to provide meals for the migrants at Navelim stadium, said that it was the plight of the hungry migrants that moved him to act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatorda-stadium-put-to-use-as-additional-shelter-home/articleshow/76204065.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 25-year-old booked for bid to outrage minor girl’s modesty||PILIBHIT: The police on Thursday booked a 25-year-old man, identified as Dharampal of Khajuria Pachpeda village under Barkhera police station, for allegedly attempting to outrage the modesty of a 16-year-old girl on Wednesday when she was on her way to deliver food to his father, who was working on a field. The police say the accused is on the run. The girl’s father in his police complaint stated that the accused dragged his daughter to a nearby orchard and attempted to outrage her modesty. The girl was rescued by locals who rushed to the spot after the girl raised an alarm, said the father. SHO Umesh Kumar Solanki said that the accused was booked under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/25-year-old-booked-for-bid-to-outrage-minor-girls-modesty/articleshow/76202057.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP: ‘Giving in to relationship pressure’, constable allegedly commits suicide||BAREILLY: A police constable deputed at Police Lines allegedly committed suicide on Thursday night by shooting himself with his service revolver at his residence located in Adarsh Nagar colony in Moradabad. Identified as Maneet Pratap Singh, the deceased was a native of Bulandshahr. He was deputed as a gunner of a local MLA. Moradabad police claimed that the constable was in a relationship and he wanted to marry the woman. However, his family did not approve of it and there was an ongoing dispute around the issue. Giving in to the pressure, Singh shot himself dead. According to police, 23-year-old Maneet Pratap Singh lived in a residential colony under Katghar police station limits and at the time of the incident, the woman he was in a relationship with was with him in his house. Police claimed that the woman told them that on Thursday night she had a fight with Singh and had gone to sleep, and then she woke up to the sound of a gunshot and saw him lying dead. The police were later informed by locals that they heard a gunshot at Singh’s place. Superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand told TOI, “After receiving the information from locals, we rushed to the spot. The constable’s body has been sent for postmortem. It seems that the deceased was going through some difficulties in his personal life. We also came to know that he was in a relationship and wanted to marry the woman. The families, however, were not approving his relationship. Therefore, he shot himself dead. The woman, also a native of Bulandshahr, was present with the constable at the time of suicide.” “No written complaint has been filed by the man’s family but we are probing all angles. Further investigation in the case is underway,” SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/giving-in-to-relationship-pressure-constable-allegedly-commits-suicide/articleshow/76202078.cms||Maria Khan
June 5, 2020||Goa||Over 3,200 migrants leave for Bihar, West Bengal by Shramik spl trains||MARGAO: Over 3,200 migrants from West Bengal and Bihar left from Margao and Karmali railway stations on Thursday by Shramik special trains. The Karmali-New Alipurduar (WB) train that departed from Karmali on Thursday afternoon was brought to Margao railway station to enable 72 passengers who were stranded at Margao to board the train. The Margao-Araria (Bihar) train left from Margao railway station carrying 1,628 passengers. To minimise any hardships for migrants while boarding the trains due to the rain, the district administration had made arrangements to house the passengers at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium the previous day. They were then transported to the Margao railway station on Thursday by Kadamba buses to board the trains. Two transit trains also made a halt at the Margao railway station on Thursday. All those who alighted at the station and did not have the Covid negative certificates were sent to the new district hospital for the test. Sources said that a couple of passengers who argued with officials demanding exemption from paying for the tests were detained at the station for few hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-3200-migrants-leave-for-bihar-west-bengal-by-shramik-spl-trains/articleshow/76204080.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CSE charts out post-lockdown plan for clean air||NEW DELHI: The World Environment Day webinar organised by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Friday brought out that reducing pollution from heavy-duty vehicle, switching to clean vehicles, using clean power and providing green economic stimulus were a few post-lockdown strategies which could help retain clean air and blue skies. The lockdown enforced due to the Covid-19 pandemic led to a large improvement in the air quality across the country. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, CSE, said, the PM2.5 levels in six mega cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata — showed a 45-88% drop in the first phase of lockdown, but during Lockdown 4.0, there was a 2-6 time increase in the levels. Similarly, in Delhi-NCR, the PM2.5 levels dropped by 66-79% in the first phase, but saw 4-8 time increase in Lockdown 4.0. “One of the top lessons from the lockdown is that such massive scale of intervention is needed to get change in air quality,” she said. Speaking of CSE’s ongoing analysis of the air quality during the lockdown period, Roy Chowdhury said, “The overall mean speed on roads of Delhi-NCR increased by 15 km/hour. Farm fires did not create the same kind of havoc that they do every year. Daily peak levels of nitrogen dioxide remained flat. We must move immediately to ensure pollution and congestion levels do not go back to ‘normal’.” The webinar, An environmental agenda for the future, presented a charter of environmental demands to ensure a better, cleaner and more sustainable environment, life and air quality after the lockdown was lifted. Sunita Narain, director-general, CSE, said the nation needed an intervention at such a massive scale where movement across the country was completely restricted. “All the industry stopped functioning to make our skies blue and our air and lungs clean. It tells us that we need to set down agenda for action that will help us retain the lockdown advantage,” she added The novel coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown that followed have disrupted our lives and lifestyles at an unbelievable scale and speed. “We need to implement our action agenda at a similar scale and pace, only then we will be able to breathe easy,” Narain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cse-charts-out-post-lockdown-plan-for-clean-air/articleshow/76225297.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||SHO leads farewell march, suspended after video goes viral||Lucknow: A police inspector who led a farewell procession along with 11 other cops in Baskhari police station area in Ambedkarnagar district on Thursday was suspended. SP Ambedkarnagar, Alok Priyadarshi took action against SHO Manoj Singh soon after a video of the procession went viral. The SHO was suspended for violating restrictions of social distancing. An enquiry was also initiated under an additional SP rank officer. The 39-second video shows the SHO being given a grand farewell, wherein a cavalcade of five police bikes and three police jeeps is seen escorting him. Policemen in uniform are seen riding their bikes, whereas jeeps are blowing sirens and horns. Priyadarshi told TOI that Singh had been transferred as SHO at Zaidpur police station from Baskhari, which was a routine transfer. “However, while leaving the charge of Baskhari and going to join Zaidpur, the SHO, along with other policemen passed through the area in a cavalcade,” said the SP. He said that none of the policemen could be seen wearing a face mask. Also, they were not observing proper social distancing. “The convoy also disturbed the movement of vehicles on the main road,” he said. An FIR under the charges of lockdown violation has been registered against Singh and other unidentified cops, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sho-leads-farewell-march-suspended-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76204853.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Calangute woman travels from Mumbai, ducks Covid test, ‘attends wedding’, turns positive||PANAJI / CALANGUTE: The tourist hub of Calangute was in a flutter on Thursday after a senior citizen, the mother-in-law of a local panchayat member, tested positive for Covid-19 after she arrived from Mumbai and skipped the screening test at the Goa border. The woman had allegedly come to attend the wedding of a relative that was held on May 31 at the panchayat member’s residence, next to the residence of a prominent nightclub owner with around 400 guests. CM Pramod Sawant admitted that the woman had skipped the screening test. “It is true that she came without any test. After she was found positive, she has been admitted to the Covid hospital,” he said. Locals said after the woman complained of breathlessness, she was taken to a private hospital, which referred her to Goa Medical College, where her results for Covid test came positive. Sawant said he would inquire into how the woman skipped the test. “It is very difficult to know how she skipped. Around 3,000 people come in every day, so it is difficult to know about one person. There may have been a human error,” he said. As per the protocol followed by the state government, domestic travellers coming into Goa have to either submit a certificate taken within 48 hours from an ICMR-approved lab that the person is Covid-19 negative or undergo Covid test at a government facility by paying Rs 2,000. Sawant said close contacts of the woman have already been tested and asked others who have come in contact with her to come forward for the test. “We have started active contact tracing of the woman,” said health secretary Nila Mohanan. “The panchayat member has been isolated and tested for Covid-19 along with all his close family members,” ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo told TOI. Their reports are expected on Friday, he said. “All the panchayat members are self-isolating till the reports come in. As a precautionary measure, the Calangute panchayat office will only admit one person at a time till things clear up,” Lobo said. Lobo further denied rumours that he was present at the wedding. “I was in South Goa on that day,” he said. “From what I know, it was a small wedding with 50-80 guests.” Calangute sarpanch Francis Rodrigues also refuted allegations that he along with other panchayat members were present at the event. “The wedding was on May 31. The panchayat member’s mother-in-law came on June 2. She’s a heart patient and because she fell sick, she was admitted to a private hospital. After testing positive, she has been shifted to the GMC, Bambolim,” Rodrigues said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-woman-travels-from-mum-ducks-covid-test-attends-wedding-turns-positive/articleshow/76204796.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||Suspended cop feigns suicide, caught in hay sack||MYSURU: High drama prevailed on the banks of Kapila River in T Narasipura taluk as a cop attached to T Narasipura police station, allegedly created ‘a scene of an incident of drowning’ soon after he was placed under suspension. Krishnegowda, a writer in the police station, was accused of being negligent in keeping a tab on the ammunition at the station and was placed under suspension by Mysuru SP CB Ryshyanth. As many as 50 bullets of the .303 rifle have gone missing in the police station. Soon after he was suspended, Krishnegowda left the station and went to the river bank near Mannehundi. He removed his shirt and footwear on the banks and went missing, police said. A senior police officer said the constable tried to mislead the police who are investigating the case of the missing ammunition. According to an officer, after keeping his clothes near the river, the constable went to Hunasur village and hid inside a haystack. He wanted others to believe that he had jumped into the river, supposedly to put pressure on the department to withdraw his suspension, he said. Villagers of Hunasur noticed him roaming suspiciously near the river and tipped-off police. Hunasur is close to Mannehundi. The constable had allegedly told his relatives to bring a vehicle to pick him up but before they could arrive, a police team reached the spot and spotted him near the haystack. Krishnegowda was later taken to the SP’s office. Krishnegowda was suspended in missing of ammunition case by SP CB Ryshyanth. An FIR has been filed with regard to missing of 50 bullets of .303 rifle from the station. Krishnegowda has been held responsible for it as he was in possession of keys of ammunition rooms. Ryshyanth didn’t respond to calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/suspended-cop-feigns-suicide-caught-in-hay-sack/articleshow/76202737.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hubballi||3 lakh saplings to be distributed through mobile vans||Hubballi: To mark World Environment Day, the forest department has planned to distribute over 3 lakh saplings to all gram panchayats under three range forest limits, said Yashpal Ksheersagar, deputy conservator of forest, Dharwad division He said due to Covid-19 pandemic, Environment Day celebrations will be different this time. “We have decided to start a Mobile Sasya Santhe under which range forest offices will distribute saplings. Each saplings will cost Rs 3-5. Respective RFOs have made the arrangements for the distribution of saplings,” he said. This apart, the department will also plant medicinal plants on the premises of various government offices including the high court and sessions court. To encourage people to plant more seedlings in their vicinity, a challenge #selfiewithseedling has been organised. Enthusiasts need to plant saplings, click a selfie and tag it to the twitter handle of the Dharwad forest division. Best selfies will get a small reward too, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3-lakh-saplings-to-be-distributed-through-mobile-vans/articleshow/76204064.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
June 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Ramanath Rai alleges involvement of BJP in putting up banners renaming Nehru Maidan||Mangaluru: Former Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister and senior Congress member B Ramanath Rai has charged senior BJP members with being hand in glove with miscreants who have been putting up banners seeking the renaming of the Pumpwell Flyover and Nehru Maidan in Mangaluru. Before the controversy surrounding government’s decision to rename Yelahanka flyover in Bengaluru after Veer Savarkar died down, the coastal city has witnessed similar attempts, not by the authorities, but miscreants. Banners were found renaming Pumpwell flyover as ‘Savarkar Melsethuve Pumpwell’ and Nehru Maidan as ‘Koti-Chennaya Kendra Maidana’ recently. Rai said that though banners were removed from Pumpwell flyover and Nehru Maidan, he called on police to investigate the incident. “Some miscreants with the support of senior BJP leaders have done this. They have been playing politics with the sentiments of people by putting such banners. They are experts in politics of sentiments, which they know very well, is a tactics that can be executed without any investment. This is a politics of cheating,” Rai said. Further, he added that the Congress has no objection in naming prominent structures after twin heroes of Tulunadu Koti – Chennaya. “We are proud of legendary Tuluva heroes and we don’t oppose naming a structure after them. We are in favour of them ideologically. In fact, a circle near Nandi Gudda in the city has been named after Koti – Chennaya long back. However, it is not logical to replace Jawaharlal Nehru’s name to rename Nehru Maidan. The ground in the city has been named after first Prime Minister of India in accordance with the law. They can rename our airport or Mangala Stadium after Koti-Chennaya. Even Billava community will also not make a request to rename Nehru Maidan after Koti-Chennaya,” Rai said. EOM/ June 4, 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ramanath-rai-alleges-involvement-of-bjp-in-putting-up-banners-renaming-nehru-maidan/articleshow/76200120.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Nashik||Woman electrocuted in Deolali Camp||Nashik: A 45-year-old woman was electrocuted in Rahuri near Bhagur village on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Yashoda Pawar and is survived by two sons and daughters. The incident happened on Wednesday morning at a poultry farm where she works. While working in the poultry farm, she accidentally stepped on an open power cable which was on the ground. The electrocution was so severe that she was thrown up in the air, as she felt awkwardly on her back causing serious injuries to her back. She was immediately rushed to the Cantonment Hospital in Deolali Camp where she was brought dead on arrival. The Deolali camp police said that the death was due to electrocution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-electrocuted-in-deolali-camp/articleshow/76183265.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Monsoon onset over Goa delayed by couple of days||PANAJI: Monsoon is expected to reach Goa by next week, a couple of days later than June 5. Earlier, rains were expected by June 10, which was recently advanced to June 5 or 6. The India meteorological department (IMD) on Thursday said that monsoon activity has picked up from the northern districts of Kerala and reached Karwar. “Now that the cyclone Nisarga has dissipated, it doesn’t have much effect on the advancement of monsoon,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The IMD said that the rainfall due to the impact of cyclone Nisarga has reduced in Goa. Owing to the rainfall and cloudy conditions this week, temperatures had slightly dropped on June 3. The maximum temperature which touched 28C hat day, went back to normal at about 30C on June 4. “The cyclone will weaken into a depression and its impact over the west coast will keep on reducing,” Rahul said. There is also a weather system that is going to form over the Bay of Bengal next week. This will enhance the monsoon currents to some parts of the Southwest coast, he said. Stating that the formation of the cyclone Nisarga and its movement along the west coast of India advanced the progress of the monsoon, M R Ramesh Kumar, former chief scientist in the physical oceanography division, of the Goa-based National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), said, “Usually the progress of the monsoon over the Indian subcontinent is very gradual as it takes about 45 days to cover the Indian subcontinent,” he said According to him, the formation of the low-pressure system of the Southeast Arabian Sea and its rapid intensification has helped in the Monsoon Onset over Kerala on June 1. “The movement of this convective systems along the Westcoast of India, has helped in the monsoon current to progress further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-onset-over-state-delayed-by-couple-of-days/articleshow/76204856.cms||Nida Sayed
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||Funds allocated for fixing iconic Doddagadiyara in Mysuru||Mysuru: Gurudatta Hegde, commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation, on Thursday said that the civic body had allocated Rs 35 lakh for the repair of Big Clock Tower, which has stopped ticking. Speaking to reporters here he said that that this plan was prepared including the repair of walls of the clock tower after discussing with heritage committee members. Silver Jubilee Clock tower also known as ‘Doddagadiyaara’ near Town Hall, stopped functioning many years ago. The tower is one of the many majestic structures that remains a marker of Mysuru’s reputation as the ‘Heritage City’. Doddagadiyaara, was installed to mark the silver jubilee reign of the 24th maharaja of Mysore Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar who ascended the throne in the year and completed 25 years of his rule in 1927. The Commissioner also dismissed the issuing of ban orders on selling tender coconut water across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/funds-allocated-for-fixing-iconic-doddagadiyara-in-mysuru/articleshow/76201305.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Vadodara||26 from Godhra still stranded in Pakistan||Vadodara: The group of 26 persons from Godhra that was eyeing to return from Karachi in Pakistan may have to wait longer. The group had booked tickets of a train from Amritsar to Godhra for Thursday, but had to cancel them as they were unable to cross the border. The group from Godhra had gone to Karachi for a wedding. While two persons from the group were to stay back, the remaining 26 got stranded due to the lockdown. Now, transport facilities are available on either side of the border, but the group cannot cross the border till it is permitted to do so. The group had earlier given undertaking that it would follow all the procedures set by India if it was allowed to return. It even booked tickets for travel to Godhra from Amritsar in a train. Karachi-based social worker Salim Murshad whose roots are in Godhra said that the high commission informed them that the dates of allowing the group to cross the border was not finalised yet and the group would have to wait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/26-from-godhra-still-stranded-in-pakistan/articleshow/76202421.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||ICAR station traces coffee locusts in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru: Officials of the ICAR Agricultural Research Station in Mudigere, Chikkamagaluru have traced coffee locust Aularches Miliaris, which belongs to Pyrgomorphidac family in Situr and surrounding villages in NR Pura taluk of the district. The scientists are made it clear that they are not desert locust which created panic in the North Indian states. Scientists informed that these coffee locusts eat 80 varieties of crops and spread from one plantatiion to another. These coffee locusts were found recently in Napoklu, Murnadu and Ponnampet areas in Kodagu district. Scientists informed that the lifespan of these locusts ranges from 13 to 15 months. The farmers have been requested to contact scientists of the ICAR Agricultural Research Station on 08263-228198 to get assistance to control these insects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/icar-station-traces-coffee-locusts-in-chikkamagaluru/articleshow/76201540.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||Another pregnant woman tests positive in Mysuru||Mysuru: Mysuru reported another Covid-19 positive case on Thursday. This is the second time in two days that a pregnant woman has tested positive. Now the tally in the district has increased to 99. According to sources, the pregnant woman has come in contact with over a dozen relatives, neighbours and villagers. She and her husband were living in Maharashtra, but she returned to the village on June 1. As she was pregnant, she was allowed to go home after her swab sample was collected. She tested positive on June 3 and the same day she was shifted to the Covid hospital.  Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said her condition is stable. A containment zone has been created in Hosapenjalli village, Hunsur taluk Meanwhile a patient was cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/another-pregnant-woman-tests-positive-in-mysuru/articleshow/76201608.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||Somashekar wants Mysuru Zoo to open from June 8||Mysuru: ST Somashekar, Mysuru district in-charge minister, said that Mysuru Zoo might open from June 8. As part of phase 1 of unlock 1.0, places of worship, hotels, restaurants, hospitality services and shopping malls are expected to open. “I have asked the government to approve the opening of the zoo from Monday,” said Somashekar. Two weeks back authorities of Mysuru zoo announced that it is ready to reopen the facility to public but they’re awaiting nod from the government. It had announced a list of guidelines taken to ensure social distancing between the visitors and strict measures to punish erring visitors. Zoo had said spitting could attract a fine of Rs 1000 and chewing paan and chewing tobacco will strictly prohibited and every movement of visitors will be monitored though CCTVs. Perhaps, Mysuru Zoo established in 1892 had highest animals, birds and reptiles, in captivity is the first zoo in India to take initiative to reopen given that it is a tourist season. Highest footfall Zoo has recorded is 3.3 million and the gate collection is a major source of revenue. With closure of Zoo for over two months, the authorities struggled to generate revenue to feed animals. When contacted Zoo Authority of Karnataka member-secretary BP Ravi, said government hasn’t given its nod yet in this regard. We also need to take permission from district administration. We however are keeping the facility ready for reopening. The official meanwhile, confirmed that all the animals at the Zoo are hale and hearty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/somashekar-wants-mysuru-zoo-to-open-from-june-8/articleshow/76202268.cms||Lawrence Milton
June 5, 2020||Kolkata||30% private buses hit road but many suffer engine snags after two months of lockdown in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Additional buses eased commuters’ woes somewhat on Thursday. However, the demand-supply gap remained and queues for buses continued to be long as only 30% of private buses, as opposed to the assured 50%, could hit the roads. Many buses developed snags and aborted trips midway, leaving passengers in greater trouble. Meanwhile, more than 900 buses of West Bengal Transport Corporation plied on 200 routes, bringing the situation closer to normal. Sources said the high number of mechanical snags meant fewer buses on the road. “A lot of buses stopped soon after starting trips. Engines of many buses developed faults. The long idle state has resulted in the mechanical problems,” said Joint Council of Bus Syndicate secretary Tapan Bandyopadhyay. He, however, assured that majority of the buses will be on the road by June 8. “We have made an appeal to all operators to stand by the government in this difficult time even if it means incurring some loss,” he added. Taking advantage of the demand-supply gap, some buses allegedly charged higher fares from passengers. “After receiving such complaints, Howrah and Sealdah traffic guards, at the behest of the transport department, started permit violation cases against the accused bus operators,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rupesh Kumar. In the northern and southern suburbs of Kolkata, several bus owners told TOI that they were not yet in a position to run buses. At Tobin Road, several minibus owners said the batteries of their vehicles had been stolen during the lockdown. At Behala Sarsuna, bus owners on routes 18A/B1/C/Drefused to run at least 70% of their 66-strong fleet. “We cannot guarantee that there will be no crowding. Police harassment is not something we are ready to cope with,” said an owner. Most of the buses on 12C/1 route, too, stayed off the roads. Even where they plied, many allegedly charged extra. Subhajit Banerjee, a passenger on a route 230, said, “I understand that we need to pay more now. But the middle-class has seen job losses and pay cuts too. How can they charge more without a government directive?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/30-private-buses-hit-road-but-many-suffer-engine-snags-after-2-months-of-lockdown/articleshow/76204135.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
June 5, 2020||Bengaluru||PIL in high court challenges mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Thursday ordered notice to the Centre in a PIL questioning multiple orders mandating use of Aarogya Setu application for travelling and for employees to return to their workplace. The government recently issued notifications making downloading of the app in compatible smartphones mandatory and use of the same by employees as well as those who travel in trains and domestic flights. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka posted the matter to June 12. Petitioner Anivar A Aravind, a Bengaluru resident who claims to be a digital rights activist associated with a New Delhi-based NGO, claims the Aarogya Setu protocol violates right to privacy and other fundamental rights of citizens. The petitioner has sought for a direction to make use of the app voluntary as it was originally designed when launched on April 2. He says the app shouldn’t be made mandatory for accessing any government service or facility. Further, he has sought for release of the complete and corresponding source code of the current and future versions of Aarogya Setu. According to Aravind, with only about 35% of the adult population in the country having access to smartphones, the app will be discriminatory and adversely affect a large chunk of the population. Aravind contends that when the purpose of Aarogya Setu, which is a contact-tracing application, is to only inform a user if she/he came in contact with someone who tested positive for Covid-19, there is no need to track the user’s location and the same is excessive in nature. “No other democratic country has made a contact-tracing application mandatory for travel and access to public services. Although countries like Singapore, Austria, Australia and the Czech Republic have launched contact-tracing apps, they are only voluntary and not mandatory,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pil-in-high-court-challenges-mandatory-use-of-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/76203183.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Shimla||HP cabinet decides to set up 6th finance commission||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh cabinet, at a meeting held here on Thursday, gave its consent to constitute the 6th State Finance Commission. The commission will review the financial position of panchayats and urban local bodies and make recommendations to the governor on measures needed to improve their financial position with determination of taxes, duties, tolls and fees and grants in aid. The cabinet, presided over chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, also decided to increase the honorarium of Jal Rakshaks, Para Fitters and Para Pump Operators in Jal Shakti Vibhag by Rs 300 per month. With this increase, Jal Rakshaks would now get Rs 3,300 per month, while Para Fitters and Para Pump Operators would get an honorarium of Rs 4,300 per month. It gave its nod to amend the income criteria for eligibility of 3 biswa and 2 biswa land in rural and urban areas of the state respectively to houseless persons and families by enhancing it from existing Rs 50,000 to Rs one lakh per annum. It also accorded approval for procurement, supply and distribution of school bags under Atal School Vardi Yojna to students of classes I, III, VI and IX on e-tender basis through Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited for the year 2020-21. This would benefit 2,56,514 students of these classes. It decided to create a State Disaster Mitigation Fund and approved the guidelines for its administration under Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Rules, 2011 to meet the expenses on mitigation, as preparedness and response activities are covered under a separate fund known as State Disaster Management Fund. Under this fund, 20% of the State Disaster Risk Management Fund would be used for mitigation, which comes to Rs 90.80 crore for the current financial year. Funds worth Rs 50 crore have also been recommended for managing seismic and landslide risks in hill States from National Disaster Mitigation Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-cabinet-decides-to-set-up-6th-finance-commission/articleshow/76204139.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||Cong objects to hoarding, says it belittles Maharana Pratap||Lucknow: Congress leaders demanded removal of a hoarding put up by district administration in Amethi alleging that it’s reference to Maharana Pratap was was disparaging. Congress MLC Deepak Singh demanded removal of the hoarding put up in Jagdishpur area, following which the administration took it down. Singh said, “The hoarding said that time is supreme and it even made a king (Maharana Pratap) eat ‘rotis’ made of grass. The message hurt the sentiments of his followers. So, Congress demanded immediate removal of the hoarding.” Singh said, “It is a fact that Maharana Pratap did eat rotis made of grass but the incident demonstrates his strong self-respect.” “After the battle of Haldighati, Maharana Pratap and his family took refuge in the forest. Maharana Pratap had nothing to eat but he chose to eat rotis made of grass instead of bowing before his opponents,” he added. The administration acted on the complaint and took down the hoarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-objects-to-hoarding-says-it-belittles-maharana-pratap/articleshow/76204860.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private budget schools await Telangana nod||HYDERABAD: International schools in the city have commenced online classes but private budget schools are still clueless on reopening of schools as state government is yet to issue clear guidelines. The academic year commences from June 12 but with little clarity from Telangana school education department, managements of nearly 10,000 private budget schools, with an enrolment of 12 lakh students, are left in the lurch. “It is impossible for budget schools in the state to start classes under the prevailing situation. Even for online classes, parents do not have sufficient gadgets to help children continue learning. We have not received any communication from school education department on reopening of schools,” said Srinivas Reddy, president of Telangana Recognised School Managements Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-budget-schools-await-state-nod/articleshow/76204147.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Thakur trashes allegations levelled by opposition||Shimla: Under attack from the opposition parties for the alleged PPE kit and sanitizers scams in the health department, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday retaliated by questioning the Congress to tell the truth of the viral letter where claim of spending Rs 12 crore on relief work during Covid-19 pandemic was made. Thakur said he had asked officials of the health department to show him the PPE kits distributed by the Congress, but could not find any. He said that the opposition was playing politics even during the pandemic but his government was working with full transparency. While interacting with mediapersons in Shimla, the chief minister said the Congress had done nothing on ground level. The CM also rubbished the allegations of scams in the purchases of PPE kits and ventilators. He said when the issue of irregularities into the purchase of sanitizers came into his knowledge, an FIR was lodged immediately. He said the Congress earlier was alleging irregularities in the patwari recruitment examination, but now the CBI probe had found that examination was conducted with transparency and no irregularities were committed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thakur-trashes-allegations-levelled-by-opposition/articleshow/76204157.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Recreation centres suffer coronavirus blow||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has decided to temporarily stop grants to state-funded recreation centres for senior citizens in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. There are around 122 recreation centres across Delhi which get a grant in the range of Rs 1.20 lakh to Rs 2.40 lakh each every year from the government. In a letter, the department of social welfare justified the move saying, “Considering the prevailing conditions due to Covid-19 and need for strictly observing social distancing, continuation of activities at recreation centres for senior citizens is not advisable ... Hence, the grant in aid with regard to recreation centres will be withheld until further orders.” The Centre’s guidelines for senior citizens stipulate that those above 65 years must stay indoors as they are most vulnerable to coronavirus infection. However, the decision to stop grant to recreation centres has led to anxiety among many seniors who are struggling in isolation. While most seniors recognise the danger they face, there is a strong view that the government must recognise loneliness as a serious concern and thus bring out guidelines to stagger use of these centres with adequate precautions and social distancing norms in the weeks ahead rather than paving the way for their temporary closure by withholding grants. When contacted, minister for social welfare Rajendra Gautam said for now the government feels that the elderly must stay indoors and not put themselves at any kind of risk. “We will resume the grant whenever things normalise,” he said. Meanwhile, JR Gupta, chairperson of Confederation of Senior Citizens’ Association said recreation centres are a lifeline for many elderly persons, particularly those who are living in acrimonious situations caught with abusive or unsupportive children. He cited the recreation centre in Green Park Extension. “Here senior citizens would come for physiotherapy, health consultations and avail of facilities like a library, board games and legal aid,” Gupta said. “We are not saying allow everyone to crowd in a recreation centre. Like for parks, malls and other public spaces, make strict guidelines for recreation centres instead of closing them,” he said. Bhushan Bali (63), who lives in Vasant Enclave, shared the challenges faced by people like her. “I live with my 82- year-old mother. I used my time doing yoga, attending lectures and visiting the recreation centre for seniors in the evening. I have been stuck in my house since March 19 and now I am feeling stressed as I am unable to meet anyone. If there is no recreation centre, I will have nowhere to go,” she said. The government, however, feels it is not feasible to bring out any guidelines for recreation centres as it will be very difficult to monitor implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/recreation-centres-suffer-corona-blow/articleshow/76204446.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Free up beds, shift asymptomatic patients, says experts||PANAJI: With a significant spurt in Covid-19 cases since Monday—82 cases detected in just two days—and likely further increase in numbers in the next few days, Goa’s health infrastructure may come under severe strain and force it to alter its protocol towards asymptomatic patients, experts said. “Goa’s health infrastructure will crumble if we have another 200 more cases. We need to hospitalise only patients having symptoms of Covid-19, while asymptomatic can be managed elsewhere, perhaps may be in a monitored facility,” said a senior government doctor. As of Thursday, Goa had 109 patients admitted in 220-bed ESI hospital, a devoted Covid hospital, which has 25 ventilators. But with patients needing critical care very few, the state has been able to manage the situation till now, experts said. “You don’t need to hospitalise asymptomatic patients because in most cases, the condition of such patients will not go beyond flu-like symptoms. However, it is a concern because of the fatality rate of the disease and hence, precautions must be taken. Infrastructure should be saved for serious patients and those who need ventilator support,” said another doctor. He said states with a huge volume of cases have done it. Asymptomatic patients are placed in care centres or home quarantine, because even patients with aggravated conditions have difficulties in getting a bed in the hospital. “We have to be doing things factoring various possibilities and not wait till the situation develops to respond to it. I agree, some things can’t be predicted and there will always be an element of surprise. But we can still do better if we are more pragmatic. It is still not too late,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant as well health secretary Nila Mohanan have stated that the state has plan “B” ready and alternative arrangements have been made factoring possible increase in patients. Mohanan said Goa has a better recovery rate and patients are discharged “no sooner their tests come negative”. One of the doctors, who is part of the Covid treatment, said if the patient-load increases, the state may even find it difficult to have enough doctors to take care of them, “We have very fine doctors, but they will not suffice to take the entire increased load of patients. They are already feeling the heat. Similarly, we will need more nursing staff and other medics. I hope, the government now fully utilises is powers under the Epidemic Act and rope in private practitioners to help in Covid-19 management,” he said. The state has ramped up its testing and as of Thursday, 25,300 tests had been done. A new machine has been at Goa Medical College (GMC) and will be made functional by Saturday evening, said Mohanan. She said it can conduct 1,000-1,500 tests per day, which can be ramped up to 2,000 if need arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-free-up-beds-shift-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/76204861.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 5, 2020||Chennai||After steep bills, Tamil Nadu proposes to cap costs at private hospitals||CHENNAI: A Covid-19 patient, after 10 days in a semi-private room of a Chennai hospital, spent Rs 1,081 towards medicines and Rs 2,550 for blood tests and x-ray. But he paid Rs 2,500 for "other packages", Rs 44,000 for consultation, Rs 8,800 towards nursing charges, Rs 20,000 for room rent, and Rs1.01 lakh towards PPE for doctors and other healthcare workers. His total bill was Rs 1.80 lakh. Analysis of more than a dozen bills from at least five hospitals in Chennai showed that patients with mild or no symptoms paid between 40% and 70% of bills over Rs 1.3 lakh for four days in semi-private room of a private hospital. While in some cases, insurance companies have cleared the bill inclusive of PPEs, in some cases they paid a part and in some none. "It’s complicated," said Indian Medical Association (IMA) state secretary Dr A K Ravikumar. "Reimbursements depend on the kind of policy and the premium. In most corporate policies, they reimbursed the full amount. Many individuals were forced to pay more than half of the bill because they did not get reimbursed for PPEs," he said. But as complaints about hospitals "fleecing" patients reached the government, health minister C Vijayabaskar announced he would cap pricing on testing and treatment at private hospitals. On Thursday, as government hospitals began complaining of acute shortage of operational beds, the government extended treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals for cardholders of the chief minister’s health insurance scheme. Until now, the health department offered free treatment to patients in government medical college hospitals and district and peripheral hospitals. Now, the state insurance will cover Rs 5,000 for a day’s treatment in a general ward and up to Rs 15,000 a day in the ICU. The health department is planning to cap inpatient treatment cost of Covid-19 patients between Rs 7,500 and Rs 22,500 per day across Tamil Nadu, the minister said. Minutes after the state’s announcement, the IMA said the hospitals will not be able to provide services at the rate specified by the government. "The government has told us that it will get us PPEs at the same cost at which it buys. Yet, we have additional expenditure such as quarantine facilities for the medical team in the Covid ward," Dr Ravikumar said. The doctors’ body has urged the government to fix Rs 2.3 lakh as the cost for a 10-day stay for patients with mild to moderate symptoms It has also asked the government to cap the cost for a 10-day stay in an ICU at Rs 4.3 lakh. (This does not include consultation charges, doctors and nurses quarantine charges). Almost simultaneously, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) released a rational costing solution for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals. FICCI’s Covid-19 Response Taskforce, with representatives from leading private hospitals in the country, releases slabs for beds reserved for government hospitals, private hospitals and insurance in the isolation ward and ICU – with and without ventilator. The cost varies between Rs 13,600 and Rs 68,000. These exclude PPE costs, high end drugs and any co-morbidities. FICCI said it has submitted the costing framework to the Union and state health ministries. The tariff was worked out based on analysis of actual data of 150 cases of Covid-19 treatment in major private hospitals, the release said. (Call 1800-425 3993 for details/complaints regarding CM health insurance scheme.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-cost-of-covid/articleshow/76204169.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Man dies of Covid-19 in Pudukottai, southern districts report 35 cases||MADURAI/TRICHY: The central region of the state reported yet another Covid-19 casualty in Pudukottai and recorded 19 more new cases. Meanwhile, the ten southern districts reported 35 new cases, which included 22 indigenous cases from Madurai, Virudhunagar and Tuticorin. The total number of cases in the south has climbed to 1,667 on Thursday. The deceased, a 64-year-old native of Peravurani in Thanjavur district, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chennai for paralysis. He was residing alone in Chennai for two years. As his relative shifted him to the government hospital in Pudukottai, he was tested for Covid-19 and his test results were positive. Pudukottai reported two new positive patients on Thursday. One of them who tested positive was a contact of the 65-year-old patient who died on May 31, while the other one was a Chennai returnee. In Trichy, a family of six of a railway travelling ticket examiner (TTE) tested positive for Covid-19. The Kottapattu native had a travel history to Chennai. All of them were admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy. A Trichy resident turned positive for Covid-19 when he travelled to Tiruvarur. He was admitted to government hospital in Mayiladuthurai. With this, the tally of Trichy touched 100. Virudhunagar reported eight indigenous cases. The cases included those who had returned from Chennai and their contacts. In Madurai district as well, which recorded seven cases on Thursday, two people were those who returned from Chennai by flight. The other cases included those from containment areas or contacts of Covid-19 patients. A 26-year-old woman from Keelapanangadi with no travel or contact history also tested Covid-19 positive. Tuticorin too reported seven more indigenous cases, becoming the second district in the southern region after Tirunelveli to cross 300 Covid-19 cases. The majority of the recent local cases in the district have been related to two recent funerals. Three Covid-19 cases each were reported in Theni, Tirunelveli and Ramanathapuram. Two cases were recorded in Tenkasi district while Dindigul and Sivaganga reported one local case each. Kanyakumari did not have a single Covid-19 case on Thursday. Nagappattinam reported eight positive cases taking the tally to 72. Among them, four people were Chennai returnees, while the rest have returned from Trichy, Mumbai, Telenganana and Kerala. Ariyalur has reported two new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. The two are a couple who has returned from Koyambedu to Namangunam village on May 26. They were home quarantined and as the couple developed fever, they were tested at Ariyalur GH for Covid-19 and the results were positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-dies-of-covid-in-pudukottai-southern-districts-report-35-cases/articleshow/76204178.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Low testing of local people contested||Madurai: Health officials from across the southern districts of the state have said that more Covid-19 testing are being done recently on those who are returning to their native places from other places than local people as per current protocol. On the other hand, in some districts, clusters of indigenous cases are cropping up, even if the source is an outsider, leaving room for concern for stepping up testing among local people. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the region has touched 1667, of which 735 cases are imported cases. As per the protocol, in the region, those being tested for Covid-19 are people who had returned from other places, contacts of Covid-19 patients, ante-natal expectant mothers, those undergoing surgeries and those with Influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. “A majority of those being tested and turning positive are from other states or districts. So our focus lies there so as to ensure spread from them to locals is contained. Even the few indigenous cases can be traced to being contacts of those from other states or districts. There is no local spread,” said a health official from Virudhunagar, which has 45 local Covid-19 cases and 91 imported cases as of Thursday. However, local testing is limited to contacts of Covid-19 patients, ANC cases, those undergoing surgeries and those with ILI symptoms, which remains a low number in a population of lakhs. Further, though a majority of Covid-19 patients have been asymptomatic, only asymptomatic people with some direct contact history are being tested. There have also been cases of those from other districts under home quarantine who tested Covid-19 positive only later after developing symptoms. In Tuticorin, a cluster of more than 35 indigenous cases has been related to two funerals in which one man from Chennai was found to be the source of infection in each of the two scenarios. Similarly, several small clusters in Madurai district were related to those who had returned from Chennai and other states. “Last week, several contacts of a man from Chennai turned Covid-19 positive. We are trying our best to contain the disease, but when one case appears, it is inevitable that there are a few cases among the contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/low-testing-of-local-people-contested/articleshow/76204167.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||In Hry, AIDS accounted for 4,927 deaths in a decade||Karnal: As many as 49,937 HIV-positive cases were reported between April 2008 and January 2020 in Haryana and 4,927 people, including 164 children, died due to it from 2010 to January 2020, a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has revealed. The number of HIV cases came down over the past five years. In 2019-20, the state had 3,958 new HIV infections as compared to 5,065 in 2015-16. Rohtak, which has an anti-retroviral treatment (ART) centre, topped the list with 16,471 cases, while the lowest cases were reported in Mahendragarh district (463). The data has been provided to Rajesh Sharma, by the Haryana State AIDS Control Society, Panchkula, in response to an RTI application. The reply says men were more resposible for the transfer of disease than women. Data show that 902 children, 14,475 men, 8,780 women and 70 transgenders were found HIV/ADIS positive during the last five years. The RTI reply brought out that 4,927 HIV-related deaths had been reported in the state between January 1, 2010, and January 1, 2020. Among them, 3,529 were men, 1,172 women, two transgenders, 94 boys and 73 girls. On an average, 493 deaths were reported in Haryana annually. After 5,056 cases in 2015-16, the number was 4,724 in 2016-17, 4,861 in 2017-18 and 5,019 in 2018-19. Hisar (4,104) reported the second highest number of cases. It was followed by Sonipat (2,722), Faridabad (2,710), Jind (2,452), Ambala (2,559), Kaithal (2,107), Karnal (2,020), Panipat (1,965), Gurugram (1,720), Bhiwani (1,553), Jhajjar (1,291), Sirsa (1,331), Yamunanagar (1,023), Fatehabad (851), Rewari Palwal (859), Mewat (663), Panchkula (672) and Mahendragarh (463). In Karnal, as many as 157 new cases of HIV infection have been registered in 2019. A total of 15 new cases have been reported till January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-hry-aids-accounted-for-4927-deaths-in-a-decade/articleshow/76204173.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Parents flood Karnataka minister’s Facebook Live, say don’t reopen schools till September||BENGALURU: Parents hijacked primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar’s Facebook Live session, flooding it with requests not to reopen schools in August – or even September – to keep children safe. The minister had scheduled a PTA meeting on June 10, 11 and 12 to obtain parents’ feedback on the issue, but many parents went ahead and shared their views in the comment section. Manjunath KS, a parent, bluntly told the government not to play with the lives of children. “No please don’t open the school until we get a vaccination (sic) for this deadly virus. We request you to stop thinking of opening school until this deadly virus stops killing human beings. The government will not help and can’t bring anybody back to life. So, my humble request is to stop considering reopening of the schools,” he posted. More than 1,000 parents like Manjunath posted similar comments. Kumar’s video was watched by more than 1,16,000 people, while 5,500 people reacted to it. While some parents said schools must reopen some day and children must be taught how to stay safe, a majority suggested the government explore alternative education options. Kumar assured parents that an education channel on television on the lines of a TV programme for SSLC students will be launched soon. Parents lauded the decision and asked the government to stick to online and TV sessions. Suresh Suri, a parent from Raichur commented, “Please don’t reopen school and colleges, sir. In my town, two positive cases were confirmed and in this critical situation, people are also not wearing masks and roaming unnecessarily (sic). We are very scared about Covid-19 and our request to you is please don’t reopen the school and find out alternative ways (sic).” Praveen K, another parent, said it is not the time to gamble with the health of children. “Sir, the academic calendar is late by three months, but it is not a big loss,” he said. Sreeramareddy SM asked the government not to fall prey to pressure from private schools. Renu Shenoy, another parent asked the government to continue online classes till December. Parents also asked the minister to take into consideration the health of teachers. Most stressed on the need to keep children in lower classes indoors as they can’t understand social distancing. Kumar repeatedly assured parents the government will not reopen schools without taking all concerns and fears into consideration. “We will take a decision after the meeting between parents, teachers and other stakeholders like SDMC members. It will not be a knee-jerk decision or influenced by any private bodies,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/parents-flood-ministers-fb-live-say-dont-reopen-schools-till-sept/articleshow/76203195.cms||Farheen Hussain
June 5, 2020||India||Large number of makeshift hospitals will be needed to meet likely surge in Covid patients: Centre||NEW DELHI: Even as the Covid-19 count has crossed 2 lakh, the Union government fears a huge surge in numbers in the coming days and told the Supreme Court on Thursday that the country would require a large number of makeshift hospitals, in addition to existing ones, to handle the situation. "Number of Covid-19 cases is constantly increasing and at some point of time in the near future, apart from existing hospitals, a large number of temporary, makeshift hospitals will have to be created in order to accommodate Covid-19 patients requiring admission, medical care and treatment," the health ministry said in an affidavit. Responding to a PIL filed by a doctor, Arushi Jain, who complained of lack of quarantine facilities for corona warriors near hospitals, the ministry said, "To successfully create optimum infrastructure to provide best medical care to Covid-19 patients, the central government will also have to adequately address human resource issue for this envisaged surge. Hence, conserving healthcare workforce is the need of the hour in order to cater to the anticipated patient load in the hour of distress." The petitioner's counsel Mithu Jain told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay K Kaul and M R Shah that she would like to respond to the ministry's affidavit. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on June 12. Jain has challenged the change in quarantine norms for corona warriors by the Centre's May 15 notification, and said it could make doctors and healthcare workers susceptible to Covid-19 infection. The ministry refuted this charge and said there was no time-tested and universally accepted. practice pertaining to Covid-19 preparedness. "There are major gaps in many other key areas of Covid-19 patient and hospital management. Based on experience of medical experts in the field, both in India and abroad, and based on common agreement arrived by them, constant upgrade, revision or even supersession of Covid Management Guidelines are made," it added. It said while hospital infection control committee in a health facility was responsible for implementing infection prevention and control activities and for organising regular training on infection prevention for healthcare workers, "the final responsibility lies with the healthcare worker to prevent infection and protect himself/herself”. "This is true for Covid-19 and any other infectious disease," it added. The ministry informed the court that till May 1, the Union government had distributed 99.34 lakh PPEs to states, Union Territories and central institutions along with 123.08 lakh N5 masks. "All the PPEs were procured from nine designated labs of the ministries of textiles and defence," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/large-number-of-makeshift-hospitals-will-be-needed-to-meet-likely-surge-in-covid-patients-centre/articleshow/76205613.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Citizens create labour directory online to help daily wagers find work||PANAJI: In a pre-Covid world, daily wage earners and migrant workers would mill around labour markets and major junctions looking for work for the day. The Covid-19 pandemic put an end to this, throwing migrant workers into over 50 days of unemployment and hunger. Since then, nearly 80,000 migrant workers have left the state and the informal sector is in the grip of a labour shortage. And yet, those workers who opted to stay back, struggle to find work. This is when a network of individuals decided to step in and connect employers with daily-wage workers and semi-skilled workers looking for work. Covid Outreach Goa Online Labour Directory (COGOLD) was born. The online portal has been created by a motley group which includes web developers, architects, lawyers and start-up heads but is largely the brainchild of artist Miriam Koshy and Savio Henriques, a business intelligence manager at British satellite telecoms company Inmarsat. “This initiative is to enable workers to earn their own living and not be dependent on NGOs, the government or others,” Koshy said. Student volunteers and well-meaning citizens went around and gathered information from migrant workers. The volunteers asked if the workers wanted to leave or stay and if they required food and other assistance. The data was fed into an excel sheet and categorised based on skills and location, among other parameters, she said. At present, the group has identified around 20 clusters in North Goa right from Pilerne to Caranzalem and has a pool of around 2,000 people looking for work. Anyone looking to hire workers can visit the website, submit a form and based on the location and skills required, COGOLD puts the person in touch with the worker. The worker is paid directly by the employer and COGOLD does not delve into the payment aspect, Koshy said. “What I found is that those who are staying back, most of them are settled here with their families and they are happy to stay here but they are crying for work,” Henriques said. Work on the labour directory began on May 6 with as many as 2,790 people looking for work. The skill sets on offer range from construction workers and carpenters to electricians and car mechanics. Koshy describes the exodus of the migrant workers as cyclical, but does say that at least 20% of those returning are doing so in panic. “They have to go back at this point of time as they have already delayed their return. They have not been able to harvest their crop so now at least they want to be in time for the Kharif crop,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-create-labour-directory-online-to-help-daily-wagers-find-work/articleshow/76204864.cms||Newton Sequeira
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid-19 occupancy in private hospitals triples despite steep bills||CHENNAI: Despite high costs, the number of people getting admitted at private hospitals in Chennai for Covid-19 has tripled in one week. In the fourth week of May, 295 patients were being treated at eight private hospitals authorised by the government to handle Covid cases. On June 4, 907 were admitted at 20 hospitals. Ten other designated hospitals have zero cases on Wednesday and put together more than 3,500 Covid beds were still vacant. However, not all patients get admission in private hospitals because of the high occupancy rate in ICUs. The unoccupied beds were in general wards. For instance, doctors at MIOT Hospital in Nandambakkam said all 24 ICU beds were occupied on Wednesday and patients were moved between ICU, step down units and general wards depending on their health condition. Riyas Segu, head of clinical operations and Covid management at Dr Mehta’s Hospital, said of the 187 patients treated so far, 6% were moderate to severe cases who required ICU care for 13 to 15 days. More than the beds, most hospitals were able to take limited patients depending on their staff capacity. "Many people, who usually prefer private hospitals, got admitted at government hospitals initially fearing high cost. But the hygiene during their long stay there forced them to move to private hospitals," said Rex Sargunam, president, Tamil Nadu Health Development Association. Given that the treatment protocols like ventilator support in case of emergencies was no different, the government should allow private hospitals only to collect the same fee which is charged at pay wards in Tamil Nadu government hospitals, he added. A K Ravikumar, state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said ICU care doesn’t mean ventilators alone. For instance, if a patient develops sudden breathlessness and dies, then their attenders might question why the person was not put in an ICU. Monitoring and support services for such patients can be provided only at ICUs. "The major issue here is the cost and it should be a win-win situation for all. We have recommended the bare minimum cost without which we will not be able to run the hospital and provide a standard treatment," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-occupancy-in-private-hosps-triples-despite-steep-bills/articleshow/76204191.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeking enhanced relief for unorganized sector dismissed||MADURAI: The Madras high court has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought to enhance Covid-19 relief to unorganized sector workers from Rs 1,000 to Rs 9,000. A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing a petition filed by P Priya, president of the the Amaippusara Matrum Kattumana Tholilalar Sangam from Virudhunagar district. Priya stated that due to lockdown all these workers from unorganized sectors who are daily wage labourers have lost their livelihood. The state government had announced that Covid-19 relief amount of Rs 1,000 would be distributed to the workers, however, the amount would not be sufficient to manage their family expenses. Though the government had announced several relaxations including the functioning of industries with nearly 33 to 50% employees, it would be difficult for the unorganized sector workers to get employment. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeking-enhanced-relief-for-unorganized-sector-dismissed/articleshow/76204192.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bengaluru||PMO to UGC, engg students knock on all doors, want exams cancelled||BENGALURU: Engineering students demanding scrapping of exams, citing ineffective online classes, have been carpet-bombing every authority they can think of with emails highlighting their concerns and reiterating their request. Apart from Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) officials, the students have written to the Prime Minister’s Office, University Grants Commission, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Chief Justice of India, chief minister’s office, deputy commissioners of all districts, all district courts, all IAS/IPS-level officers in the state and politicians, among others projecting their case. Officials have been flooded with multiple emails from hundreds of students. “They (online classes) have been utterly useless. We have not understood anything and we have no knowledge of the subjects. The syllabus is very huge sir and none of the labs have been completed. Even if they are going to revise the syllabus in one month before the exams, it is not going to be enough and it’ll be very stressful. We have been trying really hard to bring it to the notice of the officials concerned but none are responding to our cries…We don’t know what to do. Most of the students are from suburban and rural areas, network issues are more than obvious. If we are forced to repeat the semester, we will be losing half a year (sic),” a student told the PMO in his email. “VTU is awaiting the state government’s directions in this regard,” the PMO responded. Among the others who have responded are UGC and AICTE chairpersons. Anil Sahasrabudhe, AICTE chairman, replied to one mail, saying UGC has provided enough flexibility and all options are available with the university. The district and sessions judge, Davanagere forwarded to the VTU the representation from students “for reconsideration of decision on humanitarian grounds.” Meanwhile, VTU has refuted the students’ claim and said its survey showed that 85% of them have digital access, 75% portions are complete, 70% attended classes and 95% have even completed internal assessment. “A few students have been repeatedly representing in print, electronic and social media that online teaching has not served the purpose because of various reasons... However, statistics related to online teaching as reviewed by VTU with its autonomous and affiliated colleges tell a different story,” it said in a release. VTU’s YouTube channel has hosted 10,200 lecture sessions on 322 courses and three lakh views have been reported since the lockdown. “The claim by very few students and small groups of stakeholders is not true. The university will make fullest efforts to assess its students appropriately only after making them learn and gain confidence with technical/professional knowledge,” the release said. Online classes will continue till June 15. The Karnataka government is yet to take a call on reopening colleges or conducting exams as the latest MHA guidelines state it will decide on the matter only in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pmo-to-ugc-engg-students-knock-on-all-doors-want-exams-cancelled/articleshow/76203273.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||HC closes plea on govt note permitting to quarry savudu soil||MADURAI: The Madras high court has closed a plea challenging the press note issued by the state government to grant permission for quarrying savudu soil for agricultural and pottery making purposes. During the course of hearing the petition filed by M Kalidass, a resident of Madurai, the additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted the government has not taken any steps to grant permission for issuing any permits so far. Recording the submissions, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi closed the petition citing that the prayer sought for was premature in nature and granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the court when cause of action arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-closes-plea-on-govt-note-permitting-to-quarry-savudu-soil/articleshow/76204198.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||HC closes plea seeking to ensure food supply for captive elephants||MADURAI: Closing a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought the state government to ensure supply of uninterrupted food for captive elephants during Covid-19 pandemic, the Madras high court has directed the petitioner to approach the district-level captive elephant committee with specific complaints. Antony Clement Rubin, an animal activist based at Chennai stated that he has come across several videos on social media where the owners of captive elephants have stated that they were facing difficulties to feed the elephants due to financial crisis during Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, Rubin moved the high court Madurai bench. He also sought for a direction to the authorities to inspect the captive elephants to examine their medical condition. When the petition was taken up for hearing on Thursday, the special government pleader V R Shanmuganathan submitted that the captive elephants in temples are taken care of by the concerned temple authorities. The chief conservator of forests, Nihar Ranjan, who was connected though audio call informed the court that as per the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules, a district-level committee headed by the district forest officer has been constituted in all the districts. He said that Rule 7 of the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules provides for feeding and also prescribes diet for the elephants. As and when the committee receives any such complaints, appropriate action is taken to ensure that the elephant is safe, he said. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi observed that though the petitioner has stated that private people are not able to manage captive elephants, the petitioner has not impleaded anyone who are in possession of elephants in this petition. Hence, the judges closed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-closes-plea-seeking-to-ensure-food-supply-for-captive-elephants/articleshow/76204213.cms||Kaushik Kannan
June 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Allow Class VIII-X students to attend school in batches, schools tell government||PANAJI: School heads and teachers on Thursday requested the state government to allow only students of Class VIII-X to attend school for the new academic year in batches and by observing social distancing. Citing issues with conducting live classes online, including network problems and unavailability of laptops with rural students, teachers made a case for physical classes to be conducted for these students of higher classes. Director of education Vandana Rao on Thursday called a meeting of a representation of teachers and school heads to hold discussions about how to go about starting the new academic year under the shadow of the Covid pandemic. Rao asked school heads to hold consultations with parents, either online or telephonically, to take their views on conducting classes online and how to proceed with the academic session. School heads have been asked to submit their reports to the directorate by June 10 so a decision can be made taking parents’ views into consideration. Sources said that Rao told headmasters and teachers that Union home ministry guidelines do not permit students to be called to the school premises, but that she will convey to the state government the request from educators to allow only students of Class VIII to X to attend school in batches. While on Thursday the director had asked headmasters to explore the possibility of visiting students’ homes for teaching, schools were of the view that it may be difficult to maintain consistency and reach out to all students, especially in the case of urban schools where the enrolment numbers are high. “School heads had already been pushing with the state government to allow at least students from Class VIII to X to attend school physically in batches and that social distancing can also be maintained in this manner. However, we were not able to push the demand much today with community transmission having begun in Goa. We realise that the confidence of parents is likely to be low now. Nevertheless, the director has assured to put our side before the state government,” said a teacher. School heads said they also realise the directorate’s concerns that calling students to school in and around the containment zone in Vasco area will be out of question now and said they understand that these students may lag behind if they are kept at home as an exception. In the meantime, many schools had called their teachers to school on June 4, which was the earlier scheduled school reopening day. Consultations were held with teachers and most institutes have decided to begin online teaching starting with Class VIII to X. “But this will not be live teaching. There are many issues with live teaching like network problems, some homes do not have laptops, it is difficult to keep students’ focussed. So most of the teaching will be asynchronous, which means that pre-recorded videos will be put up on a school Youtube channel or app, students will be sent assignments online,” said a school head. Meanwhile, aided schools have also asked teachers of lower classes, including pre-primary and kindergarten sections, to carry out at least some kind of online interaction with their students so they do not lose touch with academics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-class-viii-x-students-to-attend-school-in-batches-schools-tell-govt/articleshow/76204873.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Economy, hygiene give home care edge||CHENNAI: As beds in hospitals fill up with the surge in cases, home care is increasingly the choice for patients with mild symptoms and pre-symptomatic Covid-19 infection. Medical experts say domiciliary care can save more than your money. Besides the psychological benefit of a familiar environment with most likely a family member as a caregiver, experts say recovery is aided by patients maintaining personal hygiene without coming into contact with other infected people, unlike in a hospital or a facility quarantine setup. At present, more than 1,000 patients in the state are recovering at home. "Even though we may give spacing as per norms in a hospital or a facility quarantine, there could be intrusions from outsiders and mingling with other patients, who may have other medical problems as well. This won’t happen if the patient is at home where they can easily maintain social distance and hygiene," said Dr R Jayanthi, dean, Madras Medical College and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. "If you can focus on getting a little more nutrition, there’s nothing like home-cooked food. But the most important factor is the psychological aspect. Even if you give a patient a good facility quarantine, it can never replace a home environment. That adds a big plus to a patient’s recovery," she added. However, home care has a downside. "The trade-off is that the patient might not be under continuous medical supervision," said Dr Sridhar of Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital. However, it is only asymptomatic patients below the age of 50 without comorbidities who are recommended for home care. Patients are sent to Covid care centres if they lack facilities at home for self-isolation and quarantining family. Has home isolation helped in faster recovery? "There are too many variables such as viral load a person is exposed to, age, fitness, comorbidity, mental strength and social support. We have to study two groups with similar traits, one at home and the other in hospital, to compare the outcome," Dr Sridhar said. "But the logic is, it is better for asymptomatic patients to recover at home because they are very unlikely to develop a serious illness."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/economy-hygiene-give-home-care-edge/articleshow/76204227.cms||U Tejonmayam
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Conductor buys masks for passengers with Rs 27,000 salary||MADURAI: If you are travelling by this TNSTC bus from Bodinayakkanur to Dindigul, don’t fret about of making the journey without the protective gear. The conductor will give you a mask for your safe travel. Meet V Karuppasamy, 44, a bus conductor who has spenta month’s salary, Rs 20,000, to purchase masks for his passengers. A few days ago, Karuppasamy came across an elderly woman traveller without a mask who was not even aware of the Covid-19 outbreak. After discussing with his family, Karuppasamy spent his May’s salary of Rs 27,000 to buy 2,000 masks and five PPEs for himself. “When I told my wife about this, she agreed without thinking twice. Though we are struggling to make ends meet, she was confident of managing the family expenses without a month’s salary,” he said. Karuppasamy had to pay Rs 10,000 towards his children’s education. They told him that they will talk to their teachers for an extension to pay the fee, he said. Karuppasamy has been working as conductor for the past 12 years. He was serving on Kerala route before the lockdown. “Around 40% of the passengers did not wear a mask. The virus can spread easily if one of them is infected. I thought I should ensure the safety of my passengers and decided to buy masks. Since some passengers expressed concern over their safety, I bought PPE kits for me,” he said. He purchased the masks from a manufacturing unit in Bodinayakkanur. While masks were sold at Rs 20 a piece in medical shops, he convinced the manufacturer and purchased it for Rs 13. He insists passengers to wear a mask, and if they do not have one, he happily gives them one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/conductor-buys-masks-for-passengers-with-rs-27k-salary/articleshow/76204228.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||HC picks holes in Telangana claim on PPE as doctors test positive||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of 37 doctors working in state-run hospitals testing Covid-19 positive, the Telangana high court on Thursday wondered how could they contract the coronavirus when the government was claiming to be supplying personal protecting equipment (PPE) and other safety material for the benefit of its doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other health workers. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked the government to come up with a response within four days on the reasons behind so many doctors getting infected and thereby posing risk to patients. The bench was hearing a batch of PILs that raised concern over the alleged lack of gloves, N-95 masks and other components of PPE kits. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the court that the government has been supplying adequate PPE kits to the doctors and nurses. “There is no dearth of equipment,” he said. Refuting this claim, Chikkudu Prabhakar, counsel for one of the petitioners, said that as many as 37 government doctors testing positive for the virus was a clear indication of lack of proper PPEs for them. “The government is not even testing the primary contacts of positive patients. Lack of PPEs is also result of such an approach,” the counsel argued. The bench, which last week had heard pleas that questioned the government’s lack of testing for Covid-19, posted Thursday’s case to June 8. When the state counsel promised to furnish a comprehensive report covering all these aspects, including the reasons behind the government doctors testing positive, the bench directed him to file the report by June 8. The bench, it may be recalled, had sought reports from the government in the previous hearings on the quantum of PPE kits it is supplying to the medical staff along with details of their quality. The bench, while hearing another plea on lack of adequate tests, had sought to know from the government the rationale behind its decision to convert red zones like Suryapet and Nirmal into orange first and then to green zones later. The decision of the state government to not test the bodies of patients in the government hospitals was already set aside. A coordinated bench had earlier directed the government to allow the rich people to get themselves tested at ICMR-approved labs when the state said it would allow tests to be done only at designated labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-picks-holes-in-t-claim-on-ppe-as-doctors-test-positive/articleshow/76204896.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: 34-year-old man held for watching child porn||MADURAI: A 34-year-old daily wage labourer from Pudukottai district was arrested for watching and downloading child pornography online. The Melur all women police arrested him based on an alert from a team from Delhi. The accused was identified as V Malaisamy from Pitchaikalanpatti near Ponamaravathi. A police source said that Malaisamy has been watching child pornography since February, 2019. The national centre for missing and exploited children tracked him for the prohibited content he had watched from social networking sites. Since his mobile number was purchased using his father-in-law’s address in Madurai district, the information was passed on to the Melur AWPS. A case was registered after a complaint from the anti-human trafficking wing on Wednesday. He was booked under Pocso Act and IT Act, 2008. Malaisamy was produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in a prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/34-yr-old-man-held-for-watching-child-porn/articleshow/76204221.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||‘Kodambakkam sari’ weavers hit hard as Maha markets reel under Covid-19 strike||MADURAI: Decades ago, members of the Sourashtra community, known for their weaving skills, settled in Kodambakkam in Chennai and weaved what has come to be known as “Kodambakkam sari”. Later, when they moved to the south, the sari, also known as art silk sari, became popular not just among brides but also women in the coastal areas. Now, with Covid-19 severely affecting Maharashtra, their major market, around 12,000 families of these weavers are in dire straits. The traditional sari, made of cotton and viscose filament yarn in equal measure, is donned in the madisar way thanks to its light weight and sweat-absorption qualities. Merchants provide raw materials required for looming with specifics of design to weavers with upfront payment. While the weavers used to earn about Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 a month working over 12 hours a day, their earnings have halved due to the slump. What has come as a rude shock to them is the Covid-induced collapse of the marriage season in Maharashtra during February-May when sari sales peak. M V Gopinath, a weaver from CMR Road, said “I have been earning less than Rs 5,000 in the past couple of months with which I cannot feed my family of six, including two children. I had applied for the government dole for weavers, but didn’t get it,” he said. There are 6,000 weavers like Gopinath in Madurai city and nearby areas involved in dyeing and spinning yarn to fix in looms, designers and carpenters. The production capacity has shrunk to half and since consignments from merchants have not reached their clients yet, they are yet to receive payments. Raw material suppliers have started asking for payment, leaving the merchants high and dry. Their only hope now is Diwali sales. T R Saravanan of Jayalakshmi Tex said sari price ranges between Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,000 depending on the design. It is sought after in Maharashtra since it is used as koorapudavai (one worn during marriage). Traders are demanding interest waiver for three months time for the loans that they have taken to revive business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kodambakkam-sari-weavers-hit-hard-as-maha-markets-reel-under-covid-19-strike/articleshow/76204236.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
June 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Nisarga leaves many places powerless, hits water supply||Aurangabad/Nashik: Cyclone Nisarga, while not causing major loss of life or property, brought heavy rain, uprooted trees , snapped power lines and disrupted electricity supply in many places across the state. The power disruption had a direct effect on the supply of water too. In Nashik city, most areas in did not get water on Wednesday evening as well as on Thursday. The municipal corporation tried to supply water on Thursday evening, but most parts of the city did not receive it. Water supply will only be restored on Friday, that too at a low pressure. Civic officials said the supply will be normal from Saturday as the pumping station at Gangapur dam, which was shut due to power failure, will restart by then. The MSEDCL had disconnected power supply in the Gangapur and Mukane dam areas of the city from Wednesday noon after the state issued the cyclone alert. Gusty winds accompanied by light to moderate rain lashed Aurangabad for more than 12 hours till the wee hours of Thursday, disrupting power supply in many areas. The city’s water supply was affected too. Shriniwas Aundhkar, the director of APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre and Club here, said, “The winds were blowing at a speed of 35 kmph till 2 am on Thursday and increased up to 55 kmph by 4 am. Such high-speed winds are unusual for Aurangabad.” Aundhkar said the Marathwada region is likely to witness more rainfall over the next a few days. Aurangabad city reported 46 mm rainfall for 24 hours till 5.30 pm on Thursday. Aurangabad district (19 mm) and Jalna district (11 mm) reported the highest rainfall in Marathwada during the 24-hour ending by 8 am on Thursday. Marathwada has recorded 35 mm rainfall since June 1, which accounts for 190% of expected showers1. The power utility has released helpline numbers — 7066042410 and 706604241 (Aurangabad city), 787575665 (rural) and 7875764144 (Jalna). Consumers can also use the official mobile app or the helpline: 1800-233-3435||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nisarga-leaves-many-places-powerless-hits-water-supply/articleshow/76202236.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Animal backbone unearthed in Keeladi||MADURAI: Archaeologists working in the ancient site of Keeladi in Sivaganga district have unearthed an intact backbone of an animal. Sources said workers had found the backbone in one of the quadrants, at a depth of 2.1m. They retrieved the backbone without much damage and said the backbone might be that of a domesticated animal. Experts would examine it to determine if it was that of a cow or a bull. Earlier, seventy samples of animal skeletal fragments were unearthed by archaeologists at the site. More than 50% of them belonged to oxen, cows, buffaloes and goats as per a study conducted on them by the Deccan College of Post Graduate and Research Institute, Pune. Report stated that many of the bulls which had roamed in Keeladi had humps. The sixth phase of excavation is going on at Keeladi which resumed on May 20. This phase of excavation is being conducted by the Tamil Nadu State Archaeology Department under the deputy director R Sivanandam. This time excavation will be held to a depth of 3.5m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/animal-backbone-unearthed-in-keeladi/articleshow/76204243.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to change rule, allow farmers to sell produce outside state||BENGALURU: After promulgating an ordinance to remove restrictions on farmers selling their produce outside notified (APMC) markets, the state government is now planning aggressive reforms to reduce the impact of the lockdown on the farming sector. The government is expected to promulgate an ordinance to remove barriers to market produce outside the state. Currently, various APMC legislations enacted by state governments hinder the free flow of produce between states. On Wednesday, the Union cabinet approved an amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, removing cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list. The amendment will kick in immediately in the state through an ordinance, officials said. “On paper, the reforms look great, but, there is so much ambiguity in the law that an urgent clarification is needed,” said Rameshchandra Lahoti, former president of Bangalore Wholesalers Association of Pulses and Food Grains. “Otherwise, large retailers will take advantage of the new law at the cost of farmers and small traders.” The worry is that the new legislation restricts the role of the state to trading within APMC yards limits, while trade elsewhere will be governed by central laws. This amounts to dual regulation. The new legislation also states licensed APMC traders have to pay 1.5 % of each transaction as a fee, while there will is no fee for private traders. This contradicts a Karnataka’s recent amendment to the APMC Act, which states a retail firm or individual trader has to obtain a licence and produce a bank guarantee for Rs 50 lakh in order to open a direct procurement centre (DPC). “This gave undue advantage to large retail companies and e-commerce players and discouraged individual small-time traders,” said Kiran Kumar Vissa, co-convener, National Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. The government has now reduced the bank guarantee to Rs 5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-to-change-rule-allow-farmers-to-sell-produce-outside-state/articleshow/76203302.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Bullets, bullet casings seized from Chennai-bound woman at Madurai airport||MADURAI: A 41-year-old woman bound to Chennai from Madurai airport was detained after two bullets and seven bullet casings were found in her bag during security screening. The woman was identified as Bhogadi Lakshmilavanya, 41, a native of Bhavanipuram in Vijayawada. She was supposed to take a Spicejet flight to Chennai. However, central industrial security force personnel found the casings and bullet when they checked her bag during security screening. The Perungudi police was informed. The woman and the seized items were handed over to them. The police said that there were six empty casings of revolver bullets and one empty casing of rifle bullet. She also had one live revolver bullet and one rifle bullet. Inquiries revealed that she was working as a supervisor in a 350-acre farm in Erwadi in Kalakkad in Tirunelveli district, owned by one Madavan. She told the police that she picked up the casings and live bullets found in the farm land and did not know that it was a banned item while flying. Thirumangalam DSP Arun said that Madavan has license for three guns and it is suspected that the casing and bullets belonged to him. An inquiry is being carried out with him as well. The woamn’s purpose of visit and destination were also under inquiry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bullets-bullet-casings-seized-from-chennai-bound-woman-at-madurai-airport/articleshow/76204260.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Patna||Three more die, 126 new Covid-19 cases reported across Bihar||PATNA: Three more Covid-19 patients died while 126 fresh positive cases were reported in state on Thursday. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar said 28 Covid patients have died in Bihar so far while the total number of coronavirus positive cases reached 4,452 on Thursday. While 2,121 patients recovered and one committed suicide, there were 2,302 active corona cases in Bihar. One death each was reported from Begusarai, Nawada and Sheohar. Begusarai has reported three Covid deaths so far, while Nawada and Sheohar had first death due to virus. The Begusarai man (84) hailed from Barauni. He had heart problem. He was admitted to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on May 27 and died on Thursday. The Sheohar native (75) was a cancer patient. He was admitted to NMCH on May 28 and died on Thursday. The Nawada man was 35 years’ old. Sources said he died on Tuesday, while undergoing treatment at Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences in Pawapuri and his report confirming coronavirus came on late Wednesday evening. However, health department officially reported his death on Thursday. The deceased had returned from Haryana on June 1. As per the information shared by health department, fresh Covid cases were reported from 28 districts with the maximum 13 cases from Purnea, 12 cases each from Vaishali and Khagaria, followed by nine in Gopalganj, eight in Nawada and seven each in Rohtas, Jehanabad and Supaul district. Five new cases were also reported from Patna, including a 57-year-old male from Buddha Colony, a 21-year-old woman of Bajrangpuri locality, a 28-year-old man from Sultanganj, a 22-year-old male of Sadikpur and one man (40) from Bikram area. Sources said the Buddha Colony resident is a heart patient, while the other three did not have any medical history. Total 268 coronavirus positive cases have been registered in Patna district so far. However, 179 of them have recovered and two died, leaving 87 active cases in the district. The health secretary said altogether 88,313 samples have been tested in Bihar so far, out of which 4,422 tested positive. State health minister Mangal Pandey said in a statement on Thursday that testing facilities for Covid-19 will be available in all the 38 districts in the state by June 20. As of now, Covid testing is being done in only 24 districts in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-more-die-126-new-covid-cases-reported-across-state/articleshow/76203025.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Eight out of 39 Covid-19 convicts turn negative||CHENNAI: Eight of the 39 convicts, who had tested positive for Covid-19 last week, have been discharged from the designated Covid-19 wards in various prisons after they reported negative during subsequent tests. They have been shifted to the government quarantine facilities in their respective districts. A fortnight later, they will be shifted back to respective prisons. Six inmates from Puzhal - I Central prison and one convict each from Cuddalore and Trichy central prisons have tested negative after being treated in the designated hospitals. The remaining 24 convicts in Puzhal-I, three in Cuddalore, two each in Madurai and Palayamkottai prisons are showing improvement, said sources. “Apart from the 39 cases reported last week, there is no fresh case of Covid-19 among the convicts in Tamil Nadu prisons,” director general of police (prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh told TOI. A team of doctors from the Greater Chennai Corporation is treating the convicts in one of the dormitories, which was turned into Covid-19 facility, in Puzhal prison complex. The prison department, however, has not been able to identify the source of infection. “One of the prisons staff, who tested positive, is being treated in a hospital in Chennai,” said another officer. Meanwhile, one of the three remand prisoners, all Bangladeshi nationals, who was booked under the Passport Act, was tested positive. They have been lodged in Puzhal-II central prison. The sample lifted from the 22-year-old Bangladeshi was positive. “The trio are staying together for several months, but only one tested positive. So, we are doubtful of the report,” said another officer. The first case of Covid-19 was reported among the convicts when prisoners from Cuddalore and Trichy were sent back from Puzhal on May 22. They were brought to Puzhal in mid-March for a six-week para legal volunteers’ programme. Health department took samples from 210 primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases. In all, 36 of them turned positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eight-out-of-39-covid-19-convicts-turn-negative/articleshow/76204261.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
June 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Soon, Miyawaki mini forest at Kanha Upvan||LUCKNOW: A 'grow mini forest' campaign through the Japanese Miyawaki method would be launched at Kanha Upvan, a government run cow shelter near Sarojininagar on the occasion of the World Environment Day on Friday. The campaign also aims at tackling air and noise pollution levels in city areas as well as to increase the green cover. Miyawaki is a Japanese botanical method to restore mini forests in urban areas. Under this method small areas are identified to plant samplings with an aim to improve the urban landscape. Preference is given to the plantation of herbal and medicinal plants so that they can be used by people for enhancing their immunity, enabling them to defeat the novel coronavirus pandemic. Highlighting the new urban afforestation technique and its launching in the state capital on Friday, commissioner of Lucknow division Mukesh Meshram said that initially the Miyawaki method would be introduced at Kanha Upvan – a government run cow shelter near Sarojininagar. A mini forest would be developed at the 'upvan' in less than 18 months, he added. Meshram further said that he has planned to develop 100 Miyawaki mini jungles in the state capital to provide much-needed vegetation to address air and noise pollution as well as to create special oxygen zones.The Japanese concept is immensely helpful in developing forest on a small area of about 200 sq-metres, the commissioner said adding that to increase the green cover the Miyawaki format is most suitable and the method has already adopted by Kerala and Karnataka. Meanwhile, on the occasion of the World Environment Day on Friday, a special helpline would be launched to offer free saplings of herbal and medicinal plants to the interested people, the commissioner said and added that he had discussed the Miyawaki concept with forest officials and soon a campaign would be launched to grow mini forests in different cities of the state. In another major decision, the commissioner stated that the State Finance Commission has agreed to bear the cost of recruiting 'gau sewaks' for the upkeep of government-run cowsheds. Meshram said that now the cow sheds can be easily maintained with the help of MNREGA funds. There are 554 cow shelter homes in the Lucknow division accommodating over 1.88 lakh stray animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-miyawaki-mini-forest-at-kanha-upvan/articleshow/76204899.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Five men rob bank of Rs 3 lakh, staff phones||BATHINDA/LUDHIANA: Five unidentified armed men robbed Rs 3.43 lakh from a bank in Tehna village of Faridkot district on Thursday afternoon. Bank manager Anil Kumar sustained an injury when he tried to stop the intruders. The robbers, who escaped in a Honda City car, took three mobile phones of IndusInd Bank officials. The bank had no CCTV cameras and no security guard was deployed, police said. Village residents said five men in a Honda City car drove up to the bank. One of them remained inside the car while the other four, who were armed, went inside and snatched Rs 3.43 lakh. When the manager tried to stop them, the robbers attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. They fled with the money and employees’ mobile phones. Faridkot superintendent of police (investigations) Sewa Singh Malhi said, “The police is looking into CCTV footage from other cameras fitted in the village as the bank branch had no CCTV or security guard. Efforts are being made to arrest the guilty and a case has been registered.” Meanwhile, Fardikot SSP Manjit Singh Dhesi was among the officers transferred on Wednesday night. In his place, Gurdaspur SSP Swarandeep Singh was posted in Faridkot. He is expected to join on Friday. Meanwhile in Ludhiana, police arrested a dismissed cop and his accomplice for snatching a mobile phone. Inspector Amarjeet Singh, SHO, division number six police station, said police were investigating the May 8 incident and circulated the CCTV footage to get clue about the snatchers, who were masked and on a bike. They had targeted Pawan Kumar Verma of Janta Nagar, who worked at a factory. The accused have identified as former sepoy Gurdeep Singh of Lohara colony and his friend Kuldeep Singh of Shimlapuri and arrested them on Wednesday evening. Both the accused sent to two-day police remand on Thursday. The SHO said both the accused were drug addicts and had started snatching mobile phone mainly from migrant workers. He said Gurdeep, worked as sepoy in the Ludhiana commissionerate. Since he was hooked to drugs, he would remain absent from duty. Because of that, he was dismissed from police service. They said Gurdeep had got job in Punjab Police on compassionate grounds after his father Darshan Singh had died in firing in 2008 at Chandigarh road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-men-rob-bank-of-rs-3l-staff-phones/articleshow/76204285.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to stop wheat purchase from June 6||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided to stop wheat procurement from June 6. Initially, the state had decided to procure the crop from May 20 to June 30. However, the state authorities decided against wheat procurement after June 6 after observing the poor response of farmers in mandis. The political leaders and ministers in the state had earlier announced that there will be no deadline for procurement this year and the process would continue till the last grain in the state is procured. The state food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department has sent a communication to the chief administrator, Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB), asking him to convey the message to all secretaries of market committees in Haryana regarding stopping of wheat procurement from June 6. According to the instructions, only those farmers who have registered on the government portal would get a chance to bring their crop in the mandis till June 6. Government officials say the inflow of wheat in mandis has come down and only around 10-15 thousand metric tonne (MT) wheat every day is being received in mandis in the past one week. Earlier, more than one lakh metric tonne wheat used to be procured every day in the state. Meanwhile, sources have confirmed that the state has procured around 75 lakh MT wheat till now as against the 93 lakh MT previous year. Similarly, around 8 lakh MT mustard has also been procured as against around 6.9 lakh MT in 2019. Haryana is one of the largest producers of mustard and wheat in the country. On account of the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had delayed/staggered the procurement of rabi crops this year. The procurement of mustard was started on April 15 and wheat from April 20. When asked about the poor wheat procurement this season, one of the senior most bureaucrats of the state said that earlier farmers from neighbouring states used to come and sell their crops in Haryana but this time due to restrictions on account of lockdown, they could not enter the state. Another reason of comparatively low procurement is that several large farmers or those who have storage capacity have stocked their crop, he added. Because of staggered procurement, the farmers had to take their crop to their residences for storage instead of taking it directly from fields to procurement centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-to-stop-wheat-purchase-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76204277.cms||Ajay Sura
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corporation spent Rs 2,400 crore under Amrut scheme||MADURAI: The Madurai Corporation has spent Rs 2438.22 crore during the financial year 2018-19 under various heads under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme, according to the report published on its official website. According to the report, the amount spent towards paying salaries of the employees of the corporation for the financial year was Rs 159.36 crore, Rs 154.07 crore on road works and Rs 10 lakh was spent towards skill development and providing training for the workers. Funds allotted to pay pensions stood at Rs 47.59 crore. The local body spent Rs 11 lakh on telephone bill, Rs 80 lakh on stationery items and Rs 12.56 lakh on court fees It spent Rs 1.60 crore and Rs 1.29 crore on electricity bills and maintenance of street lights respectively apart from Rs 7.33 lakh on solid waste management and Rs 1.63 lakh on inauguration ceremonies. Piled up debris near channels and waterbodies is a common sight in the corporation limits and the civic body spent as much as Rs 1.20 crore on removal of debris, according to its report. While fuel prices went up, so did the corporation’s fuel expenditure with Rs 2.37 crore spent on fuel. Bleaching powder for the purpose of disinfecting was purchased for Rs 1.09 crore in the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-spent-rs-2400cr-under-amrut-scheme/articleshow/76204292.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Another paddy seed scam busted in Patiala||PATIALA: The Patiala police on Thursday busted another paddy seed scam with the arrest of one person. SSP Mandip Singh Sidhu said one Jaspinder Kaur had filed a complaint at the Anaj Mandi police station, alleging that some local dealers were selling seed that had not been approved by the authorities concerned. Police investigations revealed that a local seed dealer, Radhey Shyam, had accumulated several bags of seed. When the seed inspector-cum-agriculture development officer, block Patiala, checked the 93 seized seed bags, these were found to be that of PR 128 and PR 129 paddy variety which were being sold without any authorisation. It was also found that the accused, who operates Vishnu Seed Store in the local grain market, had been selling them at inflated rates. A few days ago, a similar scam had been busted in Ludhiana which is now being investigated by a special investigating team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-paddy-seed-scam-busted-in-patiala/articleshow/76204293.cms||Manish Sirhindi
June 5, 2020||Business||Aurobindo arm’s US facility gets Form 483||Hyderabad: In yet another setback, pharma major Aurobindo Pharma Ltd’s arm AuroLife Pharma LLC has received a Form 483 with nine observations for its oral solid manufacturing facility located at Dayton, New Jersey. AuroLife Pharma is a wholly owned step-down subsidiary of Aurobindo Pharma. The Hyderabad-based company informed the bourses on Thursday that the facility was inspected from January 13 to February 12, 2020, following with the Form 483 was issued. A Form 483 is issued by the US drug watchdog to a firm’s management when an investigator has observed any conditions that in its judgement may constitute violations of the Food Drug & Cosmetic Act & related Acts. The company said it has received a letter from USFDA classifying the inspection as “Official Action Indicated”. However, Aurobindo Pharma said in a regulatory filing to the bourses that “the company believes that this OAI classification may not have any material impact on the existing revenues, the supplies of our US business or pipeline products at this juncture.” “The exclusive sales from this facility is around 2% of the group turnover,” it said. Aurobindo Pharma said it will work closely with the regulator to comprehensively address the issues pertaining to the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aurobindo-arms-us-facility-gets-form-483/articleshow/76203373.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Neighbour held for killing boy, 16||MADURAI: The Melur police on Thursday arrested a 22-year-old man in connection with the murder of a 16-year-old school student. Inquiries revealed that the accused murdered the boy, after the latter threatened to tell his parents about the sexual assault he has been undergoing for the past few days. The accused was identified as K Karupaiah, a daily wage labourer from a village near Melur. He had got married only a year ago. The victim was studying Class IX. He went missing on Wednesday morning and found dead in Selvi Nagar graveyard in the afternoon. Police suspected that he could have been sexually assaulted as he had injuries on his private parts. When they inquired with Karupaiah, he admitted that he has been sexually harassing the boy. As the boy threatened to inform his parents, he decided to murder him. He took him to the graveyard, where he strangled him to death and set the body on fire. A murder case was registered based on a complaint from the boy’s mother. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neighbour-held-for-killing-boy-16/articleshow/76204310.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||MSMEs seek waiver of registration fee for loan scheme||MADURAI: Emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) for the MSME sector, which has been hit hard due to the coronavirus crisis, should be more user-friendly and document registration fee should be waived off for these loans, the Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Maditissia) has said. In a statement, president of Maditssia, B Muruganantham said the central government had announced that ECLGS could be obtained based on the loans already obtained by the industries. This new loan would be an additional 20% of the collateral based loans already obtained by them. To obtain the loans based on the already pledged collateral, industrialists are forced to go to the registration offices and register the already pledged document, for a fee not less than Rs 30,000. This is a time consuming and cumbersome procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msmes-seek-waiver-of-regn-fee-for-loan-scheme/articleshow/76204301.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD-BJP for independent probe in liquor, seed scams||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party state unit on Thursday decided to jointly corner the Congress government in Punjab over issues like revenue loss to the state exchequer, paddy seed scam and liquor scam. SAD and BJP leaders held the first joint core committee meeting in Chandigarh on Thursday after the appointment of Ashwani Sharma as Punjab BJP president. The meeting was jointly presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Sharma. Leaders of both the alliance partners in Punjab demanded an independent probe into the alleged Rs 5,600 crore revenue loss incurred by the state exchequer in the liquor scam. Both parties also demanded an investigation into the alleged Rs 4,000 crore paddy seed scam by any central agency. Alleging political patronage given to scamsters, they said a probe would expose these elements and inter-state ramifications of the scam. Presidents of both the alliance parties also decided to meet governor V P Singh Badnore to present a memorandum to demand independent inquiries into the liquor, seed and ration scams, besides immediate release of Rs 680 crore sugarcane dues to farmers. The leaders said both government and private sugar mills owed Rs 300 crore and 380 crore respectively to farmers and the government should ensure that this money is released at the earliest. The party leaders jointly asserted that the Punjab government had tried to cover up the alleged Rs 5,600 crore liquor scam by affecting a compromise between chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh and a group of ministers who had been exposed by the chief secretary. “The issue of loot of the state treasury remains. It is of the utmost importance to order an independent inquiry into the scam to ascertain how the spoils were shared between different Congress leaders,” said Sukhbir, mentioning the role of various distilleries, including that of the family of the religious adviser to the chief minister. He added, “There is also the issue of ENA supplied to the frontmen of Congress leaders Madan Lal Jalalpur and Hardyal Kamboj, who operated the illegal bottling plants”. SAD and BJP leaders said while farmers were given stepmotherly treatment, Punjab Congress government had given a relief of Rs 673 crore to liquor contractors and Rs 150 crore to sand miners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-for-independent-probe-in-liquor-seed-scams/articleshow/76204303.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Amritsar||Pingalwara bears brunt, but refuses to cut salaries of staff||AMRITSAR: With daily expense of over Rs 6.5 lakh to look after 600 inmates, who include orphans, physically handicapped persons and the destitute, Pingalwara Charitable Society has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite severe reduction in worldwide flow of donations for the charitable organisation founded by Bhagat Puran Singh, no salary cuts have been imposed on employees and no compromises have been made on quality of food as well as other facilities provided to inmates. “Last year, we received 60,000 Canadian dollars and Rs 50 lakh from a British Columbia nagar kirtan and a hotelier in Delhi respectively. This year, there was no nagar kitan on the occasion of Vaisakhi and due to lockdown, the hotelier expressed his inability to donate the amount but we are still running with the help of wheat, rice and pulses received from the Sangat,” said society president Bibi Inderjit Kaur on the occasion of the birth anniversary of the Pingalwara founder on Thursday. On their decision not to cut staff salaries, she said, “They have families and need money to run their households.” When asked about the package announced by the Centre, she expressed scepticism on any real benefitsShe said if the government could not do anything for them, it could at least exempt them from paying taxes and electricity bill. Hailing the humanitarian work done by Bhagat Puran Singh, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in a message posted on his Facebook page, said he saluted the social worker for his selfless service to destitute, orphans and setting up of Pingalwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pingalwara-bears-brunt-but-refuses-to-cut-salaries-of-staff/articleshow/76204311.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Ambulance staff pedals 350 km for three days to join duty||BAREILLY: Facing scorching heat and covering a distance of over 350 km on a bicycle in three days, 25-year-old Rahul Kumar Tiwari reached Bareilly’s Meerganj on the night of June 2 to join duty as an emergency medical technician (EMT) of '108' ambulance. Tiwari went to Bhirpur village in Gonda district as his sister’s wedding was scheduled for May 8. However, after he came to know that another EMT in Meerganj had tested positive for Covid-19 and his services were required for the smooth flow of ambulances in the area, Kumar pedalled from his village to reach Bareilly. After shifting an accident patient to the district hospital in Bareilly on Thursday, Tiwari told TOI, “After I went home, my sister’s wedding was postponed due to the lockdown. I could not return to Bareilly due to the non-availability of any transport. However, after I came to know that another EMT in Meerganj had tested positive for Covid-19 and there was a shortage of EMT in Meerganj, I decided to go back to help in the time of need.” An ambulance has two EMTs. Tiwari started his journey on a bicycle on the evening of May 30 and reached Meerganj town on the night of June 2 and joined duty on June 3. “To beat the heat, I mostly pedalled during the night and rested for two-three hours at temples, schools and other buildings at frequent intervals,” he said. When asked why he didn’t board a bus, Tiwari said, “When I started my journey, no public transport was available at my village and I had no idea that roadways buses were operational from June 1.” He added he is happy that he is back and is able to work in the hour of the need. Medical officer in-charge, community health centre, Meerganj, Dr Amit Kumar said, “It is a good initiative of Tiwari that he pedalled to Bareilly to join duty. However, we learnt that he came on a bicycle after he resumed duty. If he had informed us earlier, we would have made an alternate arrangement for him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/corona-warrior-ambulance-staff-pedals-350-km-for-three-days-to-join-duty/articleshow/76202292.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Excess passengers refuse to get down, crowd buses||TIRUNELVELI: The buses heading from Papanasam, Tenkasi and Tuticorin to Tirunelveli are overcrowded in the morning and return trips in the evening even though the social distancing norms to prevent Covid-19 requires that only 60% seats should be occupied and nobody should be standing in the buses. TNSTC drivers and conductors are facing the ire as passengers are picking quarrels with them when they ask the excess passengers to get down. “We have requested the superintendent of police of Tirunelveli district on Thursday to help us manage the crowd in select routes,” managing director of TNSTC Tirunelveli, P Thiruvampalam Pillai told TOI. On Wednesday, buses were too crowded with some even clinging on to footboards. TNSTC officials said that most of the violators are government employees. A daily commuter from Tenkasi to Tirunelveli said that only six buses were operated during the peak hour in the morning. It includes three point-to-point buses that take 90 to 95 minutes and three regular buses that take 120 minutes to reach the destination. “Frequency of direct buses should be increased,” Kumar, 42, a commuter said.  Pillai said Tirunelveli division operated 451 buses on Tuesday, 579 on Wednesday and 615 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/excess-passengers-refuse-to-get-down-crowd-buses/articleshow/76204320.cms||M K Ananth
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC moots property tax amnesty to boost its revenue||HYDERABAD: In perhaps the highest relief extended to all types of properties in the city, GHMC said it is ready to waive about Rs 800 crore interest on property tax arrears in order to make up for the severe financial losses it suffered during the two months of lockdown. As part of its ‘one-time amnesty’ scheme, the standing committee of GHMC has approved the latest proposal to provide relief of 80% to taxpayers on pending interest on tax arrears (Rs 1,017 crore) till the last financial year (2019-20). The proposal has been sent to the government for approval. GHMC is also yet to get its tax arrears of Rs 1,477 crore. It may be recalled that GHMC had come up with an early-bird scheme (EBS) last month providing 5% rebate on payment of current year’s (2020-21) tax dues for the whole year. However, its EBS bait did not get the expected response from taxpayers. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar said the standing committee discussed the proposal in detail and sent it to the government. “The state government will take a final call on the waiver,” Lokesh told TOI. Officials said there have been instances before where GHMC had extended tax reliefs to property owners but never before has it offered 80% relief to recover its tax arrears. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan said the civic body had been facing severe financial crisis due to poor revenues. While GHMC set a target of Rs 1,800 crore revenue from property tax, it collected only Rs 1,400 crore. The deficit is Rs 400 crore. He said of the total 16.39 lakh property taxpayers in 2019-20, only 9.89 lakh have cleared their dues. “The rest are yet to clear the taxes which is about Rs 2,494 crore — Rs 1,477 crore tax arrears and Rs 1,017 crore interest on arrears. As per our proposal, these taxpayers can pay with our new proposal,” Rammohan explained. The standing committee, in its note to the government while seeking nod for its approval, said the corporation was not in a financially sound position. “We are facing hardships to meet the expenditure of employees’ salaries and carry out developmental works,” the committee said. Meanwhile, the standing committee has decided to call for reconstructing 201 bus shelters under four packages. Similarly, decisions have been taken to extend the contract of 221 junctions along with setting up new signals at 155 junctions, extension of GHMC call centre for three more years and execute developmental work in LB Nagar. With the present standing committee term having expired on Thursday, a notification for electing the new body will be released on Friday. Polling for election of 15 standing committee members will be held on June 29. All the corporators are voters who will elect the new members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-moots-property-tax-amnesty-to-boost-its-revenue/articleshow/76204904.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri turns fortress on eve of Debasnan Purnima||BHUBANESWAR: Police have divided Puri into seven zones while drawing up a security plan to ensure smooth conduct of the Debasnan Purnima, or the annual bathing ritual of gods Jagannath and Balabhadra and goddess Subhadra, in the Jagannath Temple on Friday. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 crisis, the government has banned the congregation of devotees in and around the temple this year. “We have promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC around the temple to prevent people from gathering. The government will facilitate live telecast of the festival through Doordarshan. We appeal to the people to stay indoors and not violate the orders,” Puri collector and deputy chief administrator of the Jagannath Temple, Balwant Singh, said. Deputy inspector-general (central range) Ashish Singh visited Puri on Thursday and fined-tuned the arrangements. Thirty-eight platoons of police force have been deployed in the pilgrim town to keep people away. “We will prevent unauthorized access of people and vehicles to the temple. We have identified seven zones for security. Zone one surrounds the temple, zone two is Grand Road, zone three is the area between Bali Sahi Road and Dolamandap Sahi, zone four is the area between Bali Sahi Road and Lokanath Road, zone five is between Lokanath Road and Mangalaghat Chhak, zone six is the route between Hospital Square to Subash Bose Chhak and zone seven is the five entry points of Puri town,” DIG Singh said. Special police parties and nine mobile patrolling units have been formed to dissuade people from gathering in the restricted areas. Armed cops will be positioned on rooftops around the temple, police said. Temple officials said the Debasnan Purnima rituals would be performed by a limited number of servitors, who have all undergone Covid-19 test. The idols of the deities will be brought from the sanctum sanctorum to the bathing altar within the temple during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. They will be given a ceremonial bath at the snan mandap on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-turns-fortress-on-eve-of-debasnan-purnima/articleshow/76202300.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 5, 2020||Business||IBM deploys Watson Assistant to address Covid-19 queries in AP||Hyderabad: Tech major IBM on Thursday said it has joined hands with the government of Andhra Pradesh to create a virtual agent to share information related to Covid-19 response efforts with citizens on the AP National Health Mission portal of the state’s department of health, medical and family welfare. The IBM Watson virtual agent, called Watson Assistant for Citizens, on the IBM public cloud understands and responds to common queries on Covid-19 in English, Telugu and Hindi. IBM said the Watson Assistant for Citizens combines its Watson Assistant, Natural Language Processing capabilities from IBM Research, and the AI search capabilities of Watson Discovery. “The virtual agent can directly address questions covering more than 30 topics or intents. With the enterprise AI search capabilities of Watson Discovery, it can understand and respond to a much larger number of queries,” said Prativa Mohapatra, VP-sales, IBM India/South Asia. “If it does not have the answers it redirects the citizen to specific information on the portal or to other websites of related ministries and official bodies,” she said, adding that the virtual agent is deployed in a web browser and is built in a way that it safeguards the privacy of the users. “The objective of this type of advanced technologies (chatbots or virtual agents) is to help reduce the waiting times for calls that users make to the telephone lines of state services relating to the novel coronavirus,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ibm-deploys-watson-assistant-to-address-covid-19-queries-in-ap/articleshow/76203398.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||ICAL: Hike in MSP is step in the right direction, will benefit 4 crore farmers||BATHINDA: The trade body of the Indian Cotton Association Limited (ICAL) has termed the hike in minimium support price (MSP) of cotton a step in the right direction. The association says the move would help farmers supplement their income. MSP for seed cotton for medium staple has been increased from Rs 5,255 per quintal to Rs 5,515 per quintal (4.75%). For long staple fibre, it has been increased from Rs 5,550 to Rs 5,825 per quintal (4.95%) on Monday. In an official release, ICAL president Mahesh Sharda said, “India produces raw cotton worth around Rs 80,000 crore and at 5% increase, it will translate to a benefit of about Rs 4,000 crore to about four crore farmers. Apart from it, the ICAL has been advocating a more sustainable solution like direct benefit transfer as like ‘Bhavantar’ (price deferential) scheme. This will help cotton growers and the industry also to sustain. We also advocate a fixed period of procurement of raw cotton from farmers from October 1 to May 30.” Sharda urged the liberalise the seed policy to increase the productivity of the farmer through access to latest seed technology, which is key in increasing production. With the current market price for cotton and expected crop in the forthcoming cotton season, the country is expected to produce 25% more cotton than domestic requirement. The association appreciated modification of the definition of MSMEs policy and said increase in sales turnover limit to Rs 250 crore from the present Rs 100 crore, while excluding export sales turnover from this calculation, would greatly benefit the highly labour intensive and fragmented textiles and clothing industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ical-hike-in-msp-is-step-in-the-right-direction-will-benefit-4-crore-farmers/articleshow/76204325.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Policeman from Chennai dies in accident||TUTICORIN: A grade II police constable in the Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP) unit in Avadi, Chennai, was killed in a bike accident on Thursday. The accident took place near Eppodhumvendran around 10am. The victim has been identified as S Ashok Kumar, 31, from Indra Nagar in Pudhukottai, Tuticorin district. He had joined the police force in 2016. Kumar came home on leave on Thursday and was riding his two-wheeler when he hit the median and suffered injuries. He was rushed to the Thoothukudi government medical college and hospital where he died in a couple of hours. “We are analysing to find if the accident was caused by him or if he was knocked down by a vehicle. The nearest CCTV footage is 10km away from where the accident site,” inspector S Ponraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/policeman-from-chennai-dies-in-accident/articleshow/76204330.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Chandigarh||2 old rusted grenades found in Fatehabad||FATEHABAD: Two old and rusted hand grenades were found during land measurement in Bhodi village near Tohana in Fatehabad district. After receiving information, Tohana Sadar police called a bomb disposal team from Hisar to defuse the grenades. Tohana Sadar police station in-charge inspector Surendra Kumar said a farmer, Harpal of Bhodi had given his farmland for use as cremation ground in the village. When the revenue department team came to the village on Wednesday to measure the land, the members found the two hand grenades. After getting information, police went to the spot for investigation. Inspector Kumar said the hand grenades were very old and their markings were not legible. Senior police officials were informed and a bomb disposal squad arrived from Hisar. The squad defused both the grenades. No case was registered, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-old-rusted-grenades-found-in-fatehabad/articleshow/76204318.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP’s veterinary officer pelts stones at wounded tiger to get a clear shot, probe on||PILIBHIT: A month after an injured tiger died during a botched rescue operation near Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), a photograph of a veterinary officer has emerged in which he can be purportedly seen pelting stones at the animal so that it comes out of the bushes. Although the badly injured feline came out of the bushes and the forest department team got a clear shot to fire tranquiller injections, it died soon due to its overdose. Apparently perturbed by the visuals, UP principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF wildlife) Sunil Pandey has directed PTR’s field director H Rajamohan to file a report on it. Meanwhile, a three-member committee formed to probe the unnatural death of the adult tiger has submitted its report to the government. The tiger was allegedly attacked by villagers, but the details will be divulged once the report is made public. Reacting to the report, the PCCF has also asked the field director to explain “how the tiger got injured so badly in the forest.” The tiger died on May 3 in Jari village near Mala Forest Range of PTR after being shot with two darts of tranquilizer instead of usual dose of one. PCCF Pandey said that throwing stones at an injured tiger is undoubtedly a crime against the wildlife. “Hitting so severely an injured tiger with stones and pieces of tree branches is a serious issue. The field director of PTR has been asked to file a comprehensive report on this,” the PCCF said. The tiger’s autopsy report divulged the traumatic injuries in his thoracic cavity that had caused excessive internal bleeding leading to accumulation of 5-litre blood. A rib of the tiger was also broken. The PCCF sought the report after Pilibhit’s Wildlife Biodiversity Conservation Society drew his attention to the “cruel act” of the veterinary officer. The tiger died a few minutes after he was shot with two tranquilizing darts by the vet. Several forest officials were present on the spot when the tiger was hit with stones, but none of them made any attempt to stop the vet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ups-veterinary-officer-pelts-stones-at-wounded-tiger-to-get-a-clear-shot-probe-on/articleshow/76202322.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Vande Bharat: Not enough flights to Hyderabad, say stranded||HYDERABAD: As the government prepares to launch phase 3 of the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission — to bring back stranded Indians from across the world — hundreds of people, waiting to return to the city, have reached out to the authorities for help. Their primary grouse: majority of the special flights are routed to Delhi and Mumbai, with just a handful scheduled for Hyderabad. Stuck in a foreign land, most of them either without a job or sufficient money, they have appealed for more connections to the city — desperate to be back home. A large number of them are also those facing medical emergencies or people who have lost family members, during the lockdown. As per schedule, the third round of repatriation flights will operate between June 10 and July 1. From among the 300 odd services slotted under it, 34 (approx) will land in Hyderabad — some directly from its international destinations and others via Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kozhikode. There are also four outbound flights from Hyderabad planned under this phase to Riyadh, Jeddah and Dammam. “Several of our Telanganites are stuck in Qatar. As part of Vande Bharat mission, 38 flights are planned from Qatar to India of which only 1 flight is arranged to Hyderabad. I request your immediate help for more flights,” wrote Kiran Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vande-bharat-not-enough-flights-to-hyd-say-stranded/articleshow/76204360.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest vet post at MTR vacant for two years||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris lacks a forest veterinarian and a rescue and rehabilitation centre for wild animals. This is despite the district housing Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), one of the highly populated tiger reserves, and 55% of its total area falling under forest cover. The forest veterinarian post at the MTR has been vacant for the past over two years. When contacted, K K Kaushal, field director, MTR, told TOI, “The post of forest veterinarian is filled on a deputation basis. Only willing veterinarians attached to the animal husbandry department are deputed to MTR. No veterinarian has shown any interest in the past two years.” Saravana Kumar, assistant conservator of forests, Nilgiris division, said they would send a proposal to the government, seeking sanction for a full-fledged rescue and rehabilitation centre for wild animals. “Preparation of the proposal is underway. Soon, it will be sent to the government for consideration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-vet-post-at-mtr-vacant-for-two-years/articleshow/76204356.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Madurai||Statue of ‘hunters’ goddess’ unearthed||MADURAI: A six-ft-tall statue of the Sangam-era goddess, ‘Kotravai’, has been unearthed by a farmer while ploughing his land at Perumalpatti in Tenkasi district, making it the first such statue to be discovered in southern Tamil Nadu. Archeologists said a similar statue can be seen at the government museum in Chennai. Silappadikaram and Nedunalvaadai in Sangam literature have reference to the goddess to whom people prayed for victory in wars. She was referred to as “goddess of the desert” by some while hunters called her their goddess as well as of wild beasts. B Kandasamy, assistant professor of history at Rajus College, Rajapalayam, who has been working on ancient structures in the region, said he went to the spot to check the finding. The stone sculpture had four hands with all the palms missing when it was taken out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/statue-of-hunters-goddess-unearthed/articleshow/76204338.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||MP Aparajita Sarangi fined for violating Covid norms||BHUBANESWAR: The commissionerate police here on Thursday fined Bhubaneswar Lok Sabha member (BJP) Aparajita Sarangi and 20 other BJP workers for allegedly not wearing masks and defying social distancing norms on Wednesday. Police swung into action after photos, featuring the bureaucrat-turned-MP and several BJP party workers in a large gathering without masks, went viral on social media. Aparajita is perhaps the first high-profile violator of the Covid-19 regulations after the state government intensified the enforcement drive from June 1. As government apprehends Covid-19 may peak this month, DGP Abhay earlier directed all police stations to step up enforcement against people, who do not wear masks and violate social distancing norm. The violators also included BJP’s newly appointed Bhubaneswar organisational district president Babu Singh. “It came to our notice that social distancing and wearing of masks were not followed in the political congregation at Bhubaneswar. Fines were collected from 21 identified participants, who included MP Sarangi and Singh. We request all to follow the social distancing norms scrupulously,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. An official said police imposed penalty of Rs 100 on each of the BJP politicians even though the state government on June 1 announced to increase the fine amount to Rs 500 for first two offences and Rs 1,000 for the third violation by a same person. “We did not impose Rs 500 fine as the government has not yet notified the stricter penal provisions. We still go by the old order that allows us to impose fine of minimum Rs 100 and maximum up to Rs 500,” another police officer said. Before the police action, the woman leader came in for heavy criticism from different quarters and was trolled on social media for throwing the social distancing norms to wind and not wearing mask. “We admire her dynamism and leadership skills. But violation of the Covid-19 rules by an elected representative sent a wrong signal,” said Prashant Mishra, a retired lecturer. Aparajita admitted she violated the social distance and mask rules. “Under very special circumstances, I went to the residence of Sri Jagannath Pradhan, BJP leader, yesterday (Wednesday). I fully appreciate & respect people’s concerns regarding adherence to Covid-19 norms. It is a good sign. Acknowledging my duty, I have volunteered to pay the fine due,” Aparajita tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mp-aparajita-fined-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/76202314.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 5, 2020||Business||Amara Raja Group takes up salary restructuring||Hyderabad: Amara Raja Group on Wednesday said it has taken up a salary restructuring exercise to deal with the fallouts of the Covid-19 crisis and has also decided to defer increments and revisions in compensation for financial year 2020-21 for all employees. The company said that while promoters holding managerial positions have agreed to an up to 50% reduction in remuneration for FY21, there will be a graded reduction of 10% to 25% in the existing CTC packages of staff and management employees in view of “the extraordinary circumstances and uncertainty in the business environment”. “This will be applicable for the junior and senior levels and the reduced amount will be reconstituted as `Business Performance Linked Pay’ (BPLP) in the compensation structure for the balance 10 months of FY21. If the business meets satisfactory levels of recovery and performance, the reduced amount will be rewarded back to the employees as BPLP,” Amara Raja group said. However, employees in the workmen grade and all category of trainees will be paid full CTC without reductions, as will staff employees below a certain threshold salary. “Due to the repeated lockdown extensions and extremely calibrated reopening of businesses, the fallout of migrant labour challenges, extra precautions and social distancing norms now emerging as the new normal, the Group expects demand contraction in specific customer segments, market volatility and resultant uncertainty in the months ahead...while the Group is hopeful the economy will rebound sooner or later, the management is constrained to take all possible measures in keeping the liabilities low,” it explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amara-raja-group-takes-up-salary-restructuring/articleshow/76203430.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Normalcy returns to border traffic flow||BHUBANESWAR: On day four of the unlock 1.0, the state government lifted restrictions at six inter-state border checkpoints (BCPs) and allowed normal flow of traffic from Thursday. However, six other border checkpoints will continue to remain sealed to prevent unchecked arrival of stranded people from other states. The state shares borders with Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. According to an order issued by the office of special relief commissioner, operations of interstate BCPs at Biramitrapur in Sundargarh district, Champua in Keonjhar district, Chandili in Koraput district, Kanktora in Jharsuguda district, Khariar Road in Nuapada district and Sunki in Koraput district have been scaled down. Restrictions would continue to be in force at the BCPs at Girisola in Ganjam district, Jamsola in Mayurbhanj district, Kerada in Rayagada district, Laxmannath in Balasore district, Luharchati in Bargarh district and Motu in Malkangiri district. “We observed that the arrival of stranded people through the six checkpoints has decreased. So the six gates shall operate normally as in pre-Covid days,” a senior officer said. Unsealing of the six inter-state BCPs came at a time when the state government apprehends surge in Covid-19 positive cases in the next three weeks. “We admit that it would be a challenge for us to keep track of people returning to the state through the six BCPs. As told earlier, we have urged village and ward-level committees to keep track of returnees and ensure they obey the quarantine rules,” the officer said. Police and transport department officials, who have jointly been managing the border checkpoints, said they will intercept vehicles at the six unsealed BCPs, if required. “We will withdraw our manpower from the six BCPs after the scaled-down operations. But only a handful of staff may be allowed to keep vigil on suspicious movement of vehicles. Checking and registration of vehicles carrying returnees will continue at the other six checkpoints,” state transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said. The state government on May 2 restricted the unchecked entry of returnees to the state and identified the 12 BCPs as the only designated entry points from other states. So far, at least 5,410 buses carrying 1.47 lakh people have entered the state through the 12 border checkpoints. Nearly 39,000 people have so far entered via four-wheelers and motorcycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/normalcy-returns-to-border-traffic-flow/articleshow/76202347.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 5, 2020||Business||Aurobindo FY20 net up 20%||Hyderabad: Pharma major Aurobindo Pharma Ltd on Wednesday said its consolidated net profit after JV share and minority interest stood at Rs 2831 crore for financial year ended March 31, 2020, a nearly 20% jump over the Rs 2365 crore it clocked in the previous fiscal. This was on an 18% rise in revenues for FY20 at Rs 23,099 crore from Rs 19,564 crore in FY19. However, for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2020, the company registered an over 45% rise in consolidated net profit after JV share and minority interest at Rs 850 crore from Rs 585 crore in Q4FY19. This was on a 16% rise in consolidated revenue from operations for Q4FY20 at Rs 6158 crore as compared to Rs 5292 crore in Q4FY19. The company said while formulations sales grew 24% in FY20 to Rs 20012 crore from Rs 16157 crore, revenues from APIs fell 9% to Rs 3083 crore in FY20 from Rs 3403 crore in FY19. While US formulations sales shot up 27% to Rs 11493.5 crore in FY20 from Rs 9031 crore in FY19, Europe formulations sales went up 19% to Rs 5922 crore from Rs 4960 crore in FY19, that from growth markets rose 13.5% to Rs 1355 crore from Rs 1194 crore in FY19 and that of ARVs increased 29% to Rs 1251.5 crore in FY20 from Rs 972.5 crore in FY19. Aurobindo Pharma managing director N Govindarajan said the company’s diversified product basket helped it maintain the growth momentum in core geographies like USA and Europe. “The new fiscal year began with lot of challenges that the globe and industry had never witnessed. We remain focused on strengthening our existing businesses, developing a differentiated and specialty product basket and regulatory compliance.” The company said its R&D spend for the fiscal stood at Rs 958 crore, which works out to a little over 4% of revenues. It also said its board has approved the transfer of its biosimilars business along with its related R&D and manufacturing facilities, located at Kandi mandal in Sanga Reddy district on a going concern basis, to its wholly owned subsidiary, CuraTeQ Biologics Private Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aurobindo-fy20-net-up-20/articleshow/76203444.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Six more deaths take toll in Telangana past 100 as 127 more test positive||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday registered six deaths and 127 more novel coronavirus cases as authorities announced that the deadly virus has now spread to 29 districts again. With the new cases, the total caseload in the state reached 3,147 and the death toll stood at 105 on Thursday. On May 22, altogether 25 districts had not seen any new case of Covid-19 for a fortnight, but with lockdown easing and free inter-state movement allowed, the virus has now spread to 29 districts. Authorities said they are hoping to pull back figures even as they closely watch coronavirus-free districts of Mulugu, Bhupalapally, Bhadradri and Gadwal. But the biggest concern for authorities continues to be Greater Hyderabad which reported 110 positive cases, while the remaining cases poured in from Adilabad, Rangareddy, Medchal, Sanga Reddy and Khammam districts. Apart from Hyderabad limits, Rangareddy district is seeing a huge surge in cases with over 150 being recorded over the last week alone. “We are closely monitoring Rangareddy and Medchal along with Greater Hyderabad, where more cases have been recorded over the last few days,” said a senior health official. “Currently, the virus has almost covered the entire state which is a worrisome part. We had limited it to just GHMC and Rangareddy at one point of time. But now it’s gone up,” said the official With the latest numbers, 1,455 active patients of Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at designated hospitals and at homes, while a total of 1,587 patients have so far recovered from the virus. No new cases of migrant workers, foreign returnees and deportees were reported on Thursday, which had been on a steady rise during the last 15 days, in a rare good sign, said officials. Earlier, migrant workers who had returned to the state from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Bihar were a major cause of concern, with 206 migrants testing positive for the virus. Also, 212 deportees have tested positive for Covid-19 and are undergoing treatment in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-more-deaths-take-toll-in-t-past-100-as-127-more-test-ve/articleshow/76204908.cms||Amrita Didyala
June 5, 2020||Mysuru||BJP ministers lash out at Siddaramaiah for remarks against Vijayendra||Mysuru/ Madikeri: Repudiating claims made by leader of the opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah of chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra interfering in the administration of the state, and having the last word on transfer of key officials, cooperation minister ST Somashekar on Thursday hit back at the former CM. In a veiled reference to Siddaramaiah’s late elder son Rakesh Siddaramaiah, Somashekar asked, “Are we to understand your son was doing nothing when you were the CM?” Somashekar, in Myusuru, clarified that Vijayendra was in no way meddling with the affairs of the state government. "I took charge three months ago and have faced no problem when asked to meet Vijayendra, nor have any of my ministerial colleagues been in in such a situation. Siddaramaiah is making unfounded statements for political gains.” Dismissing reports of rebellion brewing within the BJP, Somashekar affirmed that Yediyurappa would remain the CM for the reminder of the government’s term. Queried about MTB Nagaraj’s remarks on BJP members thwarting his chances of entering the legislative council, Somashekar said, “Nagaraj lost the assembly byelection by making such statements. No members are trying to stymie others’ chances.” ‘Two CMs ruled K’taka when Siddaramaiah was in office’ Karnataka revenue minister R Ashok, who was in Jambooru in Kodagu district on Thursday, also trained his guns on former CM Siddaramaiah for the latter’s remarks against Yediyurappa and his son Vijayendra. “During Siddaramaiah’s tenure, two CMs controlled the state,” said Ashok, who presided over a ceremony to distribute keys to the newly-constructed houses for the victims of floods. Echoing Somashekar’s statements, Ashok said that Yediyurappa would remain the CM for the next three years. Meanwhile, the minister assured the people of Kodagu that the state had sufficient funds to undertake rehabilitation should calamities visit the hilly district. Ashok said that the government had eased the process for conversion of land to ensure that the process to construct homes was rid of hassles. On the other hand, JD(S) workers and members protested the failure of the organisers of the ceremony to invite former CM HD Kumaraswamy, who they pointed out had sanctioned the construction of homes in Jambooru in the first place. Police took 70 JD(S) workers into protective custody to prevent the situation from getting out of hand. Ashok and housing minister Somanna distributed keys to 463 houses constructed in Jambooru and Madenadu villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bjp-ministers-lash-out-at-siddaramaiah-for-remarks-against-vijayendra/articleshow/76202341.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||E Singhbhum DC orders for stricter enforcement of containment norms||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Ravi Shankar Shukla, on Thursday issued fresh instructions to officials manning the 20 containment zones in the district to ensure that lockdown norms are followed in the restricted areas. This comes two days after a 29-year-old patient, who recovered from Covid-19, returned to his residence in Daigutu area (a containment zone) under Mango police station — after being discharged by Tata Main Hospital (TMH) on Tuesday night — in the midst of heightened celebrations by his family members who welcomed him home by bursting crackers. The security personnel posted near his house failed to stop the family even at the entry point and after his neighbours informed the police, the celebrations were stopped and the man was taken back to TMH. An FIR was lodged and subsequently four persons of the family, including the man’s father and brothers, were arrested and sent to jail for violating lockdown norms. The DC said, “In the Daigutu incident, the municipal official on duty at the containment zone immediately informed the matter to the local police and the cops swung into action without wasting any time. In future, we have to be prepared for timely action so that there’s no violation of the lockdown measures in the containment zones.” He added that people should realise that a pandemic is a sensitive issue and measures announced by the administration for its containment is in the interest of the common man. Nand Kishore Lal — the additional district magistrate (law and order), who is also the nodal officer for district surveillance — said, “We need a review to see whether we need to add new measures at the containment zones or increase the strength of security personnel there.” He added that the officials guarding the containment zones have been asked to make sure that night curfew is not violated by the people. Meanwhile, TMH, which received a show-cause notice from the district administration on Wednesday for not informing them about the patient’s discharge, is yet to get a reply. “We haven’t received a reply yet but generally three days time is given for an answer in such cases,” civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/e-singhbhum-dc-orders-for-stricter-enforcement-of-containment-norms/articleshow/76214087.cms||B Sridhar
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||‘Snana yatra’ to be held with no devotees, but live telecast||JAMSHEDPUR: The Jamshedpur chapter of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon) on Thursday said the ‘snana yatra’ (bathing ritual) of the deities, Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra on Friday will be conducted within closed doors of the temple and the event will be telecast live on local cable TV networks. Other temples in and around Jamshedpur and East Singhbhum district said no devotees will be allowed during the rituals. The Jharkhand government has not yet granted permission to open temples and places of worship in the state because of the Covid-19 situation. Iskon said the rituals will start at 3pm and continue till 5pm. A few priests wearing masks and maintaining social distance will perform the rituals, including the tradition of collecting water from Bistupur Ram Mandir and Sakchi Sitala Mandir. Other temple managing committees also said the ritual will be conducted within the temples without any devotees. Sashi Tiwary, head of the managing committee of Naga Baba Mandir near Beldih golf course said the ritual will start 9am. The Shyamsuder Sai of Jagannath temple in Kashmahal said they will start the ritual at 11am while Baradwari temple will begin at noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/snana-yatra-to-be-held-with-no-devotees-but-live-telecast/articleshow/76202721.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh’s wait for monsoon gets longer||VISAKHAPATNAM: The southwest monsoon seems to have missed its onset date this year. Andhra Pradesh usually sees the onset of monsoon on June 4, but the monsoon, which did enter Kerala on June 1, did not touch Andhra Pradesh on Thursday, said S Stella, director of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Andhra Pradesh. The southwest monsoon usually enters the state through the Rayalaseema region, between Chittoor and Anantapur districts. “We had to get monsoon rains in Rayalaseema region on Thursday, but it did not rain there, meaning that there is no onset of monsoon,” the IMD director said. “We will get a clearer picture on the arrival of southwest monsoon on June 5,” Stella said while adding that Visakhapatnam and its surrounding districts usually receive monsoon rain around June 11. IMD officials have attributed the delay in monsoon to factors such as cyclone Nisarga. However, they believe that the onset of monsoon will happen by the end of this week as it has already covered parts of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The current rains or cloudy weather in some parts of the state are not related to the southwest monsoon, sources in the IMD informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aps-wait-for-monsoon-gets-longer/articleshow/76203455.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||E Singhbhum DC orders for stricter enforcement of containment norms||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Ravi Shankar Shukla, on Thursday issued fresh instructions to officials manning the 20 containment zones in the district to ensure that lockdown norms are followed in the restricted areas. This comes two days after a 29-year-old patient, who recovered from Covid-19, returned to his residence in Daigutu area (a containment zone) under Mango police station — after being discharged by Tata Main Hospital (TMH) on Tuesday night — in the midst of heightened celebrations by his family members who welcomed him home by bursting crackers. The security personnel posted near his house failed to stop the family even at the entry point and after his neighbours informed the police, the celebrations were stopped and the man was taken back to TMH. An FIR was lodged and subsequently four persons of the family, including the man’s father and brothers, were arrested and sent to jail for violating lockdown norms. The DC said, “In the Daigutu incident, the municipal official on duty at the containment zone immediately informed the matter to the local police and the cops swung into action without wasting any time. In future, we have to be prepared for timely action so that there’s no violation of the lockdown measures in the containment zones.” He added that people should realise that a pandemic is a sensitive issue and measures announced by the administration for its containment is in the interest of the common man. Nand Kishore Lal — the additional district magistrate (law and order), who is also the nodal officer for district surveillance — said, “We need a review to see whether we need to add new measures at the containment zones or increase the strength of security personnel there.” He added that the officials guarding the containment zones have been asked to make sure that night curfew is not violated by the people. Meanwhile, TMH, which received a show-cause notice from the district administration on Wednesday for not informing them about the patient’s discharge, is yet to get a reply. “We haven’t received a reply yet but generally three days time is given for an answer in such cases,” civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-singhbhum-dc-orders-for-stricter-enforcement-of-containment-norms/articleshow/76203067.cms||B Sridhar
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand braces for monsoon diseases amid Covid fight||RANCHI: The state health department has decided to launch a surveillance programme from June 15 to check the spread of vector-borne diseases (VBDs) like dengue, malaria and chikungunya. A letter in this regard was issued by state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Wednesday directing all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to submit an action plan with the department by June 10. Talking to TOI, Kulkarni said: “As cases of vector-borne diseases spike during the monsoon, we have decided to start a surveillance programme. At a time when the number of Covid-19 patients is going up, we want to minimise the impact of other diseases.” Kulkarni added, “We have identified three hospitals as centres for treatment of VBDs and have directed all district VBD cells to form a task force for surveillance. The task force will include multi-purpose workers, employees of urban malaria scheme, filaria control unit and volunteers who will conduct door-to-door surveys to identify breeding spots in urban areas.” On being asked about districts with high incidence of VBDs, state entomologist Sagya Singh said: “High prevalence of VBDs is mostly seen in urban areas like Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Gumla. This year, we will deploy around 300 workers for the surveillance programme and begin fogging exercises in urban areas in collaboration with the civic bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-braces-for-monsoon-diseases-amid-covid-fight/articleshow/76202890.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||Rims under scanner after positive man dies in non-Covid ward||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Thursday recorded one death related to Covid-19 and 46 fresh cases, taking the tally in the state to 827. Of the total, 430 are active cases while 391 have recovered and six have succumbed to the viral infection. Of the 46 new cases, Koderma district reported the highest at 13 while 10 are from Garhwa. Simdega detected nine cases, Hazaribag four cases, Gumla and Khunti reported three cases each. Latehar, East Singhbhum, Palamu and Ranchi reported one case each. Meanwhile, the Ranchi administration’s Covid-19 management came under scanner after an ex-Army man, who tested positive for the virus, died at a non-Covid ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). The victim (59), a resident of Kokar area here, had suffered brain injuries after falling off a roof and was taken to Medica hospital on May 30. His samples were taken on May 31 and he was discharged against medical advice following a request from his family. He was then taken to Rims’ neurosurgery department. On June 2, Medica hospital lab report said the man tested positive for Covid-19. Medica hospital management said the Ranchi civil surgeon’s office and the officials of the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) were informed about the man’s report. The Rims management, unaware of the man’s condition, admitted him to the neurosurgery ICU. Rims neurosurgery department head Dr Anil Kumar said, "The patient came in a very serious condition because of the head injury. After he died in the afternoon, the patient’s kin informed us that he had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 2." When asked why the patient was not shifted to the Covid block, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said: "In the report given to us by Medica hospital, we were told that the patient was admitted in Rims. We did not follow up on the matter further." A senior official in Ranchi administration said, "We were told that the patient is in Rims. So we thought he must be in the Covid block." The victim had come in contact with 22 people at Rims, including doctors, health workers, nurses, paramedics and senior faculty of the department. Rims is already reeling under infection spread scare. On Tuesday, two intern doctors tested positive, putting the hospital’s women hostel at risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-under-scanner-after-ve-man-dies-in-non-covid-ward/articleshow/76203251.cms||Gaurav Pandey
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant seeks Jaishankar’s help to bring back dead J’khand workers from overseas||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday sought external minister S Jaishankar’s help to bring back corpses of two workers from Jharkhand who died overseas. Posting a news link on Twitter and tagging Jaishakr, Soren wrote, “I urge you to help in this serious matter and help the families of the deceased in Jharkhand. During the lockdown, Rameshwar Mahto died in Malaysia while Mahadev Soren passed away in Mauritania.” Mahto (32), a resident of Dhawatand village in Atki panchayat in Giridih’s Dumri block, had travelled to Malaysia in August 2018 to work as a labourer in a power transmission company. His wife Punam Devi said, “He was stuck there due to the lockdown. On April 6, he suddenly fell ill and was admitted to a hospital, where he died. We have urged the company to help us financially and bring back his body, but it is unresponsive. My husband’s body is still kept at the hospital’s mortuary.” She added that Mahto, a father of four, was the sole breadwinner of the family. Talking to TOI, Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said, “We came to know about the incident only on Thursday. So far, Mahto’s family has not approached the district administration for help. We will provide every help to the family of the bereaved.” The other deceased, Soren, was in his late 30s. He was a resident of Bhelwara panchayat in Hazaribag’s Bishungarh block. He had travelled to the northwest African nation last year and worked in a power transmission company, his family members said. He died on May 26 after suffering a head injury, Soren’s brother Sahebram told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-seeks-jaishankars-help-to-bring-back-dead-jkhand-workers-from-overseas/articleshow/76203177.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||Quarantine centres in Bokaro see protests||BOKARO: Many government-run quarantine centres across the district have started witnessing protests by the inmates who are demanding release after completion of the mandatory 14-day isolation period. Over a 100 inmates across different centres are overstaying due to delay in getting the virus test reports of their swab samples. On Thursday, migrant workers at ANM training centre, Camp-2 staged protests. Inmates at the Chandankyari quarantine centre also staged a protest on Wednesday. Similar agitations were held at a quarantine centre in Nawadih block a few days back. A migrant protester at the ANM training centre said, “Today is my 16th day here. I was promised that I would be discharged after my test report arrives. But no one knows when exactly it will arrive. Chances are I will contract the virus if I overstay here any longer.” Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “PMCH in Dhanbad is overburdened with samples from eight districts. Test reports in Bokaro are getting delayed by 10 days. However, we have learnt that testing of Covid-19 samples has been expedited from Thursday in the hospital.” He added, “As per the norms, we cannot release the migrants even if they have completed 14 days of quarantine without their test results.” He further said that about 180 migrants are overstaying in the quarantine centres at the moment. “The numbers are growing daily,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/quarantine-centres-in-bokaro-see-protests/articleshow/76202969.cms||Divy Khare
June 5, 2020||Ranchi||Pathalgarhi movement takes backseat?||RANCHI: The coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, coupled with proactive approach of the authorities, have prompted villagers in Pathalgarhi hotbed, Khunti district, to abandon the tribal movement and approach the government, seeking help for their return to the mainstream. Pathalgarhi movement hit national headlines in 2017 and 2018 during the erstwhile BJP government when Khunti villagers demanded self-rule, installed stone plaques highlighting dos’ and don’ts on entry and work in villages. It later turned violent, leading many of the villagers to surrender their government-issued identity cards and block entry of officials into the villages. Thousands of them were booked for the protests and blocking officials on duty. The pandemic has, however, brought about a change in these villages where livelihood and finding a job have become a challenge. The district authorities, too, is pro-actively working to bring back the villagers to the mainstream. Two days ago, over 100 families of Medahatu, Tintila, Bhusudin and other villages met with Arki block development officer (BDO) Gautam Prasad Sahu and submitted a memorandum to the government. The memorandum sought return of their surrendered I-D cards, ration and other government benefits. Since February this year, over 500 out of the 3,000 families, who had surrendered their I-D cards, have also requested the cards back. Talking to TOI on Thursday, Sahu said, “It is true that people from Pathalgari affected regions now want to return to the mainstream. I don’t know if the lockdown has triggered it or not, but certainly, it happened at a time when livelihoods are threatened due to the virus. The government has been looking forward to helping the villagers. It is a welcome change.” About his recent interactions with the villagers, he said, “Over 100 families met me seeking ration and other facilities. They wanted their surrendered government I-D cards back to avail the benefits. Many of them said they were forced to surrender their cards due to the pressure from the gram sabha. Some others said they were framed. But, we are helping them now.” The BDO said they have helped over 145 families since March to get houses under the PM Awas Yojana. “Construction works of many houses have already begun. In Pathalgarhi-sensitive areas like Kochag, 66 houses were allocated while 75 were allocated in Bahunda and 56 in Birbanki. Before the lockdown, 200 families have availed the benefits.” A senior district official termed the development as “work in progress”. “Many Pathalgarhi leaders are linked with leaders of ‘sati pati cult’ based in Gujarat. They were tutored there and the villagers are brainwashed to start a rebellion against the government to suit their interests. Due to lockdown, the entire movement has collapsed. It was the right time to counsel the villagers positively. The results are starting to come but it is still a work in progress. We are expecting 20,000 more people to come back,” the official said on condition of anonymity. He added, “People are gaining confidence in the government set up as we have taken a conscious decision to work towards helping them.” After the change of guard in December last year, the chief minister Hemant Soren-led Mahagathbandhan government had announced that it would drop sedition cases against thousands of Khunti villagers filed during erstwhile BJP regime for being part of the Pathalgarhi movement. Aloka Kujur of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, who was part of several independent fact-finding teams during the Pathalgarhi movement, said, “The change is good and is a slap on Pathalgari leaders who had twisted the tribal culture of installing stone plaques into a fight for autonomy during the erstwhile BJP rule. In the process, thousands of poor villagers suffered.” She said roughly 10,000 sedition cases were slapped against unidentified villagers, while 249 others are named. “Cases were filed against all 11 villages of Birbanki, each village having a population of roughly around 1,500 people. After the Soren government announcement, some got bails and are out. However, the matter is sub-judice and we are yet to officially hear on the status of the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pathalgarhi-movement-takes-backseat/articleshow/76202841.cms||ASRP Mukesh
June 5, 2020||Business||Vijay Mallya’s extradition stalled due to ‘confidential’ legal issue||LONDON: Disgraced liquor baron Vijay Mallya’s extradition to India is being stalled by mysterious legal issues with Home Office sources saying his extradition had been ordered on February 3 last year but was not happening despite the businessman running out of all judicial options as there was a “confidential” legal issue. “The extradition of Vijay Mallya was ordered on February 3, 2019. As this is an ongoing legal case, it would not be appropriate to comment further,” a source said. It is not clear what the legal case is as Mallya lost his final extradition battle in the UK courts on May 14. A senior official in the Indian high commission in London confirmed to TOI, “There is no extradition happening as of now." He added that this was because of "legal reasons". A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police told TOI, “No date has been arranged for Vijay Mallya’s extradition as yet.” The UK high commission in New Delhi too said there was a further legal issue that needed resolving before Mallya''s extradition could be arranged. "Under UK law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. The issue is confidential and we cannot go into any detail. We cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve. We are seeking to deal with this as quickly as possible," the high commission spokesperson said. A legal expert suggested there could be an asylum request. Extradition barrister Malcolm Hawkes of Doughty Street Chambers said, “The Indian government must make arrangements for Mallya’s removal within 28 days of the day of the decision of the high court refusing to certify a point of law of general public importance. Day one would be the day of the court’s decision. If Mallya has not been removed by the expiry of the 28-day period, he can indeed apply to the court to be discharged altogether.” He added, “However, the Crown Prosecution Service (acting on behalf of the Indian government) and the National Crime Agency can apply to extend this period. Or, even if they do not, they can counter any application for discharge by showing ‘reasonable cause’ for the delay. The court can, and will, extend the removal period retrospectively if necessary where it agrees there is reasonable cause. The Covid-19 pandemic would undoubtedly amount to reasonable cause, in my view." He further said, "I would fully anticipate that if the Indian government is unable to arrange for Mallya’s flight on account of Covid-19, an extension will be sought and will be highly likely to be granted, which may be of some length. He should be informed about this extension and the duration.” Hawkes said it was not the case that home secretary Priti Patel had to sign off on Mallya's extradition “The home secretary has already ordered his extradition, so Patel has nothing more to do extradition-wise. It could be that he has applied for asylum, which does involve the home secretary. Those proceedings are ex-parte (they do not include the Indian government, only the home secretary and the asylum seeker). He can’t be extradited until that asylum application has been determined and any appeal dismissed,” he added. Indian nationals are among the top 10 nationalities applying for asylum in Britain. Yet, only a small percentage are successful. In the first quarter of 2020, there were 468 asylum applications from Indian nationals, of which 394 were made in-country and 74 were made at the border. Fourteen applications were granted at the initial decision. A spokesperson for the European Court of Human Rights told TOI that Mallya had not, as of Thursday, applied for interim measures under the Rule 39 procedure. If he does, and is successful, that would bar his extradition to India pending determination of his complaint. The majority of requests for interim measures are refused. In 2019, out of 82 requests made for Rule 39 injunctions, none were granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vijay-mallyas-extradition-stalled-due-to-confidential-legal-issue/articleshow/76205622.cms||NAOMI CANTON
June 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||New turmeric seeds to boost crop yield in Visakhapatnam Agency||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tribal turmeric farmers in the Agency areas will receive three new varieties of turmeric seeds that will yield crop in six to eight months instead of two years, the regular time needed for turmeric harvest. A project to this effect, with a funding of Rs 100 crore, has been initiated. The project has been taken up by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA). A three-year-long project, the new varieties of turmeric seeds will be introduced in the Agency areas of the state from this year. The ITDA is supplying the seeds to 3,000 farmers in eight mandals including GK Veedhi, Chintapalli, Paderu and Pedabayalu. “Seed supply, organic input, organic certification, drip irrigation, drying and polishing machinery will be given to farmers at subsidised prices,” Paderu MLA K Bhagyalakshmi said. “In the Agency areas, cultivation is rain-fed. We have to depend on short-term crops. The new organic turmeric crop can be a perfect fit for the area. We identified farmers for the project in February with the support of ITDA officials,” the MLA added. About 25,000 tribal farmers in six out of 11 mandals in Visakhapatnam district’s tribal areas cultivate turmeric in nearly 18,000 acres with local seeds, which yield just around 600kg per acre. But the new varieties of turmeric seeds can yield 2 to 3 tonnes per acre after drying. Of the total project cost of Rs 100 crore, the central government will pay Rs 59 crore while the state government will bear the rest of the cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-turmeric-seeds-to-boost-crop-yield-in-vizag-agency/articleshow/76203478.cms||Siva G
June 5, 2020||Goa||Multiple voices express displeasure over virtual nods to Western Ghats projects||Panaji: The four-laning of a highway and laying of a LILO transmission line in the Western Ghats will result in habitat fragmentation and have a direct impact on wildlife, according to a group of 149 people who have demanded that the authorities revoke clearances granted for these projects. The highway and transmission line will be passing through the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park in Goa. There is a third project on — the double tracking the railway line from Castle-rock to Collem, which is also being considered. In a letter highlighting the decisions being taken during the 56th and 57th meeting of the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) pertaining to the proposal, the people addressed how the move will affect the sanctuary and the adjoining forests. Comprising of scientists, naturalists, conservationists, artists, students and allied professionals, the 149 people have expressed their serious concerns regarding the virtual clearances granted to these two projects during the Covid-19 pandemic. The signatories pointed out that the NHA4 highway report was shoddily done and the transmission line environmental impact assessment (EIA) is not accessible in the public domain. They also stated that there was a need to conduct a cumulative EIA of all three projects, which cannot be looked at in isolation. “It is disturbing how two projects can be cleared in a tiger habitat, using poorly-done (NH4A project) or no EIA (LILO Transmission line). No fact checking has been done whether these EIAs were done properly or if there is sensitive biodiversity in the region,” said Girish Punjabi, a wildlife biologist and a signatory to the letter. The letter also speaks about the repercussions these projects will have on the wildlife as well as the communities that reside around this protected area. “The fragmentation of habitat is very likely to create more human-animal conflict as well as soil being eroded from the hill cutting or land filling during the projects being deposited in the rivers and streams downstream thus affecting aquatic life there,” said Omkar Dharwadkar, president of the Goa bird conservation network. This letter also gives voice to the water security of the region, the forests with indigenous trees, including the state tree — Matti, said Tallulah D’Silva, an architect. The signatories called for assessing cumulative impact assessments of the project and to revoke clearances granted during the lockdown until pandemic-related travel restrictions are lifted to allow in-person meetings and travel to project sites for fresh appraisals following due process. The letter concludes by saying that the MoEF&CC and the members of the NBWL reconsider these decisions in the interest of democracy to safeguard Goa’s biodiversity and ecological security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/multiple-voices-express-displeasure-over-virtual-nods-to-western-ghats-projects/articleshow/76204400.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||‘Farmers in other states pay more for power’||PANAJI: The electricity department has defended its proposed power tariff hike in the agriculture category, stating that the tariffs in neighbouring states are much higher. “Furthermore, the said category is not being charged with electricity duty and FPPCA charges,” officials said. Both fixed as well as energy charges, per unit, have been hiked for low and high-tension consumers in the agricultural category. While fixed monthly charges have seen an increase of between Rs 3 to Rs 10, the energy charges have gone up by 5 to 10 paise. There are four agricultural categories created for the purpose of billing; low-tension consumers (pump sets/ irrigation), low-tension allied activities, high-tension consumers (pump sets/ irrigation) and high-tension allied activities. Earlier, the department had defended its proposal for a hike in power tariffs for all consumers saying that there was no hike last year and that the entire burden had been borne by the state government. Meanwhile, the joint electricity regulatory commission (JERC) has stated that the power tariff should progressively reflect the cost of supply. The commission, which has recommended a 5.31% increase in power tariff, which is higher than the 3.84% hike proposed by the electricity department, added that while determining the tariff for the financial year 2020-21, it had considered the prudent cost of the department and accordingly determined the tariff for each consumer category. Further, the commission said that revenue from consumers through the increase in retail tariff is expected to cover just a part of the electricity department’s revenue gap of Rs 342.3 crore. If the entire gap had to be fulfilled by revenue from consumers, the hike would have been 23.5%, it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-in-other-states-pay-more-for-power/articleshow/76204413.cms||---
June 5, 2020||India||No power to direct private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients free, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Union government on Thursday filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying it had no statutory power to direct private and charitable hospitals to give free treatment to Covid-19 patients. "There is no provision under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010, whereby it is mandated that private hospitals running on public land shall treat Covid-19 patients on free basis. It is again reiterated that such policies may only be defined and implemented by the respective state governments," the health ministry said in response to the SC's query made on a petition filed by advocate Sachin Jain. Acting on an application filed by Jain pointing out commercial exploitation of Covid-19 patients, given the scarce treatment facilities, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy on May 27 had asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta why private hospitals, which were given land free or at nominal cost by the government, be not made to comply with an executive fiat to treat Covid-19 patients free. The ministry said, "It would not be out of place to mention here that as per the guidelines of the state government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, 25% of OPD and 10% of IPD treatment is to be provided free of cost by private hospitals running on public land allocated on concessional rate to economically weaker section category of patients. This was implemented by government of Delhi in compliance of the SC's September 1, 2011, order." Jain had requested the SC to direct the government to regulate cost of Covid-19 treatment in private/corporate hospitals across the country, private/charitable hospitals set up on land given free of cost to charge only actual cost of treatment to patients on no-profit basis and stop exploitation of poor patients by private hospitals. The Centre said, "At present, private hospitals, including charitable institutions, are governed by the provisions of Clinical Establishments Act, 2010. Apart from the said Act, there is no separate provision or any other statutory provision which gives power to the Union of India to pass directions of the nature sought in the present petition to the charitable institutions. "The central government, within its statutory powers or powers of delegated legislation, cannot make this particular bifurcation for the lack of a requisite statutory framework for the said classification. It is respectfully submitted that any order, as sought in the instant petition, would directly affect the financial health etc of such charitable institution, as such, it would not only be in the interest of justice but would also be desirable that any orders passed in the instant writ petition is passed after affording an opportunity of hearing to the said charitable institutions who would be directly affected by orders passed in the instant petition." The Centre said since health was a state subject, the “care cost” in the private sector was not regulated by the central government. “Besides public health, land management is under state list and therefore, state governments can take suitable action regarding the prayers made in the instant petition. However, each state/UT has initiated their own mechanism including cost of treatment in collaboration with private health facilities," it added. Jain's application said, "With no treatment cost regulation in place, various private hospitals/doctors are commercially exploiting the plight of patients suffering from Covid-19 and making a fortune out of the health crisis staring at the nation and its population."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-power-to-direct-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-patients-free-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/76205637.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 5, 2020||India||LAC standoff: India eyes 4-pronged plan for Lt-Gen level talks with China||NEW DELHI: India will take care to ensure that any restoration of status quo ante does not take place on China’s terms during the Lt-General-level meeting to be held on Saturday in a bid to de-escalate the month-long troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh. India’s negotiating stand will essentially be four-pronged during the talks at the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting (BPM) point, with the Indian delegation led by 14 Corps commander Lt-Gen Harinder Singh crossing over to the Chinese side for the dialogue, said sources on Thursday. India, for one, wants the two armies to mutually de-induct their troops from the four to five confrontation sites at the northern bank of Pangong Tso (Tso means lake), Gogra-Hot Springs area and Galwan Valley region as well as additional battalions, artillery guns and armoured vehicles in the “rear areas” in a phased, verifiable manner. Read AlsoNo room for third party in India-China issues, says govtA day after US President Donald Trump made an unsolicited offer to mediate, India made it clear there was no room for any third party in bilateral issues with China and stressed that it was “fully engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve the issue” of Chinese incursions in Ladakh.A major concern for India is the way the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has hardened its stance in the “Finger-1 to 8 areas” (mountainous spurs) that run west to east on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. Though India physically controls till Finger-4, its soldiers have always patrolled up to Finger-8 in accordance with the Line of Actual Control (LAC). But since early-May, the PLA has blocked Indian patrols beyond Finger-4, while also “black-topping” an earlier makeshift track there. “The PLA must withdraw from the Finger-4 area,” said a source. Read AlsoIndia briefs Russia on LAC, AfghanistanWhile PM Narendra Modi exchanged views with US President Donald Trump on the situation at LAC, India has also briefed Russia about the border standoff with China. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in a meeting Tuesday with Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev discussed regional issues of interest likeThe second condition during the talks will be that China shouldn’t disrupt or impede India’s road and bridge-constructing activities in its own territory. “We will continue to build infrastructure on our side of the LAC as per plans,” said the source. It was the construction of a bridge and a couple of feeder link roads to the 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) road that was one of the triggers for the ongoing confrontation. Three, both sides must direct their troops to maintain restraint and observe laid down protocols when their patrols come face-to-face with each other. The high-level of violence during the clash at Pangong Tso on May 5-6, when Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with nail-studded rods and stones, is “simply unacceptable”, said the source. China will also have to “restore the trust deficit” that erupted after it diverted over 5,000 troops towards the LAC in eastern Ladakh from an exercise in its hinterland early last month, virtually catching the Indian Army by surprise. But it remains to be seen “how accommodative China is” during the talks. The well-planned intrusions by a large number of PLA soldiers at multiple points across a broad frontage of the LAC, including the largely-settled Galwan Valley region, could not have taken place without the direct consent of China’s top politico-military leadership. India, even though belatedly, more than matched China by moving forward troops of the Leh-based 3 Infantry Division (each division has 10,000-12,000 soldiers) into their “operational alert areas”, with several other battalions also being inducted into Ladakh from other areas, as was first reported by TOI on May 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-eyes-army-talks-to-defuse-lac-tension/articleshow/76205649.cms||Rajat Pandit
June 5, 2020||India||WHO’s stay on HCQ trials was knee-jerk reaction: CSIR chief||NEW DELHI: A day after the World Health Organisation (WHO) endorsed resuming trials of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treatment of Covid-19 patients, chief of Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Shekhar C Mande on Thursday welcomed the move saying “the suspension of the trial was based on a study which had several limitations”. Noting that the WHO’s decision was a “knee-jerk” reaction, Mande told TOI that the global health body should have first analysed the data on its own before taking a decision on suspending the trial. “The WHO did take the decision on the basis of the study, published in the Lancet, whose authors have themselves acknowledged several limitations in the article,” said Mande who along with two leading Indian scientists — Anurag Agarwal of Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and Rajeeva Karandikar of Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI) - had last week questioned the WHO’s decision on suspending trials of HCQ for Covid-19 patients. They had written a joint note WHO’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, expressing concern over the decision to suspend the trial and even flagged the shortcomings of the study to the Lancet’s Editor-in-Chief. Asked about the Lancet’s response, Mande said the publication had responded and asked scientists to send it a formal clarification on the study. In their letter to WHO, Mande and his fellow Indian scientists had flagged many inconsistencies in the Lancet study. In fact, hundreds of scientists from across the globe had written to WHO, noting their concern on suspension of the trials of HCQ. “Based on available data, the Covid-19 Solidarity Trial Data Safety & Monitoring Committee recommended there are no reasons to modify the trial protocol. The Executive Group endorsed the continuation of all arms of the trial, including the use of hydroxychloroquine,” tweeted WHO DG Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whos-stay-on-hcq-trials-was-knee-jerk-reaction-csir-chief/articleshow/76205659.cms||Vishwa Mohan
June 5, 2020||Nagpur||State doesn’t have resources for economic stimulus: Prithviraj Chavan||Nagpur: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been demanding a Rs50,000 crore package from the state government for reviving the economy hit by the lockdown. Countering this, former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan of Congress said the state government did not have that kind of money. “About 85% of state government’s expenditure is on salaries, pension and loan repayment. That leaves very little for other activities. Secondly, there are very few sources which can help the state government increase its revenue, including cess on fuel, excise duty on liquor etc,” said Chavan while addressing a video press conference. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has not only refused to announce a package but cut the budget of all departments by 67%. This is an unprecedented decision during a recession. It has also refused to waive off loans of 11 lakh farmers. Chavan slammed the central government for failing to revive the economy. When it was pointed out that India’s economic capital Mumbai was under lockdown since weeks, he said, “The number of cases in Mumbai is the highest. Even after World Health Organization (WHO) declared a pandemic, central government allowed people to come to India for 15 days. They spread coronavirus in Mumbai. Secondly, the city has huge slums like Dharavi, where social distancing is impossible. Nevertheless, there has to be a balance between lives and livelihood.” The ex-CM said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had done nothing to generate demand. “Countries like United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Japan etc have directly given money to people to buy goods and services and thus revive the economy. India has taken care only of the supply side. If people don’t buy goods, how will industrialists sell their products,” he added. The Congress leader pointed out that Indian economy had been in trouble even before the pandemic. “The GDP growth in January to March quarter was 3.1%, lowest in several years. The economy had not been hit by coronavirus during this period. Even now Modi is not serious about the economy. On Wednesday, he said that it will grow this fiscal, which is impossible. The situation is catastrophic and he must replace finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman,” he said. On governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, Chavan said the governor was too pro-active, which created an impression that efforts were being made to destabilize the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-doesnt-have-resources-for-economic-stimulus-prithviraj-chavan/articleshow/76231210.cms||Ashish Roy
June 5, 2020||India||Officials test positive, health ministry moves to curb spread||NEW DELHI: Steadily increasing cases of Covid-19 in Nirman Bhawan, the office of the health ministry, with several officials testing positive for the infection, has prompted the ministry to issue a list of preventive measures to contain the spread, including restriction on entry of visitors. The office memorandum issued on Wednesday said the entire premises of the ministry at Nirman Bhawan, including washrooms, lifts and staircases, will remain closed for thorough sanitisation on 6 and 7 June, except for the emergency Covid-19 team. All staff members have been advised to “strictly” follow precautionary measures. While wearing of masks is mandatory for all employees, only asymptomatic persons shall be allowed to attend office and the staff should maintain social distancing mandatorily. “The number of Covid-19 positive cases is going up steadily and many officers of the ministry of health and family welfare have tested Covid-19 positive. It has been noted that at times, social distancing is not being maintained in the office premises,” the memorandum said. It also advised against using each other’s phones, desks and other work tools and equipment, loitering and crowding in corridors, and urged the staff to maintain respiratory etiquettes. “Gathering of five or more persons at any place in the office is strictly prohibited,” the memorandum said, adding that social distancing of at least one metre should strictly be followed while walking, seating or queuing up for entry and inside the office building. “All officials are advised to take care of their own health,” it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/officials-test-positive-health-ministry-moves-to-curb-spread/articleshow/76205669.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Moti Dongor residents take Covid-19 test as precaution||MARGAO: A large number of people from Moti Dongor slum in Margao lined up at the South Goa district hospital, Margao, after the South Goa district administration directed them to undertake the covid test as a matter of abundant precaution. “It’s a precautionary measure. There’s no need to panic,” a senior administrative official said. A family of six from Moti Dongor was earlier this week tested for the virus after it was learnt that they had come in contact with their relatives in Mangor Hill, Vasco, who had tested positive. However, their tests came negative. Many residents of Moti Dongor work as maids and drivers in many parts of Margao, while several fruits and vegetable vendors in Gandhi market, Margao, also stay in Moti Dongor. As panic gripped the residents, sources said that maids were asked not to report for work in Margao. A large number of employees of Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) working at the Margao depot also undertook covid tests on Thursday after a welder, a resident of Mangor hill, working in the mechanical department, tested positive on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Margao MLA Digambar Kamat said that one resident of Margao working in the health services at Vasco tested positive and admitted in the covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/moti-dongor-residents-take-covid-test-as-precaution/articleshow/76204745.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mumbai||Day after, more rain for Mumbai than when Nisarga struck||MUMBAI: Mumbaikars woke up to a steady downpour that continued through Thursday morning as the tail of Cyclone Nisarga brought more rain to the city than when it made landfall near Murud-Janjira, 85km southeast of Mumbai, on Wednesday. By afternoon, the rain ---the heaviest was in Navi Mumbai (see box) --- subsided. In six hours on Thursday between 8.30am and 2.30pm, the rain recorded at Colaba was 49.4mm and 42mm at the Santa Cruz observatory, compared to 50mm and 24.8mm, respectively, in June3-4 (8.30am-8.30am) when the cyclone passed. Unlike Wednesday, when the city witnessed gusty winds reaching up to 76 kmph, the wind speed on Thursday was a mellow 14.8 kmph. Shubhangi Bhute, scientist at IMD Mumbai, attributed the rain to “remnants” of the cyclone. “The cyclonic storm Nisarga has weakened into a deep depression which further weakened into a depression over west Vidarbha at 5.30pm of June 4. It was expected to move east-northeastwards and weaken into a wellmarked low pressure area,” said the IMD official. Mahesh Palawat of private weather forecasting agency Skymet explained that the “outer peripheral wall of the storm had remained in sea and the strong south westerly winds had pushed up the moisture content leading to formation of thunder clouds which gave these intense showers”. Usually, the intensity of rainfall is expected to reduce once a storm has made landfall, and IMD had forecast light to moderate rain for Thursday. Importantly, Palawat said the storm had not disturbed the monsoon currents, and models indicate there is unlikely to be much of a delay in its arrival. The official date for the onset of monsoon over Mumbai is June 11. “Onset can be expected for the city between June 11 and 13 as winds continue to stay westerly and monsoon currents have not been disturbed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-after-more-rain-for-mumbai-than-when-nisarga-struck/articleshow/76205664.cms||Richa Pinto
June 5, 2020||Goa||Decision on Vasco lockdown after test results today: Goa CM||PANAJI/VASCO: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who on Thursday visited Mangor Hill, Vasco, from where maximum cases have been detected, said that a decision on bringing more areas in Vasco under containment zone for covid management would be taken on Friday based on the test results that are expected to come in. “We have taken a review and we feel that the situation is under control and that the cases will come down. However, let’s see how many more positive cases are detected on Friday based on which we will take a decision,” Sawant told reporters on Thursday night after taking a review of the situation in the port town along with senior officers. He said that 30 persons tested positive out of 380 who underwent the covid test on Wednesday. On Thursday, 400 tests were conducted and the results will be out on Friday. There are no cases outside Mangor Hill in the port town, Sawant said, reiterating that there was no reason for panic. “MLA Carlos Almeida has demanded that the lockdown should be made stricter, but I will first take a review of the situation and then decide,” Sawant said. The government understands the sentiments of the people, the Mangor Hill area is under complete lockdown and the situation is being monitored very closely, 24X7, Sawant said. “No one will be allowed to move out. Please don’t panic. We need people’s cooperation to fight covid,” the chief minister said. He said that the Mangor Hill outbreak could not be termed as a case of community transmission. “Local transmission and community transmission are different. The source of the local transmission can be identified and it is limited to a small area. It can be called community transmission if entire Vasco sees cases,” the chief minister said. During his visit, Sawant had a meeting with urban development minister Milind Naik, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, chairperson of MMC Nandadeep Raut, South Goa collector Ajit Roy and others. At Mangor Hill he met the Vasco PI in charge, Paresh Naik. Mangor ward councillor Pascoal D’Souza informed the CM that people are running short of groceries and there are labourers who don’t have money. Sawant assured that by evening groceries would be made available to them. He also assured free supply to the needy. Survey of other slum-like hutments where homes are in proximity has been started, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-vasco-lockdown-after-test-results-today-cm/articleshow/76204754.cms||---
June 5, 2020||India||After CIC rap, govt puts out ‘partial’ data on migrants||NEW DELHI: After the central information commission pulled up the government’s top labour officer last week and asked the government to create a public database for migrants, the labour ministry has put out the first batch of data for 26.17 lakh migrant labourers on the chief labour commissioner’s website. The data, however, is not as exhaustive as the labour commissioner had envisaged in his April 8 order, where the ministry had sought from its regional offices the names, age, mobile numbers, occupation, details of migrants’ current and native address, bank, Ujjawala and Aadhar details of workers. Instead, the information made available in public is a state-wise break-up of migrants living in relief camps or shelter homes, ‘in-situ labours at work place’, or ‘other localities’ where migrants are clustered. According to the data shared by the ministry, the maximum number of migrants have been registered in Chhattisgarh (10.85 lakh migrants), followed by Maharashtra (3.81 lakh) and Kerala (2.86 lakh) workers. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, commonly believed to be the biggest hubs of migrant labourers, have shared details of only 36,421 migrants and 7,719 migrant labourers, respectively. While Chhattisgarh has declared 4,018 relief camps where migrant workers are living, Kerala has notified a total of 1.34 lakh migrant shelters. According to the data, Punjab has zero shelters for migrants and has listed only 2,040 migrants in the state, while West Bengal has shown 16 shelters, 1,851 migrants in-situ labourers at their workplaces, and a total of 1,867 migrant workers, only. On May 27, acting on a complaint by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak, information commissioner Vanaja Sarna had rapped the labour commissioner and asked him to make all information on migrant workers public. The order followed scores of stories of the humanitarian crises and migrant distress triggered by the lockdown due to coronavirus, and no clear data on the exact number of migrants still stranded in different parts of the country. Sarna said “concrete data” about the number of stranded migrant workers would help the concerned governments provide relief to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-cic-rap-govt-puts-out-partial-data-on-migrants/articleshow/76205691.cms||Swati Mathur
June 5, 2020||Goa||225 Goa cops deployed in three shifts to monitor Mangor containment zone||PANAJI: Goa police have deployed personnel 24x7 at Mangor Hill, Vasco, so that there is no movement of people inside and outside the containment zone. The government has declared Mangor Hill as restricted area and deployed police there after two people tested positive in the area which comprises largely of closely packed small dwellings making it more vulnerable to transmission threat. “Goa police has been deployed for public safety. We request everyone to follow safety guidelines. Please do not panic. The government is ensuring supply of all essentials. In case of any issue reach out to Goa police on 112,” inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh said on Thursday. Superintendent of police (SP) anti narcotic cell (ANC) Shobhit Saxena told TOI that people at Mangor are cooperating and have not panicked. He said that police have been deployed in three shifts. In each shift there are four nakas, 24 pickets and 75 police personnel. Saxena said that the government is supplying essentials to the people of Mangor Hill. Dos and don’ts have been issued to the people of the area, he said.  Dos and don’ts have been issued to the people of Mangor Hill and the government has told people to stay in the containment zone, he said. The SP ruled out using drones to keep a watch on people at Mangor Hill. “At this stage, people are following instructions and we have decided not to use drones to keep a watch. But, if the need arises, we will use them,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant ruled out community transmission of Covid-19 at Mangor Hill and termed it as local transmission. The containment area stretches from Ayyappan temple to the gurudwara and has a population of around 2,000 After the discovery of two cases of Covid-19 at Mangor Hill on Monday, there has been a rise in such cases in the area. The local MLA had demanded that the entire town should be locked down to stop the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/225-cops-deployed-in-three-shifts-to-monitor-mangor-containment-zone/articleshow/76204773.cms||Murari Shetye
June 5, 2020||Goa||Margao’s KTC staff gets tested||PANAJI: A total of 70 of KTC’s mechanical staff from the Margao depot were told to undergo Covid testing at the Hospicio Hospital after one driver from Mangor hill tested positive earlier this week. “The mechanical staff has been working in batches to ensure social distancing, but they are the people who are in the depot area most of the time. Precaution is better than cure, so we asked them to get tested,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said. As a precautionary measure, the KTC management has sent 26 staffers who are from Mangor hill on home quarantine. “All those who are residents of the containment zone have been asked not to report to office until they test negative. The directorate of health services is currently carrying out the tests of the residents of that area. We have told KTC workers living there to stay at home for the time being,” Furtado said. The rest of the staff has been told that they can also get tested if they wish to. There are over 500 people working at KTC Margao. There is a separate testing arrangement for front-line workers like KTC drivers and conductors at the Hospicio Hospital, sources said. The KTC buses have been deployed to pick up stranded people across the state and drop them to their destination, besides also ferrying passengers to the railway stations or from the Goa airport. Many buses also run as daily shuttles on various routes ever since government officials and professionals have resumed their duties. As a precautionary measure, the KTC management has sent 26 staffers who are from Mangor hill on home quarantine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margaos-ktc-staff-gets-tested/articleshow/76204781.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Goa||Shelters damaged at Chicalim hospital||VASCO: Two makeshift shelters erected outside the sub district hospital at Chicalim were damaged on Wednesday due to strong winds and heavy rain. The shelters, each for general OPD and pregnant women outside the building, were set up a few days ago at the cost of Rs 1.3 lakh. However due to the squally weather, some parts of it were blown off and had to be repaired. Health officer of Chicalim sub district hospital, Dr Rajendra Borkar, said, “In view of the pandemic and the upcoming rains we have erected pandals for the safety of the patients coming for consultation. It is aimed at maintaining social distancing and ensuring that people don’t get drenched in the rains while waiting their turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shelters-damaged-at-chicalim-hospital/articleshow/76204792.cms||---
June 5, 2020||India||Swadeshi row: CAPF canteens’ CEO shunted||NEW DELHI: The chief executive officer of Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar (KPKB) who on May 29 issued a controversial order delisting over 1,000 products from central police forces canteens for being “purely foreign” and which was later withdrawn after many of the “delisted” items were found to be “swadeshi”, has been shunted out. An office memorandum issued by the home ministry on Wednesday stated that KPKB CEO R M Meena was recalled to CRPF on June 1, the day the order was withdrawn, “owing to administrative reasons”. It added that CRPF DIG Rajiv Ranjan Kumar shall function as the CEO for three months in place of Meena, with immediate effect. TOI had reported on Tuesday (June 2) that Meena would be replaced. Signed by Meena, the order split products into three categories — those purely made in India, those manufactured/assembled in India with imported raw materials, and purely imported products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/swadeshi-row-capf-canteens-ceo-shunted/articleshow/76205712.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Mumbai||KEM ‘video & texts’ prompt BMC to warn absentee staff to return||MUMBAI: A day after KEM doctors allegedly circulated a video and some text messages on being forced to put bodies in bags and feed patients due to a shortage of nurses and staff, the BMC issued a notice to absentee Class III and IV employees of all its hospitals to report to duty in three days or face dismissal. Ward boys, nurses and other staff of civic hospitals, including KEM, Nair, Sion and Cooper, were served the notice on Thursday. Civic officials said if these employees fail to resume work, they will hire new staff. Officials said many have been avoiding Covid duty by making excuses. A senior BMC official said, "This is serious. Regular hospital staff has been not reporting to work and is misleading the management since biometric attendance is not mandatory due to Covid." He said all employees need to report to work, even those aged above 55; they will be assigned non-Covid duty. Some of the text messages stated resident doctors are overburdened at the Covid hospital. A message said the doctors had raised the issue before the authorities who had allegedly turned a deaf ear to their concerns. This, the doctors said, prompted them to post the video and messages. Resident doctors and interns play a crucial role in managing Covid patients. A message read: "This is a message from the seniors working for Covid duty. We are speaking here, because we can not do so publicly. We are being threatened for voicing out the shortcomings of the system. So please use your voices to amplify the ground reality of what is happening..." KEM dean Hemant Deshmukh took to social media to post: "The exuberance of Residents in working for a common cause in a multi speciality team of doctors was genuinely evident. Posting Superspeciality Residents in ICUs supplanted our needs. The Nursing and other para medical staff joining hands with Residents is going to deliver a brutal force in the fight against Covid-19."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kem-video-texts-prompt-bmc-to-warn-absentee-staff-to-return/articleshow/76205701.cms||Vijay V Singh
June 5, 2020||India||MHRD looking to regulate fees in private universities under new policy||NEW DELHI: Private higher educational institutions (HEIs) will come under a “progressive regime of fees determination”. While the regime will empower the private HEIs to set fees for their programmes independently, this freedom will come with a social responsibility of ensuring that at least 20% of students are able to attend through freeships and an additional 30% through significant scholarships. As per the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 being finalised, all fees and charges set by these institutions will be transparently and fully disclosed, and there shall be no arbitrary increases in these fees/charges during the period of enrolment of each student. According to a source in the ministry of human resource development who is part of the team finalising the document, the new policy will put in place a mechanism for fixing of fees with an upper limit. “A new fee structure will be developed for different types of institutions depending on their accreditation so that individual institutions are not adversely affected, while at the same time curbing commercialisation,” said the official. As per the proposed policy, the new fee regime will ensure reasonable recovery of cost, while at the same time will also ensure the HEIs discharge their social obligations. “50% of the students at any given private institution will have some sort of scholarships assistance, which include ensuring at least 20% of students on freeships,” added the official. Placed under “Transforming the Regulatory System of Higher Education”, and in the sub-section “Curbing Commercialisation of Education”, the new policy envisages multiple mechanisms with checks and balances will combat and stop the commercialisation of higher education. While extending greater autonomy to the board of governors of the institution, the members will be be held accountable for it not being a commercial entity with “consequences for members of the Board in the event of failure to do so.” Moreover, all HEIs - public and private - shall be treated on par within the new regulatory regime, which is based on common guidelines of good governance, financial stability and security, educational outcomes, and transparency of disclosures. These common minimal guidelines will enable all such Acts to establish private HEIs, thus enabling a common regulatory regime for private and public HEIs, as per the proposed NEP 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mhrd-looking-to-regulate-fees-in-private-universities-under-new-policy/articleshow/76205720.cms||---
June 5, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Central government cites high positivity rate, asks Delhi to ramp up testing||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases rising rapidly in Delhi, the Centre has asked the AAP government to immediately ramp up testing, coupled with aggressive surveillance, contact tracing and stringent containment and perimeter control of hotspots after a review of the situation by health minister Harsh Vardhan. The Centre’s review came a day after the Delhi government narrowed the testing pool by changing the criteria. Vardhan said the situation in Delhi was “worrisome” as testing remained very low despite a high positivity rate of 25.7% (cases confirmed per 100 tests) last week and several districts of the capital reporting figures above 38%. “Rising cases, high positivity rate and low testing levels in many districts are worrisome,” Vardhan said during the review. Important to pool resources in Covid-19 fight, says HarshVardhanSources said the Centre is concerned over reports of the state government not being able to coordinate with hospitals, both central and state-run, resulting in disputes over medical bulletins, patients having problems in admissions and inadequate information about bed availability. The overall rate of new infections and deaths in the past 7-10 days has been a serious cause of concern. According to health ministry data, Delhi had reported 606 deaths due to Covid-19 and 23,645 cases till 8am on Thursday. “This is a collective battle, and we are here to support Delhi in its efforts,” Vardhan said. Officials highlighted that the stigma associated with Covid-19 stopped people from reporting symptoms or cases and added that complacency was a major factor contributing to a surge in cases. The review took note of a huge disparity in testing rates in different districts in Delhi. While the average testing per million population in Delhi was 2,018, it was much lower than the average in some districts. For instance, the north-east district reported 517 tests per million population, whereas in south-east, 506 tests were conducted per million. These disparities raised the possibility that cases were not being detected in time. Vardhan also discussed the high rate of infection among healthcare workers, indicating issues relating to prevention control practices in healthcare settings, and said this needed to be attended to on a priority. Among states, the growth rate of positive cases in Delhi has been a cause for concern. The Centre underscored the immediate need to scale up testing with health infrastructure enhancements along with better clinical management of Covid-19 cases for effective case management and reduction of fatality rate. The meeting was attended by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and health minister Satyendar Jain, along with district magistrates and municipal corporation officials. Vardhan stressed on the need to increase bed availability and avoid unnecessary delays in admission of cases. “As a significant proportion are in home isolation, all efforts for a timely response in terms of testing, triaging and shifting of patients to the required level of a dedicated Covid-19 facility is important to avoid mortality,” he said. After a detailed discussion with district magistrates, commissioners and mayors of Delhi, Vardhan said while some issues such as density of population in many containment zones did pose a serious challenge, it was important to pool resources and experiences for convergent action. It was emphasised that steps in adherence with the protocols and guidelines issued by the Centre from time to time should be taken for reduction in case fatality rate and improved containment measures. Vardhan also stressed on the need for enhanced surveillance of ILI and SARI cases. The Centre asked the Delhi government to set up fever clinics and flu corners in all healthcare settings across the capital along with focus on contact tracing and surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-central-government-cites-high-positivity-rate-asks-delhi-to-ramp-up-testing/articleshow/76205722.cms||Sushmi Dey
