June 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Drag queens are carving a niche for themselves in the digital space: Alex Mathew||All dressed up and nowhere to go! This pretty much summarises the party scene in self-isolation. Although life is slowly getting back to normal, nobody is sure as to when live performances will reappear on event calendars. While artistes, at large, are staring into an uncertain future, the problem doubles for performers from the LGBTQIA+ community. Nonetheless, drag performers in the country are keeping their spirits high amid this gloomy period. Bengaluru-based artiste Alex Mathew, aka ‘Maya the Drag Queen’, believes that the only way to stay afloat is by embracing the new normal – by taking drag acts from stage to personal screens. In a conversation with Bangalore Times, Maya talks about the challenges and opportunities of reinventing her craft for online space, the need for people in the community to stay connected at this time and more. Excerpts: ‘There’s tremendous effort to stay relevant through our craft at this time’Right now, the plight of drag artistes is the same as other artistes. Performing at nightclubs and other LGBTQIA+ spaces ensured our bread and butter. But with all places being shut, we have no other way but make a shift to the digital space. Earlier, the online space was just meant to put up pretty pictures to promote our shows. But now, we have reached a point where we are doing live performances, conducting interviews with famous celebs as well as putting up online sessions. These are trying times, and we, as members of the community, are trying our best to stay relevant through our art, and not pushed into oblivion. ‘Revenue generation is a critical aspect of online performances’Currently, a lot of experimentation is going on even with the online space. Individual video clips of performances are stitched together, giving the ambience of a nightclub performance. Online payment options are also tagged along with these videos, so that there is some earning for the artistes as well. There are several other platforms, where recorded videos are showcased, and there is actually a bigger chance to reach out to a wider audience through these videos. Sometimes, we also get invited to do cameos in curated shows. These also open up opportunities for drag performers to talk about how they can survive this crisis. ‘If you’re not tech-savvy, reach out for help’The lockdown has been a difficult period of members of the community who are already dealing with a homophobia and discrimination. So, even if you are not very well-versed with new technology and the nuances of the online world, seek help and try to have some presence in the digital space, because that is the only way forward now. The most important thing now is that we should stay strong through the pandemic and keep hope that we’ll return to the stage. But in the interim, keep our art alive via online performances. Watch Alex Mathew, aka Maya The Drag Queen, talks about making performances digital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drag-queens-are-carving-a-niche-for-themselves-in-the-digital-space-alex-mathew/articleshow/76188615.cms||Reema Gowalla
June 6, 2020||Bengaluru||The pandemic has made art accessible to the world||With no scope to organise exhibitions and art previews in art galleries — thanks to the Coronavirus pandemic — artists and galleries are slowly moving to the online space. As the world struggles to get back on its feet, artists and art galleries too, are reinventing themselves and embracing the online space, in order to remain relevant. Unsure about whether this move will be permanent or not, for now, galleries and artists say that the show must go on... Art, too, has to adapt to the new normalRadhika Gulati, who spearheads Art For Concern, an initiative that conducts exhibitions across the country, says that within a few days of the lockdown being announced, they conducted three exhibitions online. “When the first lockdown was announced, Art for Concern quickly evaluated the online show format. Our first show — Paperage — generated good interest. From there on, we did two other shows. We ensured the right selection of art and the pricing. A part of the proceeds from these shows was directed towards the work that Concern India Foundation was doing in Covid relief efforts.” Artist Shan Re, who also sent videos and pictures of her art to Los Angeles-based art galleries, says that online galleries are more active than before. “The lockdown has allowed such galleries to function well because a lot more people were visiting them online. Some of them were even able to sell more art,” she says. COVID-19 pushed a lot of galleries to change formats online tooBengaluru-based sculptor and installation artist, Romicon Revola says that though online art shows are not a new concept, several galleries and artists took this up because of the pandemic and modified the format accordingly. “I was a part of two online shows that were interactive in nature and gave a demo on how to make colours out of coffee powder and turmeric powder during the lockdown, in case one runs out of colours, as that was the case with me. The format was different for both the galleries — one of the galleries conducted a video call with me, which is obviously different from what we usually do. It helped me as an artist, because I was able to continue my work and interact with people at the same time,” says Romicon. “The pandemic has changed things. Now, because many shows and discussions are online, we too are able to see each other’s works, which would otherwise not be possible unless you travelled for that particular exhibition. A lot of senior artists who are not tech-savvy, have received representation from many galleries and we were able to see their work online,” adds Romicon. Is this the future for art?The past few months have proven that there is huge potential for art online. In fact, artist Shan Re says that this format is here to stay. “Online art exhibitions will definitely continue in the future because we will continue to maintain social distancing. And keeping that in mind, online shows will definitely be the next step. With online shows, people will be able to view art at their leisure and from the comfort of their homes,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-pandemic-has-made-art-accessible-to-the-world/articleshow/76224246.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Will city’s nightlife be an exciting one post lockdown?||As the city scrambles to life slowly in #Unlock1.0, will the party scene be as groovy as it used to be? Industry insiders give us their point of view… James, co-founder, Off The Record, admits, “There’s no precedence to the situation to say how exactly the nightlife is going to be in the next few months.” But C Arun Prakash, partner of BOATS Beach Bar, confidently says, “Even though the current situation isn’t good, like everything else, nightlife will also be back to buzzing. We’ll follow the procedures — regular sanitisation, temperature check, etc. There’ll be changes — no handshaking and hugging, and maybe silent discos with the doors left open for good ventilation.” House parties have become common in the lockdown, opines L Raghu Raman, managing partner at The Cycle Gap. “Chennai’s party culture is evolving. That’s why we decided to give people some virtual party experiences during the lockdown.” But virtual trends in pub culture, says James, is temporary. “Because, the very idea of nightlife is to experience the joy of meeting people, listen to live music and watch cocktails being mixed right in front of your eyes,” he explains and predicts that Chennai’s nightlife will be buzzing again in three months. Would they have to turn enforcers in the new scenario to ensure social distancing among guests once they turn tipsy? “Chennaiites have been responsible drinkers, but obviously, there’ll be exceptions, and we might have to play the role of referee,” laughs James. Raghu and Arun agree with James and say that the SOPs (Standard Operating Procedure) will be followed by all pubs. “At least for the first one month, we’ll have only 50 per cent occupancy. That, by default, helps maintain social distancing. Also, for a short period, there’ll be no valet parking driver and bouncer at the entry points. And there’ll be contactless options to place the order and close the bill as well,” adds James. Watch the video: How will Chennai's nightlife be post lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-citys-nightlife-be-an-exciting-one-post-lockdown/articleshow/76223955.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Safety is supreme for this savvy Chennai auto driver||With the government allowing taxis and autos to resume services from June 1, R Dilip Kumar is back on the city roads with his auto after more than two months. But in the new normal scenario, this auto driver sports a completely new look — PPE suit, et al! “It’s important to ensure safety during this pandemic,” he states matter-of-factly when we meet him for a chat near Guindy railway station, where he’d come to drop off a passenger. “Actually, I am a professional photographer. But I couldn’t make enough out of the few weddings that I covered each month. So, I decided to rent an auto. Unfortunately, two days after that, the lockdown was announced. Now, I’ve started to drive again because I have to run my house, but I also realised it’s necessary to ensure safety during these COVID-19 times. Hence, the PPE suit! I got it from a place in Arumbakkam,” says Dilip, even as he starts cleaning the auto seats with a sanitiser. “I clean it before and after every ride. I have to ensure my passengers’ safety as well,” he smiles. He’s also fixed a plastic sheet between the driver seat and the passenger seat. “I remove and wash this screen daily,” he adds. His auto is equipped with extra masks and sanitiser. “Passengers have to use hand sanitiser before they enter the auto and wear a mask. If they don’t have one, I give them from the stock I have. If they can afford it, they pay me for the masks, or else, I give it to them for free,” he says. Dilip starts his day at 8am and finishes his trips by 2pm. “Once I wear the PPE, I’ll not be able to eat or drink anything. So, I ride for six hours and go back home for lunch. There’s a separate place to remove the suit and clothes, disinfect them and take a bath. Only after that do I even enter the house,” says Dilip, who now rides for around 25km every day. This auto driver from Chennai takes steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/safety-is-supreme-for-this-savvy-chennai-auto-driver/articleshow/76223987.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
June 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Safety first! Bengaluru salons gear up with PPEs; maintain new guidelines||Yes, you can walk into your favourite salon in town again and request for a personal stylist to get the much-needed touch-ups and eye brows done. But this time around, you’ll be in for a completely new salon experience, something that you have never experienced before the pandemic confined people in their homes for months. As the lockdown gradually eases and salons and beauty clinics slowly reopen, hygiene and safety measures are everyone’s priority. For actress Pranitha Subhash, who recently made a trip to a salon in the city to get her hair trimmed, it was nothing less than embarking on a space mission. “I am not experimental like some of my colleagues, who cut their hair themselves during the lockdown. Again, I was a little apprehensive, too, to go back to the salon. So, I waited for a week to ensure that I felt safe enough to enter a salon. When I finally visited, I saw that all precautionary measures have been considered – from PPE kits to disinfected interiors. It felt like nothing less than entering a spaceship.” Giving us an overview of the ‘new normal’ at salons, Dr Sneha Prabhudabholkar, a medical professional and National Creative Director of Skincare at Lakme Salon, says, “As many as 55 new hygiene practices have been implemented at our salons. We have updated the procedures for all services that includes threading and waxing; manicure and pedicure; facials; as well as hair styling.” With such steps in place, the entire salon experience for salon goers would is about to change post Covid-19. So, here’s how your next salon visit is going to unfold… SCREENING AT THE ENTRANCECustomers are screened at the entrance, while they are also required to fill in the self-declaration form. People who belong to the high-risk groups, including senior citizens, are not allowed to avail the services yet. “Self-declaration form needs to be filled by customers, stating their travel history and whether or not they have been in contact with anyone who has tested Covid-19 positive,” says Rajiv Nair, CEO of Kaya Clinics. Meanwhile, Vaijayanti Bhalchandra, Co-Founder and CTO of You Look Great (YLG) salons, says, “We have also introduced pulse oximetry reading, which measures the oxygen level in blood.” ZERO OR VERY LITTLE SKIN CONTACTAll staff members at salons will be wearing protective gear, which includes masks, gloves, visors and disposable aprons. “Since staff members will be wearing SITRA-certified PPEs, there will be zero or very little skin contact,” says Rajiv. Adding to that, Sahil Gupta, CEO of Bodycraft Spa and Salon, says, “Customers also would be required to wear masks at all times. They will also be disinfected with EPA-approved chlorine dioxide solutions that would be sprayed on their clothes and footwear.” Meanwhile, Sahil says, “If you are going for a body massage or full-body waxing, you’ll need to take a shower before the service. You can carry your own towel or use the disposable towel available at the salon.” NO MORE REFRESHMENTSOnly water bottles will be offered to customers. No more tea/coffee or juice will be served. “The service menu again can be downloaded via a QR Code that will only provide them with water bottles,” says Sahil. LIMITED APPOINTMENTSAs staff strength at most salons are reduced by 50%, only limited appointments will be entertained. “The number of pre-booked appointments has been reduced,” says Pushkaraj Shenai, CEO at Lakme Salon. Adding to that, Bina Sondhi, owner of Visage Salon, says, “It is important to ensure the customers feel safe. So, we are keeping the count to only one person in a row and limited appointments at a time.” CONTACTLESS BILLINGAs salons go contactless, so does the payment process. Hence, you’ll either have to use your card or opt for digital payment options. Things to keep in mind while visiting a salon Use elbows to open doors Use your knuckles to press the elevator buttons Wear a mask while at the salon Post-Covid changes in how salons operate Restrooms to be opened only on request Touchpoints to be disinfected throughout the day Single-use kits to be used for 90% of services Procedures revised skin, hair and makeup services PPEs to be discarded in designated disposal bins Only allocated seats to be used  Only one customer to be allowed in the hair spa, manicure and pedicure sections||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/safety-first-bengaluru-salons-gear-up-with-ppes-maintain-new-guidelines/articleshow/76224058.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
June 6, 2020||Business||Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala buys 1.8% in Jio for Rs 9,094 crore||MUMBAI: Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth fund Mubadala has agreed to invest Rs 9,094 crore in Jio Platforms, marking the first Middle Eastern deal in the Mumbai-based digital-cum-telecom services company. Mubadala’s investment will give the fund a 1.85% stake in Jio Platforms, which has an enterprise value of Rs 5.16 lakh crore. Mubadala, with a $229-billion portfolio, is the latest addition to Jio’s roster of marquee investors. These include Facebook and other US firms. Another Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth fund, ADIA, and Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment too plan to acquire shares of Jio. TOI reported about Mubadala’s interest in Jio in its May 23 edition. Parent RIL has so far inked deals to sell an 18.97% stake in Jio, raising Rs 87,655 crore ($11.5 billion) over the last six weeks. The investors are betting that Jio, which is also India’s largest cellular services operator with over 388 million customers, has the potential to transform sectors from agriculture to retail, and from education to entertainment. RIL plans to use the external money to lower its debt of Rs 3.36 lakh crore ($44 billion). Debt increased at RIL mainly because of its aggressive expansion through Jio. The external money has also set a valuation for Jio, which would help RIL as it plans to take the digital-cum-telecom services company public in the near future. The Rs 5.16-lakh-crore enterprise value of Jio includes an equity valuation of Rs 4.91 lakh crore. RIL may explore an overseas listing for Jio, possibly Nasdaq, after India proposed direct listing of companies in foreign jurisdictions. Jio is Mubadala’s largest investment in an Indian company. The second-largest state investor in Abu Dhabi after ADIA, Mubadala recently backed Waymo, Alphabet’s self-driving car venture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/abu-dhabis-mubadala-buys-1-8-in-jio-for-rs-9094-crore/articleshow/76225313.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 6, 2020||India||Parents wary of sending children to schools as of now: Survey||NEW DELHI: Rising Covid-19 cases and reports of children getting infection after schools reopened in some countries have made Indian parents wary of sending their wards to schools. Majority of parents across 224 districts are not confident about schools being equipped to enforce social distancing and other steps to check the virus spread and prefer continuation of virtual classes, according to a survey. While the HRD ministry is preparing guidelines for reopening of schools, parents seem to be in no hurry. Only 11% of the parents surveyed are in support of schools restarting as per the original calendar, suggests the countrywide survey by LocalCircles, the community social media platform. Nearly 37% of 18,000 parents covered in the survey felt that schools should reopen only if there are no new cases in the district and within its 20km radius for 21 days. However, more than 20% parents said schools should reopen only after the country has no new cases for three weeks, while 13% even felt that schools should remain shut till a vaccine is developed. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news As per the home ministry’s “Unlock 1.0” guidelines, schools can be reopened after consultations with the state governments in the second phase of unlocking. Some state governments are considering reopening of schools from July. Some parents pointed out that many schools have been using digital platforms effectively for conducting classes during the lockdwon and felt that instead of reopening, efforts should be made by the Centre and states to find ways to enable learning in rural India via internet, television and radio channels. The Haryana government has announced reopening of schools in July with senior classes starting first. Calling for caution and careful planning to reopen schools, 76% of parents felt it would be difficult for children to maintain social distancing norms inside the premises. Some parents cited examples such as France which reported around 70 new Covid-19 cases in schools a week after reopening or Denmark and Croatia which are also facing challenges after reopening of schools. In Israel, around 220 students and teachers were found to be Covid positive in the last few days and around 10,000 students and teachers have gone into home quarantine within two weeks of reopening of schools. The findings, requesting for rapid enabling of online education infrastructure, have been submitted to the MHA, MHRD and chief secretaries of all states and UTs. Watch Covid-19: Parents wary of sending children to schools if they reopen now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parents-wary-of-sending-children-to-schools-as-of-now-survey/articleshow/76225400.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
June 6, 2020||India||Covid-19: 295 deaths, highest in single day, across India||NEW DELHI: India witnessed its highest single-day death toll in the Covid-19 pandemic so far, with 295 fatalities reported on Friday, while the count of fresh infections remained over 9,000 for the second straight day. With this, the country’s total number of Covid-19 cases went past Italy’s count of 2,34,531, taking India to the sixth spot among countries with the highest caseloads of the virus. India’s cumulative count of Covid-19 cases stood at 2,36,117 (after adding 7,610 cases not assigned to any state, as per the health ministry website), according to data from state governments. Deaths from the virus zoomed on Friday after Maharashtra reported as many as 139 fatalities, a bulk of the deaths having occurred earlier. Likewise, Delhi reported 58 deaths and Gujarat 35, while Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh counted 12 each and Bengal reported 11. Given current trends, India is set to rise to the fifth place in the list of Covid-hit countries on Saturday, overtaking Spain. For the second consecutive day, India had Thursday reported the third highest number of new cases in the world, ahead of Russia and behind just Brazil and the US. Among states, Maharashtra continued to report by far the highest number of fresh infections at 2436, although the number was nearly 500 less than the count on Thursday. At least six states — Tamil Nadu (1,438 new cases), Gujarat (510), Uttar Pradesh (502), Bengal (427), Chhattisgarh (106) and Jharkhand (96) — registered their highest single-day rise in cases. Besides, the surge in infections continued in Delhi, which recorded 1,330 fresh cases, Haryana (316), Madhya Pradesh (234), J&K (182) and Rajasthan (222). The 139 deaths reported by Maharashtra was its highest single-day toll so far since the outbreak. With this addition, Maharashtra's total death toll was 2849. In the last three days, the state has reported a total of 384 deaths. As per the state government, of the 139 deaths reported on Friday, 27 deaths have occurred in the last two days, while the remaining 112 deaths were from April 21 to June 2. Maharashtra added 2436 new cases on Friday and breached the 80,000 mark for cases and had a total of 80,229 cases. Mumbai equalled its record of highest number of Covid deaths in a 24-hour period with 54 fatalities reported on Friday. The civic officials announced that the doubling rate of the viral cases had improved to 20 days from 12 days on May 15. Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday recorded 510 cases – or one case every three minutes. This was the highest single-day case tally registered so far. The total coronavirus cases in the state has now climbed to 19,119. The state health department bulletin mentioned that 35 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection or co-morbidities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,190. The deaths included 30 from Ahmedabad, two from Surat and one each from Anand, Bhavnagar and Surat. It was the highest single-day death toll since May 18. Of the 510 cases, 324 were reported from Ahmedabad, 67 from Surat, 45 from Vadodara and 21 from Gandhinagar. It is the second time in June that Ahmedabad has recorded 300-plus cases in a day. The Covid-19 tally of UP recorded the highest single-day jump of 502 cases. The leap took the state’s total to 9,804 with Gautam Budh Nagar recording 51 fresh cases, followed by Kanpur (48) and Jaunpur (41). This is the first time that the state tally has crossed 500. Health officials attributed the surge to a large number of migrants testing positive besides increased testing. Meanwhile, Rajasthan breached the 10,000 mark with 222 fresh cases, 16 of which were reported from Jaipur. Kerala for the first time crossed the three-digit mark in the number of positive cases on a single day, with as many as 111 positive cases reported on Friday. Taking into account the seriousness of the situation, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state government had decided to begin rapid antibody tests from Saturday for which the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had supplied 14,000 kits. “Experts have pointed out that we are on the verge of community spread. With the beginning of the antibody tests we will be able to find out the exact position,” the CM said. In J&K, five doctors and seven pregnant women were among 182 cases of Covid-19 reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the overall of the patients to 3324. Out of the fresh cases, 108 were reported from Kashmir and 74 from Jammu division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deaths-rise-to-295-indias-covid-count-now-6th-highest-in-world/articleshow/76225490.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Business||At rate cut meet, RBI bosses bearish on economy||MUMBAI: Top Reserve Bank of India (RBI) officials expressed pessimism about the impact of Covid-19 on the country's economic prospects, according to minutes of the monetary policy committee meeting released by the RBI. Arguing for a rate cut, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das in the meeting said there was a rising probability of a sharper loss of growth momentum in the near term. Deputy governor Michael Patra said the damage is "so deep and extensive that India’s potential output has been pushed down, and it will take years to repair". “Looking ahead, the growth outlook has deteriorated sharply. There is still uncertainty as to when the Covid curve will flatten. Even as the supply side is expected to ease gradually as the lockdown related restrictions are phased out, it is the demand side, which will continue to weigh heavily on economic activity for some time to come,” said Das during the meeting held from May 20 to May 22, which resulted in RBI bringing down rates by 40 basis points (bps). Read AlsoRBI cuts rates by 40 bps citing negative GDP, extends moratorium by 3 monthsReserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday cut key interest rates by 40 basis points citing negative GDP growth amidst 'double whammy' of fall in demand and production even as he expected inflation to harden. The governor extended the ongoing moratorium on loan repayment, which was due to end on May 31,‘Spending patterns have altered drastically’“The destruction of economic activity by Covid-19 and ensuing lockdowns is much more deleterious in terms of loss of basic livelihood, economic security, health and confidence than the range of estimates/projections of GDP and other macroeconomic aggregates suggest,” said Patra. He warned that the threats to growth have to be addressed "frontally and aggressively, or risk a more dire outlook". More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Patra said that spending patterns have altered drastically away from the discretionary and to the essential. "The large monetary stimulus and fiscal effort are striving to put a floor under the aggregate demand. At the current juncture, the all-out effort is to maintain and sustain, with the hope that when life is secure, resources, energy and time can be marshalled to rebuild and revive,” he said. Despite the destruction of demand, the MPC members pointed out that RBI surveys showed there were expectations that inflation would rise. Read AlsoMoody's downgrades India's rating first time in over 2 decades, says GDP to shrink by 4% in FY21Moody's Investors Service on Monday downgraded India's sovereign rating to 'Baa3' from 'Baa2', saying there will be challenges in the implementation of policies to mitigate risks of a sustained period of low growth and deteriorating fiscal position. It has also downgraded India's local-currencyWhile the vote in favour of rate cut was unanimous among all four members, Chetan Ghate had argued for a 25 basis points cut, stating that RBI should leave some powder dry for future when there was recovery in the economy. “In a demand deficit economy, a large rate cut is akin to pushing on a string,” said Ghate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-rate-cut-meet-rbi-bosses-were-bearish-on-economy/articleshow/76225551.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||Long-awaited darshan for devotees, but shrines taking abundant caution||With the virus keeping devotees away from religious places, it’s now time for the much-awaited darshan as restrictions are eased from Monday. Most popular shrines in the country are set to open, albeit with a lot of caution. The Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain will open its doors on June 8 after being shut for 79 days. But devotees can’t just walk in. They have to book a slot via an app or a toll-free number a day in advance. "Devotees will be allowed to visit the temple between 6.30am and 8.15pm," said S K Tiwari, assistant administrator of Mahakaleshwar Temple Management Committee, after a meeting on Friday. They will launch the app and helpline in time for people to start making bookings on Sunday. However, devotees will not be allowed to attend Bhasmarti ritual or enter the sanctum sanctorum. The Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala will also reopen on June 8 with unprecedented precautions. There will be a trial run from June 8 for two days in which only Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams employees will be allowed. On June 10, TTD will allow only residents of Tirumala. From June 11, devotees from across the country except from containment zones will be allowed. Only 6,000 devotees will be allowed per day with 500 devotees every hour. Although the UP government will allow religious places to open from June 8, prominent shrines have different plans for unlocking. So while Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi will open on Monday, temple managements in Mathura have said they can't open until they get police protection. In Ayodhya, the famous Hanumangarhi will open on Monday and devotees can also resume darshan of Ram Lalla. Directions were issued by the state government on Friday that all religious places should have hand sanitisers, thermal scanners and pulse oximeters at the entrance so that devotees can be scanned for temperature or oxygen levels. Nobody will be allowed to touch any idol or religious book inside the place of worship while no prasad will be distributed either. However, in Odisha, those wanting to visit the Jagannath temple in Puri will have to wait longer, with the temple managing committee proposing to the government to close the 12th century shrine till July 4. In Thrissur in Kerala, while nine marriages were held at Guruvayur Temple on Friday, the temple is unlikely to be opened from Monday. Temple authorities said they would require more time to make arrangements, including preparation of a crowd control plan. Uncertainty also looms over the famous annual pilgrimages. After priests at Badrinath wrote to the Uttarakhand CM to postpone the Char Dham yatra for pilgrims till June 30, locals in the area have also called for measures "to keep the Char Dham free of Covid-19". Initially, Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Rudraprayag districts — which house the four shrines — had not reported a single Covid case. However, the number has gone up after migrant labourers began to return from other states. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that a final decision on starting the yatra would be taken only after seeking the opinion of priests and local traders. As uncertainty hovers over the annual Amarnath Yatra, the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board on Friday performed "Pratham Pujan", the first religious ritual. However SASB CEO said the yatra will be commencing but for a short period as compared to the previous years. (With inputs from Bhopal, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Kochi, Dehradun and Jammu) Watch This is how restaurants, malls and religious places will change after June 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/long-awaited-darshan-for-devotees-but-shrines-taking-abundant-caution/articleshow/76225584.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||Blow to Gujarat Congress as another MLA resigns||GANDHINAGAR: Hours after two Gujarat Congress MLAs resigned on Thursday, a third party MLA, Brijesh Merja, submitted his resignation at night. Assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi informed the media on Friday of the third resignation. With Congress losing eight MLAs (including Thursday’s three) since March, the month in which the 2020 Rajya Sabha elections were originally to be held before they were deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the party, in all likelihood, will get only one candidate elected to the RS from the state. The assembly secretariat confirmed that speaker Rajendra Trivedi has accepted the resignation of Merja, MLA for Morbi. Merja, whose resignation comes ahead of the RS polls for four seats in Gujarat on June 19, is the third Congress MLA to quit in last three days.In his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi , Merja said though he had joined Congress to serve the people, he was “unable to do so while being in the party”. In 2014, he had joined BJP for a short period. However, in 2017, he joined Congress and won his first election on a Congress ticket. While Congress has fielded senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, BJP fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin as its candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/blow-to-gujarat-congress-as-another-mla-resigns/articleshow/76225701.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||To deny BJP an extra Rajya Sabha seat, Congress may back Deve Gowda||NEW DELHI: Janata Dal(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda may be back in Parliament as Congress is ready to support the former PM for a Rajya Sabha seat from Karnataka, a move that is aimed at stopping BJP from gaining an extra seat in the coming elections. Congress on Friday announced party veteran and former leader in Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge for the assured seat that it can win from the southern state. Kharge lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election in which Congress could win just one seat in the state where it then ran a coalition government with JD(S). The Karnataka government led by JD(S) later fell following largescale resignations of Congress MLAs who joined BJP. After the votes for Kharge in the RS polls, Congress would be left with 14 surplus MLAs and well-placed party sources said its best option was to use the extra tally to block rival BJP. Sources said an “acceptable candidate” or “Deve Gowda himself” would be the best option for the possible tie-up. While it was said that JD(S) has not yet approached Congress, an insider said there have been informal talks on the issue. Congress and JD(S) will have enough votes to seal the victory of a second non-BJP candidate. If Congress and JD(S) stitch an understanding, it will mark some consolation for the opposition in the election to the Upper House where the principal opposition party’s calculations have gone awry. The rebellion by Jyotiraditya Scindia and defection of MLAs which toppled the Kamal Nath government is also set to cost Congress an otherwise assured second seat in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-deny-bjp-an-extra-rajya-sabha-seat-congress-may-back-deve-gowda/articleshow/76225739.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
June 6, 2020||India||SC to govt: Can Covid treatment cost at pvt hospitals be capped?||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre whether a direction could be passed to cap the cost of treating Covid-19 patients in private hospitals and if a certain percentage of those who contacted the disease could be treated free in these hospitals, as also charitable ones, that got land free of cost from governments. Petitioner Avishek Goenka’s counsel argued before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, M R Shah and V Ramasubramanian that private hospitals were charging exorbitantly to treat Covid-19 patients, almost 10 times of what government hospitals were billing and pleaded that the pandemic situation should not be exploited to fleece patients. The bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to obtain instructions from the government on framing a scheme to put an upper limit on the cost of treatment for Covid-19 patients. In another petition filed by advocate Sachin Jain, who too had sought capping of costs in private hospitals, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked why private and charitable hospitals, constructed on land allotted free by governments, be not asked to treat a certain percentage of Covid-19 patients without charge. The Centre had responded saying it had no statutory framework to ask private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients free of cost. Various private hospital associations through senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi contended that most private and charitable hospitals had already been asked by governments to treat a certain percentage of patients free. Rohatgi said in Delhi, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had been converted into an exclusive Covid-19 facility which had affected its economics. The bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to obtain instructions from the government on framing a scheme to put an upper limit on the cost of treatment for Covid-19 patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-govt-can-covid-treatment-cost-at-pvt-hospitals-be-capped/articleshow/76226069.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 6, 2020||Business||Tatas not to monetise its investments for fund-raise||MUMBAI: Tata Sons is not looking to monetise its investments to raise capital as it has “adequate cash flows” to support its operating companies and new growth initiatives, said chairman N Chandrasekaran on Friday. Earnings of several operating companies — especially those in hospitality, aviation, automotive, steel and non-grocery retail — have been hit due to business restrictions in the country and outside, triggered by the pandemic, with some of them requiring financial support to strengthen their balance sheets. “The Tata group companies, like all other companies, are facing both challenges and opportunities arising out of the pandemic and resulting economic situation, based on the industries and markets they operate in,” added Chandrasekaran. “All our group companies are progressing well responding to these challenges and opportunities and we are confident that they will emerge stronger.” The $111-billion Tata Group, with over 100 companies, earns 70% of its revenues from outside of India. Tata Sons is in “strong financial position” with enough cash flows to support group companies, said Chandrasekaran in a one-page statement after chairing the outfit’s board meeting. TOI had reported in its June 4 edition about Tata Sons’ Friday board meeting to review strategies, including a budget allocation to operating companies. In the last three fiscal years, Tata Sons had invested about Rs 20,000 crore of growth capital in operating companies, with the highest amount allocated to Tata Motors, Tata Capital, Tata Steel and Tata SIA Airlines (Vistara). Chandrasekaran further said that the group is focused on navigating the current situation and profitable growth. The conglomerate is likely to see a growth contraction this fiscal as the coronavirus outbreak and the economic slowdown are expected to slam consumer spending, according to analysts. If the health crisis has impacted some of the operations of the group, it has also opened a window of opportunities for the conglomerate. The group — which makes Jaguar Land Rover luxury vehicles, sells cheap packets of Tata Salt and serves kebabs at London’s Bombay Brasserie — is betting on digital and medical equipment manufacturing to be growth drivers in the post-Covid-19 world. Global shutdowns and employees working from home have accelerated the adoption of digital services. From being “secondary, nice-to-have options”, digital has become “primary channels”, and in some instances, the “only channels”, Chandrasekaran wrote in the FY20 annual report of TCS. This shift in consumer preferences will boost the growth of TCS, the biggest contributor to the group’s profits, and Tata Digital, the conglomerate’s new venture, which seeks to bring together its varied businesses on a single digital platform. Tata Sons, the holding company of the group, will also be allocating resources to its recently set-up medical device manufacturing unit, a venture it got into after its work with the government on Covid issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-not-to-monetise-its-investments-for-fund-raise/articleshow/76226134.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 6, 2020||India||Ahmedabad has India’s highest corona deaths/m population||Though Delhi and Mumbai might seem to be worst off with the highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths each day, Ahmedabad with less than half the population of these metros has the highest deaths per million population in the country. It also has the highest case fatality rate (CFR) — number of deaths per 100 cases — among the nine megapolises with populations of over 5 million. At 115 deaths per million, Ahmedabad is much worse than Mumbai in second place with 80 deaths per million. Among the top metros, Bangalore seems to be doing the best with just one death per million. When it comes to CFR, Chennai’s 0.9 is the lowest among the nine mega cities. The data is as of Friday morning. The comparison here is between the nine urban agglomerations — cities and their urban outgrowths, like Greater Mumbai or Greater Kolkata — in the country that has 5 million or more people living in them. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news A low CFR is often seen as a result of extensive testing and hence detecting of a large number of positive cases. The higher the number of positive cases, the denominator, the smaller the CFR would be. Ahmedabad’s CFR of 6.9 has been explained by many as the result of inadequate testing. But the city’s deaths per million figure suggests there is more to the poor handling of Covid cases than just inadequate testing. Even in absolute numbers, Ahmedabad which has recorded 953 deaths is second only to the Mumbai with 1,698 deaths. Delhi follows Mumbai with 650 deaths. Bangalore has recorded just 14 deaths so far and the least number of cases, just 428. Though many cities have been trying to draw comfort from their recovery rates, epidemiologists have repeatedly pointed out that in an infection like Covid where over 90% of those infected are expected to recover, the share of those recovering can only rise steadily with the passage of time and hence recovery rates are a misleading measure for progress in the fight against the disease. These nine urban agglomerations contribute over 1.3 lakh cases (nearly 60% of India’s total) and 4,299 deaths, over two-thirds of the country’s total. An urban agglomeration (UA) is continuous urban habitation that surrounds a city or the continuous geographical stretch of two or more cities which in many ways function as the same city. Mumbai UA for instance is constituted by the Municipal Corporations of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Ulhasnagar and Mira Bhayandar. Similarly Kolkata UA spreads over the districts of Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah. Chennai UA has Chennai, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram while Hydarabad UA includes Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medak. Ahmedabad UA also includes Gandhinagar. The 2020 population estimates for these UAs from the United Nation’s World Urbanisation Prospects was used to calculate the deaths per million. The census of India does not include Delhi’s satellite districts like Ghaziabad and Gurgaon in the Delhi UA and hence Delhi’s cases as well as population are only for Delhi state or the city of Delhi. Delhi’s 2020 population is taken from the census population projections for states. Watch Covid-19: Why Ahmedabad is India's worst-hit city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahmedabad-has-indias-highest-corona-deaths/m-population/articleshow/76226143.cms||Atul Thakur
June 6, 2020||India||90% of migrant workers ferried home, govt tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Union government told the Supreme Court on Friday that 90% of migrant workers who wanted to go home from their workplaces in other states had been transported back and states had sought 171 more Shramik Special trains by June 16 to ferry the remaining workers. During the suo motu proceedings initiated by the SC to ameliorate the plight of migrant workers who lost jobs and were stranded due to the lockdown, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah told solicitor general Tushar Mehta that the process of sending back migrant workers, who wanted to go back home, should ideally be completed by June 16. Mehta said the Centre and states had worked in tandem to send back nearly one crore migrant workers using 4,028 Shramik Special trains and buses between May 1 and June 3. He said the Centre was ready to provide more special trains to states within 24 hours of receiving a request. He said so far, an additional 171 special trains were requisitioned by states to ferry migrant workers home. Kerala has demanded the highest, 66 trains, by June 10. Kerala’s counsel expressed reservations over the sending state being made to pay the fares, but Mehta stepped into say that the Centre and states had worked it out smoothly so far. Other major demands for special trains came from Tamil Nadu (26), Karnataka (18), West Bengal (17), Goa (10), J&K (7) and five each by Uttarakhand, Telangana and Tripura. What surprised the bench was the demand for just one special train by Maharashtra, that too without specifying the date by which it was needed. The bench said, “It is surprising that Maharashtra has demanded only one train. From news reports, we had a perception that the migrant workers’ situation is serious in the state and that many wanted to go back to their home states.” Mehta said the Centre had run 802 Shramik Specials from Maharashtra to other states. The Maharashtra government wrote to the Centre that it required no more trains as the economy was opening up and workers no longer wanted to go back to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/90-of-migrant-workers-ferried-home-govt-tells-sc/articleshow/76226296.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
June 6, 2020||India||Fresh storm looms, may boost monsoon march, says Met dept||NEW DELHI: After Amphan and Nisarga, a third storm could be heading for the Indian coast around June 10-11. But unlike the previous two, this one may lack the force of a cyclone, not pack in the brute force of a cyclone, but may develop into a depression, entering Odisha from the Bay of Bengal and giving a major push to monsoon’s advance into central India as well as east and northeastern states. The storm is likely to begin as a low-pressure system in east-central Bay of Bengal around June 8, the India Meteorological Department (IMD said. Weather models currently show the storm crossing Odisha around June 11, and moving towards Vidarbha and adjoining areas of Madhya Pradesh. “It could develop into a depression but is unlikely to strengthen into a cyclone. It’s too early to predict the strength and path because the system is yet to form. But current indications are that it will give a major boost to monsoon’s advance through rest of south India, and its movement into central India and the east and northeast,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, head of IMD. This is the time of the advance of monsoon, and a low pressure system coming in from the bay of Bengal is a good signal, he added. The southwest monsoon, which entered Kerala on its normal date of June 1. According to some weather models, the system forming in the Bay of Bengal will bring good rains from June 10 onwards in Odisha, and many parts of central, east, northeast and south India, and also bring moisture into north India. “With the formation of a low-pressure system in Bay of Bengal around June 10 and its movement towards Madhya Pradesh, moisture leaden easterly winds are expected into Delhi-NCR through Uttar Pradesh. In association with this system, thunderstorm with light rain accompanied with gusty winds of the speed of 50-60kmph during the evening of June 11 till June 13, with peak activity on June 12, would occur over Delhi-NCR, UP, Uttarakhand and east Rajasthan. Isolated heavy rain is also expected over UP and Uttarakhand during this period,” said an update from IMD’s regional weather forecasting system in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fresh-storm-looms-may-boost-monsoon-march-says-met-dept/articleshow/76226348.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
June 6, 2020||Business||Workers’ migration, high taxes hurt strong beer, country liquor||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Steep taxes and migrant workers, who have beaten a hasty retreat to their home towns, have left a gaping hole in the demand for strong beer and country liquor, categories that are some of the largest in terms of volumes in their respective segments. Beer sales tanked 60-94% across states during the period of three weeks in May from the time liquor shops reopened, while country liquor, also called Indian Made Indian Liquor (IMIL), witnessed a sharp drop of 30-40%, according to industry estimates. The price hike, industry executives said, along with limited access to liquor shops during the lockdown has proved to be a strong deterrent for the beer industry. For instance, a 650 ml bottle of strong beer that used to cost Rs 125 during pre-Covid-19 times, is currently being retailed for Rs 170 in West Bengal, while in Andhra Pradesh, the price has shot up to Rs 220 from Rs 130. As a result, beer volumes plunged 94% in West Bengal and 64% in Karnataka, a key market, said senior industry executives, quoting excise data. And strong beer, the go-to evening drink of daily wagers, accounts for 80% of the total beer sold in India, showed data from International Wines and Sprits Record (IWSR). “With this shift of blue collar workers and their earnings being affected, we think they may exit the entry level beer category all together and move to cheaper forms of spirts as the prices are not affordable,” said Kartikeya Sharma, south Asia president for AB inBev. “We see the beer category, in our case, Haywards and Fosters, getting badly impacted due to this.” Similarly, sold under folksy brand names such as Heer Ranjha and Ghoomer at around Rs 70-150 for a 750 ml bottle, country liquor, which accounts for over 40% of the overall distilled spirits market, has been badly hit, too, in several domestic markets, including Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. “Our sales have gone down by 30-40%,” said Virat Mann, business head at ADS Spirits, one of the leading players in the segment that operates distilleries in Rajasthan and Haryana. “A similar thing happened in Meghalaya around four years ago,” said Deepak Roy, executive VC and CEO at Allied Blenders & Distillers. “When the coal mines were shut down, most of the labourers went back to Bihar resulting in the overnight collapse of the liquor business there. The regular segment just disappeared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/workers-migration-high-taxes-hurt-strong-beer-country-liquor/articleshow/76226418.cms||Avik Das
June 6, 2020||Mysuru||Monsoon to cover whole of Karnataka by June 12||MYSURU: South Western monsoon started on Thursday with rain in Chamarajanagar in south Karnataka and Karwar in Uttara Kannada district. According to experts, monsoon covers the entire state by June 12. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) director G Srinivas Reddy said the monsoon set in Karnataka on Thursday afternoon. “A low-pressure area is now being created at Bay of Bengal. It is expected to intensify by June 10, causing more rain. By June 12, we are hopeful of monsoon covering the entire state,” he said, adding it covered most part of coastal Karnataka and Malnad areas on the first day. According to KSNDMC data, 218mm rain — the highest — was recorded at Kalbhag in Kumta taluk of Uttara Kannada district between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday. Going by the IMD forecast, Yellow Alert has been issued in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Kodagu and coastal districts. Heavy rainfall in 64.5mm-115.5mm range is expected in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/monsoon-to-cover-whole-of-karnataka-by-june-12/articleshow/76223243.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Monsoon to cover whole of Karnataka by June 12||MYSURU: South Western monsoon started on Thursday with rain in Chamarajanagar in south Karnataka and Karwar in Uttara Kannada district. According to experts, monsoon covers the entire state by June 12. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) director G Srinivas Reddy said the monsoon set in Karnataka on Thursday afternoon. “A low-pressure area is now being created at Bay of Bengal. It is expected to intensify by June 10, causing more rain. By June 12, we are hopeful of monsoon covering the entire state,” he said, adding it covered most part of coastal Karnataka and Malnad areas on the first day. According to KSNDMC data, 218mm rain — the highest — was recorded at Kalbhag in Kumta taluk of Uttara Kannada district between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday. Going by the IMD forecast, Yellow Alert has been issued in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Kodagu and coastal districts. Heavy rainfall in 64.5mm-115.5mm range is expected in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/monsoon-to-cover-whole-of-karnataka-by-june-12/articleshow/76228083.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Government plans to reopen schools without earmarking special funds, says Ivan D’Souza||MANGALURU: MLC Ivan D’Souza alleged that the government has been planning to reopen schools without earmarking funds, under pressure from political leaders, who run private institutions. Quoting officials, the Congress leader said that the chief minister’s economic relief package has not earmarked any funds for the primary and secondary education department. The government is also not equipped to start online education in government schools, as the internet coverage is only 20% in Karnataka, he said. The government should understand the problems faced by poor children who are denied facilities, he said. “Think about the trauma poor children may undergo when they are unable to attend online classes,” D’Souza said, urging the government not to take a hasty decision. “The principal secretary for the primary and secondary education department has informed at a meeting of the backward classes and minority welfare committee on Thursday, that the number of children from backward classes studying in government schools in the state is 20.4 lakh. Meanwhile, 5.7 lakh children are from the minority category, 10.9 lakh children from scheduled caste (SC), 4.9 lakh from scheduled tribe (ST) and 1.1 lakh children from general category, are pursuing their studies in government schools in Karnataka. The government is taking a decision by ignoring the problems of children from backward classes, minority, SC and ST categories. The government is under a wrong impression that all children from these categories have internet and other facilities to opt for online classes. The government is not equipped with facilities to commence online classes,” D’Souza said. “Primary and secondary education department in its reply has informed that no funds have been sanctioned under the chief minister’s special package for primary and secondary education. At any cost, the government should not think about reopening schools at this stage. No poor parents are ready to send their children to schools in private vehicles,” D’Souza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-plans-to-reopen-schools-without-earmarking-spl-funds-says-ivan-dsouza/articleshow/76223806.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Lawyers find it tough to make ends meet||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in financial hardship for several lawyers in the state. The functioning of Patna high court and several other subordinate courts has remained affected since mid-March due to the pandemic. Though Patna high court started hearing cases through videoconferencing, the system has not been properly implemented in subordinate courts. Patna High Court Lawyers’ Association general secretary Rajeev Kumar Singh said 80% of those practising at high court, including advocate clerks, were dependent on daily case hearing to earn livelihood. “Financially sound office-bearers and members of the association have so far provided monetary help to 60 needy lawyers,” Singh said. He said virtual hearing at high court should continue for at least a month or two as even if one person – either lawyer or advocate clerk – contracts the virus after resumption of physical hearing, the consequence would be disastrous as the entire court building would be sealed. “The Patna high court has performed much better than other high courts as it has been conducting virtual hearing in full scale since almost a month. At least 400 cases are taken up daily at the Patna high court,” Singh added. Patna civil court lawyer Abhishek Priyadarshi said at least 95% lawyers at civil court are under financial stress. “Some of them can’t even meet their daily needs. They are part of justice delivery system. The high court should direct the state government to take steps to help these lawyers,” he said. Priyadarshi said hearing at civil courts got crippled due to Covid-19 which directly affected practising lawyers. Bihar State Bar Council secretary Ashok Kumar said lawyers across the state have been suffering a lot financially owing to the pandemic. “Courts are not functioning normally. Clients of lawyers have stopped coming to courts due to Covid-19,” he said. Kumar said there are around 12,000 lawyers at Patna high court and at least one lakh across the state. HC to continue virtual hearing: The Patna high court will continue to function virtually till June 15. A full bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol, Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh and Justice Hemant Kumar Srivastava on Wednesday heard the matter during which advocate general Lalit Kishore, Centre’s additional solicitor general SD Sanjay, advocates’ association president Yogesh Chandra Verma, lawyers’ association president Ajay Thakur and Bar Association president Sanjay Singh expressed their views. They said the present system of virtual hearing should continue till June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-lawyers-find-it-tough-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/76222390.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 6, 2020||Patna||AES claims life of 3-year-old girl, toll mounts to 6||PATNA: A three-year-old girl from Samastipur district, Titli Kumari, died at Krishnadevi Deviprasad Kejriwal Maternity Hospital in Muzaffarpur on Thursday due to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES). With this, the AES toll has increased to six in the state. Titli’s death was confirmed by Muzaffarpur district administration on Friday. This girl was admitted to the hospital 3.14pm on Thursday and died at 4:55pm. Hospital’s paediatric ward head Dr Rajiva Kumar said the kid was brought in a very serious condition from a private hospital at Tajpur. “This is the first AES death in the hospital,” Dr Rajiva added. Meanwhile, another child died at Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur on Thursday, but the hospital administration has so far not confirmed the cause of death. SKMCH superintendent Dr Sunil Kumar Shahi said the boy from Sitamarhi was brought dead to the hospital from Sonbarsa primary health centre on Thursday. “We cannot confirm whether the child died due to AES or other reason. So far, five children have died due to AES at SKMCH,” Dr Shahi added. He said a three-year-old boy, Mohammad Kaif, was admitted to the SKMCH on Thursday with AES symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aes-claims-life-of-3-yr-old-girl-toll-mounts-to-6/articleshow/76222663.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||20-month-old needing urgent medical procedure airlifted from Agartala||KOLKATA: A 20-month-old infant from Agartala with congenital anomaly needing urgent medical procedure in Kolkata was airlifted by Air India on Thursday. The child is currently admitted in a hospital off the EM Bypass and will undergo an operation on Saturday. When doctors in Agartala told Maran and Soma Debnath that their newborn boy who choked every time he tried to have milk required a complicated surgery and that could be done only by specialists in Kolkata, the family was in a fix over how to commute, given not just the child’s medical complications but also the uncertainty and risk involved with flight travel during Covid. The child suffered from tracheo-oesophageal fistula, a condition in which there is a connection between the lower part of the oesophagus or the food pipe with the trachea or wind pipe. Frequent flyers in Agartala advised them to opt for national carrier Air India for the rather delicate journey. The couple then got in touch with the airline station manager at Agartala and explained their pressing need to travel. Sensing the need to help the couple who appeared at a loss, the AI official, Sujoy Ghosh, pulled out all stops to make necessary arrangements and took up the matter with the airline’s Kolkata office to ensure the couple and the infant could travel at the earliest. The parents were guided on the travel documents and medical requirements for the travel. Making the inflight medical arrangements including oxygen cylinders and other essentials was a herculean task, particularly given the Covid-related restrictions that are in force. But various departments of AI like commercial, engineering, IFS, operations and medical rose to the challenge and ensured a smooth flight for the baby in distress. A visibly emotional Debnath thanked Air India for its spontaneous support and co-operation in flying them to Kolkata braving all odds.“This life-saving medical evacuation to fly the baby in critical health conditions with all mandatory infrastructure in place during these challenging times reiterates the role AI has been playing to serve as the lifeline of the nation and its nationals,” an Air India spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/20-month-old-needing-urgent-med-procedure-airlifted-from-agartala/articleshow/76224695.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||More passengers found with high fever, rly authorities seek swab test||Ludhiana: As many as 45 passengers, who had reached the city station after travelling in three trains from Maharashtra, had to be taken to civil hospital for conducting further medical screening and throat swab testing in the last two days by the health department team of district. Most of them were running abnormally high body temperatures. The passengers were travelling in Nanded-Amritsar super-fast express train and Paschim superfast express, both resumed service from June 3 for local passengers. Although, two passengers who de-boarded at the city station from Shaheed express also reported high body temperature. Satwinder Bassi, in-charge of district health department medical team, who is deputed at city railway station for conducting medical screening of passengers, confirmed that more than 40 passengers travelling in different long-route trains were taken to civil hospital in the last two days from the city station because they were running temperatures. After coming across a large number of passengers with abnormally high body temperatures, railway authorities have asked local health department teams to take throat swabs of all passengers who were travelling in long-route trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, saying ticket checking staff and other railway staff are at risk. The health team deputed at the city station have also begun the process of gathering details from passengers whose body temperatures were found to be abnormally high during screening for taking further preventive action. Officials in railway department have revealed that a sense of fear has been aroused among food vendors and ticket checking staff, who are in close contact with passengers, as many report high tempertures. Because if passenger is found to be positive, those who come in with them also have to be quarantined, causing inconvenience to all, said the sources. The railway staff have also pulled up their socks to deal with any untoward situation, as they have received orders to sanitise the entire station premises after the arrival or departure of trains from city station. According to station director Kumar, they have already restricted the entry of those who do not have confirmed tickets booked in any of the eight special trains allowed. According to him, safety gears were also given to ticket checking staff and cleanliness staff and food vendors who are dealing with passengers. “Moreover, we have asked health department team to conduct proper thermal screening of all railway officials when they report to their duty in station premises on a daily basis, as it’s crucial for everyone’s safety,” added the station director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-passengers-found-with-high-fever-rly-authorities-seek-swab-test/articleshow/76225955.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Local rly officials shell out 1.5cr in cancellation fee refunds||Ludhiana: Since Northern Railway relaxed refunding rules for passengers, local railway authorities have shelled out over Rs 1.5 crore to passengers who opted out of train journey as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Large number of passengers had cancelled their train tickets in March with the outbreak of Covid-19 gaining momentum. Originally, the railways had deducted charges as per regulations on cancelled tickets. Now, more than 10,000 local passengers reached the reservation counter of the city railway station in the last 10 days to get back their refund amount on cancelled train tickets. The railway had recently declared that it will not deduct any money on cancelled train tickets of the last two months, following the suspension of rail service. Official sources in the railway department said, “This relaxed refunding system will be helpful for all those passengers whose ticket fare was partly deducted as service charges after they had cancelled their ticket in March following the rising number of Covid-19 cases. But on March 22, Indian Railway had suspended its all service following the imposition of lockdown.” According to sources, all those who cancelled tickets in March are eligible to get a refund, they have to fill a simple form and submit it to the railways. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “Relaxed funding rule is for passengers who had cancelled their journey in March and had to pay cancellation charges. Now, they can get it refunded by just submitting their cancelled ticket within 45 days from the date of journey.” TOI spoke to Gaurav Singla who was waiting to cancel his ticket at the station reservation counter, “For the last few days, there is huge crowd outside reservation counter of the city station. Situation is such that even small help like refunding of cancellation charges matters a lot to people now. This will bring some relief to middle class passengers who are struggling with financial management as many are losing their jobs or facing salary cuts. I have also decided to cancel my train ticket after I heard the news of several confirmed patients travelling in trains. It’s too risky now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/local-rly-officials-shell-out-1-5cr-in-cancellation-fee-refunds/articleshow/76225953.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 6, 2020||Varanasi||‘Sand bed in Prayagraj works as purifier during Kumbh Mela’||Varanasi: As the World Environment Day (June 5) was observed symbolically on Friday due to the outbreak of Covid-19, a noted river engineer and retired professor of IIT-BHU Prof UK Choudhary said that the nature-gifted technology is the best to conserve and protect the environment. Giving an example of sand-bed site at Prayagraj, he said that it works as a purifier/sanitizer for millions of people during Kumbh-Mela. “This sand-bed site at Prayagraj works as sanitizer for 30-40 million people visiting the Kumbh mela. The research thesis report states the BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) of the pollutant from STP reduces to zero when it is passed through the model of the sand-bed kept in the sun. Thus the utilization of sand-bed technology for sanitization of millions of people in the Kumbh mela proves that this technology is a suitable methodology for conserving the bacteriophage of the Ganga water, and sand bed of all river systems of the world can work as the sanitizer/purifier”, said Choudhary. According to Prof Choudhary, the convex bank side sand bed of the Ganga river system is the best energy-site for the conservation of the medicinal potencies of the Ganga water from polluting sources. For this work, one acre area of sand-bed is equal to more than 2,000 times land area of the city site. This sand-bed exists in hundreds and thousands acre of area in three sites of the river – the upstream, downstream and in front of the cities/towns/villages. The level difference between the city and the sand-bed sites is between 8 to 10 meters, where under the gravity forces pollutants from STP can be supplied. All pollutant rushing to the river must pass through the sand bed site at proper location and with proper technology. Choudhary said that the pollutant generated through domestic, industry, agriculture treated or untreated have their directions of flow towards the river, therefore the outfall sites must be selected on the basis of the energy available for pollutants diffusion, dispersion and dilution in the stream. According to him, river morphology is subjected to sedimentation (on convex side) & erosion (on concave side). The relationship between sedimentation and erosion and shifting course of river needs to be solved on priority basis, and streamlining of the system is required for ecological balance. “It is unfortunate that the potential of sand bed to control pollution has not been evaluated, and the hydraulic gradient between riverbanks is nowhere utilised for pollution management,” he lamented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sand-bed-in-prayagraj-works-as-purifier-during-kumbh-mela/articleshow/76222989.cms||Binay Singh
June 6, 2020||Surat||Civic body staffer caught in bribe case tests positive||Surat: A contractual staffer in Valsad municipality who was caught for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 1,000 by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) two days ago has tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday after his samples had been sent on Thursday. Manish Solanki, 30, a resident of Hanuman Faliya in Valsad’s Mogarwadi, a computer operator was caught redhanded accepting the bribe money in the civic centre of Valsad municipality on Wednesday. He had demanded the bribe to issue marriage certificates to the complainant. The complainant, a lawyer by profession, had applied for two marriage certificates in May. When he received an SMS stating that these were ready, he went to the office to collect them, but the accused allegedly demanded Rs500 for each copy. The complainant then approached the ACB with a plaint.Meanwhile, four more Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Valsad district on Friday. The patients include an eight-year-old girl from Dungari Faliya in Vapi, 24-year-old man from Thakkarwadi in Valsad, 50-year-old woman from Pardi Sandpore in Valsad and 30-year-old man from Pramukh Green apartment in Valsad’s Mogarwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/civic-body-staffer-caught-in-bribe-case-tests-positive/articleshow/76223761.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Avg cases per day double in Surat||Surat: On May 4, during Lockdown 3.0, Surat city witnessed around 33 positive cases daily. On June 1, almost a month later under Unlock 1.0, this average has doubled, with the city recording an average 56 Covid-19 cases daily. As on Friday, city has more than 1,900 positive cases and is counting. “The relaxation given by the government to restart economic activities has played a major role in pushing up the number of coronavirus cases in the city,” said a senior officer in Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). After the fourth phase of lockdown ended on May 31, the central government started giving relaxations to various industrial activities albeit with certain conditions. But the easing of restrictions saw people coming out of their home in large numbers for work. The city opened its Covid-19 chapter on March 16 with the first positive case and then took two months to cross the 1,000 mark, with 1,027 cases reported on May 15. However, cases have nearly doubled in the city now within a span of 20 days only. Limbayat zone, with over 600 cases, has the highest number of Covid-19 cases followed by Katargam in the city. The ‘unlocking’ also brought in people from outside the city since June 1 via road, rail and air making it a major challenge for the administration to keep a tab on who has come in from ‘red zones’ in various cities. “It seems like people have started believing that Covid-19 has gone out from our lives with the ease in restrictions. Sadly, it isn’t the case. While the younger people below 40 years have the required immunity to fight off the virus, it is worrisome for the elders and people with co-morbid conditions,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, talking to TOI. He said that SMC is taking every measure to contain the virus and home quarantining the hundreds of people pouring into the diamond city everyday through different routes. According to an estimate, over 20,000 people have entered Surat city in the last few days and the influx continues. “We have launched a massive drive to ensure that people wear face masks, maintain social distancing at public places, shops, paan parlours and other places and imposing fines too. But, it sad to see how careless the people are. Gathering in huge numbers at paan parlours, playing cricket on the streets for fun even while we are risking lives battling the virus every single day,” an SMC official said on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/avg-cases-per-day-double-in-surat/articleshow/76223583.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Surat IPS officer tests positive||Surat: A 2016 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer has tested positive for Covid-19 in Surat city. According to SMC sources, the IPS officer who lives in Surat’s Vesu area, was posted as assistant superintendent of police (ASP) during his probation period and had to travel to Hyderabad for training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-ips-officer-tests-positive/articleshow/76223728.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Dang reports two fresh cases||Surat: After almost two Covid-free weeks, the district reported two fresh cases on Friday. According to health department officials, one case was reported from Hanvatchaud village and the other from Sunda village of Ahwa taluka of Dang district. The district administration declared the two villages as containment zones restricting entry-exit for people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dang-reports-two-fresh-cases/articleshow/76223677.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Rajkot||Two sentence to life imprisonment for murder in Una||Rajkot: Una sessions court in Gir Somnath district on Friday convicted two persons and sentenced them to life imprisonment for murder of a youth in 2018 murder in Delvada The third sessions judge S L Thakkar acquitted four other accused in the case for lack of evidence. The court convicted Kanji Makwana and Sunil Bhaliya for murder of Jignesh Majethia over a petty issue.According to case details, on October 5, 2018 Bhalia, Makwana along with their aides Sanjay Dabhi, Ramesh Rathod, Umesh Koli and Hasmukh alias Ashwin Jethwa barged into house of Pravin Majethia. They were armed with sticks and iron pipe.The accused started verbally abusing Pravin’s nephews Jignesh and Yash. During heated argument, Kanj and other attacked Jignesh and Yash. When other family members intervened, they too were beaten up.Jignesh suffered severe head injury and was rushed to Una hospital where he as declared dead on arrival by the doctors. During police investigation it was revealed that a year ago Bhaliya and allegedly teached Jignesh’s sister and at that time Jignesh had slapped him. So keeping the grudges of the incident, the accused attacked Jignesh and his family. Public prosecutor Mohan Gohel said, “Besides sentencing the Makwana and Bhaliya to life imprisonment, the court imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 each on the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-sentence-to-life-imprisonment-for-murder-in-una/articleshow/76224230.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Business||Zomato to focus on food delivery, cut back grocery||TNN Bengaluru: Zomato is putting its focus back on its core business — food delivery — as hotels and restaurants are expected to reopen from next week. This would result in the company scaling down its operations in grocery delivery, which it had entered during the lockdown. Several consumer-focused startups had ventured into the space during the lockdown as demand for essentials was high. Last month, Zomato had said 15% of its order volume came from grocery orders through Zomato Market. “As the country opens up on the basis of Unlock 1.0 relaxations, we are going to spend a large proportion of our time making our food delivery service the safest,” a Zomato spokesperson said. She added Zomato Market will continue to operate and service users who need on-demand delivery of essentials. TOI reported in its May 29 edition that online food delivery order volumes were still down by 60% from the peak volumes the industry had clocked in the first two weeks of the lockdown. With restrictions easing from June 8, online order volumes may see demand coming back partially. Zomato, like its rival Swiggy, has started delivering alcohol in states like West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zomato-to-focus-on-food-delivery-cut-back-grocery/articleshow/76224671.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Rajkot||20-year-old murdered for protesting molestation||Rajkot: A 20-year-old man stabbed and then bludgeoned to death after a fight with an alleged molester in coastal town of Mahuva in Bhavnagar district.The victim Sunil Sorathiya had asked the accused Ayub Hassan not to come to his Nutan Nagar locality as the latter used to allegedly molest women there.Police said Hassan and his friend Suresh Ishwar stabbed Sorathiya, other six persons thrashed with iron pipes. “Both had fought over the issue twice in the past one month. Nursing a grudge against Soathiya, Ayub and his co-accused attacked him. Sorathiya was rushed to Sir T Hospital where he died during treatment,” said R M Naqvi, inspector with Mahuva police station. Other assailants were identified as Rohit Gagu, Ravi Gagu, Vipul Shiyal, Ganga Gagu and Bhanu Hasan. All have fled after the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-year-old-murdered-for-protesting-molestation/articleshow/76224256.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Patna||Patna man is Bihar’s first plasma donor||PATNA: Thirty-two-year-old Deepak Kumar, a Covid-19 survivor, has become the first person to donate plasma in the state. Kumar donated his plasma at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Friday. AIIMS-P had received a nod from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct convalescent plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid patients in the last week of April. Deepak, a resident of Khajpura, was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. He was discharged from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on May 7. Deepak, an operations executive at a private firm in the city, who voluntarily donated his plasma, said he is a regular blood donor. “I know how one feels after contracting the virus. Hence, I decided to help Covid-19 patients after recovering from the disease,” he said. Convalescent plasma therapy, according to doctors, is based on the concept of passive immunity, where antibodies of some disease developed in a person are used for treating others. AIIMS-Patna director Prabhat Kumar Singh thanked Deepak for donating his plasma. He, however, said other people who have recovered from Covid-19, are not coming forward to donate plasma. “Depak’s plasma will be used for the clinical trial in order to see the effectiveness of the therapy in treating Covid-19 patients in the state,” he said. AIIMS-P blood transfusion officer Neha Singh said the process took around 45 minutes during which 500ml of plasma was taken. “The entire process went on quite smoothly without any hassles,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-man-is-states-first-plasma-donor/articleshow/76222346.cms||Archi Rani
June 6, 2020||Patna||Roads waterlogged as rain drenches Patna||PATNA: With several localities in Patna, including Kankarbagh and Rajendra Nagar, witnessing waterlogging due to downpour on Friday, Union minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad asked officials concerned to commence the second round of drainage cleaning work at the earliest to prevent waterlogging in the city. Reviewing the drainage cleaning work in Patna through a videoconferencing session from New Delhi, the Patna Sahib MP asked the officials to give extra attention to areas infamous for waterlogging, such as Rajendra Nagar, Kadamkuan, Kankarbagh, Saidpur, Indira Nagar, Meethapur, Krishnapuri, Patliputra Colony, Shivpuri, Rajiv Nagar, Ashiana Nagar and Sipara. The minister also asked Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma to get the garbage and litter carted away during drainage cleaning process are removed from the roadsides and other places. The municipal commissioner told the minister that ongoing drainage cleaning work would be completed by June 10. Others present in the meeting included Kumhrar MLA Arun Kumar Sinha, Bankipur MLA Nitin Nabin, Digha MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia and managing director of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Raman Kumar. Meanwhile, Patna received 64.1mm of rainfall over the last 24 hours, leading to waterlogged streets, puddles and muddy ditches in many localities. Aaradhya Garg, an undergraduate student staying in Kadamkuan, said two hours of continuous filled the roads with water. “The roads are dug for laying pipes right before monsoon every year. Some of the localities facing this perennial problem include Kadamkuan, Nala Road, Naval Kishor Road, Congress Maidan Road and M P Sinha Road. If anyone is riding a two-wheeler, possibilities are that they may fall in one of the numerous potholes in these areas,” Garg added. The daily weather bulletin issued by Patna meteorological Centre stated that heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in northwest, north-central and south-central parts of the state over the last 24 hours. Weathermen claimed that the intensity of rain will reduce on Saturday. They said dry weather can be expected for a few days from June 8, but another spell of showers is expected around June 11-12. Southwest monsoon is also expected to make its onset in Bihar between June 12 and 15. “Almost entire Bihar received light to moderate rain on Friday due to Cyclone Nisarga, which had reduced to a low-pressure area while moving towards east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Its intensity has reduced, which will result in reduced showers on Saturday and Sunday,” an official at Patna Meteorological Centre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/roads-waterlogged-as-rain-drenches-city/articleshow/76222413.cms||Piyush Tripathi
June 6, 2020||Patna||Landlords, tenants continue to spar over payment of rent in Patna||PATNA: The financial crisis caused by coronavirus-induced lockdown has led to strenuous relations between tenants and landlords in many private houses and housing societies in the city as the tenants are finding it difficult to pay rent on time. Abhay Nandan, secretary of Pataliputra Vikas Manch, said several complaints have been received regarding fight between landlords and tenants over delay in payment of rent. “Many people depend on rent to run their families. However, tenants are unable to pay rent on time to their landlords under the present circumstances,” he added. Nandan, who has also rented his flat, said, “I didn’t ask for rent till the time economic activities were restricted. But there are some people who are not paying rent despite getting salaries,” he said. Meanwhile, some people have offered relaxations to their tenants as far as rent is concerned by deferring payment schedule. A K Jha, who owns flats in an apartment near R P S Mor, said since his tenants could not pay rent for March and April, he has allowed them to pay the rent for May as well at a later date. Tenants, on the other hand, have blamed job losses and pay cuts for delayed payments. “How can I pay the rent when I do not have money to even buy food? The pandemic has affected everyone,” said Anup Verma, who lives in a rented accommodation at Kankarbagh. Patna City resident Akash said his landlord pressured him to pay rent even after knowing that he is not getting salary. Ramesh Kumar, peon in a private office on Exhibition Road, said the office has been shut since March. “My salary has been reduced to half. It has become very difficult for me to pay the rent,” he said. Meanwhile, many elderly people, who meet their monthly expenditure through rents, are also going through trying times. Pataliputra Colony resident A M Prasad (79) said one of his tenants left the house without giving any notice. “This is not the time to blame others as all of us are going through the crisis. Hence, people should cooperate and help each other,” he said. Gaya trader commits suicide: A shopkeeper allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the Pachhatti locality of Bodh Gaya town on Thursday. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said preliminary investigations revealed that the shopkeeper was being pressured by his landlord to either pay rent or vacate his house. “We have begun an investigation into the case,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/landlords-tenants-continue-to-spar-over-payment-of-rent/articleshow/76222376.cms||Archi Rani
June 6, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Green life thrives around graveyard for ships||AHMEDABAD: The sneaking of a leopard into a ship beached at Alang in April was not only due to lockdown-induced minimal human movement but also a reflection of the flourishing flora and fauna in and around the world's biggest ship-breaking yards. In fact, Alang and surrounding areas have witnessed a significant increase in the green cover over the past one decade. Data shared by Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) shows that the green cover in and around Alang has increased by nearly 1,760 hectares from 6,990 ha in 2011 to 8,750 ha in 2020. This roughly translates into a 10 km radius of Alang seeing a rise in vegetation, which is clearly seen in the satellite imagery of BISAG which was done as part of the environmental monitoring programme of GMB for Alang. “Land use maps of Alang OF 2011 and 2020 clearly show that there is a rise in the vegetation area. This could be the reason for increase in wildlife diversity in the area,” a top GMB official told TOI. The leopard had made the half-dismantled ship it’s house for nearly 40 days; it went out at night and brought in preyed upon animals inside, before it was captured on May 1. Once a favourite whipping object of environmental activists due to the deadly asbestos-laden ships, Alang has made a turnaround as far as land and air pollution is concerned. Officials said that this is mainly attributed to much stricter ship breaking regulations as well as steps taken by the GMB to ensure that all kinds of waste emanating from the ship straight goes for scientific disposal in the five ton per day capacity Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF) site. “Earlier, nearly 6,000 litres of leachate (waste water from ships) used to either go into the sea or percolate the ground per day. Now, this water is sent to the hazardous waste management site, thus helping improve the groundwater quality,” said a senior environment officer at GMB. A recent environment monitoring study titled ‘Recent Trends at Alang Ship Breaking/Recycling Yard’ done by Bhavnagar-based Central Salt & Marine Research Institute (CSMCRI) also revealed that sea, land and air pollution limits at the shipyard are below permissible limits. Plot upgradation to reduce CO2 emission Ahmedabad: Around 90% of steel recovered from demolished ships goes to the re-rolling mills in Bhavnagar for making bars and the process emits much less carbon compared to conventional steel manufacturing from iron ore. As a result, GMB, aided by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), is in the process of upgrading the existing capacity of Alang shipyard from 4.5 million tonnes per annum to 6.5 MT. “We have reduced carbon dioxide emission by 7.34 million tonnes per year and with the upgradation, this will further increase to 10.5 MT as compared to convention steel production,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/green-life-thrives-around-graveyard-for-ships/articleshow/76224008.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Business||RBI sets up Rs 500 crore fund to push e-pay||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has created a Payments Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) with a Rs 250-crore investment to subsidise setting up of card and e-payment infrastructure in small towns and Northeast India. The fund will have an initial size of Rs 500 crore, with the balance amount coming from card- issuing banks and payments firms. The RBI stated that the fund is aimed at encouraging acquirers to deploy point-of-sale (PoS) infrastructure, both physical and digital, in tier-3 to tier-6 centres and northeastern states. The PIDF will also receive recurring contributions to cover operational expenses from card-issuing banks and card networks. The RBI will also contribute to yearly shortfalls, if necessary. “Over the years, the payments ecosystem in the country has evolved with a wide range of options such as bank accounts, mobile phones, and cards. To provide further fillip to digitisation of payment systems, it is necessary to give impetus to acceptance infrastructure across the country, more so in underserved areas,” the RBI said. The fund will be governed through an advisory council, and managed and administered by the RBI. “As digital payments continue to proliferate in India, the fear of contracting Covid-19 has given the much-needed fillip to the entire ecosystem. While the pandemic has managed to increase awareness among the consumers on digital payments, especially contactless modes of payments, it has also resulted in many small and medium scale merchants deciding to invest in digital payments solutions,” said Kush Mehra, chief business officer at Pine Labs, which deploys PoS machines in retail stores. Mehra added that the special emphasis on tier-3 to tier-6 centres and northeastern states by the RBI would provide the much needed impetus in expanding the reach and strengthening of the network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-sets-up-rs-500cr-fund-to-push-e-pay/articleshow/76224722.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru could make it to Smarty City Mission this year||MYSURU: After several pleas from the state government, the Centre may soon agree to include Mysuru in the Smart City Mission (SCM) project this year. Mysuru, which missed the project in the fourth round of selection as it did not meet some parameters, is likely to be included this round. Sources in the state urban development department said a proposal for the inclusion of Mysuru along with Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Ballari in the Smarty City Mission was sent to the Union ministry of urban development. Davanagere, Belagavi, Tumakuru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Shivamogga, Mangaluru and Bengaluru have so far made it to the list over the years. Under the scheme, the selected cities will receive Rs 500 crore each from the central government and a matching grant from the state for several initiatives. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) commissioner Gurudutta Hegde told TOI that MCC has been making all efforts every year for the city’s inclusion in the project. It was prevailing upon both the state and Central governments after the project was launched, five years ago, he added. Though MCC had bagged the clean city award, five-star status for garbage management twice and won many other awards for better civic management and administration, Mysuru could not join the Smarty City Mission. “I hope the city is be included in the project this year. MCC had provided all the details smart city mission parameters including its mobilization of resources, internal resources gathering, service capabilities management, number of individual toilets per household, public participation in the development of the city, audited account details, utilization of government funds, self-financing capacity and other details”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-could-make-it-to-smarty-city-mission-this-year/articleshow/76223616.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Monsoon to cover whole of Karnataka by June 12||MYSURU: South Western monsoon started on Thursday with rain in Chamarajanagar in south Karnataka and Karwar in Uttara Kannada district. According to experts, monsoon covers the entire state by June 12. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) director G Srinivas Reddy said the monsoon set in Karnataka on Thursday afternoon. “A low-pressure area is now being created at Bay of Bengal. It is expected to intensify by June 10, causing more rain. By June 12, we are hopeful of monsoon covering the entire state,” he said, adding it covered most part of coastal Karnataka and Malnad areas on the first day. According to KSNDMC data, 218mm rain — the highest — was recorded at Kalbhag in Kumta taluk of Uttara Kannada district between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday. Going by the IMD forecast, Yellow Alert has been issued in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Kodagu and coastal districts. Heavy rainfall in 64.5mm-115.5mm range is expected in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/monsoon-to-cover-whole-of-karnataka-by-june-12/articleshow/76228078.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Monsoon to cover whole of Karnataka by June 12||MYSURU: South Western monsoon started on Thursday with rain in Chamarajanagar in south Karnataka and Karwar in Uttara Kannada district. According to experts, monsoon covers the entire state by June 12. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) director G Srinivas Reddy said the monsoon set in Karnataka on Thursday afternoon. “A low-pressure area is now being created at Bay of Bengal. It is expected to intensify by June 10, causing more rain. By June 12, we are hopeful of monsoon covering the entire state,” he said, adding it covered most part of coastal Karnataka and Malnad areas on the first day. According to KSNDMC data, 218mm rain — the highest — was recorded at Kalbhag in Kumta taluk of Uttara Kannada district between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday. Going by the IMD forecast, Yellow Alert has been issued in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Kodagu and coastal districts. Heavy rainfall in 64.5mm-115.5mm range is expected in these districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/monsoon-to-cover-whole-of-karnataka-by-june-12/articleshow/76228081.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Explosive laced traps to fend off wild boars common in Karnataka too||MANGALURU: The death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala has brought to light fresh scrutiny of the method of using explosive-laced traps to get rid of wild boars, a practice that is common in Karnataka for decades. Dr Shantanu Kalambi, veterinarian and co-founder, The Woof Wagon, a vet clinic and pet resort said, “What people don’t seem to be aware of is this is an extremely regular occurrence, done to kill or maim deer and wild boar, especially in places with high human-animal conflict and crop depredation. We have had cases of wild boar dying of starvation and infections after surviving baited explosive traps all over the country. And this happens a lot more in areas where certain conflict causing species are declared as vermin.” He said, many incidents of animals falling prey to explosive traps go unreported, undocumented and it is also impossible for the forest department to monitor the same. About four years ago, 121 snares were dismantled in a single day by the State’s forest department around the Nagarahole National Park boundary. “When you brand any wild species as vermin, you have other species die in the crossfire. For example, owls are on the decline most likely due to rodenticide poisoning or being caught in traps that have been set out to kill rodents. We need environmental assessment systems and policies that try to collate all possible points of view, including social issues that may result as a consequence,” said Dr Shantanu. Farmers often set up snares or barbed wires around agricultural fields to prevent animals such as wild boars from raiding their crops. Unfortunately, bigger animals such as sloth bears, and leopards also end up falling victim to these deadly traps. Petition demanding ban of explosivesWildlife SOS has launched a petition demanding ban on the sale and procurement of locally made explosives or country made bombs. Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder & CEO of Wildlife SOS, told TOI, “Using an explosive to kill an animal is commonly used method by poachers and locals. Sadly, the poachers use crop control as an excuse for setting these baited traps and often combine them with snares. Police book such people. This will certainly help curtail such brutal poaching,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/explosive-laced-traps-to-fend-off-wild-boars-common-in-karnataka-too/articleshow/76224030.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
June 6, 2020||Patna||Tax evasion worth Rs 96 crore by fake firms detected in Bihar||PATNA: The intelligence wing of the commercial taxes department (CTD) has unearthed tax evasion worth Rs 96 crore by 25 fake firms operating from various parts of the state. The next step would be initiating penal action against them, department sources said on Friday. The CTD intelligence wing had dedicated itself to unearthing such firms during the lockdown, the sources said, adding that it was an exercise undertaken to zero in on the firms which indulged in illegal activities and tax evasion. The process would continue and the profiling of such firms would be a continuous exercise. The CTD sources also revealed that legal and administrative proceedings would be started for initiating penal action against the 25 fake firms which indulged in interstate sales and purchase of goods on a big scale — with their merchandize valued at Rs816 crore — by generating e-way bills. The department sources also said even as they generated e-way bills, they did not file goods and services tax (GST) returns. The probe into their activities revealed that they had also violated the GST rules and norms. Further, these 25 firms did interstate sales and purchase in items like iron and steel, coal and bitumen. They were not located to anyone city or town in the state, but operated from all across Bihar, sources said, adding they also indulged in bogus bill trading. Further, these firms existed only on paper. “The intelligence wing of the state CTD utilized the lockdown period in tracing their identities and tracking their illegal activities by using the Data Analytics and Human Intelligence methods,” a source said. Now that the lockdown has been lifted, penal action would certainly be initiated against them. The sources maintained that the profiling of fake firms and their shady activities would help in checking tax evasions, besides creating suitable business and trade atmosphere in which honest traders would be able to conduct their activities honestly abiding by the GST norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tax-evasion-worth-rs-96cr-by-fake-firms-detected-in-state/articleshow/76222510.cms||Abhay Singh
June 6, 2020||Patna||‘95% of Patna private clinics open now’||PATNA: The friendly neighbourhood physicians, who had shut their clinics because of coronavirus fear, are back to work. Barring big private hospitals, most of the doctors had shut their clinics. “Now 95% of the clinics are opened. Only those doctors who are above 65 years of age have not resumed work,” said Indian Medical Association (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar. He said most of the doctors had stopped OPD initially. “The fear was such that no one wanted to take any risk. But how could one survive without practising for more than a month. Doctors had to pay their staff and those on rent had to pay for the space. It was also hampering doctors financially. And how long one can stay at home without work,” Dr Sunil said. He said the government should frame standard operating procedures for private hospitals and clinics to function during the Covid-19 pandemic. State IMA former secretary Dr Brajnandan Kumar said now people, including doctors, are used to coronavirus scare. “Initially, there was too much fear. But now people have realized that we have to live with it,” he said. Patna Obstetric and Gynaecological Society member Dr Usha Didwania said almost all the gynaecologists associated with the society have resumed work. “Earlier, most of us working single-handedly had stopped OPD services, though we were attending emergency cases. But those having huge set-up with sufficient number of doctors were functional throughout. Now, for the past one week, all have returned to work.” Dr Didwania said the doctors are now taking all precautions while attending to patients. “Earlier in my chamber, the patient and her attendants were allowed. But now we are allowing only patients, unless it is very necessary to interact with the attendant. Also, after the patient enters the clinic, her temperature is checked and hands are sanitized. We also provide masks to those who come without covering their nose and mouth,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/95-of-city-private-clinics-open-now/articleshow/76223022.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 6, 2020||Patna||Private tutors face financial crisis due to coronavirus in Bihar||PATNA: Private home tutors in the state capital have a tough time owing to the prevailing uncertainty about Covid- 19 pandemic. As the parents are not willing to let them in for fear of contracting the virus, many private teachers are in deep financial crisis. Since the lockdown from March 25, many parents stopped private tuition classes of their ward. Even though relaxations have been given under Unlock1.0, parents are apprehensive about allowing outsiders inside home. Seema Tripathi said her daughter Ananya, a Class IX student, is already attending online classes and taking help of online teaching materials. “There is risk in allowing private tutors inside home in this situation,” she said. Mohan Bhargava, whose son and daughter study in classes VII and XI respectively, shared similar views. “My business is not going well and I don’t know how long the situation would remain the same. Students are spending hours on mobile and laptop for online classes conducted by the schools. So what’s the use of private tuition,” Mohan said. But the home tutors are facing financial problems as they have been without work for the last 70 days. Mohd Saif (24) of Phulwarisharif, who is doing MA in mathematics from Magadh University, said he used to teach mathematics to 32 kids in the same locality and earned up to Rs10,000 per month. “Now, the parents are not ready to send their kids. I even suggested them for online classes, but they did not agree. How would I pay the rent and fulfil my other expenses,” he asked. Aniket Kumar, who used to give private tuition to 12 kids in Makhaniya Kuan to pay his hostel rent and meet other expenses, said he didn’t earn a penny in April and May. “I have already exhausted my earnings,” he said. Another home tutor, SK Pathak (42), who teaches Hindi and Sanskrit, said online classes are not a good option for him as he is not tech-savvy. “I don’t have smartphone. I don’t know when the situation would get better,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-tutors-face-financial-crisis-due-to-coronavirus/articleshow/76222428.cms||Faryal Rumi
June 6, 2020||Agartala||20-month-old needing urgent medical procedure airlifted from Agartala||KOLKATA: A 20-month-old infant from Agartala with congenital anomaly needing urgent medical procedure in Kolkata was airlifted by Air India on Thursday. The child is currently admitted in a hospital off the EM Bypass and will undergo an operation on Saturday. When doctors in Agartala told Maran and Soma Debnath that their newborn boy who choked every time he tried to have milk required a complicated surgery and that could be done only by specialists in Kolkata, the family was in a fix over how to commute, given not just the child’s medical complications but also the uncertainty and risk involved with flight travel during Covid. The child suffered from tracheo-oesophageal fistula, a condition in which there is a connection between the lower part of the oesophagus or the food pipe with the trachea or wind pipe. Frequent flyers in Agartala advised them to opt for national carrier Air India for the rather delicate journey. The couple then got in touch with the airline station manager at Agartala and explained their pressing need to travel. Sensing the need to help the couple who appeared at a loss, the AI official, Sujoy Ghosh, pulled out all stops to make necessary arrangements and took up the matter with the airline’s Kolkata office to ensure the couple and the infant could travel at the earliest. The parents were guided on the travel documents and medical requirements for the travel. Making the inflight medical arrangements including oxygen cylinders and other essentials was a herculean task, particularly given the Covid-related restrictions that are in force. But various departments of AI like commercial, engineering, IFS, operations and medical rose to the challenge and ensured a smooth flight for the baby in distress. A visibly emotional Debnath thanked Air India for its spontaneous support and co-operation in flying them to Kolkata braving all odds.“This life-saving medical evacuation to fly the baby in critical health conditions with all mandatory infrastructure in place during these challenging times reiterates the role AI has been playing to serve as the lifeline of the nation and its nationals,” an Air India spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/20-month-old-needing-urgent-med-procedure-airlifted-from-agartala/articleshow/76229237.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Rajkot||Anti-dumping duty on Indian ceramics in UAE from today||RAJKOT: While most industrial sectors slowly returning back to normalcy, Morbi’s ceramic units are bracing up for some tough times. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has issued notification imposing anti-dumping duty of Indian ceramic products which comes into force from Saturday. The Dubai customs has also issued similar notification and other gulf countries are expected to follow the suit. The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in it’s order dated April 20 had imposed anti-dumping duty ranging from 40% to 106% on Indian ceramic products. The GCC is a political and economic union of all Arab countries except Iraq and represents countries like Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates. The anti-dumping duty has been imposed for five years which will make it impossible for Morbi exporters to do business with gulf countries. Like many other sectors, Morbi’s ceramic industry is also under financial crisis because of the global lockdown on account of cornovirus pandemic. Nilesh Jetparia, president of Morbi Ceramic Association said, “There has been not production since last two and half months as there is no demand in domestic as well as international market. The major markets are closed. Now, we are looking at the government to provide us some relief so we can complete in international market.” Currently, only 280 out of the 900-odd units have started production in Morbi, the biggest ceramic cluster of India. With 35-40% of exports to Gulf countries. According to industry experts, when full fledge production starts, nearly 400 units which were exclusively exporting to gulf countries will be forced to cut it’s production by 60% resulting in job losses. “The demand in domestic market is not expected to rise till the construction industry begins work,” Jeparia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/anti-dumping-duty-on-indian-ceramics-in-uae-from-today/articleshow/76223930.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
June 6, 2020||Business||SBI sees record quarterly profit of Rs 3,581 crore in Q4||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) reported a record net profit of Rs 3,581 crore for the quarter ended March 2020 — up more than four times the Rs 838-crore figure reported in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The increase in profit was largely due to a decline in provisions for bad loans and a one-time gain arising out of sale of shares in its subsidiary SBI Card. Announcing the results, the bank’s chairman Rajnish Kumar said that the legacy bad loans were all provided for. “We have cleaned up the balance sheet and there is nothing that remains to be cleaned,” he said. The results pertain mostly to the pre-lockdown period. Kumar said that any stress among borrowers on account of the lockdown will be reflected in the bank’s results for the quarter ended September 2020. Although the bank is not required to make any provisions because of a standstill dispensation, Kumar said that the bank has provided for Rs 6,200 crore of such loans. Shares of the bank closed nearly 8% higher at Rs 188 following the better-than-expected results. Kumar said that during the lockdown, the bank had demonstrated its digital and physical capacity to handle transactions. “We serve 49 crore customers, which is more than the population of the US. On March 31, we handled over 25 crore transactions in a single day. With our branches, Bank Mitras, ATMs and digital channels, we can deal with the population of the entire country,” said Kumar. He said that the bank gained market share — both in deposits, which grew 11.34% to Rs 29.1 lakh crore, and advances, which rose 5.6% to Rs 22.9 lakh crore. Kumar said that the current year’s loan growth was expected to remain muted at 7.5% as against the budgeted 12%. He expressed confidence on the quality of the bank’s retail loan portfolio, which was dominated by housing loans. For the quarter ended March 2020, SBI has set aside Rs 13,500 crore in provisions, down from Rs 16,500 crore a year earlier. Following the improved profits, the bank’s capital adequacy stood at 13.6%. Kumar said that he did not foresee the bank needing to dilute equity during the current financial year and that it was more likely to raise capital by selling shares of its subsidiaries. In the fourth quarter, the bank had booked a profit of Rs 3,237 crore on sale of investments — a large part of which came from the sale of shares in SBI Card. On the outlook for the current financial year, Kumar said that if things go well, SBI may repeat its performance of FY20, when it reported a net profit of Rs 14,488 crore — its highest ever. If things were not so good, the profits would be the same as FY19 when it reported a net profit of Rs 862 crore. In a worst-case scenario, he said that performance may be like FY18 when it posted a loss of Rs 6,548 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-sees-record-quarterly-profit-of-rs-3581cr-in-q4/articleshow/76224793.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Autos, taxis allowed from airport, railway stations at night||PATNA: The state transport department on Friday relaxed night curfew for autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles to operate from bus stands, railway stations and airport even after 9pm. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the relaxations have been given as per a decision taken by the crisis management group (CMG) headed by chief secretary Deepak Kumar in a bid to insure uninterrupted vehicular movement for passengers. “Vehicles are allowed to ferry passengers to and from the airport, bus stand and railway station. Earlier, vehicles were allowed only for emergency cases during the night curfew,” he said and added that buses are not allowed to start new trip after 9pm. “Buses already plying can continue the journey during the night curfew,” he said. Agarwal said the decision was taken after receiving several complaints from people, who had to spend the night at the railway station or airport due to unavailability of vehicles. “As several flights and trains are scheduled to reach after 9pm, the passengers arriving at the railway station or airport faced problems of public transport,” he said. Residents appreciated the relaxations. Sikandara Prakash, who travels at least thrice a week to other districts in the state for work, said now he would be able to return home the same day. “Due to the restrictions, I had to spend two days outside the city. IIt will save me lots of time,” he said. Kadamkuan resident Sanjay Kumar was worried about picking up his son from Patna Junction on Saturday night, but he felt relieved after knowing about the order. “I will now be able to pick up my son from the railway station,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/autos-taxis-allowed-from-airport-railway-stations-at-night/articleshow/76222361.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Monsoon claims life of rider, 81, after tree falls on him||Panaji/Margao: An 81-year-old man was killed after a banyan tree came crashing down on him at Rachol on Friday morning. Rosario Fernandes, a resident of Raia, was riding a two-wheeler at the time. He was rushed to Hospicio, Margao, but succumbed to injuries while being shifted to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The southwest monsoon’s first victim this season came a day after it hit Goa on Thursday. tnn The first day of the season was a rather wet one, with Dabolim recording 117.2mm of rain, and Mormugao 105.66mm. Friday too saw heavy rain at many places across Goa. The fire services received 28 calls throughout the day, most of which were tree falls and electricity cables snapping. Thursday saw 22 such calls, which included a tree branch fall near Azad Maidan in Panaji. The India meteorological department (IMD), in its weather alert, has said that the heavy rainfall warning issued for this week continues. “Moderate to heavy rainfall/thundershowers is very likely at most places on June 13 (Saturday) with wind speeds of 30-40 kmph. Moderate rainfall/thundershowers are very likely at most places from June 14 to 16,” it said. A warning to fishermen has also been issued. “Squally weather with windspeed reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail along and off the south Maharashtra-Goa coast from Friday to Tuesday. Fishermen are therefore advised not to venture into these areas during above mentioned period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-claims-life-of-rider-81-after-tree-falls-on-him/articleshow/76349460.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Vadodara||Brief rain brings long relief for heat-scorched citizens||Vadodara: Friday evening turned blissful for Barodians who had been battling blistering heat for the past few days after the skies opened up and the city got drenched in heavy showers. Till the morning, it was the usual weather with clear sky and oppressive heat, but suddenly post noon, dark clouds started hovering in the skies. In fact, the sudden downpour also caught many a commuter heading home from office by surprise, making them rush to get some cover from the heavy rain.Though brief, the heavy bout of rains left many areas in the old city waterlogged for almost an hour. Dandia Bazaar and Raopura Road were submerged in rainwater, while at many places many two-wheelers broke down compelling the owners to push their vehicles wading through the flooded roads. Many commuters also slipped and fell on the wet roads, said sources.Heavy winds accompanying the rains took a toll on the trees and hoardings in different areas of the city. “About 15 to 20 trees got uprooted in the city at different areas including Gorwa, Gotri, Dandia Bazaar, Makarpura and Tarsali. In some areas, hoardings also got damaged,” said Om Jadeja, fire officer. Despite several requests from the citizens, the civic body is yet to remove the hoardings ahead of the monsoons putting commuters’ lives at risk. “The monsoons arrived early and it was indeed a nice surprise. It was a welcome break from the severe heat of the past few days. We ushered in the rain sipping tea with bhajiyas,” said Bharti Naik, a resident of Old Padra Road. Many Barodians too were seen hanging out with their friends and family on Akota-Dandia Bazaar Road enjoying the cool evening breeze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/brief-rain-brings-long-relief-for-heat-scorched-citizens/articleshow/76222947.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Surat airport refuse to share report on two dead foxes on runway under RTI||Surat: The authorities of Surat airport have declined to share incident report into the recovery of two fox carcasses at the runway in December 2019, under the Right to Information (RTI) application. According to the reply received under RTI filed by social activist Rajesh Modi, airport authorities stated that two bodies of foxes were recovered from the Runway 22 at Vesu on December 19, 2019 at about 8 pm. But refused to provide the copy of the incident report stating it to be a ‘legal and operational’ matter. Talking with TOI, Modi said, “This is a very serious issue from safety point of view because at night it is very difficult to spot any such obstacle on the runway and could pose a serious threat to the safety of the passengers.” Modi claimed, “Authorities have not given the incident report specifying the cause of death of the two foxes and their entry into the operational area of the airport. The bodies were disposed by the authorities without informing the forest department.” Ideally, the death of an animal listed under scheduled category of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, has to be reported to forest department before disposal. Earlier in April 2019, four jackals were spotted on the operation side of the airport and were rescued by the forest department. When contacted, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Puneet Nayyar said, “Our department was not intimated over the deaths of the foxes. As per the protocol, the incident should have been reported to us as the animal comes under scheduled category.” Nayyar added, “We will seek explanation over this issue from the airport authorities.” Despite repeated attempts airport director was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-airport-refuse-to-share-report-on-two-dead-foxes-on-runway-under-rti/articleshow/76223953.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||79 test positive in a day, two more die||Surat: Coronavirus continues to spread its tentacles in the city since June 1. On Friday, the city recorded 79 fresh positive cases, inching steadily towards the 2,000 mark. “Citizens need to be really sensitive about the dos and don’ts now, particularly when they step outside their homes for work. Looking at the surge, cases will only continue to rise in the coming days. Moreover, hotels, restaurants, malls too will be allowed to open after June 8. The civic body will soon issue standard operating procedures (SPOs) as per the government guidelines,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. Two patients succumbed to the virus on Friday, taking the toll from the virus in the city to 78. Pani further said that a list of 3.37 lakh elderly and people with co-morbid conditions who are susceptible to the infection in the city has been prepared and these people under the APX surveillance. Teams from Surat municipal corporation will visit them from Saturday onwards for their care and medical needs, said Pani. He further said that a total 147 Covid-19 patients were on life support systems in the city which included 120 patients on oxygen and seven patients on ventilators. On Friday, Katargam recorded the highest number of cases at 21, followed by Rander with 13 cases. “For the last few days, fresh cases have been reported from Rander zone, which had witnessed a reduction in numbers. Rander was the first zone to contained by SMC and cases had dropped after the restrictions. But newer cases have been reported from here now. Besides Rander, Athwa zone has also witnessed new cases for the last few days. On Friday, Athwa zone recorded six new cases,” an SMC official said. Meanwhile, 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Total 1,247 patients have been discharged till date in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/79-test-positive-in-a-day-two-more-die/articleshow/76223639.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Delivery of finished, unfinished fabrics banned for a week||Surat: With the phenomenal rise in the Covid-19 cases in the city after unlock 0.1, the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) has decided not to allow any finished and unfinished fabric parcels from the powerloom units and textile mills for a week starting June 8.FOSTTA office-bearers stated that the representatives had organised a meeting with municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani on Friday to discuss the operational issues at the textile markets due to the spike in the Covid-19 cases at Limbayat and central zone of the city. It has been decided to keep the markets operational from 9 am to 7 pm by strictly banning the entry of workers and others coming from the containment zones and hotspot areas. The traders will have to strictly follow social distancing rules. Secretary of FOSTTA, Champalal Bothra, said: “A decision has been taken to ban the delivery of grey fabrics and finished fabrics from the powerloom units and textile mills. However, the parcels containing value addition of the fabrics will be allowed in the markets.” “The chewing of tobacco and smoking will be strictly prohibited and that the managements will be fixing fine amount for those caught in the markets,” added Bothra. “The workers in the markets and textile traders arriving from other states will have to remain in the home quarantine strictly for 14 days. There will be no entry of children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years in the textile markets,” said Manoj Agarwal, president of FOSTTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/delivery-of-finished-unfinished-fabrics-banned-for-a-week/articleshow/76223892.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||25 from Mauritius sent to Bharuch for free quarantine facility||Surat: The Bharuch district administration was caught unawares after a bus carrying about 25 people, mostly students from Mauritius, arrived in Bharuch under the Vande Bharat Mission for free quarantine facility. Official sources said that the group were mostly residents from Surat and Navsari district and had landed at the Mumbai airport on Thursday. They were sent in a bus from Mumbai for the free quarantine facility in Bharuch. However, the Bharuch administration had already intimated the authorities in Mumbai that they had run out of the free quarantine facility. Talking with TOI, district collector of Bharuch, Dr M D Modiya said, “As per the government policy, people coming from foreign countries must have to stay in the quarantine facility in districts other then their home district. We had intimated to the concerned officials at Mumbai that we do not have free quarantine facility. Despite of this the people were sent to Bharuch.” Dr Modiya added, “The passenger had left the bus in Bharuch and demanded they be kept in the free facility. However, we arranged a bus and sent them to Vadodara for the free quarantine facility.” Vicky Makwana, one of the passengers, hailing from Surat said, “We were not knowing the government protocols. We were made to pay Rs 2,600 bus fare per passenger from Mumbai to Bharuch. When we arrived here we were told that they do not have free quarantine facility available. Other passengers went to Vadodara, while I chose to stay in the paid hotel facility for quarantine.” Makwana, who is newly married and had gone for honeymoon in Mauritius and had got stranded there due to the closure of international flights to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/25-from-mauritius-sent-to-bharuch-for-free-quarantine-facility/articleshow/76223828.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Bizmen start hectic efforts to bring back textile workers||Surat: Is the country’s largest man-made textile (MMF) preparing for the reverse migration of the textile workers in Shramik special trains? It seems so as the textile industry leaders have started gathering the database of the migrants from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha wanting to return to Surat.According to the industry leaders, they are in talks with district administration and the state government for arranging Shramik special trains to facilitate reverse migration of workers. Industry sources said that about four lakh workers from the powerloom sector had already moved out of the city ahead of the nationwide lockdown was imposed and they want to return with the textile industry reopening after two months.Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers Association, told TOI, “We have circulated messages to the powerloom unit owners to contact their workers wanting to return. We are expecting to collect the workers’ database in a couple of days.” Gujarati stated that the powerloom industry is working at less than 25 per cent capacity due to the shortage of workers. Over seven lakh workers left for their home states in Shramik special trains and another three lakh travelled in private luxury buses to UP, Odisha and Bihar. At present, the industry has an estimated four lakh workers, who are living with their families and have not moved out during the coronavirus pandemic. “We have started preparing database of migrant workers including their state, village and nearest railway station. It will be submitted to the district administration for making arrangements to bring them back. Trains are likely to be arranged for the reverse migration of the workers. We have asked all the associations in different industrial societies to submit details of their workers,” Mayur Golwala, leader of powerloom industry told TOI.According to Gujarati, the workers who moved out during the lockdown are not likely to return before July-end. Bharat Gandhi, chairman of Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI), told TOI, “Only reverse migration of the workers would ensure the proper running of the powerloom sector. The government had arranged Shramik special trains to facilitate the travel of workers. We want the same trains to bring our workers back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizmen-start-hectic-efforts-to-bring-back-textile-workers/articleshow/76223794.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Surat||Told to wear mask, miffed man abuses SMC team||Surat: A 25-year-old man living in Varachha’s Ravi Park was booked by Kapodra police after he allegedly abused Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) team on Covid-19 duty in thearea.The accused Mukesh Rathod not only picked up a fight with the team members, but also deliberately spat at the place, which they were sanitizing, on Thursday. Rathod was miffed after the team member Deven Desai asked him to wear mask.The complaint lodged by an SMC employee Deven Desai states that Rathod hurled abuses at a time when they were not just sanitizing the area, but were also shifting a patient to the hospital. Rathod was booked under section 269 ( negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 504 (intentional insult and provoke to break the public peace) of IPC. Sections of Epidemic Diseases Act were also invoked against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/told-to-wear-mask-miffed-man-abuses-smc-team/articleshow/76223859.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Allahabad||Nine killed as SUV rams container truck in Pratapgarh||Prayagraj: Nine people, including four men, three women and two children, were killed when the SUV carrying them collided head-on with a container truck near Wazidpur village on Lucknow-Prayagraj highway under the limits of Nawabganj police station of Pratapgarh district on early Friday. Chief minister Yogi Adiyanath has expressed grief over the accident and extended condolence to the bereaved families. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh told TOI, “The incident took place at around 5.30am when the SUV carrying the victims collided with a truck, leaving all nine persons dead on the spot. The victims were on their way to Bhojpur in Bihar from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan.” The driver of the truck managed to escape from the scene soon after the incident. Locals claimed that visibility had reduced at the time of the accident as it was raining heavily. The SP added that a 35-year old person, identified as Bunty, who also sustained injuries in the road mishap, was referred to a hospital in Rae Bareli for treatment. His condition was stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nine-killed-as-suv-rams-container-truck-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/76224446.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Business||Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala buys 1.8% in Jio for Rs 9k cr||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Abu Dhabi’s sovereign wealth fund Mubadala has agreed to invest Rs 9,094 crore in Jio Platforms, marking the first Middle Eastern deal in the Mumbai-based digital-cum-telecom services company. Mubadala’s investment will give the fund a 1.85% stake in Jio Platforms, which has an enterprise value of Rs 5.16 lakh crore. Mubadala, with a $229-billion portfolio, is the latest addition to Jio’s roster of marquee investors. These include Facebook and other US firms such as Silver Lake. Another Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund, ADIA, and Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment too plan to acquire shares of Jio. TOI reported about Mubadala’s interest in Jio in its May 23 edition. Silver Lake has agreed to make an additional investment of Rs 4,547 crore in Jio, which would increase its stake to 2.08% from 1.15% in the Indian company. In May, the US fund had agreed to invest Rs 5,656 crore in Jio. Parent RIL has so far inked deals to sell an 19.9% stake in Jio, raising Rs 92,202 crore over the last six weeks. The investors are betting that Jio, which is also India’s largest cellular services operator with over 388 million customers, has the potential to transform sectors from agriculture to retail, and from education to entertainment. RIL plans to use the external money to lower its debt of Rs 3.36 lakh crore ($44 billion). Debt increased at RIL mainly because of its aggressive expansion through Jio. The external money has also set a valuation for Jio, which would help RIL as it plans to take the digital-cum-telecom services company public in the near future. The Rs 5.16-lakh-crore enterprise value of Jio includes an equity valuation of Rs 4.91 lakh crore. RIL may explore an overseas listing for Jio, possibly Nasdaq, after India proposed direct listing of companies in foreign jurisdictions. Jio is Mubadala and Silver Lake’s largest investment in an Indian company. The second-largest state investor in Abu Dhabi after ADIA, Mubadala recently backed Waymo, Alphabet’s self-driving car venture. Silver Lake, with $40 billion in assets, writes a cheque mainly for technology companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/abu-dhabis-mubadala-buys-1-8-in-jio-for-rs-9k-cr/articleshow/76224750.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 6, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL supplier nabbed from New Delhi||Rajkot: After his involvement was found in two cases of bootlegging, a team of Junagadh local crime branch (LCB) officials went to New Delhi and arrested bootlegger Vipin Jat (30).Jat’s name figured as the main supplier of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) bottles in two seizures in Keshod, where 15,528 IMFL bottles worth Rs 62 lakh were impounded, and Vanthali, where a truck carrying a liquor cache was intercepted. “In both the seizures, the name of the bootlegger, Dhiren Karia, figured. When we arrested Karia and interrogated him, he revealed the name of Jat as the main supplier. Following this, we sent a team to New Delhi and arrested him from Narela locality of New Delhi,” said R K Gohil, sub-inspector with Junagadh LCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-supplier-nabbed-from-new-delhi/articleshow/76224285.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||Buses fined for fleecing passengers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Ten teams of motor vehicle inspectors on Friday swung into action against alleged overcharging by city buses. They raided 150 buses and the drivers and conductors were let off with a warning and a fine. The police, too, intercepted buses for overcharging, including at Strand Road-MG Road crossing, Esplanade, Ruby Crossing and Ultadanga. Challans or fines of Rs 100 were slapped on the erring vehicles. On Friday evening, cops warned of stricter charges — compounding of fines that amount to breaking contract carriage provisions — which could carry a penalty of Rs 3,000 and even permit cancellation in case of repeat offence. Cops said their personnel were asking passengers for feedback. “If passengers say they are facing no problem, we are letting the buses go after distributing masks to those not wearing them. But if passengers say they are being overcharged, we are ensuring that both driver and conductor apologize and return the extra money. If we merely let them off with just a fine, they are likely to pass that on to the bus owners,” said an officer. Police said complaints of excessive charges dropped in frequency on Friday compared to Thursday. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar acted on a social media alert late on Thursday where Twitter user Mayank Aggarwal posted about violation of the social distancing rule on a bus on route L238 near Ultadanga crossing. Kumar later tweeted the extra passengers were asked to alight soon after. “The bus was intercepted on Vivekananda Road’s west-bound flank near Maniktala Bazar and the extra passengers were asked to alight,” he said. The absence of enough public transport has led to an explosion of two wheelers on the road. “Special naka checks are on against two wheelers. We have managed to repair 75%-80% of our traffic signals, which is helping us free up more men from the crossings to be part of special raids on buses and bikes,” said an officer. The slow return of private buses has also left a demand-supply gap in public transportation. The public transportation crisis may deepen on Monday when workplaces start functioning with 100% staff. On Friday, the number of private buses on the road was lower than that of Thursday, leading to several passengers being stranded despite near full-scale operation of WBTC buses. WBTC buses were regular but in Kolkata, private buses function as the backbone of public transportation. The Public Vehicles Department’s repeated threats of annulling permits proved no deterrent against non-plying of buses. Since private buses ferry 42 lakh passengers a day, compared to 16 lakh by STUs, the absence of private buses has left a gap impossible to be bridged by other modes of transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-fined-for-fleecing-passengers/articleshow/76224557.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Business||Tatas not to monetise its investments for fund-raise||Reeba Zachariah | TNN Mumbai: Tata Sons is not looking to monetise its investments to raise capital as it has “adequate cash flows” to support its operating companies and new growth initiatives, said chairman N Chandrasekaran on Friday. Earnings of several operating companies — especially those in hospitality, aviation, automotive, steel and non-grocery retail — have been hit due to business restrictions in the country and outside, triggered by the pandemic, with some of them requiring financial support to strengthen their balance sheets. “The Tata group companies, like all other companies, are facing both challenges and opportunities arising out of the pandemic and resulting economic situation, based on the industries and markets they operate in,” added Chandrasekaran. “All our group companies are progressing well responding to these challenges and opportunities and we are confident that they will emerge stronger.” The $111-billion Tata Group, with over 100 companies, earns 70% of its revenues from outside of India. Tata Sons is in a “strong financial position” with enough cash flows to support group companies, said Chandrasekaran in a one-page statement after chairing the outfit’s board meeting. TOI had reported in its June 4 edition about Tata Sons’ Friday board meeting to review strategies, including a budget allocation to operating companies. In the last three fiscal years, Tata Sons had invested about Rs 20,000 crore of growth capital in operating companies, with the highest amount allocated to Tata Motors, Tata Capital, Tata Steel and Tata SIA Airlines (Vistara). Chandrasekaran further said that the group is focused on navigating the current situation and profitable growth. The conglomerate is likely to see a growth contraction this fiscal as the coronavirus outbreak and the economic slowdown are expected to slam consumer spending, according to analysts. If the health crisis has impacted some of the operations of the group, it has also opened a window of opportunities for the conglomerate. The group — which makes Jaguar Land Rover luxury vehicles, sells cheap packets of Tata Salt and serves kebabs at London’s Bombay Brasserie — is betting on digital and medical equipment manufacturing to be growth drivers in the post-Covid-19 world. Global shutdowns and employees working from home have accelerated the adoption of digital services. From being “secondary, nice-to-have options”, digital has become “primary channels”, and in some instances, the “only channels”, Chandrasekaran wrote in the FY20 annual report of TCS. This shift in consumer preferences will boost the growth of TCS, the biggest contributor to the group’s profits, and Tata Digital, the conglomerate’s new venture, which seeks to bring together its varied businesses on a single digital platform. Tata Sons, the holding company of the group, will also be allocating resources to its recently set-up medical device manufacturing unit, a venture it got into after its work with the government on Covid issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-not-to-monetise-its-investments-for-fund-raise/articleshow/76225042.cms||Reeba Zachariah
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cholesterol levels among Indians unchanged: Study||Hyderabad: Researchers have found that the blood cholesterol levels among Indians has remained unchanged while it is increasing in people living in other parts of Asia. High level of cholesterol is often blamed on heart diseases and increasing levels of this rogue fat in the body do not augur well for the health of people. An international study, in which scientists from the Hyderabad-based National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) participated, has revealed that cholesterol is rising in Asia, while it is declining sharply in the West. However, as compared with the Asians, the cholesterol levels in the West are higher than in Asia. On the other hand, the cholesterol level in Indians has not changed. The study gains significance as cholesterol plays a key role in the cardiovascular health of individuals. The result of the study was published in the recent issue of the scientific journal, Nature. The study was led by Imperial College, London. Dr Avula Laxmaiah, head of the division of public health nutrition, National Institute of Nutrition, one of the authors of the research paper based on the largest ever study of global cholesterol levels, said non-HDL cholesterol among Indian men ranked 128th in 1980 and remained the same in 2018. However, in case of women, the rank increased marginally from 139th to 140th at global level. The research used data from 102.6 million individuals and examined cholesterol levels in 200 countries, across a 39-year period, from 1980 to 2018. “The work, which was funded by the Wellcome Trust and the British Heart Foundation, revealed that high cholesterol was responsible for about 3.9 million deaths worldwide”, said Dr R Hemalatha, director, NIN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cholesterol-levels-among-indians-unchanged-study/articleshow/76225435.cms||Syed Akbar
June 6, 2020||Surat||Gotalawadi tenement residents calls off hunger strike||Surat: About 1,304 families from the economically weaver section (EWS) affected by the redevelopment of the Gotalawadi Tenement have put off the indefinite hunger strike plan following assurance from the authorities of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to resolve the issue within a week’s time, on Friday.The residents had threatened to go on indefinite hunger strike outside the SMC headquarters from Friday over the non-payment of rent by the developer for last 10 months. The developer has already demolished the tenements. During the lockdown, the residents were put in severe financial crisis as they were living rented houses. Last year, the SMC had taken up the redevelopment of Gotalawadi tenement under the Redevelopment of Public Housing Scheme 2016 on the public private partnership (PPP) basis. The developer of the tenement was asked to pay rent to the beneficiaries till the time the project is not completed. Since the project is located just 130 m away from the heritage Dutch Cemetery near Gotalawadi in Katargam, the developer had approached the NMA (National Monuments Authority) for approval of the project under the Heritage Impact Assessment with the height of 45 metres. The NMA approved the project and issued no-objection certificate (NOC) for the total building height of 22.80 metres, which comes to around six-storey. As the required height was not approved by the NMA, the developer stopped paying rent to the beneficiaries. . Swati Sosa, former BJP councillor from Katargam, who is spearheading the campaign told TOI, “We had gone to the SMC headquarters at Mughalsarai for indefinite hunger strike. The senior SMC authorities including mayor and Surat MP Darshana Jardosh assured that they will find solution to the non-payment of rent to the residents within one week.” Sosa added, “The rent amount for last 10 months comes to about Rs 10 crore, which the developer is yet to pay as per the redevelopment plan norms.” Talking with TOI, Surat MP Darshana Jardosh said, “A revised plan with 35 metre height will be submitted soon to the NMA for approval. Once the approval is given, the redevelopment of the Gotalawadi tenement will be taken up on war footing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gotalawadi-tenement-residents-calls-off-hunger-strike/articleshow/76224308.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||IIT professor: Major earthquake may rock Delhi-NCR soon||SINDRI: Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) may see a major earthquake in the coming days, experts at IIT (ISM) Dhanbad’s departments of applied of geophysics and seismology department said. “Recurrent tremors of small magnitudes indicate a bigger earthquake,” said P K Khan, professor of the institute’s applied geophysics department. Khan, who is also the head of the seismology department, said the time has come for the Union and Delhi governments to take preventive measures and create awareness. “The entire region experienced 64 tremors with magnitudes ranging between 4.0 ad 4.9 and eight with magnitudes 5.0 and above over the last two years, which shows an increase in the accumulation of strain energy in the region, particularly near Delhi and Kangra,” Khan said. Of the total, 11 tremors were felt in the region in the last two months with the latest near Noida on June 3. “NCR is just 370 km from Kangra and 260 km from Uttarkashi, which is known for severe earthquakes, and a bigger earthquake in this fault line is bound to affect NCR,” Khan added. Chamba and Dharamshala near Kangra witnessed earthquakes of 6.3 and 7.8 magnitudes in 1945 and 1905, Khan informed. Although the clustering of the recent seismicity is relatively small and apparently an area of quiescence is noted in Garhwal near Uttarkashi, it has witnessed earthquakes of 7.7 magnitude in 1803 and 6.8 magnitude in 1991. In the present times of increasing urban densification and failure of governments in making builders adhere to earthquake prevention rules, a tremor of a higher magnitude can prove to be catastrophic for the NCR, Khan opined. He said seismicity is also being clustered along the strike of the Delhi-Haridwar Ridge (DHR) and the relative plate movement has been recorded at 44mm per year which should be a matter of concern for all. “Since no prediction model for earthquakes is still available, the Earthquake Early Warning System (EEWS) designed on back-azimuth and slowness-based algorithm is a must for Delhi and NCR,” Khan maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-ism-predicts-major-earthquake-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/76224744.cms||Anil Ashutosh
June 6, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot cop gets 25 years in jail for couple’s murder||RAJKOT: A suspended police constable was sentenced to 25 years rigorous imprisonment on Friday for murder of an elderly couple six years ago. The Rajkot sessions judge D D Thakkar awarded the jail term to Kamlesh Mehta (35) for stabbing Bhupat Teraiya (55) and his wife Gunvanti Teraiya (54) to death in Punit Nagar of Bajarangwadi locality on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot in the evening of April 7, 2014. The court observed that a policeman is supposed to protect the citizens. But if the cop himself becomes becomes perpetrator the court cannot take a lenient view in the case. Judge Thakkar ordered that there won’t be any review of Mehta’s sentence by the government and he will have to serve his full 25 years in jail. In most cases, the state government periodically reviews the conduct of those convicted in serious offences and alters the sentence based on it. According to case details, Mehta’s mother used to pick up fights with the Teraiya couple for sitting near her house. On the evening of the crime, after she had a fight with the Teraiya couple, Mehta’s mother called up her son who was on duty at the Rajkot B Division police station. “Mehta who was 29 and unmarried then, rushed to his house. He straight away went inside the house and came out with a knife and stabbed Bhupat, when his wife intervened, Mehta stabbed her also. The couple died on the spot,” said Ruprajsinh Parmar, special public prosecutor in the case. “After the crime, Mehta went in search of the Teraiya couple’s son with the intention to kill him. However, the police came to know about the crime and nabbed Mehta from Jamnagar Road,” added Parmar. Parmar said that of the three initial eye witnesses, one of them testified against Mehta. “We had sought capital punishment for Mehta, terming the case as the rarest of the rare as the accused was a police constable and he had committed the crime while on duty. Mehta’s uniform had blood stains from the incident,” he said, adding that the court had examined 26 witnesses and took under consideration 50 documentary evidences to reach the verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-cop-gets-25-years-in-jail-for-couples-murder/articleshow/76224218.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||Pre-booking visits to crowd-count cams, Kolkata malls ready to talk shop||KOLKATA: Barely two days before city malls reopen after being shut for more than two and a half months, managers said they had anticipated the restrictions announced in the SOP that the Centre released on Thursday and had already put in place social distancing and anti-Covid 19 infection measures that were more stringent than what had been asked for. With the SOP setting a 75sqft per person guideline, malls have set up technology, like cameras with artificial intelligent sensors, to do head counts at the entry and exit to ensure the capacity limit is not exceeded. At Quest, the luxury mall near Park Circus, shoppers will be able to pre-book their visit on the mall app and avoid the hassle of standing in the sun till they get a chance to enter. “Customers can choose the visit date and time based on the slots available,” said Quest mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra. At Acropolis, children under 10 and people above 65 will not be allowed entry as a measure of precaution. For those who visit, there will be posters along corridors to make them more aware about the virus. “We have used poems from Sukumar Ray’s ‘Abol Tabol’ and dialogues of superheroes, like Spiderman and Captain America, to deliver messages on social distancing norms,” said Acropolis general manager (operations) K Vijayan. At South City mall, foot-pedal switches have been added to the elevator lobbies. Shoppers will be able to call an elevator by stepping on the pedal instead of pressing the button with a finger. The mall has also installed ultra-violet sterilization for the handrails on escalators. “In our mall, and probably most others as well, we have marked every fourth step on the escalator for the customer to stand on instead of every alternate step recommended in the SOP. It is simply an added precaution that we are taking,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. At Mani Square, the management has decided to encourage patrons to carry their own drinking water as the dispensers at the facility will be non-functional. In elevators, only four persons will be allowed at a time. City Centre I and City Centre II, which have a lot of open space, following social-distancing norms will be easy. Elsewhere, at operational entries, elevator and escalator zones and inside lifts, markings have been done to ensure social distancing. “The mall premises will be fumigated daily. But frequently touched points and washrooms will be sanitized every 30 minutes,” said Ambuja Neotia Group general manager (marketing and events) Ramesh Pandey. While all malls are gearing up to open on May 8 with around 80% of the stores in operation, the city’s first mall, Forum Courtyard, has decided to wait and watch for a while before joining the fray. “We are ready, in terms of physical infrastructure, to open. However, given the boutique-neighbourhood-shopping-centre niche that Forum Courtyard occupies, we want to implement certain additional customer-centric safeguards that will go towards reassuring our premium clientele about safety and hygiene. We are planning to open a week later than the rest,” explained Forum group deputy managing director Vidyut Saraf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pre-booking-visits-to-crowd-count-cams-city-malls-ready-to-talk-shop/articleshow/76224588.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: How Tamil Nadu attained high recovery rate||CHENNAI: As 861 people walked out of isolation units at hospitals across Tamil Nadu on Friday, the number of patients who have recovered from the viral infection touched 15,762. Though TN has the most infections after Maharashtra, the state has kept its mortality rate low and recovery rate high. With more than 78,000 cases, Maharashtra has a mortality rate of 3.4% and a recovery rate of 43%, the figures are 0.81% and 55% for Tamil Nadu. Delhi, which has nearly 26,000 cases, has a cure rate of 40% and death rate of 2.6%. Although Gujarat and Rajasthan have a recovery rate of 68% and 72% respectively, their death rate is 6.21% and 2.16%. From triage to treatment, TN follows a uniform treatment protocol at all hospitals. Guidelines for clinical management prepared by a 17-member expert committee are sent to all hospitals, said Dr S Ragunanthan, head of general medicine at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Some hospitals tweak clinical management to suit the patient’s requirement. Almost every day, doctors in government hospitals that treat more than 80% of the Covid-19 patients, share their experiences. The state protocols are periodically updated based on ICMR guidelines, international and local experiences. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu’s protocol was presented before a Central team. “Our doctors have told the central team how they manage patients inside the ward. Our aggressive testing, early diagnosis and intensive patient management are keys to this success,” Ragunanthan said. “At emergency, we triage patients as mild, mild to moderate, and severe cases of the infection,” said hospital RGGGH dean Dr R Jayanthi said. “Treatment is simple – drugs for management of symptoms, intense monitoring of oxygen level and supplementary oxygen,” she said. For instance, the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine has been a staple drug for almost all patients at government hospitals along with antibiotics such as azithromycin and steroids. However, some private hospitals don’t use it. “As of now there is no clarity on whether the drug is helpful or harmful. We don’t see a huge difference in death rates when patients are not being administered the drug either,” said Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, who treats Covid-19 patients at the Gleneagles Global Hospitals. Nurses at all hospitals ensure that patients with breathing difficulties sleep on their stomach. “This improves oxygenation in patients. We offer them high flow oxygen, steroids and immune moderators. We avoid ventilators as much as possible,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. Officials in the Covid control room said less than a dozen people were on ventilators. “There is growing number of vulnerable population including the elderly and people with chronic ailments getting infection. There are more people in the ICU requiring ventilation than before. This can push the death rate up in some time,” warns Apollo Hospitals infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. “But as of now, we are doing well in comparison to many other states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-tn-attained-high-recovery-rate/articleshow/76225437.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Patna||Residents allow domestic helps in Patna||PATNA: As the Centre has given green signal, domestic helps resumed work with safety restrictions in several households across the city. “Ours is a joint family and it is not easy to manage without maids. We have two domestic helps, one for cooking and another for cleaning. As there are elders in the house, we are just calling the one for cleaning because cook is not required right now. There is a separate set of slippers, mask and gloves for her that we keep at the entrance,” said Sudha Yadav of Buddha Colony. For elderly people like Sarita Sinha (62), maids play a very important role in day-to-day functioning. “I stay alone with my husband and both of us suffer from several diseases. I stopped calling the maid in the beginning, but it was really difficult to do the household chores. After the government lifted restrictions, she rejoined. Since she is working for quite a long time, she understands our needs. Therefore, she has kept a couple of her clothes at our house, which she changes every time she comes for work. We have also provided her with masks, gloves and sanitizers,” the Rajiv Nagar resident said. The housing societies in the city have also allowed domestic helps from non-containment zones to recommence works. “Strict measures are being followed in order to keep the colony safe. Arrangements of sanitizers and handwash have been made at the main entrance. The colony members have also been asked to sanitize them again before entering the house,” said Patliputra cooperative society’s secretary Rai Ajeet Prasad. Meanwhile, domestic helps claimed they were jobless for more than two months. Kanchan Kumari, who is a sweeper at a residential society in Nahar Khagaul Road, said: “It was quite difficult to run household with the little amount of savings I had. As soon as I received call from the building’s secretary to rejoin work, I assured him to follow all precautionary measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/residents-allow-domestic-helps/articleshow/76222443.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Patna||Patna-Gaya NH project: HC seeks status report from government||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday asked the development commissioner to conduct a meeting with officials concerned, including those from National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), to discuss ways for completion of much-delayed broadening and construction of National Highway connecting Patna and Gaya. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar, which was hearing batch of two PILs filed by social organisation Pratijnya and Gaurav Kumar Singh via videoconferencing, has fixed June 8 as next date of hearing in the matter. The court has also asked the state government to submit a status report on areas where acquisition process had not started yet; acquisition notification issued but amount not disbursed to rightful claimants and land which has not yet been handed over to NHAI for road construction. The bench, while observing that a lot is required to be done, directed the state government to submit a reply on why more than Rs 300 crore is still lying with competent authority for land acquisition (CALA) in Jehanabad district. Observing that matter is important in view of the upcoming monsoon, the court directed all officials concerned, including those from road construction department and NHAI, to present data to it through videoconferencing when the matter will be taken up for hearing next. The court observed that the need of the highway is even more important at a time when people in large number are returning home from other states. “The road will boost tourism and provide employment to people in rural areas,” the court observed. Additional solicitor general S D Sanjay and central government counsel Anshay Bhahadur Mathur appeared for NHAI, while additional advocate general Anjani Kumar represented the state. Counsel Manish Kumar appeared for Pratijnya and Sumeet Kumar Singh for the second petitioner. Pratijnya had urged the high court to ask authorities concerned to complete land acquisition and finish the project without any further delay. Singh had filed the PIL to stop dumping of garbage and sewerage in Falgu river in Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-gaya-nh-project-hc-seeks-status-report-from-govt/articleshow/76222690.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 6, 2020||Patna||Lokayukta can’t controlofficial functioning: Patna HC||PATNA: The Patna high court has observed that the Lokayukta cannot supervise or control the functioning of government executive and issue orders to various functionaries to discharge their duties in a particular manner.  It observed that the Bihar Lokayukta Act, 2011, authorizes the Lokayukta to file a case in special court and send a report, together with its findings, to competent authority with its recommendation to initiate disciplinary proceedings under rules applicable to such public servant only when its findings discloses the commission of an offence by a public servant punishable under The Prevention of Corruption Act after conclusion of inquiry. The high court also ruled that no jurisdiction is vested in the Lokayukta under Section 38 of the Act to direct any authority for initiating disciplinary proceedings against any executive. A bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh made these observations on Wednesday while hearing a writ petition filed by one Bipin Bihari Singh, who had challenged an order passed by judicial member of the Lokayukta on April 4, 2019. The judicial member had ordered Bipin’s controlling authority to initiate departmental proceedings for major punishment against him and ensure its completion within prescribed time frame fixed by the government. The high court order was uploaded to its website on Thursday. The petitioner was posted as cooperative society registrar when the Lokayukta passed the order in the backdrop of a complaint lodged by 55 villagers to the circle officer (CO) of Dabhawan panchayat in Pandarak block (Patna) in May 2011 on the encroachment of water sources, causing problems to the farmers. The petitioner was the Pandarak CO that time. The Lokayukta concluded that Singh neither initiated any proceeding to remove encroachment nor did he take steps for making water source functional. The issue was resolved in 2017 after its repeated orders. While setting aside the Lokayukta’s order, Justice Singh observed that it had inherent jurisdictional error. “If a statutory authority assumes to act in a case over which the law does not give it authority, the proceeding and adjudication will be altogether void,” th bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lokayukta-cant-controlofficial-functioning-hc/articleshow/76222531.cms||Debashish Karmakar
June 6, 2020||Patna||Congress starts flexing muscles, seeks more seats to contest||PATNA: As the Election Commission has indicated that state assembly elections would be conducted on schedule time in October-November, Congress has started flexing muscles for more seats. Another Mahagathbandhan partner and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has supported the Congress demand. RJD, which has projected party chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the CM face of the Mahagathbandhan, is unwilling to precipitate the issue into a conflict at this stage. At a closed-door meeting attended by senior Congress leaders of the state here on Friday, party’s Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh demanded more seats than RJD to contest the assembly elections. He also stressed that the leader of the Mahagathbandhan was not decided yet. “It has not been decided yet who will lead the opposition alliance. We will take a unanimous decision on the issue very soon,” Akhilesh told a news channel. Speaking on the seat-sharing issue, Akhilesh said: “JD(U) and RJD contested 101 seats each in 2015 elections. Now JD(U) is out of the alliance. So, we cannot agree on the same number of seats.” Congress had contested 41 out of 243 assembly seats in Bihar in 2015. Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh, who along with state party president Madan Mohan Jha and senior leaders Tariq Anwar, Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj and Kripanath Pathak met at former governor Nikhil Kumar’s residence here, said their party was making no less efforts than others for the elections. “Rather we are making more efforts and taking concrete steps for making the party strong at ground level,” he told reporters. The CLP leader, however, said the number of seats will be decided by the party high command. “It was just a get-together to discuss as how to prepare for the election,” Singh told TOI. Manjhi, on the other hand, supported Congress’s demand of more seats. “I agree to the Congress’s demand for more seats. Any decision should be taken by a coordination committee. We are ready to contest lower number of seats, but only if it is decided by a coordination committee and not by a party or person,” Manjhi said. RJD spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha, however, said all issues will be amicably resolved through talks with the allies. “We will seat together and win the elections,” he said. Congress state president Jha told TOI that it was an informal meeting. When asked if they discussed the election strategy and seat-sharing formula, he replied, “Our party is already holding various programmes. So, definitely we will discuss the strategy for election when we meet. But seat-sharing was not discussed today. We will discuss the issue with alliance partners. It is natural that everybody wants to contest more number of seats.” Tariq said the party will resume membership drive which was disrupted due to lockdown and Covid-19. He said the party will demand the migrants’ enrolment in the voter list. “It seems election would be held on time,” he added. Tariq also said seat-sharing will be decided when the alliance partners sit together. Nikhil said the Centre miserably failed in handling the migrants’ issue. “Had the central government handled this issue strategically from the beginning, it would not have led to such a crisis,” Nikhil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-starts-flexing-muscles-seeks-more-seats-to-contest/articleshow/76222562.cms||Sheezan Nezami
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19: 42 people returned from Maharashtra push Kalaburagi tally to 552||KALABURAGI: As many as 42 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Kalaburagi on Friday taking the district’s Covid-19 tally to 552. Sedam taluk registered the most number of Covid-19 cases in the North Karnataka district with 13, followed by Chittapur (10) and Chincholi, which reported eight cases. All the patients who were confirmed infected on Friday had returned to Kalaburagi from Maharashtra, and had been staying at quarantine centres across the district. They have now been shifted to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences. While Kalaburagi has registered seven Covid-19 fatalities, 128 people have recovered from the infection and been discharged. The number of active cases in the district stands at 417.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/42-people-returned-from-maha-push-kalaburagi-tally-to-552/articleshow/76223489.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Doctors in Pune complain of nausea, headache after hydroxychloroquine intake||PUNE: Doctors taking the malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, as a preventive measure (chemoprophylaxis) to ward off Covid-19 have reported its mild to moderate adverse side-effects. A total of 44 of the 140 government and private doctors in Pune had complained of side-effects after taking hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended the medicine for the frontline health workers as a prophylaxis to prevent the Covid-19 infection. A significant number of doctors who complained of side-effects had some or other pre-existing medical conditions, including diabetes and hypertension. The most frequently reported complaints were headache followed by nausea, dizziness, abdominal cramps, and loose motion. Hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar) was seen in three participants, all with diabetes. Experts at the state-run B J Medical College-Sassoon General Hospital found this in a month-long study carried out in April. Utmost care is necessary before using HCQ as chemoprophylaxis for Covid-19 among doctors with underlying medical conditions, stressed the experts. “Compared to an American-Canadian study published recently, more proportion of participants (doctors) from the Pune study reported headache and dizziness,” principal investigator of the study Rajesh Kulkarni, a paediatrician at B J Medical College and Sassoon hospital, told TOI. The proportion of participants (doctors) having underlying medical conditions like hypertension and diabetes were also more in the Pune study. “Most doctors who complained of side-effects have co-morbid conditions,” said another investigator and paediatrician Aarti Kinikar. Currently, there is no vaccine against Covid-19. So, the hopes are pinned on the widely available drug such as hydroxychloroquine, especially in India, where high population density makes social distancing difficult. Many people around the world, including US President Donald Trump, have taken the drug in the hope it might prevent infection. On Thursday (June 5), the prestigious medical journal “The Lancet” retracted the paper that raised safety concerns over the use of the drug (HCQ) to treat Covid-19, blaming a healthcare company that supplied the data set. The initial finding led the World Health Organisation to suspend the clinical trials of the drug, which it later resumed after “The Lancet” retracted the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-complain-of-nausea-headache-after-hydroxychloroquine-intake/articleshow/76225442.cms||Umesh Isalkar
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS girds up for GHMC polls, civic projects get big push||Hyderabad: The state government appears to be getting ready for GHMC elections by promising to turn Hyderabad into a global city. While the civic body is speeding up works like construction of flyovers, junction improvements and black-topping of roads, the ruling TRS is trying to woo the citizens by offering various sops. The present GHMC council term ends in February 2021 and the elections are likely to be held in December this year or January next year. In the last elections, TRS had won 99 seats, while its ally bagged 44 seats. BJP secured four seats, Congress two and TDP one seat. But, going by the indications, TRS is already in an election mode. On Thursday, the standing committee of the civic body passed a resolution to waive off 80% of interest totalling Rs 800 crore on property tax arrears till 2019-20 on all the properties except those belonging to the government. Interestingly, in the 2016 GHMC elections, a sop was offered to collect a nominal Rs 101 towards property from those owners who had been paying a property tax of Rs 1,200 a year. This scheme had benefited about five lakh property tax owners. For the past few months, projects taken up under Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), have been speeded up and some were inaugurated. Flyovers at Bio-Diversity junction and LB Nagar were inaugurated. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao is keen to fast-track the cable-stayed bridge across Durgam Cheruvu, flyover at Balanagar and other works. Using the lockdown period, GHMC is rushing through the works on a steel bridge at Chutney’s restaurant near Nagarjuna Circle. The bridge is almost nearing completion. Apart from recarpeting the roads, Rs 170 crore was sanctioned to lay cement concrete roads covering a length of 300 km in the peripheral areas of the city under GHMC’s jurisdiction. “GHMC has taken up developmental works costing Rs 30,000 crore in the last few years. The works were mainly taken up to turn Hyderabad into a global city. We made use of lockdown period to complete many works as there was no traffic diversion issues,” mayor Bonthu Rammohan told TOI. TRS sources said the party is targeting 110 of 150 wards in the upcoming elections leaving AIMIM its share of seats in the Old City. “We are hopeful of getting a positive result because of our work in the last four-and-a-half years,” a senior TRS functionary said. The ruling party is planning to hold a meeting with corporators after June 30 on the elections. Municipal authorities said special emphasis is being given on urban areas and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has already announced Rs 50,000 crore would be spent on urban areas and municipalities over five years from 2019. But opposition parties allege that the government, which had neglected the city in the past five years, is now trying to prov e it has transformed the city. “TRS has a habit of laying foundation stones and making announcements of various projects worth several crores of rupees. One lakh 2BHK houses were announced, which are yet to be completed. GHMC has gone bankrupt during TRS’s rule,” BJP MLC and party Greater Hyderabad unit president N Ramchander Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-girds-up-for-ghmc-polls-civic-projects-get-big-push/articleshow/76225445.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Police gears up for Op blue Star||Ludhiana: Police have beefed up security on the anniversary of Operation Blue Star. Police personnel have already been deployed outside religious places. About 1,000 extra police force will guard the city to avoid any untoward incident. Besides, several checkposts have been deployed. The operation was conducted by the army from June 1 to 8 in 1984 to bring out armed militants from the Golden Temple premises. On June 6, 1984 the temple was stormed. Deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Ashwani Kapur said, already about 4,000 police personnel are on lockdown duty on road. For the anniversary, extra 1,000 staff have been deployed. Besides, several patrolling teams have also been formed. DCP Kapur added that the social media cell of Ludhiana police is also keeping track of the posts on social media. Quick action will be ensured on those posting provoking posts, he added. The official said the security had also been deployed outside religious places to maintain law & order in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-gears-up-for-op-blue-star/articleshow/76225959.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Cops nab 6 for planning robbery||LUDHIANA: The Sahnewal police have busted a gang of miscreants, with the arrest of six accused. According to the police, the accused were hatching conspiracy to execute robbery at a cycle parts unit, where one of the accused works as a labourer. The police have also recovered illegal country-made pistol, sharp-edged weapons and three motorcycles from their possession. The arrested accused have been identified as Ashish Kumar of Mahadev Nagar, Shiv Kumar and Bablu Kumar of Karamjit Nagar, Sharan Kumar and Kushal Shukla of Jain Colony and Vishal Gautam of Hargobind Nagar. Sharan works at the cycle parts manufacturing company in Miller Gunj. Additional deputy commissioner of Police-2, Jaskaranjit Singh Teja said the accused were arrested from near Pawa village during special checking on Friday, following a tip-off. They wanted to rob the owner of a cycle parts unit, he added. “Sharan works in a cycle parts unit, where the owner used to keep nearly Rs 50 lakh which he deposits in the first week of the month. Sharan contacted his friends and hatched a conspiracy to rob the employer. He bought weapons for Rs 20,000 to accomplish this,” said the ADCP, adding that one of the accused, Shiv Kumar, is already facing trial in two cases of kidnapping and liquor smuggling. A case of assault was already registered against Ashish Kumar. A FIR has been lodged against accused by Sahnewal police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-nab-6-for-planning-robbery/articleshow/76225963.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three injured as balcony crashes on College Street||KOLKATA: The second floor balcony of a four-storey building at the intersection of College Street and Mahatma Gandhi Road collapsed on Friday morning, injuring three persons, two of them are in critical condition. The third injured person is a 50-year-old woman, said police sources. The incident occurred at 8.50am when two plumbers were repairing a water pipeline on the second floor of the century-old building. While working, the plumbers could not assess the structural weakness of the building, which had been declared an unsafe structure by Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s buildings department three years ago. Soon, the balcony of the building caved in, injuring the plumbers. They were rushed to NRS Medical College and Hospital where they were stated to be critical, according to the police. The KMC buildings department started demolition of the unsafe parts of the balconies on the building’s second and first floors. A senior official of the department said the civic body would continue with the demolition work for the safety of people in the highly congested locality as the building stands at the intersection of two major thoroughfares and several shops are located on the ground floor of the building. “We will continue to raze several parts of the building, which may pose a threat to the life of pedestrians and customers visiting several saree shops situated near the building,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-injured-as-balcony-crashes-on-college-st/articleshow/76224710.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Private schools get fee notice on parents’ call||BHOPAL: Parents of students have complained to the MP commission for protection of child rights about the new strategies that private schools have come up with in order to extract consolidated fee instead of tuition fee for the lockdown period. The government orders clearly stated that the schools will only be able to charge tuition fee from parents for the lockdown period, but parents have alleged that the schools have brought all fee-heads under tuition fee, refusing to give them a fee-break-up. The district education officer took cognisance of the matter and sent notices to the schools that were charging fee under other heads. “There are some schools that charge the transport fee, mess fee, sports fee, annual fee and other kinds of fee under the 'tuition fee' head only and have refused to provide the parents with any rebate during the lockdown period. The government should put a cap on the amount of tuition fee that the schools can charge from parents else parents will be exploited by the big schools this way,” said Kamal Vishwakarma, president of MP parents’ association. Taking cognisance of the complaints from parents, the MPCPCR wrote to the district education officer about the issue. “We have asked the DEO Nitin Saxena to send notices to the schools that were not complying by the government order. It is to be noted that all the private schools can only charge tuition fee from the parents for the lockdown period. No additional fee will be charged by the schools,” said Brijesh Chouhan, member of the MPCPCR. DEO Nitin Saxena said, “We have sent notices to 4 big schools of the city on the recommendation of the MPCPCR. I have also received also number of complaints from the parents regarding the same. Schools have to ensure that they do not charge any kind of annual fee, mess fee, transportation fee, sports fee etc for the lockdown period else we will have to take strict action against the schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schools-get-fee-notice-on-parents-call/articleshow/76224706.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Business||Covid-19 impact: AGI glaspac expansion delayed but on||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown has delayed the expansion plans of AGI glaspac, the packaging products business of HSIL Ltd, by about 5-6 months but the company will go ahead with the expansion when the situation improves, a top official of the company said. AGI glaspac was to start the groundwork for its brownfield expansion in Telangana and a greenfield facility in the eastern part of the country in May this year but will now kick off the process only by the end of this year, AGI glaspac CEO & president Rajesh Khosla told TOI. “The expansion is still on but things will be delayed by five months or so. We have plans to invest around Rs 700 crore in two phases in the greenfield facility in the eastern part of India and Rs 150 crore in expanding the existing facility in Telangana. The expansion is aimed at increasing total capacity to about 8-8.9 million bottles per day (bpd) by 2022,” Khosla said. According to him, land has already been identified for the greenfield facility and formalities are under process but the project cost could escalate due to rise in prices of inputs like cement and steel. Khosla said the company, which makes container glass for various segments like liquor, food & beverages, water, pharma, among others, is gungho about expansion plans as it sees new markets opening up globally due to an anti-China sentiment. “Post-Covid the geopolitics will be totally different and a lot of markets will open up for us. We are already talking to prospective customers from US and other markets who want to change their suppliers from China to India. A presence in the east will gives us access to ports for exports,” he explained. He said not only is AGI glaspac looking at new segments like cosmetics and perfumes but also sees pharma sector emerging as a new growth segment given the government’s self-reliance push. In Telangana, where AGI glaspac claims to house Asia’s largest single point factory for container glass (excluding China) at Bhongir, the company has a capacity for making 1,600 tonnes per day (tpd) of glass which translates to about 6.5 million bpd. “The proposed greenfield facility will add 400 tpd (1.6-1.7 million bpd) in the first phase and 350 tpd in the second phase, while the proposed Telangana expansion will add about 150 tpd of glass (0.7 million bpd), Khosla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-19-impact-agi-glaspac-expansion-delayed-but-on/articleshow/76224741.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
June 6, 2020||Varanasi||Three-month-old child, three others test Covid-19 positive in Varanasi||VARANASI: Four more persons including a three-month-old child were tested positive for Covid-19 in Varanasi on Friday. With the detection of new coronavirus cases, the total number of positive cases has reached to 219 in the district, while 126 of these have been cured and discharged so far. Presently, there are 88 active corona cases in the district. Meanwhile, the district reported one more Covid-19 related death. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that the person, who was admitted to the BHU hospital for some health problems, had died on June 1 after which his sample was collected and sent for testing to BHU lab. Till the reports were received the body was kept in mortuary. The reports of his sample received on Friday confirmed coronavirus infection taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to five in the district. A total of 68 test results were received from BHU lab on Friday. Among the four positive cases, the child, who had arrived here from Mumbai by train, is a native of Phoolpur area. While another infected persons is a 53-year-old person, a resident of Anand Nagar colony in Sarnath area, who had arrived from Prayagraj. Another newly-detected case is a 26-year-old resident of Bari Piyari locality of Chowk area, while the another infected person is a 26-year-old youth, a resident of Dullahpur in Cholapur area. He worked as a JCB operator in Mumbai. According to the DM, Chitrasenpuram, Anand Nagar colony, and Dullahpur have been declared as new hotspots in the district. The total number of hotspots has now increased to 112, while five hotspots have been turned into green zones on Friday. So far 44 hotspots have come under green zone. The total number of active hotspots is 68 including 26 in orange zone and 42 in red zone. On Friday, 132 sample were collected in the district. So far 6,451 samples have been collected out of which the results of 5,889 samples have been received. The results of 562 samples are awaited. Meanwhile, as many as 16 more persons including a doctor were tested positive for Covid-19 in Azamgarh district on Friday. A migrant worker, confirmed coronavirus positive, a native of Deedarganj area died on Thursday night. According to the Azamgarh CMO Dr AK Mishra, the total number of positive cases rose to 141 in the district. As many as 25 patients have so far recovered from illness, while three persons died. Presently there are 113 active cases of Covid-19 in Azamgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-month-old-child-3-others-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76224343.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Trichy||After Koyambedu, Ariyalur now faces fresh influx from hotspots||TRICHY: Ariyalur district, which was hit by Covid-19 due to the Koyambedu cluster and recuperating slowly after having discharged 96% of the patients in the past month, is facing yet another challenge from the fresh influx of people returning from hotspots. In the last two weeks, Ariyalur reported 15 positive cases (9 from Maharashtra, 6 from Chennai and 1 from Gujarat), all returnees from hotspots. Acknowledging the need to shift focus from Koyambedu to people coming from hotspots, the Ariyalur district administration strengthened the check post bordering Perambalur and Cuddalore districts. Six institutional quarantine centres were also established to isolate and test them. “We are focussing on returnees from hotspots in other districts and states, and from abroad. They have to undergo mandatory quarantine for seven days at our quarantine centres,” Ariyalur district collector D Rathna told TOI. People returning from hotspots like Chennai, Maharashtra and Gujarat were traced based on information shared from the Covid-19 control room. A group of people returning from Chennai but not showing any symptoms was put under mandatory home quarantine for 14 days. “People who are stranded at Chennai due to the lockdown are also returning. Since they avail e-pass, we can track them and quarantine,” the collector added. Even if the returnees test negative, the health department will monitor their condition for seven consecutive days at the quarantine centres. Before discharging them, they will be tested again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/after-koyambedu-ariyalur-now-faces-fresh-influx-from-hotspots/articleshow/76225454.cms||Deepak Karthik
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown proves to be a blessing in disguise for MP’s environment||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh celebrated this year’s Environment Day in true sense as air quality of its major cities — Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur — on Friday was better than ever before. It was graded as cleanest by the central pollution control board. Air quality index that measures pollution levels has been cut down to half in MP cities, if compared before and after lockdown. Comparison of air quality before lockdown on March 20 and Friday points that air quality of major cities have turned from moderate, satisfactory to good. Ambient air quality is measured by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) taking into account values of PM 2.5, PM 10, NO2, NH3, SO2, CO and Ozone.The air quality index of Bhopal was 116 on March 20 that reduced to 49. AQI of Indore was 163 that cut down to 48. In Gwalior the AQI dipped from 96 to 39 and in Jabalpur AQI came down to 41 from 70. Figures also suggest that pollution levels came down more in the cities with maximum corona positives — Indore and Bhopal than Gwalior and Jabalpur. Air quality is measured taking into account the levels of sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (Nox), RSPM10 and fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in the air. While the rise in sulphur dioxide is due to vehicle emissions, increase in nitrogen oxide is due to human activity, including vehicles and sewage, among others. PM 10 is due to dust, construction, including building of roads while PM2.5 is due to dust, human activity and climatic conditions. Of the four, officials said, PM2.5 is the most harmful to health since it causes severe lung diseases. CPCB data hint that air quality of major MP cities improved to two levels. Officials said lockdown helped in cutting down pollution levels to unexpected levels in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-proves-to-be-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-mps-environment/articleshow/76224728.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Paid adoption of child: Custody to be decided by court||Ludhiana: A biological mother of a baby boy has filed a complaint against the family who “adopted” her child by “paying” money, asking them to return it, district child welfare officer of Nawanshahar has maintained that it will be the court which will take decision on the legality of adoption process. Meanwhile, the baby remains with the adopted parents as the child welfare committee (CWC) has declared them fit to keep the baby till the matter is decided. In a unique case, the fate of a four-month-old baby hangs in balance as his mother, who belongs to Machhiwara, wants him back from the adopted family. She claimed that her husband had allegedly sold the baby to the family for Rs 50,000 because of addiction and poverty. After the matter was brought to the notice of Nawanshahar deputy commissioner, he marked the enquiry to district child welfare officer (DCWO) Kanchan Arora, who is probing the matter. DCWO Arora said the hearing of the case by CWC was held on Thursday and both the biological and the adopted parents appeared, along with one of the women who had got the child adopted. She added that since two other women, who were among the three mediators, did not appear, they will write to police for calling them for next meeting, which will be held in about a week’s time. DCWO said till the meeting happens, the CWC has considered the adopted parents fit for keeping the baby. She added that as the adoption was done according to HAMA (Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act), and the give and take ceremony did happen, the custody of the baby is to be got from the court. “After hearing the mediators, most probably we will forward the case to the court, which will decide who will be given the final custody of the baby,” said the officer. DCWO officials said the couple had adopted the baby, as they did not have child even after 14 years of marriage. They added that the family adopted the child through an acquaintance and agreed to pay delivery charges of it’s mother. DCWO officials added that later the two parties got affidavit made and witnesses signed on it on February 26. They added that the couple claimed before the committee that they couldn’t get the adoption completed in tehsildar office or district courts, which is a must under HAMA, as they were celebrating the arrival of baby and then lockdown happened. The couple had told the committee that they do not want to give up the baby, as they have developed an emotional attachment with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/paid-adoption-of-child-custody-to-be-decided-by-court/articleshow/76225967.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 6, 2020||Goa||Soon, public will be able to test formalin in fish at market||Margao: The South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) will soon make formalin testing kits available at its wholesale fish market for the public to test the fish purchased by them. This was disclosed by Nuvem MLA and chairman of SGPDA Wilfred D’Sa in a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, in which, D’Sa requested him to instruct the directorate of fisheries to depute an inspector at the wholesale fish market from 5am to 1pm on a daily basis to conduct random checking of fish entering the market. He also made this request to fisheries minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues in a separate letter addressed to him. Stating that a lot of fish from the neighbouring states is brought to the wholesale fish market during the fishing ban period, D’Sa reminded the chief minister of the formalin-in-fish scare that had created fear and anxiety among the public last year. Thus, in his letter, D’Sa underscored the need for random checking of fish entering the wholesale market. “SGPDA will appoint staff on contract basis to assist the inspector, and a separate office will be operated in the SGPDA wholesale fish market for random checks of fish entering the market,” D’Sa said in the letter. Formalin testing kits will be kept for the use of public in this office, he added. What’s significant is that the SGPDA failed to reopen the wholesale fish market with restrictions as it received poor response from fish traders to its notice for registration of all vehicles used for fish transportation with the directorate of fisheries and the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-public-will-be-able-to-test-formalin-in-fish-at-market/articleshow/76225975.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||They battled Covid in ICUs and are now back to normal lives||CHENNAI: In the second week of May, M Hasan, a doctor from Periyar Nagar in Chennai, experienced acute breathing trouble and was put on high-flow oxygen support along with hundreds of Covid-19 patients at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Back then, three other doctors had died and for Hasan it was a cause of concern. But three weeks later, he has recovered and is set to resume duty on Saturday. “Though the future complications of the disease are still under study, I have no fear and I completely believe that I have recovered well,” said Hasan, who works at the medicine department of Government Peripheral Hospital at Periyar Nagar. M Ramasamy, a police inspector residing at Ashok Nagar, said he was worried for the first two days when he ran temperature but never expected that his lungs would be affected. He not only needed respiratory support but also expensive drugs like immuno modulators to recover. “I wouldn’t have worried much if only I was affected. For no fault of theirs, my daughter and wife, who never stepped out during the lockdown, tested positive because of me. This guilt was running in my mind throughout the treatment period. But now we all have recovered and I would say we have returned to our normal lives,” said Ramasamy. Ramasamy’s doctors attributed the recovery to his strict protein-rich diet and breathing exercises (using three-ball respirometers) he did after getting discharged. His neighbours too were supportive in making food for the family during the recovery period and checked on them at regular intervals to ensure that the family was hale and hearty. But not all survivors were as lucky as Ramasamy. Rajkumar, a recovered patient from Trichy, said that he still faces stigma. “I lost my sense of taste. I was able to eat properly only a week after discharge. It was all about will power,” said Rajkumar, who regained half of his lost weight now and was back to office in Wednesday. “People should not fear and see it as a viral infection which can be treated well at our government hospitals. I’m also a living testimony to the fact that our GHs can provide the best of treatments. But at the same time people should ensure that they don’t ignore early symptoms as delaying medical attention could lead to complications,” said Dr Hasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/they-battled-covid-in-icus-and-are-now-back-to-normal-lives/articleshow/76225459.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra moots app for ready data on Covid-19 hospitals||PUNE: A mobile application which helps access the nearest Covid care hospitals, laboratories and ambulance service in Mumbai and Pune for early detection of cases to help reduce mortality rate is on the anvil. Additional chief secretary Nitin Kareer, who chaired a review meeting with the Pune district administration, said such information would help citizens and the administrations. “The mobile application will ensure that citizens have the entire data of bed availability at hospitals, ambulance services, testing facilities at their finger tips. The administration can monitor patients are catered to as hospitals will have to upload the availability of beds,’‘he said. Technical advisor to the state government Subhash Salunkhe said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a review meeting supported it. “Such facilities would help a Covid-19 patient’s first contact or high-risk contact check for beds. Comorbid patients too could be admitted quickly. There will be no delay if the information is put out in public domain,” he said. Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar who launched a dashboard to showcase availability of beds in Pune district told TOI the website can be accessed and a special mobile application will be ready in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-moots-app-for-ready-data-on-covid-19-hospitals/articleshow/76225456.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Plant trees to offset pollution, say forest officials, environmentalists||Ludhiana: The forested area in the Ludhiana district is so negligible that forest department and environment groups feel that it is an uphill task to increase the forest cover of the district, while celebrating the World Environment Day on Friday. According to the Forest Survey of India (FSI) Dehradun report, which was released by it in December last year, Ludhiana district had a forest area of 58.92 sq km whereas in 2017, the area under forest in the district was 55 sq km. The report also stated that the forest cover of Ludhiana district was abysmally low at just 1.65% of the geographical area of the district, which is 3,578 sq km. The district forest authorities said they are making efforts to increase forest cover of the district. “We had retrieved 644 acres of forest land some years ago and recently we have recovered 35 acres of forest land at Mand Udhowal on Machhiwara Rahon road and Ladowal. Our focus is to retrieve forest land and plant trees there. This year, we have planned to plant three lakh plants, about 60%-70% of which will be state tree sheesham. We will also plant neem, arjun and kikar on canals and drains as there is scope for plantation at these places. We are also planning to plant such trees on the banks of Buddha Nullah,” said Charanjit Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Ludhiana. The NGOs that are involved in plantation process said they expect increase in forest cover in next few years. “We are coming up with micro forests in many areas of the state, including Ludhiana district. Such type of plantation has great results and plants have 100% survival. We are also encouraging people to plant trees. We hope that in some years, the results of our hard work will be visible, as a lot of NGOs are involved in such endeavour,” said Jatinder Manchanda, founder member of Sambhav Foundation, which had carried large-scale plantation in Ludhiana in 2014-15. “Ludhiana has earned dubious distinction of being one of the most polluted cities in the world. The only way in front of the city to decrease the impact of pollution is through trees. We can and should go for massive plantation to increase the green cover to counter impact pollution,” said Bikramdeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/plant-trees-to-offset-pollution-say-forest-officials-environmentalists/articleshow/76225973.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Balrampur hospital ex-head tests Covid-19 positive hours after death||LUCKNOW: Prominent neurosurgeon and former director of Balrampur Hospital Dr Shyam Swaroop (78), who was suffering from kidney ailment since 2015, died early Friday morning at his Aishbagh residence. His report of Covid-19 test carried out by a private lab, which arrived hours after his death, turned out to be positive for novel coronavirus infection. With this, Covid-19 toll in the city has gone up to five with four patients dying in past 15 days. All the victims were elderly with comorbidity. The sorrow and agony of the family was compounded when Dr Swaroop’s only son, Prof Suchit Swaroop, a faculty at Lucknow University’s zoology department, came to know that he, too, was Covid-19 positive. Hours after performing the last rites of Dr Swaroop, Suchit got admitted to SGPGIMS for treatment as advised by health authorities. The only relief for the family was that Suchit’s mother, also a doctor and currently a consultant for National Health Mission, tested negative for the infection. However, the family has been asked to stay in home-quarantine till further orders. Suchit’s wife and daughter will be also tested. Talking to TOI over the phone from SGPGIMS, Suchit said: “My father had fever for last three days. He had been taking medication for blood pressure, diabetes and kidney problem. He was feeling extremely weak on Thursday morning and wasn’t even able to stand. We had to help him till the washroom.” “By the evening, he got more sluggish and drowsy and went to sleep early. I too had fever on Tuesday but it subsided the next day. Since we were to take him to SGPGIMS the next day for nephrology treatment, I got him and myself tested for novel coronavirus from a private lab on Thursday,” he said. According to the family, Dr Swaroop passed away around 2:10am while his report came at 10am. By that time, about 15 people, including Dr Swaroop’s two brothers and a sister had reached the house to condole his death. The family asked everyone to leave. They got the body covered in a plastic bag as per Covid-19 safety protocol. “He used to work with the Red Cross Society after retirement. As soon as the report came, Red Cross workers took over and sealed the body. They were in protective gear themselves. Everyone was then sanitized and four people who shouldered the body were also given protective suits,” Suchit said. Spokesperson to the chief medical officer (CMO), Yogesh Raghuvanshi, said audit would confirm the exact cause of the death. Dr Swaroop served as director of Balrampur Hospital from 1999 till his retirement in 2001. He was the first neurosurgeon of Balrampur Hospital and was MS in general surgery as well as neurosurgery. A condolence meet was held at Balrampur Hospital for the departed soul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/balrampur-hosp-ex-head-tests-covid-ve-hrs-after-death/articleshow/76225970.cms||Yusra Husain
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Robbers hold bank manager at gunpoint, flee with Rs 17 lakh||UTTARPARA (HOOGHLY): Three armed robbers allegedly decamped with nearly Rs 17 lakh from the vault of the Union Bank branch at Uttarpara’s Rajendra Avenue on Friday afternoon after locking up the manager and staff in a room at gunpoint. One of the robbers was arrested later in the evening, said police commissioner of Hooghly, Humayun Kabir. Some cash has also been recovered. Efforts are on to trace the other two. The three entered the bank on a busy thoroughfare around 3pm. One of them walked up to the cashier, stating that he wanted to open an account. The other two, whose faces were covered by masks brandished revolvers and shoved the manager and other employees into a room. There were no customers at the branch when the incident happened. The three snatched the keys of the vault, opened it and looted the cash. While fleeing, the trio dropped a few bundles of Rs 500 currency notes on the road outside. Locals who were under the impression that the three were genuine customers at the bank tried to alert them about the bundles. Suprakash Patnaik, IC, Uttarpara, reached the spot and roadblocks were set up on way to Howrah. Searches led to the arrest of one of the trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/robbers-hold-bank-manager-at-gunpoint-flee-with-rs-17l/articleshow/76224730.cms||Falguni Banerjee
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi accounts for 40% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 cases with highest single-day spike of 204||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Of the 515 Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka on Friday, Udupi accounted for 40%, registering its highest one-day spike with 204 patients being confirmed infected. Of the 204 who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, 203 had returned to Udupi from Maharashtra. The spike on Friday took the district tally in Udupi to 768, with 685 active cases. Udupi, which has also reported 150 Covid-19 cases on June 2, has had one fatality from Covid-19 thus far. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha attributed the spike to the increase in the number of tests being conducted in the district. “We tested more than 2,000 samples on Friday. The only local who tested positive for the novel coronavirus is a cop. All 204 patients have been admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital, and officials of the health department have been asked to ensure they are provided necessary treatment,” he said. The Udupi district administration had taken all necessary measures to complete testing all the 8,500 people who had arrived from other states after the lockdown was relaxed, Jagadeesha said. “The number of Covid-19 cases will reduce once we complete testing all the samples. We will also intensify surveillance for people with influenza like illnesses (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) in Udupi,” he added. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada district administration confirmed that eight people had been confirmed infected on Friday.“Of the eight cases, sever were of those who had returned from Maharashtra, and the officials are tracing the contacts of the other patient. On the other hand, 12 patients who recovered from the infection at the designated Covid-19 hospital in Mangaluru were discharged on Friday. The seven people who had returned from Maharashtra to Dakshina Kannada and were confirmed infected on Friday had been quarantined in Udupi on arrival in Karnataka. They entered Dakshina Kannada after completing the stipulated quarantine period, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-accounts-for-40-of-states-covid-19-cases-with-highest-single-day-spike-of-204/articleshow/76223510.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: How farmers in Kumaon used water harvesting to switch to fruit cultivation, earn more profits||NAINITAL: Several villagers of Ramgarh block of Nainital district have initiated a movement of using simple water harvesting methods which have helped them move from cultivating wheat and other traditional crops to the more profitable pursuit of growing fruits like apple and peach. The villagers say that the movement started in 2012 from Galla village where a farmer dug eight pits each with a capacity of about 1000 litres. The farmer, Naresh Singh Galiya, connected all the pits through a tube and was able to use the accumulated water for his fruit crops. “I was the first farmer in the area to shift to apple and peach farming. We only had one source of water and much of it was used to procure drinking water. The rains and the snowfall were becoming less and less at that time and some experts from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) who came to our area, explained the concept of water harvesting. I deployed it and in the next season, I had an entire orchard full of apple trees,” Galiya told TOI. He added that over the next few years, several other farmers in the village also followed in his footsteps and started digging water-harvesting pits. “Initially, people continued with traditional crops like wheat and mandua while dedicating some portion of their fields to apple and peach orchards. But when they saw that the profit in fruits was more than in the traditional crops with less risk as well, eventually most of them switched. Now, many of them have orchards of apple, peach and pear trees,” Galiya said. Farmers say that even though the initial input cost of apple is higher (almost 15 lakh per acre), it gives them a profit of more than Rs 4-5 lakh per acre. This is much more than what they would get, growing traditional crops like wheat through which they earned barely Rs 40000 per year. Another advantage is that they do not have to till, harvest and sow the new crops every years, as a tree will bear fruit for several years. Meanwhile, the example set by Galla village was soon adopted by other villages. Bachhi Singh Bisht, a farmer in the area, said that by the year 2017, Galla had over 90 water harvesting units and it was in the same year that the strategy gained popularity among the neighbouring villages. “That year, there was very less rainfall — it was almost like a drought. While the crops in the neighbouring villages failed, there was enough water to irrigate the fields in Galla village,” he said, adding that people from neighbouring villages soon came to their village to ask them about their strategy. “We taught them how and where to build these units. We also encouraged them to move to fruit farming so that they can have more profit and less risk and soon, many of them did build these tanks,” Bisht said. The locals now say that in the last three years, more than 200 farmers from the six villages in Ramgarh have built the water harvesting facility and either completely or partially switched to fruit cultivation. “There are more than 200 farmers who now grow apple, peach and pear. Even though some still grow wheat and mandua, that is mostly for household consumption,” Bisht said. Ajeet Nain, director, research, at GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology said that the method of rainwater harvesting adopted by the farmers in the Ramgarh area is the best option for dealing with the extreme weather conditions caused by the climate change. “The effects of the climate change means that there will be extreme weather conditions. For example, in one month, there will be excess rainfall while just months later, there will be none. In both these conditions, the rainwater harvesting is probably the only way the farmers will be able to cope. While in times of excess rainfall, these pits will help slow the speed of draining water and therefore will impede soil erosion, in times of no rainfall, the stored water can be used for irrigation," Nain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-farmers-in-kumaon-used-water-harvesting-to-switch-to-fruit-cultivation-earn-more-profits/articleshow/76222369.cms||Prashant Jha
June 6, 2020||Allahabad||Siblings among five new Covid +ve cases from city||Prayagraj: Two minors and an elderly were among five new novel Covid-19 cases reported from the Prayagraj district on Friday. With these new cases, tally in the district reached 118. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that of the five patients, four had a travel history. Dr Sahai said, “Two minors, including a nine-year-old boy and his 11-year- old sister tested positive for Covid-19 infection here on Friday. They are residents of Baraut Bazar in Handia, and had returned from Mumbai along with their parents on June 1. The children along with parents had first arrived in Jaunpur from Mumbai and then came to Prayagraj by bus on the morning of June 1. Apart from suggesting home quarantine after their return from Mumbai, their swab samples were taken on June 1 which had tested positive on Friday. However, both the children, who had tested positive for infection, are asymptomatic, Dr Sahai added. While a 41-year-old man from Chatnag road (Jhunsi) and 30-year-old man from Saidabad also tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. They too had returned from Mumbai on different dates and have been home quarantined. Besides, a 67-year-old man from Bahadurganj also tested positive for infection. He had no travel history. A team of health department has been compiling the details of his family members and the area has been turned into hot spot. Till date, 43 active cases have been reported in the city. Of these, 72 patients have recovered and discharged while three patients have died due to Covid-19 infection. Moreover, over 9500 people have downloaded Ayush Kawach app In the district. Besides, details of10149 persons who returned to the city from different parts of the country since May 1, were uploaded on the portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/siblings-among-five-new-covid-ve-cases-from-city/articleshow/76224408.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||In Tamil heartland, cops speak Hindi to help guest workers||CHENNAI: Early this week, Bikas was in a hurry to return to his home town in Bihar where his wife was expecting their child. But, the 35-year-old could not communicate his urgency to officials at MGR Central Railway station. Now, an exclusive call centre manned by five Hindi-speaking policemen at the office of the additional commissioner of police in Vepery addresses this problem. Tasked with sending guest workers home, police tied up with a software firm to sends bulk SMSes to selected guest workers, indicating the date and time of their boarding, additional commissioner of police (south zone) Prem Anand Sinha told TOI. The call centre receives not less than 100 calls a day and the five uniformed personnel manning it have been trained not to just note down the details of the guest workers, but also to offer them supportive talk. The software firm roped in for the project keeps track of those who have applied online. As soon as a message is received that the trains have been readied, the SMSes reach them and many arrive at the station. “We had thousands of workers from states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Assam among others applying to go home. Moving them from their places of work to the stations and arranging trains for them needed detailed planning and coordination. It had the potential to become a law and order problem as well as severe hardship to the guest workers. We ensured it was done perfectly,” Sinha said. Officials of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and nodal officers for the various states played a key role in getting the trains required and ensuring that all the facilities were available at the railway stations concerned, he added. All these efforts have paid off and nearly 1.07 lakh guest workers have taken trains to their home states so far. Many have sent a happy note of appreciation to the police officers in the city. Chennai police commissioner A K Vishwanathan has lauded the coordinated effort that has brought smiles to the faces of several workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-tamil-heartland-cops-speak-hindi-to-help-guest-workers/articleshow/76225467.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nearly 14,000 register online for admission to zilla parishad schools||PUNE: Nearly 14,000 applications were received online by the Pune zilla parishad from 13 talukas of Pune district. This was the first time the Pune ZP invited online applications. The process is usually held manually each year as parents visit schools and admit their students. But, due to the lockdown schools were shut and the Pune ZP did not want to stop the admission process. For all the 13 talukas of Pune district, the Pune ZP created separate links, and parents could click on the link and fill up the admission form. Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said this move to encourage parents to go online for registering the names of their children for admissions was successful. "It will now be a regular feature," he said. A total of 13,960 applications were received by Pune ZP in almost 45 days for the 3,651 schools for std I-VIII. Education officer Sunil Kurhade said the process of confirmation of these applications will be done once the schools reopen. "Once the schools reopen, we will ask parents to visit schools and submit birth certificate, caste certificate, address proof," Kurhade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nearly-14000-register-online-for-admission-to-zp-schools/articleshow/76225466.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 6, 2020||Mysuru||Devotees rush to temples, but pray from outside||SHIVAMOGGA/ CHIKKAMAGALURU: Devotees rushed to Kote Marikamba and Kote Sitaramanjaneya temples in Shivamogga as the places of worship opened for cleaning on Friday. The priest chanted shlokas while hundreds of devotees witnessed a special puja from a distance. They were also not allowed to sit in the temple premises. Flower and coconut sellers were happy to resume business by opening their shops located in the premises. On Friday, the people rushed to the temple because of the lunar eclipse. Though priests and the temple management restricted the entry of devotees, the latter were seen praying from the premises itself. “We do not have permission to open the temple. We are cleaning the yard. But we can't stop people from coming and praying,” said a trustee of the Marikamba temple. The Annapurna Temple at Horanadu in Chikkamagaluru has gone online to connect the devout with the goddess — the management is using Facebook Live for the purpose. Main priest and Dharmadarshi Bhimeshwara Joshi said the management is not ready to open the temple anytime soon. Joshi requested the devotees to follow the temple Facebook page for updates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/devotees-rush-to-temples-but-pray-from-outside/articleshow/76223545.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Khanna accused Cong of mishandling migrants||Ludhiana: Holding the state government responsible for exodus of migrant workers to their native places, the national vice-president of Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) Avinash Rai Khanna said the central government provided everything demanded by the state governments, but they failed to handle the situation properly. He said the Centre has again offered the state governments to provide lists of migrant workers who want to come back so they can make required arrangements. Khanna was here in the city on Friday for highlighting the achievements of Modi government in first year of second term. While addressing the press conference, Khanna said, “The central government had left decision to state governments whether they wanted to send or receive back the migrant workers and accordingly, trains were arranged.” He said they had provided enough food to the state governments as well and also announced special package worth Rs 20 lakh crore for every sector. Khanna claimed that here in Punjab, the state government could not distribute the ration properly and one person committed suicide due to hunger, ironically in Punjab food and civil supplies minister’s home town. Answering the query regarding state government’s claims that the financial package is worthless, he said, “At least, the Centre announced a package that kept every sector in mind. What did state government in Punjab do till now? Instead of giving relief to the public, they have started imposing challans.” He said in states like Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka, special packages were announced to support the citizens. While counting the achievements of Modi government, Khanna said in this one-year tenure, the problems pending for decades have been resolved, including abolition of article 370 and 34A, Ram mandir in Ayodhya, Citizenship Amendment Act and ban on triple talaq (divorce). He said these decisions are historic and PM Modi will always be remembered for taking such bold steps because these things gave desired relief to many. Khanna also said Modi opened accounts of 31.31 crore people across the country under the Jan Dhan Yojana scheme. According to Khanna, the whole world is forced to live under the shadow of the coronavirus, and the PM took very early steps to control situation. He said PM Modi helped at least 100 neighbouring countries. He said he has taken the pledge to make India self reliant and its first example is manufacturing of N95 masks and PPE kits in the country. Elections in J&K after demarcation Answering a query about elections in Jammu and Kashmir, Khanna said, “First of all we got elections of panchayats there, which were pending for the last 19 years. Once demarcation process will be over, there will be assembly elections.” He said they are ready for the elections, as situation is cordial in J&K and in a democracy, anybody has the right to contest elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/khanna-accused-cong-of-mishandling-migrants/articleshow/76225979.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Casualty count breaches 400-mark, tally at 8,965||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) breached 400-mark on Friday, with 10 more patients succumbing to the infection in the 24 hours, pushing the Pune’s death tally up to 401. Besides, 248 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Wednesday, taking the case count in the region to 8,965. Of the fresh cases, 184 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 53 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas and 11 in the rural parts of the district. Among the deceased, seven were aged above 60. While five patients succumbed at the Sassoon General Hospital, three at private healthcare units. The deceased included a 49-year-old woman from the Kondhwa Khurd area, an 80-year-old woman from the Pune Camp area, a 72-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 63-year-old woman from Ghorpadi, a 64-year-old woman from Koregaon Park, a 61-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 45-year-old man from Kondhwa Khurd and a 74-year-man from Mumbai undergoing treatment in Pune. The details of the two patients who died of infection were awaited till going to the press. PMC health department officials said 183 critical patients were being treated at various hospitals in the city, of which 45 were on ventilator. About 170 patients were discharged on Friday after they were declared cured. About 2,402 active patients were under treatment at various hospitals and centres, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/casualty-count-breaches-400-mark-in-pune-248-test-positive/articleshow/76225473.cms||Sarang Dastane
June 6, 2020||Pune||Credai against Centre plan to ‘reduce rates’, demand sops||PUNE: The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) has opposed the Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal’s proposal to reduce the rates of unsold inventory. Further, the body has demanded sops from the central government to help boost the real estate sector. Credai vice-president Shantilal Kataria told TOI that they sent a letter to this effect to the Centre. “In the past five years, there has been no increase in real estate prices. Instead of telling us to ‘reduce rates’, the Centre should give sops to ensure the real estate sector picks up,” Kataria said. “The Cement and steel are getting more expensive, labour contractors are hiking rates, builders are absorbing part of the GST burden because of no input tax credit. Corporation taxes, stamp duty, premiums, etc, have not reduced. How can they expect further reduction?” Merchant said. NAREDCO president Niranjan Hiranandani said rates cannot be reduced unless changes were made to Section 43 c (a) of the Income Tax Act, which prevent developers from selling below RR rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/credai-against-centre-plan-to-reduce-rates-demand-sops/articleshow/76225469.cms||Nisha Nambiar
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong blames BJP govt for shutting down of Atlas operations||Ludhiana: Congress leaders have criticised the Centre and the Bjaratiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled Uttar Pradesh government for the temporary shut down of one of India's leading bicycle company Atlas Cycles (Haryana), Sahibabad unit. Congress leader and Punjab Large Industrial Development Board chairman Pawan Dewan has now blamed the BJP for the crisis being faced by the bicycle company and accused centre government and Uttar Pradesh government of their ‘wrong policies’ and also claimed that bicycle unit was closed because of this. Speaking on the issue, Dewan said, “It is a big shocker that Atlas Cycle factory in Ghaziabad closed down on World Cycle Day and thousands of workers have been rendered unemployed. Amid the slogan of ‘Make in India’, it is a major failure of the central government. On the one hand, the Modi government is talking about making the country self-reliant. At the same time, thousands of labourers have become unemployed due to the closure of Atlas unit, one of country's largest bicycle manufacturer, in Ghaziabad. Condition of industries has deteriorated during the tenure of the Modi government, everyone reminisces the days of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, when employment opportunities were being provided.” Dewan also said the government should help the company to evolve and enrol the labourers in schemes like MNREGA, so that an era of bicycle manufacturing can be saved from destruction. “Worth noticing is that there is BJP government in the state in addition to the one at the Centre. In a country like Netherlands, to promote the bicycle, even the big leaders are travelling by bicycle. But here, the government did nothing about the bicycle industry, the mode of transport of common man.” Meanwhile, city-based bicycle parts manufacturers are still nervous after the news of the bicycle company shutting down it’s operations temporarily surfaced. However, Ludhiana manufacturers have been assured by United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers (UCPMA) that the company will pay off the pending payments after disposing off some prime property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-blames-bjp-govt-for-shutting-down-of-atlas-operations/articleshow/76225981.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Authorities spur land pooling||Hyderabad: To promote land pooling schemes in Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) jurisdiction, the municipal administration has revised sharing of land to 60% and 40% to land owners and government respectively. Until now, the share was 50:50. The metropolitan authority had earlier issued notification inviting land owners to come forward to participate in land pooling schemes. Since some of the farmers were demanding more share in the developed land, the municipal administration has issued orders enhancing land owners’ share by 10%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/authorities-spur-land-pooling/articleshow/76225472.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Netravathi Express halts curtailed||On the request of the Goa government, the ministry of railways has decided to curtail stops of the special trains passing through Goa. Thus, stoppages of Netravathi Express commencing it’s journey on June 7, from Karmali and Canacona have been curtailed till further advice. Henceforth, Netravathi Express will only stop at Tivim in North Goa and Madgaon in South Goa. The Indian Railways has requested the passengers to report to the stations 90 minutes before the departure of the train to avoid any inconvenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/netravathi-express-halts-curtailed/articleshow/76225983.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong blames BJP govt for shutting down of Atlas operations||Ludhiana: Congress leaders have criticised the Centre and the Bjaratiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled Uttar Pradesh government for the temporary shut down of one of India's leading bicycle company Atlas Cycles (Haryana), Sahibabad unit. Congress leader and Punjab Large Industrial Development Board chairman Pawan Dewan has now blamed the BJP for the crisis being faced by the bicycle company and accused centre government and Uttar Pradesh government of their ‘wrong policies’ and also claimed that bicycle unit was closed because of this. Speaking on the issue, Dewan said, “It is a big shocker that Atlas Cycle factory in Ghaziabad closed down on World Cycle Day and thousands of workers have been rendered unemployed. Amid the slogan of ‘Make in India’, it is a major failure of the central government. On the one hand, the Modi government is talking about making the country self-reliant. At the same time, thousands of labourers have become unemployed due to the closure of Atlas unit, one of country's largest bicycle manufacturer, in Ghaziabad. Condition of industries has deteriorated during the tenure of the Modi government, everyone reminisces the days of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, when employment opportunities were being provided.” Dewan also said the government should help the company to evolve and enrol the labourers in schemes like MNREGA, so that an era of bicycle manufacturing can be saved from destruction. “Worth noticing is that there is BJP government in the state in addition to the one at the Centre. In a country like Netherlands, to promote the bicycle, even the big leaders are travelling by bicycle. But here, the government did nothing about the bicycle industry, the mode of transport of common man.” Meanwhile, city-based bicycle parts manufacturers are still nervous after the news of the bicycle company shutting down it’s operations temporarily surfaced. However, Ludhiana manufacturers have been assured by United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers (UCPMA) that the company will pay off the pending payments after disposing off some prime property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-blames-bjp-govt-for-shutting-down-of-atlas-operations/articleshow/76225981.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||19 kids test positive at Chennai children’s home||CHENNAI: Twenty-two people, 19 children and three staff, have tested positive for Covid-19 at a government children’s home on Beach Road in Tondiarpet. The children and the staff have been shifted to the communicable disease hospital in the zone and are undergoing treatment. A corporation official said they were all stable and had only mild symptoms. The government-run social defence home housed 81 children and 12 staff. Abandoned children below 18 were shifted there by the department. It has now been converted into a quarantine centre with one doctor assigned to check on them every day. A security guard of the home showed symptoms of Covid-19 and was tested at an urban primary health care centre. After he tested positive on June 2, samples from all the children and the staff at the centre were sent for tests. “Nineteen children tested positive. But we shifted all the children who showed even mild symptoms to Covid care centres at the zone as a precautionary measure. The remaining without any symptoms have been housed at the home itself that has been converted into a quarantine centre. We are checking on them every day. We have also provided them with a special diet and immunity-boosting tablets. They have a centralised kitchen. We are montioring them regularly,” said an official. The samples from others who tested negative will again be collected as per protocol and adequate treatment will be provided, the official said. The home has two blocks and children from one block have tested positive. The corporation has instructed sample collection from all children homes and old age homes in the city as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/19-kids-test-positive-at-city-childrens-home/articleshow/76225471.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Shimla||‘One market’ concept to boost farm income, say HP, Haryana||Shimla: The central government’s nod to ordinance to promote ‘One India, One Agriculture Market’ concept will help Himachal Pradesh by allowing unrestricted sale of agriculture produce, said state’s agriculture minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda on Friday. The wider market will provide farmers more options to sell their produce and boost their income, he said. Markanda said the government of India has taken the right decision by passing the ordinance that would boost the income of farmers, especially in Himachal Pradesh, as about 12.73% of the total GSDP here comes from agriculture and its allied sectors. Agriculture is the main occupation of the people of the state, with 89.96% population living in rural areas, according to the 2011 census. Agriculture and horticulture provide direct employment to about 69% of total workers of the state. He said hassle-free inter- and intra-state movement of farm produce, option of selling farm produce at their doorstep and hedging of risk by providing pre-sale fixed price agreement would surely help the farmers in increasing their farm income. The minister, however, pointed out though unlocking process has been started, not many agriculture produce buyers are likely to visit the state for various reasons. So, the state government has decided to act as a mediator between the buyers (arhatiyas) and the farmers. He said to ensure that buyers do not cheat the farmers and make timely payments to them for their produce, it has been decided to register the buyers with the APMC, so they can sell their produce to them without any fear of getting duped. “In Himachal Pradesh, we have also decided to allow farmers to sell their farm produce directly through e-NAM portal and 3-4 farmers can join hands to have their own private yard to sell their produce online,” he added. He said around a fortnight back, the state cabinet passed the ordinance that provides for six months’ imprisonment and Rs 20,000 fine if a buyer dupes the farmer. Meanwhile, J P Dalal, agriculture and farmers welfare minister, Haryana, said, “The ordinance would pave the way for creating ‘One India, One Agriculture Market’ and this would enable farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The decision will ensure beneficial prices for farmers’ produce and the income of farmers will also increase,” said The minister said on the one hand, Haryana is swiftly moving towards the concept Peri-urban, while on the other it is also making sure to meet daily demands of products including milk, fruits, vegetables, flowers and poultry required for around 5 crore population residing in the National Capital Region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/one-market-concept-to-boost-farm-income-say-hp-haryana/articleshow/76225474.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Chandrakant Patil slams Maharashtra govt for coronavirus spread||PUNE: BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday raised doubts over the money spent by the Maharashtra government in preventing the spread of coronavirus. "Very limited resources have been utilised by the state. The Centre’s contribution is noteworthy. The state government should present details about the utilisation of the funds for curbing the spread of the disease," said Patil while addressing a news conference here on Friday. "Apart from sharing 15% of the fare of the migrants, nothing much seems to have been done by the state,” Patil said.He also alleged that the infrastructure set up for mitigation activities was of inferior quality and lacked proper planning. "Temporary hospitals built specially for handling Covid-19 patients had to be closed down in Mumbai. It shows lack of planning at the state government level," he said. Patil also expressed reservations about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s functioning. "The CM has not actively conducted meetings with ministers. He was not seen working much on the ground," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patil-slams-maha-govt-for-ncov-spread/articleshow/76225482.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Trichy||Revision of proposed electricity charges calculation sought||TRICHY: The federation of Tiruchirappalli city residents’ welfare associations (FTCRWA) has sought the Tamil Nadu generation and distribution corporation limited (Tangedco) to revise its proposed plan to calculate electricity charges by accumulating the past four months’ consumption. As consumers have already paid for the February and March bills based on the electricity consumed in the previous billing cycle, the federation sought Tangedco to deduce the consumption corresponding to the electricity charges paid. Further, if the electricity consumption reading for April and May exceeds the tariff slabs (200 units and 500 units), the federation sought Tangedco to charge for the additional units consumed based on the maximum unit charge sought in the previous slab. For instance, if a house has consumed 230 units of electricity, FTCRWA sought Tangedco to charge Rs 180 for up to 200 units. And, for the additional 30 units, a unit charge of Rs 1.50 should be charged. Thus, arriving a total cost of Rs 225 (Rs 180+Rs 45) for the 230 electricity units consumed. The federation claimed that accumulating four months’ electricity consumption will be a burden for the residents, who have spent months in the home due to the Covid-19. “People are already stressed due to the lockdown and economic impact of the lockdown. Tangedco should not stress the people further by charging exorbitant electricity charges,” the federation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/revision-of-proposed-eb-bill-calculation-sought/articleshow/76225481.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, lockdown keeps out 3,000 tonnes of ‘tourist trash’||MANALI: The lockdown has prevented tourist resorts and trekking routes of Himachal Pradesh from getting over 3,000 tonnes of garbage left behind by tourists every year. If ban on tourism continues till June end, another 3,000 tonne extra garbage would have been avoided. The major tourist destinations like Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie gets nearly 150 tonnes of garbage every day during peak tourist season, and 40 to 60 tonnes in lean season. Manali, which gets the most number of tourists, generates nearly 30 to 40 tonnes of waste every day during peak season from mid-May to June end. The town on its own generates nearly 10 tonnes of garbage daily. According to officials, state capital Shimla generates 60 to 90 tonnes of garbage every day. Dharamshala and Dalhousie generate about 20 tonne and 3 tonne garbage every day, but the production increases drastically in tourist season. April gets moderate tourists traffic, while May and June are peak tourist season in Himachal Pradesh, when lakhs of tourists head to the state to get respite from scorching heat. The state generates maximum garbage during these two months. The garbage generation in all cities and towns has decreased even below the normal quantity during the lockdown period. Manali Municipal Council executive officer Narain Verma said, “Manali is generating only 10% of the garbage that it usually produces in these days. Our waste-to-energy plant is in the last stage where the final works have been delayed due to the pandemic as some machines had to come from abroad. At present, we are making refuse-derived fuel (RDF) of the trash and sending it to a cement factory for disposal.” Over 30 lakh tourists visit the state during peak summer season alone. This is the time when hotels, sightseeing places, market areas, streets and trekking routes are clogged with trash. Not only towns and tourist places, but the trekking trails, camping sites and base camps of the peaks also get the huge amount of trash. The rivers and streams, which used to witness swimming bottles and plastic trash due to tourism, are clean these days. Most of the garbage treatment facilities of the tourist places give up during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-himachal-lockdown-keeps-out-3k-tonnes-of-tourist-trash/articleshow/76225480.cms||Suresh Sharma
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||4 Shramik trains to Bihar, WB today||Ludhiana: As the local administration asked for more Shramik trains to different districts of Bihar and West Bengal for ferrying the migrant labourers, the railway authorities have decided to run four more special trains from city railway station on Saturday. The authorities have also put in motion the required security measures to ensure a smooth experience for everyone concerned. Railway authorities have prepared the schedule for the four trains that will carry up to 1,600 passengers each. The first train will depart for Katihar railway station (Bihar), second to Purnia (Bihar). The other two more trains are slated for Badalpur (Bihar), New Cooch Behar (West Bengal). The trains will have three to four halts in between. According to station director Tarun Kumar, district administration will bring passengers in different batches to the city station and the local ticket checking staff will provide them seating arrangements. “It will be mandatory for every passenger to wear face cover. Meals and water will be provided to passengers at originating station. We will ensure that social distancing and hygiene norms are followed by passengers,” added the station director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-shramik-trains-to-bihar-wb-today/articleshow/76225982.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD: Won’t compromise on MSP issue||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal(SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party will never compromise on the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and assured marketing for farmers' produce, especially for paddy and wheat. Addressing media persons, he said that his party has already ensured that the present assured marketing and MSP regime for farm produce will continue. Sukhbir said that the Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday “lied in broad daylight on the issue of the APMC.”  The SAD president said that Amarinder has in fact already given his assent to the main provisions of the Act on August 14, 2017. “Federalism and interests of the panth, Punjab and the farmers form the four pillars on which the edifice of the SAD stands and there will never be any compromise on any one of these,” said the SAD president. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-wont-compromise-on-msp-issue/articleshow/76225478.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Resident doctors’ stipend may be hiked: Minister||Pune: State minister for medi- cal education Amit Deshmukh said here on Friday that resident doctors’ pending demand for an increase in mon- thly stipend of Rs55,000 to Rs80,000 is under consider- ation. Deshmukh was in the city to discuss the Covid-19 situa- tion with Pune’s divisional commissioner and other off- icials at the district collector’s office. Later, he said, “The exam for medical courses will be held and we have asked the direct- orate of medical education and research and the university to make provisions such that candidates can appear for the exam from the nearest centre so as to avoid travel.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/resident-doctors-stipend-may-be-hiked-minister/articleshow/76225476.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Jipmer gets ICMR nod for plasma trial||CHENNAI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given Jipmer in Puducherry approval to begin a trial to assess the efficacy of the plasma of cured Covid-19 patients in fighting the novel coronavirus. The institute has invited people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma for the trial. Those interested can contact the department of transfusion medicine, Jipmer, through SMS or WhatsApp or call the department at 97872 4490. The institute will collect convalescent plasma from them if they are eligible to donate blood. Jipmer associate professor (transfusion medicine) Dr B Abhishekh said the concept of plasma therapy involves using antibodies from recovered patients to treat Covid-19. “Presently, there is no approved treatment for Covid-19 infection. Convalescent plasma, which is part of blood donated from the patient who has recovered from Covid-19, has been used in some patients globally with some benefit. The therapy may or may not improve the condition of Covid patients,” said Dr Abhishekh. He said all recovered patients aged between 18 and 65 can donate plasma. But women, who are pregnant or had been pregnant, are usually not considered for collection. Donors must have completed a minimum of two weeks (14 days) after recovery. Five test positive in PuducherryFive more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday taking the total number of cases reported to 104 in the Union territory. Six patients recovered on Friday. At present, 62 patients are undergoing treatment in Puducherry. Fortyseven passengers are under quarantine in institutional facilities and 6,359 passengers are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jipmer-gets-icmr-nod-for-plasma-trial/articleshow/76225479.cms||Bosco Dominique
June 6, 2020||Puducherry||Jipmer gets ICMR nod for plasma trial||CHENNAI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given Jipmer in Puducherry approval to begin a trial to assess the efficacy of the plasma of cured Covid-19 patients in fighting the novel coronavirus. The institute has invited people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma for the trial. Those interested can contact the department of transfusion medicine, Jipmer, through SMS or WhatsApp or call the department at 97872 4490. The institute will collect convalescent plasma from them if they are eligible to donate blood. Jipmer associate professor (transfusion medicine) Dr B Abhishekh said the concept of plasma therapy involves using antibodies from recovered patients to treat Covid-19. “Presently, there is no approved treatment for Covid-19 infection. Convalescent plasma, which is part of blood donated from the patient who has recovered from Covid-19, has been used in some patients globally with some benefit. The therapy may or may not improve the condition of Covid patients,” said Dr Abhishekh. He said all recovered patients aged between 18 and 65 can donate plasma. But women, who are pregnant or had been pregnant, are usually not considered for collection. Donors must have completed a minimum of two weeks (14 days) after recovery. Five test positive in PuducherryFive more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday taking the total number of cases reported to 104 in the Union territory. Six patients recovered on Friday. At present, 62 patients are undergoing treatment in Puducherry. Fortyseven passengers are under quarantine in institutional facilities and 6,359 passengers are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/jipmer-gets-icmr-nod-for-plasma-trial/articleshow/76232151.cms||Bosco Dominique
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Girish Bapat roots for use of military hospitals to deal with pandemic||PUNE: City MP Girish Bapat on Friday suggested that the services of military hospital, along with their medical experts and paramedics, should be utilised for treating Covid-19 patients from the cantonment areas in case of a surge in infections. Bapat said this while addressing the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) general body speaking in his capacity as the Pune Lok Sabha constituency’s elected representative. He said, “The existing facilities of the cantonment have been doing an excellent job in this time of crisis. But we have to be prepared to face any adverse situation in coming days.” The PCB has implemented a slew of measures, including converting three schools into Covid care centres of 85-bed capacity each, hiring medical professionals and paramedics and setting up an ICU at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital, which has a 400-bed Covid treatment facility. Bapat said with the number of Covid-19 infections on the rise and the opening up of the lockdown, there might be a surge in the number of cases. “In such a situation, services of institutions such as the Armed Forces Medical College, Southern Command Hospital, Military Hospital, Kirkee and the Military Hospital-Cardio Thoracic Centre should be utilised,” he said. Pune station commander Brigadier Kuljeet Singh, who is also the PCB president, later told TOI, “We haven’t got any official requisition from any authority so far seeking help from the military hospitals. Our hospitals are prepared and treating military patients, mainly ex-servicemen and their dependants, who have tested positive for Covid-19. If we get any request, we can take up the same with our top officers.” He added, “The situation in the military areas of the Pune cantonment is better than the civilian localities. There are no active case in the military areas. All government guidelines are being followed strictly and this has helped us in containment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bapat-roots-for-use-of-military-hospitals-to-deal-with-pandemic/articleshow/76225486.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bareilly||Cancer patient diagnosed positive for Covid-19 in Haryana discharged, returns hometown Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 48-year-old man from Shahjahanpur district, who was undergoing cancer treatment at a renowned private hospital in Gurugram, was diagnosed positive for Covid-19. The man got himself discharged and returned to Shahjahanpur in a car along with his wife, relative and the car driver and informed his parents about his condition on Thursday evening. Soon, health officials turned up, checked his reports and brought him to a hospital. The man was on intubation and had difficulties in breathing which is why he was shifted to Lucknow along with all the high-risk contacts on Friday. His family members in Shahjahanpur are quarantined. The man, a government employee, lives in Reti locality of Shahjahanpur. He had gone to Gurugram for treatment of oral cancer on May 25. He was getting treatment through chemotherapy. Upon returning home, he didn’t enter his house and informed his brother from outside that he was tested positive for Covid-19. District immunization officer Dr Laxman Singh told TOI, “It was really a negligent act of the hospital as they should have informed government health officials about this case. Now we have sanitized and sealed the locality. The close contacts, wife, relative and cab driver, have been sent to Lucknow along with the patient where they would be isolated. The other family members are also quarantines and their swab samples have been sent for testing. The condition of the patient was not stable as he had breathing problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cancer-patient-diagnosed-positive-for-covid-19-in-haryana-discharged-returns-hometown-shahjahanpur/articleshow/76223589.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Trichy||CUTN invites applications for the post of VC||TRICHY: The Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruavrur, has invited applications for the post of vice-chancellor. June 16 is the last date to send the filled-in applications. As the five-year tenure of the incumbent vice-chancellor A P Dash is getting over in August this year, the ministry of human resource and development has initiated the selection process for next vice-chancellor. Distinguished academicians with a minimum of 10 years of experience as professor in a university or 10 years of administrative experience in a reputed research or academic organisation can apply for the post. A committee constituted under the provisions of Central Universities Act, 2009 will shortlist eligible candidates who will be called for an interview. The interview process is most likely to be held online this year as the country is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic, said officials from CUTN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cutn-invites-applications-for-the-post-of-vc/articleshow/76225488.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Allahabad||CSA Park opens gates to welcome city after 73 days||Prayagraj: Scores of morning walkers were back to get their regular dose of exercise as Chandra Shekhar Azad Park reopened on Friday after being shut for 73 days due to the lockdown. The park timings have been changed in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The park will now be open for visitors from 5am to 8 am and from 5pm to 8pm. The light rainfall which the city received marred residents’ plans to visit the park in the morning. However, over 90 people did manage to visit the park. While many were seen walking in the tracks, others were enjoying a yoga session on the lush premises. Park authorities said they were hopping for a higher turnout in the evening. “As we knew that the park would open from June 5, my entire family was ready for the day. However, we had to cancel our plans due to the rain. But we would be going to the park Sunday onwards, come what may,” said Sachin, a morning walker who used to visit the park daily before the lockdown. “Fifty visitors entered the park from gate number one, while 20 entered from gate number three and five,” said the park’s garden superintendent Seema Singh Rana. The entire park was sanitised and every visitor had to undergo a thermal scan before being allowed inside. The park authorities had decorated the premises to welcome visitors. Appeals for visitors to follow social distancing while exercising and wearing masks were regularly made via the sound system. The guard at the main gate Abhimanyu Shukla said, “We have made all arrangements and are letting visitors enter only after ensuring that they are wearing the masks and making them undergo a thermal scan.” President of Morning Walkers’ Association Kishore Varshney said, “It is important that we maintain our health and visiting the park for exercise is vital for that, which is why we are thankful to the administration for reopening the park.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/csa-park-opens-gates-to-welcome-city-after-73-days/articleshow/76224464.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to plant 1.15 crore trees in 1,100 villages||YAMUNANAGAR: On World Environment Day, Haryana education, forest and tourism minister Kanwar Pal announced to plant 1.15 crore fruit-bearing and shady trees in 1,100 villages of Haryana under a plan to conserve the environment. Kanwar said, “We have selected 50 villages each in 22 districts for a major plantation drive planned for the coming monsoon season. The trees will be planted at temples, gurdwaras, matthas, village boundaries, cremation grounds, panchayati lands, and other available spaces at the rural-level.” “The plan is to increase and maintain the green cover for around 50 years. The trees include fruit-bearing, shady and such trees on which the birds can also nest and breed. Rather than planting commercial or expensive wood, our target will be to plant trees for maintaining greenery.” When asked about success on the survival of these trees, Kanwar said, “These trees will not only be planted to complete the targets, but it will be ensured that they grow well and healthy. For the same, a variksh mitra (tree friend) will be appointed in every village, who will take care of these trees and will be given an honorarium by the government.” Kanwar said, “We have also decided to plant orchids on the panchayat land which will boost village income. As per conventional practice, eucalyptus and poplar trees are planted in these panchayat lands, which are cut down under commercial activity after around 7 years and the greenery is lost after the trees are chopped. But the orchids will provide fruits and generate panchayat income for up to at least 50 years.” Kanwar accompanied by Haryana principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) Dr Amarinder Kaur planted herbal and fruit-bearing plants at a function in Yamunanagar on Friday. Dr Amarinder said, “We are planning to complete the target of planting 1.15 crore trees in 1,100 villages by the end of August. Under this campaign, trees including mango, jamun, harar (terminalia chebula), baheda (terminalia bellirica), amla (phyllanthus emblica), neem, sohanjna (moringa oleifera) and some other fruit-bearing trees will be planted.”Kanwar said, “To boost tourism in the rural areas of Haryana, discussions are going on to bring a policy to launch home stays at village-level, so that tourists can come and stay in rural areas and experience the life of the state. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-to-plant-1-15-crore-trees-in-1100-villages/articleshow/76225485.cms||Jaskaran Singh
June 6, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: 12 patients discharged in Mandya||MANDYA: A total 12 Covid-19 patients, including a police personnel, were discharged from MIMS on Friday, after they were cured. The district administration held a simple ceremony to see off the patients. Senior officials including Mandya deputy commissioner M V Venkatesh and southern IGP Vipul Kumar were present. Meanwhile, 13 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Mandya district on Friday. All the patients had returned from Mumbai. They have been admitted in the isolation ward of the Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/12-patients-discharged-in-mandya/articleshow/76223578.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||This mechanic is on a mission to drive corona away||BHOPAL: In an act that could inspire many, 33-year-old mechanic Vijay Iyyer, who runs a small cycle repairs shop in Teela Jamalpura area, is on a sanitisation mission for more than 75 days. He has been sanitising public places on his own. On top of this, Vijay says he has so far spent more than Rs 50,000 from his personal savings on buying chemicalfor sanitisation. He moves around with sanitiser tanks on his shoulders and keeps sanitising places like crematoriums etc. “I have some relatives who live in abroad, it was from them that I came to know about a chemical named sodium hypochlorite is used to sanitize places and it protects from covid-19 infection. I purchased it from a chemical shop, it comes for Rs 140 per litre, however the shopkeepers give me for Rs 110 per litre after they came to know about the purpose. I mix 1 litre of it in 16-17 litre of water and spray it on public places. I started on March 20, and had been doing it since then”, Vijay told TOI. “I am associated with a spiritual organisation and have got my motivation for social service from there. In past also I have been associated with several social works. I undertook this initiative all on my own”, he said. “Initially people in my locality felt scared that I am roaming around in containment areas but with time things became smooth. Even officials have always been very co-operative where I go they help me in sanitizing. I am doing it almost everyday. On Friday I went to several areas of Karond”, he said.  “At first I started off with sanitisation at public places, then containment areas. Later I started posting on social media that if anyone wants to get his or her area sanitied for free, they could inform, now people are also reaching out through social media”, he said. Asked whether family members have objected to Vijay’s spending personal savings on sanitisation, he says “My father was in army, my grandfather was also in army, though my father is bedridden now but he never objects to any good work. Same is the case with my mother, she even helped me a few days ago with her personal savings as now I am running out of money, I needed some money for petrol in my bike”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/this-mechanic-is-on-a-mission-to-drive-corona-away/articleshow/76224755.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh writes to Centre to bring back Nepal workers for apple season||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh government has written to the Centre to bring back workers from Nepal for the upcoming apple season in the state, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday. Interacting with mediapersons in Shimla, Thakur targeted the Congress, saying that statements of opposition leaders show that they are living in confusion right now. He said that opposition has forgotten that power has changed both at the Center and state. He said that late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had once said that out of one rupee received from Delhi, only 15 paise reaches the beneficiary. He said that but in Modi led NDA government, every amount received from the Center is deposited in the beneficiary’s account. Thakur said despite challenges of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, one year of the Modi government has been full of achievements. He said that powerful countries of the world have also appreciated the strong leadership of Modi during this period. He said that when opposition remained in power, then their government always remained in limelight due to scams. On the contrary, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Center the government did not have a single stain of corruption for 6 consecutive years. Listing the achievements of Modi government, he said that now the country is moving towards self-sufficiency. He said today manufacturing of PPE kits, N-95 masks and ventilators is being done in the country itself. He said the Union government’s economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore will be successful in getting the country out of the challenging phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-writes-to-centre-to-bring-back-nepal-workers-for-apple-season/articleshow/76225483.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand minister may face charges if quarantine violation allegations found true, says HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) while issuing notices to state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj as well as Centre, state government, Dehradun DM and SSP said if allegations that Maharaj took part in the cabinet meetings despite a notice being affixed on his house mandating a 14-day quarantine are true, then it is "prima facie satisfied that section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code may be attracted against him". The observation from the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe came while it was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that alleged that a notice was affixed on Maharaj’s house on May 20 directing people living in the house to remain in quarantine for 14 days for security reasons. However, Maharaj still participated in two cabinet meetings held on May 21 and May 29. The petition added that despite the fact that his wife had tested positive for Covid-19, Maharaj did not inform anyone and took part in the meeting which was attended by the chief minister, other cabinet ministers and several secretaries. The petitioners have argued that for similar violations, police in Haridwar and Uttarkashi have booked people under section 188 and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and therefore the law should apply equally to all, including the cabinet ministers. “While we see no reason, as at present, to express any opinion regarding the application of Section 307 IPC, we are satisfied, prima facie, that, if the allegations in the Writ Petition are true, then the ingredients of Section 188 IPC may well be attracted,” read the court order. The court added that it needs to be ascertained why different standards have been adopted for the common people and those holding constitutional offices when they indulge in violation of home quarantine law. Though the chief standing counsel appearing for the government said that Maharaj was not found Covid positive when the notice was affixed on his house but it was his wife, and there is a possibility that he wasn’t present in the house at the time, the court said that this fact can only be verified when he is put on notice and Maharaj files his counter-affidavit. “While the learned Chief Standing Counsel states that it is possible that the fourth respondent (Maharaj) may not have resided in that house during the lockdown period, these facts can only be ascertained when the fourth respondent is put on notice, and his filing a counter-affidavit presenting his version of these incidents,” the bench said. The court has directed all the respondents to reply within three weeks when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-minister-may-face-charges-if-quarantine-violation-allegations-found-true-says-hc/articleshow/76223586.cms||Prashant Jha
June 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad markets open with caution||Aurangabad: Markets across the city on Friday resumed operations as part of state government’s “Mission Begin Again”. All the police station chiefs were seen reaching out to the commercial areas in their respective jurisdictions in the morning and briefing the traders about the norms that are to be followed while carrying out business activities. Tilak Path Vyapari Sanghatna’s general secretary Yusuf Mukati said, “All traders are more than glad to reopen their shops. However, the goods that got stuck in godowns as well as shops have been damaged.” He also demanded that there should be some relief package for the traders from the government. As of now, the civic body has allowed the traders to operate on alternate days (odd-even basis) till 5 pm. A ready-made clothes store owner, Pankesh Agrawal, said, “We are hopeful of successfully coming out of this current economic depression resulting out of Covid-19 and lockdown. However, we want the administration to limit the market timings to 8 pm.” The day also witnessed innumerable workers belonging to the unorganized sectors like autorickshaw drivers, plumbers, technicians, mechanics, cobblers resume their work on Friday. Punamchand Nimbhore, a cobbler, said Friday was the first day of his work after months and had had made very little money. “As people come to know that I have returned, they will start coming to me with their torn bags and footwear.” Similarly, Raju Pawar, an auto-rickshaw driver, was happy to start plying on the city streets, but said that he could not get many passengers on the first day. Echoing similar views Altaf Baig, another auto driver, said, “Things will be a bit difficult for everyone due to the lockdown. In addition, authorities have put a cap on the number of passengers one can carry. If we increase the fare, people will not board our vehicles. The situation is quite tricky.” Several puncture repair, carpenter and other workshops also remained open opened till 5 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-markets-open-with-caution/articleshow/76222422.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 6, 2020||Kanpur||City reports 57 new Covid-19 cases||Kanpur: The surge in coronavirus cases in Kanpur continued on Friday, with 57 fresh positive cases reported by the district health department. With 57 new cases, the total corona tally in the city has reached 495. This is the highest single day spike and has taken the health department by surprise. Moreover, a patient died on Friday, taking the toll in the city to 14. Altogether , 41 persons who had been quarantined were discharged on Friday. Of these 41, 34 had been quarantined at KDA quarantine house. Out of total 495 total cases (since first case was reported), 310 people have defeated Covid-19 and were discharged from hospital and sent home. The woman who died on Friday was a resident of Sujatganj. The health department informed TOI that the total number of active cases after 57 new cases came up is 171. These 171 cases have came up in just five days after Unlock 1.0 came into force. The new cases that came up were admitted in the hospital and those who came in their contact were quarantined. Also, 225 samples for corona tests were collected on Friday. With 57 new cases, the total corona tally in the city reached 495. The new cases have come up from areas like Shiv Nagar, Barra, Dipti Padao, Kakwan, Tikra, Kalyanpur, Kakadeo, Macchariya, Sujatganj, Pokharpur, Dufferin, Chamanganj, Gujjani. There has been a steep rise in the number of Ccrona cases in Shiv Nagar area, which has now emerged as a major hotspot in the city. Altogether 108 medical teams visited containment zones of Jama Masjid, Basmandi, Mangli Prasad Ka Hata, Govind Nagar, Meherban Singh Ka Purwa, Takroli Shivrajpur, Laxmipurwa, Targaon in Patara where they made people aware about coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-reports-57-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76225541.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Two flights to bring back stranded Bhopalis||BHOPAL: Preparations are in full swing to bring back state’s stranded citizens from abroad under the phase III of India’s largest repatriation operation — Vande Bharat mission. Under this mission, two international flights will reach Bhopal airport later this month. First flight from Kyrgyzstan will land at Raja Bhoj airport on June 21, while the other flight from Ukraine will reach the airport on June 30. These will be the first flights from overseas reaching Bhopal under the Vande Bharat mission. According to sources, most of the passengers will be medical and engineering students studying in both these countries. As per the information, 149 passengers from Kyrgyzstan will reach the state capital via Air India flight. Tentative time for this flight is 6.25pm. Another flight from Ukraine carrying 149 passengers will reach the airport around 7pm. Both flights will reach Bhopal from Delhi. Anil Vikram, director airport, said, “AI flights are scheduled to land on June 22 and June 30 at Bhopal airport. Also, flight operations at Raja Bhoj airport are getting normal since the movement started on May 25.” This after, a group of medical students stuck-up in Kyrgyzstan's Bishek had made an appeal to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to bring them back home. Through a video message, some medical students of International School of Medicine (ISM) in Bishkek said, “We are quarantined here (in Bishkek) for the last three months and during this period, our online classes have been completed and summer vacation has started.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-flights-to-bring-back-stranded-bhopalis/articleshow/76224779.cms||Ramendra Singh
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Cops crack teacher murder case after 4 years, arrest 3||LUDHIANA: The police have arrested three persons over the killing of a teacher at Sohi village in Ludhiana district more than four years ago. The fourth accused in the case, a woman, died last month. The arrested persons have been identified as Govind Singh, Sandeep Kumar and Vicky, all residents of Mandi Mullanpur, while Sukhwinder Kaur of Mohi village died on May 2. Giving details, SSP (rural) Vivek Sheel Soni said the police had registered the case over the blind murder of 78-year-old Harbans Singh on April 12, 2016, which has been finally solved after four years. According to the case details, Harbans would live alone after the death of his wife, and Sukhwinder Kaur (accused) would work as a domestic help at his place. During the investigation, the police discovered that Sukhwinder Kaur had a criminal background and was in touch with the accused persons. The accused knew that Harbans Singh was a rich man, who would lend money to people against their gold as security. So, Sukhwinder hatched a conspiracy in collusion with Govind, Sandeep and Vicky. On April 11, 2016 night, they executed their plan. Although the deceased did not offer any resistance, the accused had tied him with a bed and beat him to death, and decamped with the booty. Thereafter, they visited Sukhwinder Kaur’s house and then dispersed. Police officials said nearly one-and-half years ago, Sandeep and Vicky had also attacked the dera of eunuchs at Ferozepur and looted gold from there. The accused have also been involved in drug peddling and some other serious crimes, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-crack-teacher-murder-case-after-4-yrs-arrest-3/articleshow/76223612.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Chhawani Mohalla is containment zone||Ludhiana: While the city is all set to enter the second phase of Unlock 1.0, its Chhawani Mohalla has been declared a containment zone, the first in Ludhiana, with 15 positive cases reported so far. The area, which got its first case on May 29, saw a rapid rise in virus spread and by the onset of June, it became a cluster of infection, forcing the authorities to declare it a containment zone. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, "Going by the guidelines of MHRD, the health department has declared Chhawani Mohalla as a containment zone to prevent the further spread of Covid-19, as it has witnessed 15 cases. Movement will be monitored to ensure that nobody leaves or visits the area, except for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services. The zone will also see intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions, as required. The positive cases, if reported, will be shifted to health centres and the focus will be on pool sampling of more than 100 persons from the area. This will continue for 14 days. If no case is reported for 14 days, the containment zone tag will be removed from the area, else its status will not change." The area has a population of 17,000. The first case from the area was a man, whose sample was taken on May 28. He had tested positive and succumbed the next day. As per the precautionary protocol, the police had cordoned off the area and conducted a sanitisation drive to check community transmission. Seven persons of his family tested positive on May 30, another resident on May 31 and six on June 4.DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, "There are 4,000 houses in this area. The main roads leading to it will be called buffer zones, while within the boundaries will be the containment zone. These zones are created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading. These are identified by the district epidemiologist based on the extent of cases listed and mapped. Every confirmed case has to be considered as an epicentre and micro-plan activities need to be undertaken. The perimeters of the containment zone are decided based on the number of positive cases, history of contact tracing and population density."ADCP-I Deepak Pareek said, "Movement of vehicles, people and public transport will be stopped. All connecting roads will be guarded by more than 150 police officials. For vehicles requiring regular movement, a pass or ID card will be issued."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chhawani-mohalla-is-containment-zone/articleshow/76223600.cms||Mehak Jain
June 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Study validates ayurvedic herb’s anti-microbial properties||KOCHI: A pilot study by the department of Ayush and Indian system of medicine in Thrissur conducted to scientifically validate the effectiveness of an ayurveda disinfectant to cleanse the air of microbial presence has yielded promising results. The nine-day study was to test the ability of ‘Aparajitha dhooma choornam’, used by ayurveda medical practitioners as an anti-septic cleanser for disinfecting hospitals and homes where there have been sick patients who suffered from infectious diseases, to reduce and control the growth of microbes. This is a commonly used anti-septic fumigant. Doctors from the ISM department in Thrissur chose the residential camps of guest workers who lived together. “We fumigated the interiors of the camp which was not very hygienic with Aparajitha dhooma choornam. The tests were done from April 16-24. Initially for three days, we took samples of the air to find out about the presence of microbial colonies. Then we fumigated the area for 15-30 minutes for next three days and then took the samples of the air after an hour. In the last three days again, we took the air samples to see whether the microbes were re-multiplying and in at pace,” said Dr Salaja Kumari, district medical officer-ISM, Thrissur. She said that the project was implemented based on the recommendations of the district collector who suggested fumigation of the guest workers camps as part of Covid management plan. The team worked with the microbiologist of Sitaram Ayurveda for collecting samples and testing. “The Aparajitha dhooma choornam has been mentioned in ayurveda text Ashtangahridayam. We worked with the government teams to testify the results through modern science,” said Dr D Ramanathan, managing director, Sitaram Ayurveda pharmacy. The results showed that on the first day of fumigation, the bacterial and fungal count reduced by 95% and 96% respectively. By the third day of fumigation, the levels of bacteria reduced from 8,020 cfu (colony forming unit) to 60 cfu, while the fungi colony count reduced from 835 cfu to 9 cfu Species which are rare in the area like Cladosporium and Alternaria were also isolated. The choornam proved to be efficient in removing those fungi completely from those sites, said Dr Salaja Kumari. The teams found that this choornam was also effective in removing organisms that can act as pathogens causing community and nosocomial infections. The antibacterial quality of the medicinal fumes remained even upto 24 hours after fumigation. ]Within 72 hours after the completion of fumigation procedure, bacterial or fungal count was very low compared to that before the fumigation procedure. This shows retention of certain amount of antimicrobial effect upon 72hours. It improved the quality of air by drastically reducing fungal and bacterial count according to sanitary standards of non-industrial premises CEC, 1993. “We also requested feedback from the guest workers as to whether they had any discomfort like headache, fever, irritation, skin rash etc. But no one had any kinds of discomfort or health condition except one person who allergic to many things. Ayurveda hospitals use this to cleanse the air, so we are aware of its effects. But these tests validated it with scientific evidence,” DMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/study-validates-ayurvedic-herbs-anti-microbial-properties/articleshow/76223620.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||90% students from outside opt to not take SSLC exam on coast||MANGALURU: SSLC candidates from other districts studying in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, who earlier said that they could appear for the exams here itself, have now reportedly opted out, due to an increase in Covid-19 cases here. As on Friday, Udupi has recorded 768 total cases and Dakshina Kannada 143 cases. The last date to make changes in the examination centres was May 30. Malleswamy, DDPI, Dakshina Kannada,said that out of 1,500 SSLC students from other districts in Dakshina Kannada, 1,328 candidates have said that they want to take the examination in their hometowns. A majority of these candidates hail from North Karnataka and were studying in private as well as government schools in Dakshina Kannada. The candidates also include children of migrant labourers. As many as 29,000 students from Dakshina Kannada, including 400 students from Kerala, will appear for the SSLC examination, which will commence on June 25. The examination for students of 511 schools in the district will be held at 95 centres. Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board had given the option to take the examination from wherever the student wishes to do so. Malleswamy said that initially students had said that they would return to Dakshina Kannada and take the examination. “According to me, their decision was changed after Covid-19 cases went up every day in the coastal districts. Students have been influenced by their parents, and have preferred to take the examination in their hometowns, ” said Malleswamy. Nearly 95% students from outside opt not to take SSLC in Udupi Udupi DDPI Sheshashayana Karinja said that out of the 600 students from other districts, 589 candidates have decided not to return to Udupi to take the SSLC exam. However, 85 students who are studying in other districts have opted for Udupi to take the examination. “According to parents, the option to appear for the exam from wherever they are is less risky, as they need not travel back to Udupi, and stay here for six days and again go back,” he added. The candidates who have opted out from taking the exam in Udupi, can get their hall tickets from the school they studied in or the examination centre they have now opted to write the exam from, or from the BEO of the respective examination centre, said the DDPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/90-students-from-outside-opt-to-not-take-sslc-exam-on-coast/articleshow/76223609.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
June 6, 2020||Trichy||Seed balls scattered on Uyyakondan canal banks||TRICHY: The Bishop Heber College (BHC) in Trichy, as part of the World Environment Day, organized an event to scatter more than 2,000 seed balls on the banks of Uyyakondan canal to increase the green cover. Department of botany, Heber Au Sable Institute, NCC Air wing, and nature club of BHC organized the event in association with Green Stewards, CSI Trichy- Tanjore Diocese and Global Nature Foundation, Thuraiyur. Each seed ball contains more than 10 seeds and is made from mixture of cow dung and moist soil which is rolled in a spherical form. As the seeds balls dry up, they can be thrown in places so that the seeds germinate. They chose Uyyakondan canal banks as it will help the seeds to germinate and won’t need personal care. “The green cover in the city and the district is way below the required 33%,” D Paul Dhayabaran, principal, BHC while inaugurating the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/seed-balls-scattered-on-uyyakondan-canal-banks/articleshow/76225495.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Happy to get back his lost Kirpan, man offers bike as gift to cop||Ludhiana: In a unique gesture, a man offered to gift a motorcycle to a police officer, who helped him find his Kirpan more than three years after it went “missing” from a police station.The man, RTI activist Jagshir Singh, was arrested in an abetment to suicide case in November 2017 and the police had “seized” his Kirpan. But, after his release from jail, he was unable to find it.“I was arrested by Dakha police in November 2017 in an abatement to suicide case and my Kirpan was seized by the police, but they didn’t mention it in the recovery document. After eight months, my release was ordered by the court. After coming out of jail, I first went to the police station to get my sacred weapon. This is precious for me as Amritdhari Gursikh, but the police officials told me they would return the same only after court order,” said 49-year-old Jagshir. The RTI activist from Mullanpur then approached the court, which asked the police to help him get his Kirpan back. He also approached the SGPC president and Akal Takht jathedar, but nothing worked.In the meantime, SHO inspector Prem Singh was posted at the Dakha police station. “I requested him for help, and finally, about three years after it went missing, the SHO traced my Kirpan and returned on May 29.”Overwhelmed with happiness and with a sense of obligation towards the cop, he and his family tried gifting him a Bullet motorcycle, but the officer refused to accept the gift. “To keep our wish, he took a brief ride and then presented the same to my sons,” said Jagshir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/happy-to-get-back-his-lost-kirpan-man-offers-bike-as-gift-to-cop/articleshow/76223607.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 6, 2020||Meerut||Unable to sell produce, sugarcane farmer hangs self, Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt||Strap: Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan Rushes To Protest Site Muzaffarnagar: A 52-year-old sugarcane farmer allegedly committed suicide in Sisauli village of Muzaffarnagar, with his family members alleging that he took the extreme step after being denied cane slips by sugar mill to sell his standing crop.A political row erupted soon after the death on Thursday evening. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi took to Twitter to slam the UP’s BJP government and accused it of not paying sugarcane dues to farmers. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) alleged that farmers were not getting the proper price for their crop because of the lockdown.A big protest erupted next day near the village and Union minister Sanjeev Balyan, who represents Muzaffarnagar seat, rushed to the site to placate the farmers.The body of Ompal was found hanging from a tree in Sisauli village on Thursday evening. He had left his house in the afternoon and did not return till evening. Later, locals kept his body on the road in protest and demanded compensation for the family members.On their part, the local administration claimed that the farmer took the extreme step due to a dispute with his brothers over property. They also said that a large chunk of his produce was purchased by a sugar mill.District magistrate Selva Kumari J said, “The sugarcane stock of the farmer was purchased by a mill, and the remaining crop also would have been bought. It has come to light after the police investigation that Ompal had a property dispute with his brother.”The district sugarcane officer said, “149 quintals of sugarcane was bought by the mill recently. More would have been purched soon.”But, a protesting farmer Nitin Baliyan claimed, “Ompal was dejected and committed suicide due to his standing sugarcane crop. He was denied cane slips by mill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/unable-to-sell-produce-sugarcane-farmer-hangs-self-priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt/articleshow/76223605.cms||Mohd Dilshad
June 6, 2020||Aurangabad||A’bad ACB hit by staff crunch||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad unit of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) is facing severe shortage of staff as the men who had been deployed for bandobast for the past couple of months have been sent to 14-day quarantine after returning and a new team has been sent for bandobast duty. As of now, the ACB is carrying out its day-to-day work with the help an officer as well as staffers responsible for back office work. The manpower crunch is making it difficult for the ACB to swiftly work on corruption complaints as it is being forced to depend on their staff deployed in other parts of the range. ACB authorities said that verification as well as traps are to be carried out discreetly without even other teams in the same office learning about it. “Now, it has to be shared with team members deployed in neighbouring districts falling under Aurangabad range,” said an officer. When contacted, superintendent of police (ACB) Arvind Chawria said, “During the initial stage of lockdown, we had sent half of our staff to assist city police. The staffers were relieved about four days back and have been sent to quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/abad-acb-hit-by-staff-crunch/articleshow/76222447.cms||Mohammed Akhef
June 6, 2020||Pune||Two organisations roped in for performing last rites of deceased||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation will rope in social organisations to carry out the last rites of deceased Covid-19 patients. Green signal was given to two social groups, Alfa Omega Christian Mahasangh and Ummat Social Foundation, on Friday. “Many organisations are coming forward to help us and conduct these rituals. We have approved a couple of them. More organisations will be allowed to conduct these rites,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI.Shyam Deshpande, a senior Shivsena leader in Pune, said the party unit was ready to perform the last rites of the deceased, irrespectiev of the religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-organisations-roped-in-for-performing-last-rites-of-deceased/articleshow/76225491.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Amritsar||Green stimulus package needed: CSE||Bathinda: Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), on Friday released a report on ‘An Environmental Agenda for the Future’ at a webinar on the occasion of the World Environment Day. The report highlighed how particulate matter (PM) 2.5 across six major Indian cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, had dropped by 45-88% during lockdown 1 to 3 and started registering 2 to 6 times increase following relaxations in lockdown 4. “This clearly shows that the country needs an intervention at massive scale to keep the environment clean and green. And it tells us that we need to set down an agenda item for action, which will help retain this lockdown advantage of blue skies and clean lungs,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/green-stimulus-package-needed-cse/articleshow/76225489.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 & Meerut scissors’ changing fortunes||MEERUT: Meerut’s famous scissors market saw an unexpected windfall when Covid-19 hit China around December 2019 and overall imports from the neighbouring country immediately plummeted by 12.4%. The demand for Meerut's scissors jumped by 25% for over two months before it hit the nadir when the lockdown was announced in the country. Probably for the first time in three centuries, metal clanging stopped echoing in the bunch of archaic lanes of Meerut which housed hundreds of small units. Scissors made here have been cutting clothes, trimming hairs and slicing vegetables in households for generations across the country. The cheap and suave Chinese versions had trimmed the demand of these ‘desi’ hand-made scissors, but couldn’t kill it completely. The silence of lanes is deafening for over 70,000 people who are directly or indirectly employed by this market. “China had already captured at least 65% of the market. Despite being famous across the country, our scissors faced tough competition from China due to their cheap rates. But we survived only because of our quality. In December, our orders increased by at least 25% because the import from China got hit due to the Covid-19 outbreak there. We increased our workers to complete those orders. But soon the disease also came here and the lockdown was clamped. The situation is grim now. We are unable to pay our workers we had hired to complete the orders,” said Sharif Ahmed, general secretary of Meerut Scissors’ Manufacturing Association. Meerut scissors was the first handmade tool from micro and small and medium enterprises (MSME) in India to get registered for a geographical indicator (GI) tag. Saeed Sheikh, vice president of the association, said, “I am a seventh generation worker in the scissors market. It is at least a 300-year-old industry. After the lockdown, we don’t know how much time it will take to revive again. First, demonetization, then GST, and now the lockdown has taken the soul of the market. Our workers are selling fruits and vegetables to earn a living. We don’t know whether they will return to the art or it will die a slow death now.” With nearly 275 manufacturing units in the market which employ about 70,000 workers, the Chinese competition was already fierce. The lockdown due to novel coronavirus has simply made a deeper cut in the scissors industry. The lanes famous for its scissors, locally known as Kainchi Bazaar, haven’t seen any activity since the lockdown started. Mohammad Shoaib Zameeruddin, an 11th generation scissors unit owner, said, “My unit produced 14 kg of scissors, which means 400 units every week. In December and January, the production doubled as the demand increased due to the dip in imports from China. However, due to the lockdown, we have not been able to fulfil the demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-meerut-scissors-changing-fortunes/articleshow/76223602.cms||Ishita Bhatia
June 6, 2020||Meerut||UP: Baghpat lawyer loses chamber for representing Jamaat followers||MEERUT: A lawyer representing 17 Nepalese nationals accused of violating visa norms during their visit here as part of Jamaat delegation was asked to vacate his chamber by his colleague and a senior in UP’s Baghpat court. A notice has also come outside the chamber barring entry of Jamaatis and their sympathisers. Nafees Ahmed, 35, used to work from the chamber allotted to lawyer Ramakant Sharma. Ahmed practices with Sharma and another lawyer Ranveer Chaudhary from there. Now, he has been told by Sharma to look for another chamber to continue his practice. “I used to sit with Sharma and Chaudhary in the chamber and we all practiced together. Recently Chaudhary saw me members of Jamiat-Ulema-e-hind who had requested to represent Nepali Jamaatis. Now, Sharma has put up a notice barring entry of Jamaatis inside the chamber and my name was also removed. I was asked to look for another chamber,” Ahmed said. According to sources, there are 28 Nepali Jamaatis lodged in a temporary jail. They had come to Khekda area in Baghpat and were booked for violation of visa norms later. Out of them, 11 are being represented by another lawyer Rajuddin. A few days ago, Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind approached Ahmed for representing the remaining 17 Jammatis. Meanwhile, Chaudhary says that Ahmed is helping Jamaatis who have been “blamed by Indian government” for spreading Covid-19. “I got to know that Ahmed was representing Jamaatis from a local newspaper. When I went to the chamber the next day, I saw people from Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind sitting with Ahmed. People who are accused of spreading Covid-19 were sitting in our chamber. I returned and informed my senior Sharma who has served notice to Ahmed and asked him to look for another chamber. His name was also removed from the board,” Chaudhary told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/baghpat-lawyer-loses-chamber-for-representing-jamaat-followers/articleshow/76223598.cms||Piyush Rai
June 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district sees over 60% recoveries so far||AURANGABAD: Over 60% of Covid-19 patients have recovered in Aurangabad district so far, even as the number of people contracting the disease has not shown much improvement. According to the district administration, as many as 1,126 patients out of 1,834 have been discharged from various hospitals following recovery from the contagion and 19 people have died so far. Meanwhile, 64 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday. A 30-year-old woman died on Thursday, eight days after delivering a baby through C-section Arvind Gaikwad, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) media coordinator, said that the mother died while undergoing treatment at 2 pm. “Uremic encephalopathy due to acute renal failure due to severe preeclampsia in Covid-19 associated coagulapathy with severe cytocain storm was the cause of her death,” he said. Shrinivas Gadappa, the head of department of obstetrics and gynecology at GMCH, told TOI that the woman was tested as she was from a containment zone. “She delivered a healthy baby and tested positive the following day. She was then moved to the medicine ward, where she developed renal failure and other complications due to Covid-19. The baby is fine and is in NICU,” he said. Gadappa added that the GMCH tests pregnant women coming from containment zones. “So far, the hospital has tested 437 pregnant women, of which 42 tested positive for Covid-19. Six of the women are yet to deliver babies. This is the first mortality of a mother at GMCH. Only in one case did the baby acquire the infection but tested negative after 14 days.”. A 35-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, from died at teh GMCH at 2am on Friday. She suffered from respiratory failure due to bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome, said the hospital authorities. A 48-year-old man died at 1.20 pm on Friday due to uremic encephalopathy with acute kidney injury with bilateral pneumonia due to Covid-19 with hypertension with ischemic heart disease. The GMCH stated that of the 188 Covid-19 patients under treatment at the hospital, 43 are in critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-district-sees-over-60-recoveries-so-far/articleshow/76222469.cms||Arpita Sharad
June 6, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Junction bags green railway station certification||TRICHY: Trichy Junction railway station has been awarded ‘GOLD’ (72 points) rating for Green Railway Station Certification by the CII (Confederation of Indian Industry). The station was accorded with the rating based on parameters such as improvement in passenger amenities, green cover, energy conservation, water conservation, solid waste management, smart passenger services and other innovations carried out in the railway station. The environment directorate with support from Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) has developed the Green Railway Stations rating system. The system address priorities like water conservation, handling of waste, energy efficiency, reduced use of fossil fuels, lesser dependence on usage of virgin materials and health and well-being of occupants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-junction-bags-green-railway-station-certification/articleshow/76225522.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: 62 fresh cases, one death in U’khand||Dehradun: As many as 62 fresh cases of novel coronavirus were reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, taking the state's tally to 1,215. Additional secretary (health), Yugal Kishore Pant informed that among the 62 new cases, 23 are from Dehradun. These cases also include three medical staffers from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). “Rudraprayag reported 14 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, followed by eight cases in Tehri, five in Almora, four in Nainital, three in Champawat, two in Chamoli, and one each in Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar, and Pauri districts,” added Pant. Meanwhile, a 73-year-old coronavirus positive patient from Almora died on Thursday. The victim was suffering from Asthma and his Covid-19 test was done posthumously. “The cause of his death would only be ascertained after examination. So far, 11 Covid-19 positive patients have died in Uttarakhand,” said Abhishek Tripathi, in-charge of Covid-19 war room at health directorate. Also, a Covid-19 positive case migrated from Delhi and reached Dhanoli tehsil in Almora along with his family on Wednesday. He was admitted to Base Hospital, Almora and his contact tracing was done. Almora's district magistrate has filed an FIR against the person under IPC Section 2/3 of Epidemic Act 1897 and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act, 2005. With the discharge of 47 Covid-19 patients on Friday, the total number of recovered cases in the state shot up to 344 on the day. The recovery rate of the state has now reached 25.77%. Till Friday, the health department has put 33,454 people under quarantine facilities in the entire state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-62-fresh-cases-one-death-in-ukhand/articleshow/76223623.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 6, 2020||Kanpur||Volunteers tie red tape on trees, take pledge to save environment||Kanpur: World Environment Day was celebrated with zeal and enthusiasm by volunteers of Red Tape Movement following the Covid-19 protocols amid the lockdown on Friday. Only one person per family was allowed to participate in the event wherein he had to tie a Red Tape on a tree in the vicinity of his/her house, said Prabhat Misra, founder of the Red Tape Movement, district saving officer Firozabad. “About 5,000 school teachers from across Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand, directly and indirectly involved with the movement participated in the event from their homes on Friday,” said Misra adding that, “All the participants took oath to ‘change climate change’ and make a ‘carbon neutral world’. They also shared their pics tying a red tape on tree through social media apps”. Misra said, Erik Solheim, a Norwegian diplomat and former politician, who served in the Norwegian government from 2005 to 2012 as minister of international development and minister of the environment, and as under-secretary-general of the United Nations and executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme from 2016 to 2018, appreciated the efforts of over 5,000 teachers for conservation of the environment through Red Tape Movement on his Twitter account on Friday.  Misra, through video conferencing, made the students aware about the need to plant more trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/volunteers-tie-red-tape-on-trees-take-pledge-to-save-environment/articleshow/76225554.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Orders stop, makers of PPE suits get hot under the collar||LUDHIANA: In a big jolt to hundreds of personal protective equipment (PPE) suit manufacturers of the city, government organisation HLL Lifecare Limited, which is the largest buyer of the gear in India, has stopped placing new orders. This has distressed manufacturers dealing with the organisation, which has already placed orders worth more than Rs 250 crore with 18 manufacturers from Punjab, of which 16 are from Ludhiana. City businessmen are now demanding that the Centre lift the ban on the export of PPE suits otherwise they will have to suffer losses worth crores of rupees in view of huge stocks lying unsold. Sources said HLL has stopped the purchase because there was a big stock of PPE suits, with authorities purchasing them from about 95 vendors across India. Harish Dua, president of Knitwear and Apparel Exporters’ Organisation and a PPE suit manufacturer, said, “This is a huge setback to Punjab’s industry, especially to over 100 approved manufacturers of PPE in Ludhiana. On coming to know that HLL was placing huge orders, more businessmen came forward and started manufacturing PPE suits after getting approval from the Central government laboratories, like Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and South India Textile Research Association (SITRA). But now the organisation has backtracked and refused to place more orders, without citing any reason. This has left hundreds of manufacturers in the lurch. The Centre should take note and at least allow us to export PPE suits so that we can minimise our losses.” Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forum and a PPE suit manufacturer, said, “This development has come at a worse time as already 100 manufacturers from Ludhiana have been approved by the Central laboratories to manufacture and supply PPE suits. Equal number have sent their samples for testing and many of them are likely to get approval too. On the other hand, there are huge reserve stocks lying with all the hospitals and government departments so there is no scope for local manufacturers anymore here. The rates have crashed by almost 50%. The Centre had banned export of PPE suits, fearing there will be a shortage in India. But now the situation has changed, so the Central government must lift the ban else majority of the manufacturers will have to shut down their operations.” Notice on website In a notice on its website, HLL Lifecare Limited says, “Emergency procurement of Covid-19 medical supplies: It may be noted that we have already placed purchase orders for PPE Coveralls (for the quantities as mandated by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India) on a large number of suppliers. At present, we are not placing any fresh orders on new suppliers. If your coverall has already passed the mandated Synthetic Blood Penetration test, you should consider registering youcompany on the Govt. of India’s GEM portal and explore supply options to various States/UT’s/Central institutions and even private hospitals as per requirements. (sic)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/orders-stop-makers-of-ppe-suits-get-hot-under-the-collar/articleshow/76223647.cms||Mohit Behl
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Nine more test positive for Covid-19, district case tally surges to 234||LUDHIANA: Nine more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Friday. With this, the Ludhiana case count has gone up to 234. Of 20 reports received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, nine were positive, as many negative and two will be tested again. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of the nine positive cases, seven are from Ludhiana and two from Mohali.” They include a 26-year-old pregnant woman, who is a resident of Kuldeep Nagar, Rahon Road; a 40-year-old woman who had returned from Rajasthan, two men aged 42 and 50, all three of Prem Nagar; a 61-year-old man, a 31-year-old woman and a 28-year-old man — all residents of Ishar Nagar on Gill Road and contacts of an earlier positive patient. The three are admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Besides, a 12-year-old boy and her 26-year-old mother, residents of Mohali, have contracted the virus. The woman’s second son is Covid-19 positive and admitted to Patiala’s Rajendra Hospital. Meanwhile, two patients were treated of novel coronavirus and discharged on Friday. To date, 9,806 samples have been collected, of which 8799 were negative. Reports of 685 samples are pending. The number of positive patients from Ludhiana is 234 and 96 from outside the district tested positive here. Nine Ludhianvis and seven from outside have succumbed to the virus so far. As many as 160 patients have been cured and discharged. To date, 7,576 persons have been home quarantined in the district. At present, the number stands at 1,591. On Friday, 237 persons were home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/9-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-dist-case-tally-surges-to-234/articleshow/76223624.cms||Mehak Jain
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Hosiery worker attempts suicide, blames ex-fiancée, her family||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 24-year-old hosiery worker attempted suicide by consuming phenyl at his house in Subhash Nagar on Friday morning. Before taking the step, Bablu Kumar wrote a note in which he blamed his former fiancée and her family for harassing him.  Bablu’s brother Praveen Kumar said in his police complaint, "Six months ago, Bablu had got engaged to a woman of Muktsar district. The two soon started going out together and developed physical relations. After sometime, their relationship turned sour and they broke up. Thereafter, the woman lodged a rape FIR against Bablu before the lockdown was announced. On Thursday, the Muktsar police had called Bablu for investigation. There, the woman and her family threatened to put our entire family behind bars. For withdrawing the complaint, she sought Rs 10 lakh." "We do not have the resources to meet their monetary demand. In the suicide note, Bablu has written that it was their consensual decision to develop physical relations," he added.After returning from Muktsar, Bablu was upset. "On Friday morning, Bablu went inside his room and consumed phenyl. He is now admitted to ESIC Hospital, where his condition is stated to be out of danger." Bablu’s family has given a written complaint to the police. Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur said, "We have received the complaint and the probe is on."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosiery-worker-attempts-suicide-blames-ex-fiance-her-family/articleshow/76223632.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kanpur||35 migrants injured in road accident||Kanpur: As many as 35 migrant brick-kiln labourers were injured, 10 among them critically, when a bus carrying them from Rajasthan to Hamirpur district fell into a ditch in Etawah district on late Thursday night. The incident occurred near Pehlan village turn under the limits of Bithauli police station of the district on Thursday at around 11 pm when the bus driver apparently dozed off and lost control and the vehicle overturned and fell into a roadside ditch, said police circle officer Chakarnagar Massa Singh, on Friday. On coming across loud shrieks, locals of the area rushed to the scene and extracted the injured labourers and alerted the police. The police arrived at the spot and admitted the injured labourers to a Primary Health Centre in Rajpur, where doctors stated condition of 10 among them to be serious. “The bus driver, conductor and cleaner managed to flee the site. The labourers used to work at a brick-kiln unit in Raja Kheda area of Rajasthan were returning to their native village in Rath area of Hamirpur when the mishap occurred near Pehlan village turn area of Etawah district,” police said. “Searches are underway to locate the whereabouts of bus driver, conductor and cleaner,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/35-migrants-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/76225581.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||After Badrinath priests, locals also want to postpone Char Dham Yatra for pilgrims||Dehradun: After priests at Badrinath wrote to the Uttarakhand CM to postpone the yatra for pilgrims till June 30, locals in the area have also echoed a similar opinion and called for measures “to keep the Char Dham free of Covid-19.” According to them, health facilities are not good in the hills and the people returning from other states have caused a spike in the number of positive cases. “In such a scenario, it is not feasible to hold the yatra,” they added. Meanwhile, Ashish Uniyal, a priest at Yamunotri, said that the yatra should be cancelled this year. “It is true that priests and others associated with the yatra will suffer immensely but the step is required to save lives,” he said. Initially, the districts of Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Rudraprayag – which house the four revered shrines – had not reported a single Covid case. However, the number has gone up after the government permitted the return of the migrant labourers from other states. Jagmohan Singh, a senior citizen living in Bhatwadi in Rudraprayag district, said, “It is the most debated topic in the markets and houses as well these days. Majority of the people are of the view that it will only bring trouble for the people of the hills – especially the elders, whose children have migrated and they are staying alone in villages.” Shanti Chauhan, a women self-help group member who resides in Joshimath, said that people living in nearby areas and villages like Mana, too, are opposed to the idea of starting yatra on June 8. “With the rise in Covid cases, there is a scare in the hills of Garhwal and the yatra will multiply it further,” she added. Chauhan admitted that the stakeholders in the yatra like the priests, pony owners, shop and restaurant owners, would suffer if the yatra did not start at the earliest. “Still there is no point in endangering lives,” she added. Yamunotri shrine priest Ashish Uniyal said that the devotees should not be allowed for yatra this year. “We are willing to make the sacrifice as it is directly related to the health of the people.” Rajnikanth Semwal, spokesperson for Char Dham Mahapanchayat, said, “At present, focus should be on providing safety and better medical facilities rather than starting yatra for pilgrims. Questions, like if we have the facility to sanitise the yatra route on a daily basis or if it is advisable to wear a mask at a high-altitude, need to be answered first.” He added that keeping all factors in mind, a later date should be decided to open the yatra. Meanwhile, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that a final decision on starting the yatra for the pilgrims would be taken only after seeking the opinion of priests and local traders. “We want the yatra to be safe and not put anyone’s life in danger. Our officers are working on plans to ensure safety for all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-badrinath-priests-locals-also-want-to-postpone-char-dham-yatra-for-pilgrims/articleshow/76223646.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||School fee: Pb to appeal against HC ruling||Chandigarh: The Punjab government will appeal against the Punjab and Haryana high court ruling allowing private schools to charge fee from students for the lockdown period. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh announced this on Friday, and ruled out opening of schools without clear recommendations from medical experts. Asked to comment on the demonstration by a few parents in Patiala demanding opening of schools, Captain Amarinder said in a videoconference that he would not compromise on students’ health at any cost. “I will not open schools until I get medical advice on this,” he added. Regarding the issue of charging of fee, he said his government had taken the right decision by restricting private schools from charging any fee when students were not being taught by schools. “It is unfair to charge fee from parents when schools are closed,” he said. The state would soon file a review petition against the high court order on this issue, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-fee-pb-to-appeal-against-hc-ruling/articleshow/76225518.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Regulations set for entering places of worship in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to go ahead with the central directive of opening the places of worship by ensuring precautionary measures from June 8. Number of people allowed inside at a time will be regulated. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said people above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. This is applicable to the priests too. All places of worship should have facilities to record the details of the visitors. Physical distancing of a minimum of 6 ft should be maintained while in queue for entry. Touching statues/idols/holy books, etc. will not be allowed. Large gatherings/congregation will continue to remain prohibited. A maximum of 100 people will be allowed at a time in churches and mosques for the weekly prayers. In view of potential threat of spread of Covid-19, recorded devotional music/songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed. Physical contact should be avoided while greeting each other. Common prayer mats should be avoided and devotees should bring their own mats/clothes which they may take back with them. No physical offerings like prasadam or distribution or sprinkling of holy water, etc. will be allowed inside the religious place. The entrance should have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions. Only asymptomatic persons shall be allowed entry and all of them should wear masks. Posters/standees on preventive measures about Covid-19 should be displayed prominently. Footwear should be kept inside own vehicle, if possible. In case of families, footwear can be kept together in one slot. There should be separate gates for entry and exit. In Sabarimala, the devotees will be allowed to have darshan through virtual queue, for which only 50 people will be given token at a time. Meanwhile, the chief minister denied the demand made by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) that the places of worship should not be opened now. “We cannot accept that demand since we cannot continue shutting down everything for long. Covid-19 is going to remain with us for some time now. Hence we have to take precautions to prevent the spreading by allowing the life to move on,” he said. IMA had warned that allowing large number of people inside the places of worship would result in spread of Covid-19. Physical distancing cannot be ensured in places of worship and hence the opening of such facilities should be delayed further, IMA had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/regulations-set-for-entering-places-of-worship/articleshow/76223655.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Trichy||Covid spreads as patients hide ‘contacts’||TRICHY: Tracing the contacts of Covid-positive patients remains a major task for public health department officials as the infected people reveal their contacts only during a thorough inquiry. The case of a Chennai returnee to Trichy is a classic example of how the viral infection spread surreptitiously from him to at least 14 contacts unknowingly. The district administration had on May 31 declared that a 37-year-old female staff nurse of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) tested positive. A couple of days later, her husband also turned positive and got admitted to the hospital. The district administration and the doctors were under the impression that the nurse got infected from the Covid-19 positive pregnant women in MGMGH and her husband contracted the disease from her. Detailed investigation revealed the real source of infection to be a Chennai returnee to the hospital in Manapparai where her husband was working as lab technician. An old woman of Kannudaiyanpatti was under treatment at the hospital where one of her sons came from Chennai to take care of her. As he had stayed there for seven days, six of their family including the woman tested positive. The viral infection also spread to the husband of the nurse and two more staff members of the hospital. The hospital was fumigated and the staff were admitted to MGMGH. As the nurse and her family were residing in an apartment at Beema Nagar, the public health department tested 36 residents of the building. It was revealed that three of them tested positive for Covid-19. In all, eight people including the nurse and her husband were infected. On Friday, Trichy collector S Sivarasu visited Kannudaiyanpatti village and educated the local body staff and villagers on protecting themselves from Covid-19. A senior doctor involved in contact tracing said the patients keep mum about their contacts until the officials inquired. “They won’t volunteer to give us information. We can get it only at the time of inquiry and then our teams trace them,” said a doctor who did not want to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-spreads-as-patients-hide-contacts/articleshow/76225513.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Will add features to watch kids’ play, says PUBG firm||CHANDIGARH: The developer of online game, PUBG, has decided to introduce two safeguards by June 2020 to prevent ill effects on the health of children playing this game. Singapore-based developer, Proxima Beta Pte. Limited has given an undertaking to the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEIT) that it would introduce two safeguards — a one-time password (OTP) based restriction and cut in game time. The game developer informed MEIT about this on April 30 in response to a representation submitted by Chandigarh-based lawyer H C Arora to the central ministry for banning PUBG. Arora had submitted that the game is making children addicted to violence and thereby adversely affecting their physical and mental development. The OTP-based restriction is aimed at improving the oversight of game usage by minors. If a minor has been playing for three hours, an OTP authentication will be required before the minor can continue to play for another two hours during the same day. The minor will be required to provide the parent’s mobile number and fill the OTP obtained via such a mobile number. If the minor does not proceed with OTP authentication, the minor will be automatically logged out of the game for the day. “As OTP involves collaborating with a local telecom service provider, we intend to implement this feature latest by early June 2020, subject to assessments on potential data privacy considerations,” the developer has informed. In the second feature, the developer is in the process of implementing 2nd - 3rd - 5th hour game time regulation framework for minor users. This provides for a health warning to pop up at the 2nd hour, and subsequently a compulsory 1-hour break is imposed at the 3rd hour, and a compulsory log out at the 5th hour. In other words, the maximum playing time allowed for a minor user will be 5 hours per day. The developer has also explained that for adult players, currently, health warnings appear after the 4th hour and 6th hour mark (including at every successive 2-hour interval after the 6th hour). Besides giving an undertaking to introduce new features, PUBG has also defended its game against the various accusations levelled by Arora in his plea. Referring to various studies, the game developer has argued that instead of eliminating social interaction, online gaming supplements it. Now, Arora is required to submit a rejoinder to the ministry with reference to other contentions raised by PUBG. The ministry will take a decision to either ban PUBG, or to regulate the game by accepting assurances/proposals of safeguards submitted by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-add-features-to-watch-kids-play-says-pubg-firm/articleshow/76225510.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Mosques in Ujire to remain closed for 2 months||MANGALURU: Mosques in Ujire in Belthangady taluk will not open for prayers for the next two months, even if the government decides to relax the rules. Ujire Halepete Muhiuddin Juma Masjid and other mosques in its jurisdiction have decided that no prayers, including Friday prayers, will be held at mosques for the next two months. The committees of the mosques took a decision to this effect, taking into consideration the safety of people in the village, and in proximity to the national highway. Muhiuddin Juma Masjid president B M Abdul Hameed Haji said that a decision not to allow mass prayers for the next three months was taken at a meeting of the committee. “We have three mosques under our main mosque in Ujire. The committee has decided at a meeting that mosques will not be opened for prayers for the next two months, even if the government permits it. The number of Covid-19 cases is increasing every day. Hence, it is not safe to open mosques for prayers at this stage. As per our religion, a believer may offer prayers in any mosque when he reaches another place. Travellers from different places also may visit the mosque to offer prayers, and we cannot deny permission when they come. There are possibilities of the disease spreading in the village, if an infected person from Mumbai or any other place visits the mosque. The entire area will have to be sealed if an infected person visits. Hence, we took this decision as a precautionary measure,” Haji said. The committee has also resolved that a review meeting may be held on June 30, if there is a considerable decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases, he said. “We will hold a review meeting on June 30 and prayers will be allowed in mosques from July 1, if there is a considerable reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases. Even if mosques are opened, we will take extra precautions in addition to the guidelines issued by the government. We will follow all the guidelines related to social distancing and cleanliness. In addition, we have asked everyone to bring their own personal prayer mats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mosques-in-ujire-to-remain-closed-for-2-months/articleshow/76223662.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Take tough stand on stand-off with China: Amarinder||Chandigarh:Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to take a tough stand on the continuing border stand-off with China if the neighbouring country does not respond to diplomatic efforts to resolve the issue. The problem needs to be resolved through negotiations and diplomacy, but “we cannot turn our back to the threat posed by the aggressive moves of the Chinese at the border,” Capt Amarinder said in response to questions during a video press conference. As sovereign nations, both countries should find a diplomatic solution to the problem, he said. “We want peace, but they cannot push us around,” he said, asserting that the Chinese had to be pushed back, out of the Indian territory. Asserting that India cannot keep allowing its land to be taken away, he said if the threat is not countered, the Chinese will demand more and more land in the future, which cannot be permitted at any cost. Citing the Dokhlam incident, Amarinder said such provocations on the part of China were common. They had encroached Indian territory even in Aksai Chin, and resorted to similar actions in Arunachal Pradesh, he added. Attempts have been made by China in the past to lay claims on Indian land in Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradeshtoo, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/take-tough-stand-on-stand-off-with-china-amarinder/articleshow/76225524.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Inspector, kin killed in accident on expressway||KANPUR:An inspector posted in the Crime Branch in Saharanpur district and his father-in-law died while four others including his two sons sustained injuries in an accident on Agra -Lucknow Expressway under the limits of Saifai police station of Etawah district on Friday. The deceased were identified as Inspector Samarjit Singh (53), a native of Patna Ghat under Badhalganj police station in Gorakhpur district, and his father-in-law Kamlesh Singh. “He along with his two sons Manvendra (26) and Sarvendra (24), father-in-law, brother-in-law Rajiv Singh (35) and latter’s son Jeet Singh (11) were heading to Siwan district of Bihar, when the car being driven by his elder son Manvendra turned turtle after crashing into a road divider near channel no: 108 on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Saifai police area of Etawah,” said the police. He was posted in the Crime Branch team of Saharanpur police. He is survived by his wife and two sons. At present, he was living with his family in Ghaziabad. SSP Etawah Akash Tomar said, “Inspector -Samarjit and his father-in-law died at the spot, while four others including his two sons have been admitted to Saifai Medical university, where the doctors stated their condition to be out of danger.” The victims were on way to Narendrapur village in Siwan district of Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/inspector-kin-killed-in-accident-on-expressway/articleshow/76225591.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Recoveries outnumber new Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: More people recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state on Friday as compared to the number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases. According to state health department, a total of 234 Covid positive cases were reported while 241 were discharged during the day. The new cases pushed the tally of positive patients in the state to 8,996 while 7 deaths were reported in the state during the last 24 hours. The deaths were reported from Indore- 4 and 1 each in Ujjain, Khandwa and Khargone districts. Incidentally, Friday was the fourth consecutive day when more patients recovered then those tested positive. Earlier on dates June 2, June 3, June 4, May 2, May 4, May 5, May 7, May 8, May 9 and May 10, May 27 and June 2— patients recovering from the deadly disease have outnumbered the new patients testing positive in the state. These new cases were reported from 26 of the 51 districts of the state. Of these 26 districts, new cases in double digits were reported from four districts namely Indore (54), Bhopal (52), Neemuch (38) and Khargone (12). With the new people recovering in the state total number of people recovered from the disease has now increased to 5,878. This is 65% of the total 8,996 cases reported so far in the state. And this is more than double of the total active cases which are 2734 in the state. So far reports of a total of 1.95 lakh samples have been tested in the state of which 8,996 have tested positive. Administration has declared 1,006 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and any movement in these districts is strictly prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/76224815.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolhapur||After floods, coronavirus to hit Kolhapur tourism||KOLHAPUR: Lush green valleys, cloud kissing mountains and cascading waterfalls draws hordes of tourists to Kolhapur district during the monsoon season, but the lodges and stays in these destinations are anticipating second consecutive slack year in coming months. Moreover, many resorts in these areas have been taken over by the administration to be turned into quarantine facilities. Last year, heavy floods in Kolhapur had affected monsoon tourism. This year, the fear of novel coronavirus and travel restrictions may hit tourism at the popular destinations such as Radhanagari, Amba ghat, Gaganbawda, Amboli, and Panhala. The hill station of Amba offers scenic views of Kerle, Paleshwar and Manoli waterfalls along with the historic Vishalgad fort and Pawankhind in its vicinity. Its proximity to Mumbai-Goa highway makes it easily accessible to tourist from Mumbai, Pune and Goa. Pradeep Jadhav, who owns Vanvisava resort at Amba ghat, said the administration has taken over 33 resorts in the area to be quarantine centres till October. “Currently, there are around 61 people quarantined at my resort. The administration has asked us not to charge these people but expects us to provide them all facilities. We are yet to recover from the losses incurred last year.” Vanita Desai, who runs a breakfast and lunch-dinner facility from her home in Patgaon village, said trekkers heading to Rangana fort halt at her residence for food. The travel restrictions mean they would not be coming this year, she said. Abhijeet Lokhande, a tour operator, said Kolhapur and its surroundings attract many tourists.“I am hoping the district administration can work out some solution and allow local tourists to travel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/after-floods-corona-to-hit-kolhapur-tourism/articleshow/76222544.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Capt announces SIT to probe illicit liquor trade||Chandigarh: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Friday announced constituting a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the illicit sale and smuggling of liquor during the lockdown. Capt Amarinder said the three-member SIT would be headed by water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria. When asked whether such large-scale illicit sale of liquor and smuggling from other states was possible without the involvement of insiders, he said SIT would conduct a full-fledged probe to ascertain all facts, including complicity of excise department officials. All those involved will be identified and arrested, he added. Regarding possible involvement of the official machinery in the alleged seed scam, Capt Amarinder said the matter was being probed by a SIT headed by an ADGP-level officer, along with a joint director of agriculture department. He said the PAU had produced nearly 3000 quintals of PR 128 and 129 varieties of paddy seed on trial basis, whereas 30,000 quintals had been sold in the open market, to farmers, by unscrupulous dealers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-announces-sit-to-probe-illicit-liquor-trade/articleshow/76225526.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kanpur||Barra emerges as new Covid hotspot||Kanpur: After Quli Bazar and Anwargaj, the Barra area in South city has emerged as a new danger spot. Shiv Nagar Vidyut Colony, a locality of Kanpur south, is now the biggest hotspot where as many as 19 corona positive cases were found on Wednesday and six on Thursday. As per the record, 22 out of 30 corona positive cases on Wednesday were from the Barra area. A corporator of this area and his men were found infected a few days ago. It is said that the 19 cases found on Wednesday are linked to the chain of the corporator and his representatives. The health personnel expressed apprehension that this chain might be longer. According to police, one person of the colony, who was found positive had been in touch with the corporator who has infected 19 persons, including his family members and neighbours. The six cases reported on Thursday are stated to be the contacts of the infected persons, and of them three persons were found infected in Barra- 3. Thus 28 positive cases have surfaced in Barra in just two days. According to sources, the colony has been declared a red zone and the entire area has been sealed by the police and health officers while KMC teams are sanitizing it. Meharban Singh ka Purwa isanother hotspot where one person was found infected on Wednesday. Munnipurwa area of Bajaria, which was earlier in the list of hotspot, has now become a problem for the district administration as recently it was shifted to the green zone but has again been put in the hotspot zone after a positive case was found there.  Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde said that the cases were on rise due to flux of migrant workers. “We have to increase our testing capacity as enhance the number of beds in L-1 Covid-19 hospital. The commissioner has asked the frontline workers such as police and employees of the health department and the municipal corporation to take extra precautions while performing their duties. According to the health department, there were 16 positive cases on June 2 and most of them were the contacts of migrant workers whereas the cases found on June 3 belong to the contacts of primary positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/barra-emerges-as-new-hotspot/articleshow/76204880.cms||Anant Chandak
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Burqa-clad Covid-19 samaritan on sanitization mission in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: With a mask strung across her face, a burqa-clad woman can often be seen walking briskly or negotiating her scooty through narrow alleys of Old Lucknow with a small tank strapped on her shoulder and sprinkling machine in her hands. Many mistake her for a municipal corporation employee sanitizing lanes to keep coronavirus at bay during the lockdown. But, this woman on a mission is no ordinary Covid warrior. Sayyad Uzma Parveen, 29, resident of Saadatganj, has covered more than 20km with her sanitization kit through dense localities of Saadatganj, Thakurganj, Yahiyaganj, Chowk market, Balaganj and Aminabad since April 26, breaching conservatism and defying risk of infection. An avid biker and mother of two children, two and four years, she has spent more than Rs 5 lakh to fund her sanitization drive and distribution of food and essentials to the needy. “I have been supporting the needy with food, money, ration and footwear among other things, besides undertaking regular sanitization drives. I withdrew Rs 2 lakh, kept aside for higher studies of my 4-year-old son, who wants to become a pilot. Also, I ploughed into my life savings of Rs 3 lakh to fund my charity work,” Uzma told TOI. Though her in-laws were not amused, Uzma received support from her husband, a businessman. “After witnessing my dedication and with appreciation pouring in, relatives too offered support,” said the homemaker, who completes household chores before setting out on her mission. Cleanliness had been her obsession since childhood and Uzma embarked on the mission after seeing several parts of Old city in LMC’s blind spot. She bought two spraying machines and drove through dingy and congested lanes, sprinkling disinfectant, sodium hypochlorite. Two acquaintances came forward to donate two additional machines. Initially, people looked at her with shock, surprise and suspicion. Some even joked about her initiative. “Gradually, people’s perception changed from apathy to appreciation and admiration,” Uzma said. Now, she has begun getting calls from people to help sanitise their localities. “People often ask me, why being a woman, I am doing a man’s job? And how I manage to carry such heavy machines? I tell them all that in this hour of crisis, we all should contribute in the fight again the virus,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/burqa-clad-covid-samaritan-on-sanitization-mission-in-old-city/articleshow/76225533.cms||Rahul Tripathi
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Nine coronavirus patients discharged from Gadag hospital||HUBBALLI: Nine Covid-19 patients were cured and discharged from the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on Friday. This is for the first time that nine patients were discharged from the hospital at one go. P-970, a 62 -year-old male returned from Gujarat, was admitted at GIMS on May 14. P-1566, a-32-year old male who returned from Mumbai, tested positive and was admitted on May 21. Gadag city reported Covid cases from Ganji Basaveshwar Circle area, after seven patients contracted the disease from P-913. All these were cured and discharged from the hospital, said GIMS director Dr PS Bhusaraddi. The patients have been advised to remain in house isolation for the next 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/9-patients-discharged-from-gadag-hosp/articleshow/76223707.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Trichy||Neglected Palakkarai railway station cries for attention||TRICHY: Palakkarai railway station, one of the oldest stations in Trichy division, is in a pathetic state as the railway tracks and the area around it have become a place for open defecation. Since there are no boundary walls on both sides of the track, rail users have urged the authorities to renovate the station immediately. Palakkarai used to be one of the busiest railway stations in Trichy railway division with both express and passenger trains stopping there. Hundreds of commuters including school, college students, and office-goers used the station. Now, no express trains stop at the station and only the Trichy - Karur - Erode passenger halts there. Due to this, the station has been left without maintenance and the entire area in and around the station have become garbage dump yard. Residents defecate in the open on the tracks. The platforms and the station building are surrounded by thorny plants. Stray animals roam the area. The tracks and platforms are filthy, said K Janardhanan, a resident of Trichy. Secretary of Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, Golden Rock branch, H Ghouse Baig said the station is located at the heart of the city and also a few kilometres away from the Trichy Junction. “Railways should ensure minimum maintenance and provide basic amenities to the passengers,” he said. When contacted, a senior officer from Trichy railway division said that redevelopment of Palakkarai station was on the anvil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/neglected-palakkarai-rly-station-cries-for-attention/articleshow/76225538.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
June 6, 2020||Vadodara||Photomasks, a new trend for Covid-wary Barodians||VADODARA: Until a few days ago, politician Nilesh Brahmbhatt was a perturbed man — to wear a mask or not to wear — was his biggest dilemma. Everytime he had to meet the public, he was forced to remove the protective gear for recognition. But that was until last week. Now, Brahmbhatt is at eace wearing his ‘face’ over his face. Many Barodians too have started customizing their face masks with their photos. “We have to meet people and also move around in public areas daily. When I used to wear the simple cloth mask, people often didn’t recognize me until I had to remove my mask. But it was also risky. And then I heard about this tailor-made mask from a friend and immediately ordered it,” said the Congress leader, talking to TOI. “Now, there is no fear of not being recognized and I am also safe and more comfortable in public,” he added. “During the lockdown, I noticed people kept removing the face masks to talk to people or for recognizing each other. That is when I came up with the idea of printing photos of the individuals on their masks. When the lockdown ended last month, I began making such masks,” said Pinkesh Patel, an entrepreneur. “We click high resolution pictures of the individual who place orders for such masks. The portion of nose and jaws is then printed on the cotton material in the same size as the actual face. People have been calling me up asking for such masks over the last few days,” Patel added. Dhairya Joshi, a photographer, said that such face-over-face masks also ensure one’s safety. “Since the time I began wearing this mask, I don’t have to remove it. This ensures that everybody, including me, is safe while interacting,” Joshi said. The trend is gradually catching up and users claim that the material of the mask is also skin friendly. “We began printing masks with individual faces towards the end of May and over last few days, we have been selling about 30 such masks every day,” said Naresh Thavdani, who is in business of selling fabric.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/photomasks-a-new-trend-for-covid-wary-barodians/articleshow/76222966.cms||Tushar Tere
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||MIDC units restart as workers, who stayed back with police help, rejoin||NAGPUR: Around 50% of the MIDC units have resumed operation with labourers, either from city or the ones who did not join the exodus, after conditional relaxations were given to certain industries to begin afresh. Much of the labourers now at MIDC are the ones who had stayed back at the adjoining slums of Rajiv Nagar, Amar Nagar, Isasani, Nildoh and adjoining localities after police, NGOs, social workers and groups managed to hold them back through support like food and other aid. Senior inspector Hemant Kharabe of MIDC police station said the announcement of lockdown had triggered panic among the workers who were rendered jobless overnight. “There was threat of unrest and agitation by jobless outstation workers here after industries shut down. We had to do something to pacify the labourers in shortest possible period,” he said. The first step taken was to ensure food supply to the labourers. “Around 11 community kitchens were opened with sole initiative of police and another 15 with the help of social workers, NGOs and such groups. Food was provided twice a day to unemployed workers, labourers, needy persons, migrants and slum dwellers after March 24,” said Kharabe. In all, MIDC police distributed prepared food to 9.5 lakh people under PI Kharabe and Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal’s guidance. The needy persons were also provided around 2,400 ration kits. “Many labourers and their families found staying at their current location in the city much more safe and affordable than leaving for home. It’s these labourers who are now readily available to join factories and other production units in MIDC,” he said. Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association, said that their members, other corporate bodies and different units contributed over 10 lakh for providing ration kit, food and other help to needy persons. “Majority of the construction site labourers have left. Some outstation workers and labourers who stayed back are now helping us to resume work,” he said. Shegaonkar also appreciated the role of police in helping the labourers. Representative of a private company based at MIDC said that industrial units have benefited largely due to labourers who stayed back due to assistance they got from police, association and corporate bodies. Shirish Tak, general manager of another company at MIDC, said that the units here have got some momentum due to the available workforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/midc-units-restart-as-workers-who-stayed-back-with-police-help-rejoin/articleshow/76223697.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Only 107 migrants remaining in NMC’s shelter homes||Nagpur: Migrants’ inflow into shelter homes has reduced drastically with mostly those from far off states now awaiting their onward journey. The numbers at the shelters keep fluctuating daily, depending on how many choose to stay put in the city rather than continue an uncertain long journey. As of Friday, there were 107 migrants waiting for the travel arrangements to be made.Nilesh Bharne, deputy commissioner of police, said numbers will keep sliding with travel restrictions easing. “There was a time when thousands of migrants were passing through the city. Now, on a daily basis, we see just 200-odd. With both Shramik trains and other routes operational, we expect this figure to decrease further,” said Bharne, who is helping to coordinate shelter homes and travel arrangements for migrants. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) data revealed that 107 migrants are currently housed in two shelters at Ravi Nagar and Kalamna. These migrants are from Odisha (40), Bihar (22), Chhattisgarh (21), Jharkhand (16), Madhya Pradesh (5) and Uttar Pradesh (1). There are two from Maharashtra who are awaiting inter-district travel arrangements. Devendra Kumar from Livewell Foundation, which manages the Agrasen Bhavan shelter home, said that usually, within a few days, travel arrangements are made. “The number of migrant inmates keep changing almost daily as they are brought here from nakas. We facilitate their onward journey through trains or bus, with help from the other stakeholders too,” said Kumar. Convincing migrants to stay put in shelter homes till proper travel arrangements are made is also a challenge, says DCP Bharne. “They feel shelter homes mean quarantine. We try to convince them that travelling to Bihar, UP etc must be done with proper mode of transportation. It takes social skills to assure them that it is in their interest to stay safe till a bus or train is arranged for them,” said Bharne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-107-migrants-remaining-in-nmcs-shelter-homes/articleshow/76223712.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to conduct sanitisation drive across 50 wards today||In wake of total lockdown which will be observed on Saturday and Sunday, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) is set to conduct massive sanitisation drive across 50 wards of the city on Saturday. Municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey issued a detailed plan on Friday for carrying out the drive and fixing responsibilities of nodal officer along with sanitation supervisors. The drive will begin around 8 am on Saturday and will continue till late evening. The nodal officers from DMC have also been tasked to ensure the availability of sodium hypochlorite solution, spray machines, pamphlets for awareness generation. The ward counselors will also accompany the DMC teams throughout the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-conduct-sanitisation-drive-across-50-wards-today/articleshow/76223688.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Malls set to reopen but no hanging out, movies as yet in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: City malls are set to reopen from Monday after a gap of 85 days but people will only be allowed to shop-and-leave with no hanging around for window shopping or fun. Moreover, people will have to wait for some time to watch movies, dine at food courts and play in gaming zones. The guidelines under Unlock 1.0 issued by the district administration on Friday allowed malls not in containment and buffer zones to reopen from Monday but with strict regulations. While timing would be from 9am to 9pm, limited number of people will be allowed entry. The formula for deciding maximum capacity to be allowed at a time would be two persons, besides mall employees, in 1000sq feet covered area. A digital board will display real-time number of visitors inside the mall. All shops will reopen but a customer will be able to spend time inside only for shopping. No window shopping will be permitted. Restaurants will offer only take-away and home delivery. Visitors will have to wear masks and will be scanned for temperature at the gates. They will also have use foot-operated hand sanitizers before entering malls. Public announcement system will keep people reminding about rules. UP Adarsh Vyapar Mandal president Sanjay Gupta said owners of shops in various malls, who suffered heavy losses, are not ready to reopen till their demand to waive off rent and mall maintenance fee for lockdown period is not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/malls-set-to-reopen-but-no-hanging-out-movies-as-yet/articleshow/76225547.cms||Rahul Tripathi
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Four Madras high court judges test Covid +ve, curbs back in courts||CHENNAI: Four judges of the Madras high court have tested positive for Covid-19 and will be out of action for at least a couple of weeks. The court will go back to ‘restrictive hearing’ by limited benches strictly through videoconferencing. After a lockdown of more than 40 days, the court had resumed full-fledged functioning from June 1 when it asked all 33 benches to be in court halls/chambers to conduct proceedings. Lawyers, however, were barred from entering courts and hearings were done through videoconferencing. Now, only two division benches and four single judges will take up urgent matters. More importantly, the hearing would be conducted from the residential chambers of the judges and not from the high court premises. All access to the high court premises will be restricted till June 30. The restriction will also apply to subordinate courts across the state. At present, nine district courts were allowed to conduct limited open court hearings. The decision to roll back the recent relaxations comes as a blow to advocates who were demanding complete resumption of open court hearings and access to their chambers in the court premises. Though the high court began to function with its full strength from June 1, most of the members of the Bar were dissatisfied, as only limited cases were taken up for hearing, that too only through video conferencing. The lawyers were also denied entry to court premises, forcing them to attend hearings without access to their case briefs. On June 1, after an urgent meeting with top Bar leaders, Bar council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry chairperson PS Amalraj said: “Almost 98% of the advocates are not comfortable with the virtual court hearings. The common feedback seems to be that the advocates are unable to present their cases effectively in the virtual courts and the same is acting as a major impediment for advocates to consent for such virtual hearings.” Later, the council sent a representation to the Chief Justice AP Sahi suggesting open court hearing of only urgent motions in writs, appellate, original, and criminal side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-hc-judges-test-ve-curbs-back-in-courts/articleshow/76225539.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Noida||Man gets into scuffle with cop at Noida border, held||NOIDA: A 34-year-old Noida resident driving back from Delhi was arrested at the DND Flyway earlier this week after he allegedly got into a scuffle with a sub-inspector, who had asked to see his pass and told him to return to Delhi when he said he didn’t have one. For weeks now, arguments between cops and commuters at the sealed Noida-Delhi border have been breaking out routinely. As jams have become longer and more frequent because of the increase in traffic with offices and businesses opening up, tempers have been rising steadily as well. On Tuesday evening, one argument swiftly escalated. The Noida resident, who lives Jaypee Greens Kosmos, told police he was “frustrated” and “extremely angry” after being caught in the traffic mess at the border. He was driving back home in his white Volkswagen Polo when the cops stopped him at the DND checkpost around 7.20pm. “A constable asked him to show a pass issued by the Noida administration. But he did not have any. The man got into an argument, insisting that he should be allowed to enter the city where he lives. He was asked to park his car by the side of the road. I had started the process of seizing his vehicle when he tried to manhandle me,” said sub-inspector Sunil Yadav. Rakesh Kumar Singh, the SHO of Sector 20 police station, said the man had been booked under sections 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force) and other sections of IPC as well as clauses of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act. Originally from Uttarakhand, he has a house each in Delhi and Noida. His wife declined to comment, saying the family was trying to “forget what had happened”. The Noida administration imposed curbs at its borders with Delhi in April, citing an increasing number of Covid cases with their source in the national capital. Over the past few weeks, traffic volume between the two cities has risen substantially, leading to jams at the border every day. As a result, arguments with cops have become a regular feature, with many commuters saying that their inability to reach their workplace in Delhi for days at a stretch was putting their livelihoods in jeopardy. Movement has become tougher for private firm employees ever since the Delhi government, earlier this week, began insisting on passes to enter the capital. On Sunday, a video of at least five commuters arguing with cops on the DND Flyway went viral on social media. This regular bickering is also leading to massive snarls at Kalindi Kunj and other entry/exit points during rush hours. On Friday, too, the line of vehicles stretched several kilometres at the border with Delhi. Cops relaxed the checking for some time when the traffic volume built up on the DND Flyway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/exec-vents-anger-at-noida-border-curbs-on-cop-arrested/articleshow/76225559.cms||Shikha Salaria
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||MC goes ahead with GIS survey for Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana: In order to streamline the Buddha Nullah, the civic body will now get Geographic Information System (GIS) survey done so that encroachments could be removed from its banks. The task force constituted by the chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, has also been asking the civic officials to remove encroachments as because of these, the entire course of drain has become narrow at one location, while it is broder from the other. However, earlier the civic officials asked the drainage department and the revenue department for an actual plan of drain, but when they could not help much, the officials have now opted for the GIS survey. A private firm will be hired for the survey in the coming few days, tenders will be floated to hire a firm. The officials claimed that it will take 15 days time to complete the survey and after that they will start removal of encroachments. Last year, during the monsoon season, when the water-level increased in the drain, it returned to its old course and water was filled opposite the Tajpur Road where large numbers of slum dwellers were living illegally. On usual days, the land remains vacant and this is the reason that illegal slum was developed at that place. The authorities got the slums vacated during the monsoon season, but now again they have returned to the similar place, ignoring the last year’s experience. Similarly, at many other locations too, there are religious and other encroachments. The assistant town planner of the municipal corporation, Mohan Singh, said, “Earlier, we had asked for records from the drainage department and revenue department, but both these departments could not provide much help, so now we are left with this survey only.” He said this survey will help in finding out the exact measurements of the drain and illegal structures will be removed. Notably, 14-km long stretch of drain the passes falls under the MC limits, but the drain is not in a uniform pattern so there is a need to streamline its banks. The civic officials had broadened the banks of the drain at almost all the points. Heaps of debris and other waste material have also piled up at the sides of the drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-goes-ahead-with-gis-survey-for-buddha-nullah/articleshow/76223743.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||3.5L high risk persons, over 10k returnees in Nagpur rural: Survey||Nagpur: Alarmed over increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Nagpur rural, district collector Ravindra Thakre had ordered a health survey. It has revealed that about 3.5 lakh persons suffer from diseases like diabetes, tuberculosis etc. Further about 10,600 persons have returned home from other districts.A revenue official said all the 10,600 persons are being screened for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection. “Our teams are going to their houses and screening them. They are potential carriers. Special attention is being paid to them,” he added.Initially, there were negligible cases in Nagpur rural. However, the numbers started increasing after people started returning home from Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Jalgaon etc. Of the 46 positive cases in Nagpur rural, 35 had returned from outside. Nine are from Special Reserve Police Force (SRPF), who were on duty in Satranjipura. Two patients of Kondhali were living in Shanti Nagar. One person from Mominpura had gone to Kharbi.The official further said that people suffering from diabetes and tuberculosis have a greater risk of developing complications if they contracted coronavirus. “This is the reason for surveying such persons. We have noted down the name, his or her address and the ailment he or she suffers from. The district administration is regularly enquiring about their health,” he added.He further said special attention is also being paid to containment areas — Kanhan, Kondhali, Butibori, Kalmeshwar, Kamptee, Koradi, Hingna, Narkhed and Saoner. “We are screening every person living in containment zones so that the disease does not spread further,” the official added.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is also conducting a door-to-door survey for identifying coronavirus patients and those potentially at risk from complications. It is covering around 6 lakh houses and a population of over 30 lakh. NMC teams are visiting each house and enquiring about the health of residents. In all 288 teams have been formed which will enquire whether any person has returned from abroad in the last few days. “If there are such cases, names and addresses of persons whom they came in contact with are being noted,” said sources.The NMC personnel are also teaching basic precautions to Nagpurians like washing hands frequently, wearing masks, not touching face etc so as to keep the Covid at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-5l-high-risk-persons-over-10k-returnees-in-nagpur-rural-survey/articleshow/76223729.cms||Ashish Roy
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||No rainwater harvesting, people to struggle with flooded roads again||Ludhiana: With monsoon to begin by the end of this month, residents will have to face the problem of waterlogging and flooding in many areas of the city, this year too. The city municipal corporation has failed to set up rain harvesting system and storm water sewerage. Officials of the BRS Nagar have failed to set up rain water harvesting system and no changes have been made to solve the issue of water logging in the area in the last one year. The rain water harvesting system was approved for all the four zonal offices of the municipal corporation (MC), but not even single came into existence. The officials showed helplessness by stating paucity of funds as the major reason, including other issues, because of which they could not execute the same on ground level. Parks which were selected for rain water harvesting system are located in Kitchlu Nagar, Udham Singh Nagar, Malerkotla House and Tagore Nagar part A and B. The officials of the civic body had prepared a proposal in November 2019 after getting the required approval. The total cost of the project was set at Rs 9.65 lakh. Similarly, as pilot project, the rooftop rain water harvesting system was taken up first at zone D and leisure valley. The tenders for the same were also floated, but nothing worked out. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials of the civic body claimed that they had prepared estimates and approvals were given at the local level, but the state government issued advisory on spending money at essential services only. He said they could not take up the proposed things due to government instructions and also because of the financial crisis. He said there have been discussions over rooftop or ground-level rain water harvesting system as some suggest only rooftop technology should be used to store rain water. Last year too, residents struggled due to waterlogging. With monsoon expected to hit the city by June 28 and the prediction by the Metrological department says that the rainfall will be in abundance. In the absence of storm sewerage system in the city, roads will again be submerged in rain water giving a tough time to commuters. Surjit Singh, a resident of Pakhowal Road, said, “There is a need to strengthen the existing sewerage system and take preventive measures to curb water logging. The rain water harvesting system should also be installed in all the government buildings on priority, following which it should be taken up in private buildings. Last year, flooding had left many areas submerged especially near Buddha Nullah.” He said similar scenes will be repeated this year too. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The work is pending because of government instructions on not to spend money unless it is an emergency. We will now take up only the important projects one by one as soon as Covid-19 situation gets normal.” Notably, the recently notified building bylaws had made the installation of rain water harvesting in buildings constructed in 100 square meters (119 square yards) and above mandatory. Earlier, the MC had fixed the limit to 250 square yards for the residential areas. But the MC has always failed to implement the same in the city. Except a few people, not many people have installed rain water harvesting system in their buildings. Last year, in a random checking conducted by the officials of the building branch, it came to light that out of 400 building owners, only 52 had complied with the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-rainwater-harvesting-people-to-struggle-with-flooded-roads-again/articleshow/76223734.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand opens its biggest biodiversity park in Haldwani on World Environment Day||Dehradun: Uttarakhand forest department opened the first biodiversity park in Haldwani, which is the state’s biggest, on World Environment Day on Friday. The park is spread across 18 acres and has around 500 species of plants. Incidentally, the theme of this year's World Environment Day is ‘Celebrate Biodiversity.’ Developed with an aim to convey the significance of each plant in human lives, the park is divided into ten zones where 25 species of aquatic plants, 50 species of cactus, 32 species of climbers, 80 different types of trees, 43 species of shrubs, 40 species of medicinal herbs, 25 species of palm, 60 species of bamboo, 12 species of orchids, and 6 species of cycas are being preserved. The various species of plants have been brought to the park from diverse terrains like Niti Mana Valley and even from some glaciers around Kedarnath. The park houses Jurassic era lichens, mosses, algae and ferns as well as huge trees like banyan and ashoka which are linked with Gautam Buddha’s life. The park also showcases the different kinds of soil found in various topographies of Uttarakhand — alpine, bhabhar, sub mountainous, mountainous, tertiary, loam, terai. Commenting on the park’s inauguration, Harak Singh Rawat, state forest minister, said, “The park is a huge asset for our state as it depicts the importance of trees ever since the human civilisations first started on earth. Starting from trees associated with Buddha's life to the ones present in Jurassic era, our team of forest officers has tried to simplify science for the coming generation in the form of this biodiversity park.”The park has been developed by the research wing of Uttarakhand forest department over two years. The department has also set up a state-of-art Automatic Weather Station. In this facility, nine different parameters of the environment will be recorded every minute to give an overview about change in climatic conditions in the coming years. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests at Haldwani said, “Biodiversity across the globe is fast depleting and even diminishing due to factors like mining, smuggling, fire, drought, floods and of course climate change. Therefore, it is high time that we start preserving these plants and their germplasm before they become extinct. We want people to understand the urgency of saving biodiversity.” The plant species in the biodiversity park is divided into spiritual & religious, scientific, human health, and aesthetic value sections. The spiritual section has trees that find mention in holy scriptures like Guru Granth Sahib, Quran, Bible, and others. “Nature is for all and each religion has cited its importance. We have tried to keep the park relatable for a common man. We have chosen all the religions and planted the trees mentioned in their holy texts,” added Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-opens-its-biggest-biodiversity-park-in-haldwani-on-world-environment-day/articleshow/76223752.cms||Shivani Azad
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||Greens mark World Environment Day with webinars and plantation drives||Dehradun: Maintaining social distancing protocols, nature lovers on Friday marked World Environment Day with webinars and other activities. Experts participated in different webinars at different time slots, webcast on social platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. While speaking on this year’s theme — Celebrating Biodiversity — several speakers said that Covid-19 may have pushed them indoors, but it has given them a new perspective on how to handle environmental concerns. One such initiative was organised by Global Interfaith WASH Alliance (GIWA) and Parmarth Niketan, in partnership with UNICEF and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). It was hosted by Swami Chidanand Saraswati, president of Parmarth Niketan, and Sadhvi Bhagawati Saraswati, secretary-general of GIWA. The webinar — Moving from United Nations to a united creation: bridging science and faith is the solution — illustrated multilateral commitment to protect nature. United Nations resident coordinator in India, Renata Lok-Dessallien, said, “When we talk about bridging science and faith, especially in the context of environment, we find these bridges already exist in the most ancient of our moral codes. All sacred traditions worship nature, seek balance between human beings and ecosystems and warn against destruction of the earth’s wealth. We must use this wisdom to strengthen our global effort towards sustainable development.” Noted environmentalist Dr Sunita Narain urged the audience towards ‘green’ growth, which requires protection and sustainable use of natural resources. Another webinar was organised by Making a Difference (MAD), in which noted environmentalists Dr Anil Joshi, Lokesh Ohri, Vandana Shiva, Parmjeet Singh Kakkar, et al, participated and emphasised on Uttarakhand’s long-pending demand for additional funds or privileges as “green bonus”, for maintaining its robust biodiversity. Also as part of the World Environment Day, a Rudraprayag forest division team collected around 500 kg of plastic from Chopta, a prominent tourist spot.Elsewhere, premiere institutions like Forest Research Institute (FRI), Wildlife Institute of India and Forest Survey of India also marked the day by conducting tree plantation drives, internal workshops and competitions. A cleanliness and sanitisation programme was organised in the FRI campus, where a bamboo pedal sanitiser was inaugurated by director of ICFRE (Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education), Dr A S Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/greens-mark-world-environment-day-with-webinars-and-plantation-drives/articleshow/76223722.cms||Shivani Azad
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Dad dead, mother positive, three unaware minor girls crying at centre||Yavatmal: Three girls, aged 4, 9 and 12, have been sobbing inconsolably at the Mahagaon-based Covid-19 Care Centre since the last three days. They are not aware of their father’s death which took place on June 2 and neither have they been informed about their mother who tested positive and is now in GMC’s isolation ward. All of a sudden, the administration brought the girls to the centre and housed them along with over 40 strangers. The frightened girls are sobbing continuously for their parents. Their swollen eyes stand testimony to their grief. Villagers are making matters worse by distancing themselves from the kids. Nobody is ready to extend a helping hand to console the girls. Their father was a jeweller who tested positive on June 1. He was shifted to the GMC isolation ward. He died within 24 hours on June 2. His wife, too, tested positive on June 3 and is now in the isolation ward. The swab samples of the girls are yet to be collected and sent for testing. Some village elders suggested that the girls be brought to Yavatmal. “The girls should be housed in a larger room. They should also be given the impression that their mother is alive. Otherwise, they may fall ill and that may have adverse consequences. This assurance can also help the kids to stop sobbing. The district administration should immediately take the initiative to shift them to Yavatmal and console the girls,” the elders said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dad-dead-mother-positive-three-unaware-minor-girls-crying-at-centre/articleshow/76224857.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s getting back to business||MUMBAI: Business flickered to life in the city on Friday as the state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ plan to partially ease lockdown restrictions kicked in. While all shops along one side of the road did not open for business right away, there was palpable relief that consumption would revive sooner than later after a lull of two and a half months. Traders of non-essential goods rolled up shutters for the first time since March 25 when the nationwide lockdown had come into effect. They spent time cleaning their shops, inspecting goods and arranging for new supplies. The shortage of labour and sales staff was felt acutely as the bulk of migrant workers have returned to their hometowns. Viren Shah of FRTWA, a retailers’ association, welcomed the “unlocking” but said staff in many places were unable to commute owing to absence of trains. “Only items like plumbing material, sanitation goods, masks, Covid-19 products, rain wear, undergarments and kitchenware sold on Day 1. Garments and designer wear saw no buyers.” TOI reporters surveyed markets from Mohammed Ali Road to Dadar and Bandra, from Andheri to Malad and Borivli-Dahisar, from Powai to Chembur and Mulund, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar. All displayed signs of retail activity. A common feeling of relief seemed to engulf business owners and buyers alike. Retail economy poised for a spring as the big city rolls up its shuttersThe authorities want us to install stickers or markers for social distancing, check customers’ temperature, keep sanitisers and distribute masks and gloves to staff. It will take a while to arrange all this but we are happy to be able to resume work,” said Sajid Khan, who runs a garment store in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, on Friday. Here, a few shops on both sides of the road had opened for sanitation and upkeep on day 1 of the “unlockdown”. On Linking Road and Hill Road, some stand-alone outlets selling non-essentials too had lifted shutters. Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said, “Some shops opened while others are in the process... Situation may start normalising from Monday as offices open. Many shop owners do not live in Bandra, they commute from far-off places. Since it was the first day, they would have waited to see how it goes.” Hill Road Shop-Owners Association member, Hakim Mister, said few shops opened in his area. “Many do not have enough staff. They either stay far, or they are scared of catching the infection. Many owners also commute from other places,” he said. Near Dadar station, Hasmukh Gada, owner of Suvidha Jewelleries and Fashion Accessories, did not receive a single customer. Gada said, “It is not right to restart business now as this step may lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases.” Shopkeepers in Mohammed Ali Road and Crawford Market were visibly happy. They busied themselves cleaning their premises. Arif Ahmed, a shoe seller at Crawford Market, said it was good that life was returning to normalcy. “We have to make payments to those from whom we buy goods on credit. Staying at home, savings have dried up,” he said. Here shops selling children’s toys, clothes, home appliances and other items reopened. Nakhuda Mohalla, one of the biggest cloth markets in the area, also came out of isolation. In actual terms, the first day was a slow start. In Evershine Nagar, Malad, Nitesh Mishra of BK Garments said, “During the summer months, which is peak season, we make around Rs 8,000-10,000 a day. When monsoon arrives this drops to Rs 3,500-4,000. Now with spending power reduced, it will be a miracle if we even make half of this. We got only one customer today who bought a dress worth Rs 350,” Mishra said. The shop’s monthly rent is Rs 80,000. Interestingly, in the morning, liquor shops began selling across the counter instead of merely making home deliveries. Residents of Chembur, Kurla and Borivli bought their fill. Some stores later closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-getting-back-to-business/articleshow/76225557.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Feroze Gandhi mkt assn seeks proper parking facility||Ludhiana: Members of the Feroze Gandhi Market Association have raised a demand with the local bodies’ minister and the civic body authorities to make ample parking arrangement as precautionary measure due to Covid-19. In a letter sent on Friday, the members claimed that the market remains crowded most of the time and hotels and restaurants will start functioning soon, so there should be proper parking arrangement in the market. They claimed that the civic body should demarcate five parking lots so that there is no problem. They claimed that in order to prevent overcrowding in the parking, hourly parking system will be the best option so that people visiting the market are forced to clear parking lots as per the slotted time. They said it was also important to maintain distance between two vehicles. This has to be achieved by specifying distance between two vehicles. They have demanded that five parking lots in the market needs to have greater spacing i.e. minimum of 6-feet distance between two vehicles, so that occupants of car or scooters remain at a distance. President of the association P S Gill said, “If elaborate conditions in the parking management are not included immediately and implemented with immediate effect, it will amount to playing with the health of the public, which could further result in the spread of Covid-19.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/feroze-gandhi-mkt-assn-seeks-proper-parking-facility/articleshow/76223756.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Ujjain: Mahakaal darshan from June 8, but by app-ointment only||UJJAIN: Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain is opening its doors on June 8 after being shut for over 11 weeks. But devotees can’t just walk in. They have to book a slot via an app or a toll-free number a day in advance. “Devotees will be allowed to visit the temple between 6.30am and 8.15pm,” said assistant administrator of Mahakaleshwar Temple Management Committee, SK Tiwari, after a meeting on Friday evening. They will launch the app and helpline in time for people to start making bookings on Sunday. Devotees will not be allowed to attend Bhasmarti ritual or enter the sanctum sanctorum, said temple committee administrator SS Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mahakaal-darshan-from-june-8-but-by-app-ointment-only/articleshow/76224861.cms||Brajesh Parmar
June 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam likely to hold online classes for now||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam is exploring the option of conducting online classes for its students next semester in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, if physical presence of the students is allowed on the campus by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, the premier business school may go with pairing of classrooms to ensure the degree of social distancing. In this new teaching modality, only about one-third of students will be allocated to each classroom and the lecture visuals will be simultaneously beamed to every classroom. IIM-V Director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that has IIM-V constituted a committee to look into the restart strategies. “The committee recently submitted its report after studying all the solutions for nearly a month. Now, a sub-committee has been formed to take those recommendations forward. Our primary objective is to come up with lean solutions, which may not require high bandwidth or high-end equipment on the part of the students. We want to facilitate the remote classes and other academic activities for the students just on their existing browsers or the smart phones,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. IIM-V is already offering remote classes as part of the ‘MBA programme in Digital Governance and Management’ by using the Learning Management System provided by the National e-Governance Division, MeitY. The sub-committee will study which software and hardware will be best suited for remote learning, exams and even for the paired classroom learning. Prof Chandrasekhar said that the remote lectures will also be stored on the cloud. “For example, if a student has some constraints in accessing the live classes such as bandwidth issues or others, they can download the lessons at a later date. We want to familiarise the students with online learning in July and starts the classes in August. For the fresh cohort of students, some bridge, preparatory and foundation courses such as communication skills, principles of accounting/economics/statistics, etc. will be taught. IIM-V faculty will identify certain courses on Swayam-based MOOC and other digital platforms to engage the senior students in remote learning,” said Prof Chandrasekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-likely-to-hold-online-classes-for-now/articleshow/76223783.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 200 arrack-brewing families rehabilitated||VIJAYAWADA: Yet again, the police have rehabilitated around 200 families who were brewing arrack for many years across Krishna district on Friday. Addressing the media during the rehabilitation programme, district SP M Ravindranath Babu said these families had voluntarily chosen to surrender their vessels and equipment used for brewing arrack. They also took a pledge not to indulge in illicit liquor trade. Most of these families stay within Chatrai police station limits and were involved in the business for almost 40 years as the craft was passed down through generations. The police said that during the lockdown they increased production due to restriction on sale of liquor. The police destroyed many litres of fermented jaggery wash and arrack during the raids. Eventually, an option of either facing a criminal case or taking part in a rehabilitation programme was given to them. A majority of them chose to go through the rehab programme. Previously, around 120 families were rehabilitated within villages in Kruthivennu mandal in Krishna district. Nuzvid MLA Venkata Pratap Apparao Meka said the region where arrack was being brewed was a backward area. The MLA said the government would take care of the livelihood of the families. Officials distributed ration to the family members who had given up arrack brewing. Venkatamma, 55, (name changed), one of the former arrack brewers, told TOI that her son has set up some businesses and there was not anyone to look after the trade after her. “There’s no point in doing this business. It had caused a lot of legal troubles to us and neither did it give us much income. We just thought that perhaps the demand during the lockdown could make it lucrative. But all it got us was despair. I am glad to let it go at last,” Venkatamma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/200-arrack-brewing-families-rehabilitated/articleshow/76223754.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||LU prof, medical staff, GRP jawans: Covid grips 16 more||Lucknow: Three government railway police (GRP) jawans, two medical professionals and a professor at the Lucknow University were among 16 new Covid-19 positive patients detected on Friday, taking the total number of people infected since March 11 to 436. The Friday’s figure also included 10 people, all contacts of a man tested positive earlier, from a containment zone in Malhaur area. The three GRP jawans, two residents of GRP Lines and one of Mawaiyya, were posted at Charbagh railway station. The number of GRP personnel found to be infected by the virus has now reached 29. Most of them were deployed to manage migrant workers coming from other states by Shramik Special trains. The test report of neurosurgeon and former director of Balrampur Hospital, Dr Shyam Swaroop (78), which arrived after his death revealed that he had novel coronavirus infection. His son, Suchit Swaroop, a professor in zoology department of Lucknow University, also tested positive. The second healthcare worker found to be infected is from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Spokesperson at the office of the chief medical officer (CMO), Yogesh Raghuvanshi, said: “Of total patients, three each were admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and King George's Medical University (KGMU), seven to RSM Hospital at Bakshi-ka-Talab and two to SPGIMS.” Eight patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovery taking the number of recoveries to 333 so far. Samples of 148 people who were contacts of those found infected on Friday were sent to KGMU for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-prof-medical-staff-grp-jawans-covid-grips-16-more/articleshow/76225561.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||More chronic disease patients test positive for Covid-19, deaths go up in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported more than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 positive cases for the sixth day in a row taking the total to 28,694. Twelve deaths, including two patients with chronic kidney disease, in 24 hours pushed the toll to 232. Chennai accounted for 1,116 of the 1,438 fresh cases on Friday. While the infection rate is growing and doubling period the time it takes for the cases to double is dropping, what is worrying doctors is that a large number of patients are now from the older age groups, and hence more vulnerable. “They have comorbidities including organ failure and dysfunction that pull down treatment outcomes and push up complications,” said Apollo Hospitals infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, who is a part of the state’s medical expert committee. On Friday, eight of the 12 people who died were senior citizens , four in their 80s. The oldest was an 86-year-old woman from Chengalpet. Nine of the 43 deaths recorded so far this month were patients with renal failure. “Many people visiting dialysis rooms are now testing positive,” said a senior nephrologist.  On Friday, a 50-year-old woman with chronic renal failure admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital at 3.17am died at 3.55am. The doubling period decreases when the infection increases. In the last six days, the state added 7,510 cases. Analysis by senior epidemiologists at the National Institute of Epidemiology, an ICMR institute in Chennai, shows the seven-day average doubling period, which was 16. 19 days on May 30, dropped to 15.90, when Tamil Nadu recorded its first four-digit hike in daily cases on May 31. The period dropped to 13.97 days on Friday. Chennai, which added more than 3,000 cases in the last three days, now has a doubling period of 12 days, against 16 days on May 31. The state tested 14,968 people on Friday, compared to 15,991 on Thursday, when it logged 1,384 cases. Yet, the state had 54 more cases on Friday. The state, which is actively a part of the plasma therapy and solidarity trial, will partner with the ICMR for the BCG vaccine trial that aims to protect the vulnerable, health minister C Vijayabaskar said. Of the 1,438 fresh cases, 1,405 were indigenous cases and 33 were categorised “imported” as returnees from other countries and states continued to test positive. The 33 included 12 international passengers – five from Dubai and six from Qatar. One passenge from Sri Lanka, who came by sea, tested positive. Fourteen passengers from Delhi and four from Maharashtra also tested positive. At the end of the day, 861 walked out of the hospital, taking the number of those cured in the state to 15,762, which is a recovery rate of 55%. The health condition of 61-year-old DMK MLA J Anbazhagan, who was tested positive for Covid-19, continues to remain critical, according to doctors at the Dr Rela’s Institute and Medical Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-chronic-disease-patients-test-ve-deaths-go-up-in-state/articleshow/76225555.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||UNSC needs effective action against international terrorism: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Concrete and result-oriented action at the UN Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism and reformed multi-lateralism to reflect contemporary realities will be among India's top priorities as a non-permanent member of the Council, External Affairs Minister Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. India is a candidate for a non-permanent seat at the UNSC for a two-year term beginning January 2021. As Jaishankar said, this election will take place at the United Nations on June 17 and India is the single endorsed candidate from its regional group. The minister, while releasing a brochure on India's priorities, said the world is facing several different challenges since India was last elected member of the UNSC 10 years ago. The brochure, he said, reflected in PM Narendra Modi's words, India's ‘5S’ approach to the world — samman (respect), samvad (dialogue), sahyog (cooperation), shanti (peace) and samriddhi (prosperity). "Through this approach, we seek to move toward a ‘New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System’, - also known as NORMS," he said. Listing the challenges, the minister said traditional and non-traditional security challenges continued to grow unchecked and that terrorism is the most egregious of such examples. Jaishankar said the normal process of international governance had been under increasing strain as frictions have increased. The minister also said global institutions remained unreformed and under-representative and, therefore less able to deliver. The Covid-19 pandemic, he added, and its grave economic repercussions will test the world like never before. "Jaishankar emphasised India’s long-standing role as a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue and a proponent of international law. He set out India’s principled approach to international relations, which India’s foreign policy establishment would bring to the table at the UN Security Council once India is elected to a two-year term on the Council," said the MEA in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unsc-needs-effective-action-against-international-terrorism-jaishankar/articleshow/76226465.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Mission begin again: Powerlooms in Solapur push the button to start ops||Kolhapur: As part of state government’s ‘mission begin again,’ powerlooms as well as markets in Solapur city have resumed operations since Friday after a gap of nearly two-and-a-half months. Majority of the powerlooms are located in areas such as Gandhi Nagar, Datta Nagar, MIDC and Akkalkot road. Municipal commissioner P Sivsankar issued a special order late on Thursday night granting permissions to powerlooms to start operations.These powerlooms mainly manufacture towels and bedsheets which are then exported to various parts of the state. These powerlooms are considered as the backbone of Solapur’s economy.Besides, standalone shops and other markets were also opened in the city on Friday. A large number of people were seen purchasing essential commodities.Though shops in the city are allowed to operate, they have been asked to follow certain guidelines such as maintaining social distancing, giving preference to cashless transactions and wearing face masks. Liquor shops, however, will continue to be closed until further orders. In addition, shops have been asked to operate on P1 and P2 basis — on the lines of the traffic department. Shops on one side of the road will operate on odd days (P1) while those on the other will operate on even days (P2). Red stickers outside homes of Covid patientsSolapur municipal commissioner P Sivsankar said that Covid-19 patients with minor symptoms can be treated at their homes. However, the treatment will be carried out by government’s health teams. P Sivsankar said that the decision of receiving treatment — be it at hospital or home — would be left to the patient. He said that if the patient is receiving treatment at home, he/she must have an independent room and a washroom. Also, the civic administration would put up a red sticker outside the homes of such patients—With inputs from Suryakant Asbe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mission-begin-again-powerlooms-in-solapur-push-the-button-to-start-ops/articleshow/76222567.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||LBSNAA files police complaint over “objectionable” tweet against lady IPS officer||Mussoorie: Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) filed a police complaint on Thursday against a twitter handle that has allegedly posted an objectionable tweet against a lady IPS officer posted at LBSNAA. In a letter addressed to DIG special task force, Monika Dhami, Deputy Director (senior) of LBSNAA, has mentioned that, “obscene and derogatory remarks” had been made against a female IPS officer through a twitter handle. The lady officer is currently posted at LBSNAA in a senior position.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lbsnaa-files-police-complaint-over-objectionable-tweet-against-lady-ips-officer/articleshow/76223798.cms||Anmol Jain
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Covid takes toll on probe into Vidarbha farmers’ suicide||NAGPUR: Covid management has pushed monitoring of farmers’ suicide in Vidarbha to the back seat. Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Washim and Wardha districts in Vidarbha have been declared as affected by farmers’ suicide. Sources in the relief and resettlement department, which has been maintaining a data of farmers’ suicides from the six districts since 2000, said investigation of suicides has not been a priority in times of Covid. This year, 339 farmers’ suicides have been recorded from January to June start. Out of them, only 34 cases have been officially declared as suicides due to agrarian crisis. This entitles the survivors to a compensation of Rs5 lakh. Out of the 34 deceased, the compensation has been paid to the kin of 13 so far. Normally, around 50% cases are disposed of at any point of time. Currently, 24 cases have been rejected and investigation is pending in 280. To declare a suicide as that due to farm crisis certain criterion are examined by district-level committees. “The committees have to meet from time-to-time. However, the regular meeting could only begin from mid-May. Meetings were held in a couple of districts this month too,” said a source. The figures of June have not been compiled. Officials were busy in the Covid-management and holding physical meetings was also not possible, said the source. Out of the 339 suicides till June, 245 happened from February to May. In February, 101 suicides took place in the six districts. In the three months of lockdown, 130 suicides took place in these districts. Kishore Tiwari, the chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, the state government task force on farm crisis, said, “The number of farmers’ suicides has been higher than deaths due to the virus. The government should not neglect this issue.” If gone by averages, the numbers are less this year. From 2015 to 2019, on an average 1,200 farmers’ suicides were reported annually. With 339 suicides till June 6, the numbers in 2020 are far behind the yearly average. The toll has been highest in Yavatmal at 92 suicides. None of the cases have been cleared in the district yet. Yavatmal has earned the disrepute of being the farmers’ suicide capital of Vidarbha. Conditions like outstanding debt, pressure for repayment, and crop failure are examined before linking a suicide with agrarian crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-takes-toll-on-probe-into-vid-farmers-suicide/articleshow/76224879.cms||Shishir Arya
June 6, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy calls for balance in industrial growth & environment protection||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has emphasized that there must be a fine balance between protection of environment and industrial development. No industry will be allowed to set up shop without proper screening by environmental experts in the AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB), he said during a State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) meeting at his camp office on Friday. He, however, assured that the state government will hand-hold investors once the proposals are cleared by green experts, while adding that the new industrial policy should be a guiding lamp for investors till they launch operations. The CM said the industrial policy should be transparent and help the industrialists to gain easy access to various permissions and clearances. He noted that the state would benefit with long-term investments and big-ticket industries. “Helping the industrialists in seeing that they go into production as per the fixed timelines would be a great discount for them as delay in launch of operations would hit their finances. The industrial policy should be honest in terms of what the government offers to the investors and there should not be any let down from it,” Jagan said. The CM also criticized the previous TDP regime for failing to clear industrial incentives to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore which, he said, adversely affected industrial environment in the state. He said all incentives offered to the industries as part of the policy should be honoured without any delay. The CM said there is no dearth of land, water and power in the state and asked the industries department to be proactive in attracting industries as they would offer huge employment. He directed the officials to allow the industries in exclusive industrial parks, zones and clusters to prevent threat to human life. “We can get investments with honest and transparent policies. There must be a fine balance between environment protection and industrial growth,” he said. Earlier, the CM launched India’s first online waste exchange platform to resolve issues in waste management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-calls-for-balance-in-industrial-growth-environment-protection/articleshow/76223810.cms||Samdani MN
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shops open to a lukewarm response in Lockdown 5.0||PUNE: After a near three-month break, several shops opened their shutters across the city on Friday., but there was a tepid response from shoppers. This was part of the second phase of Pune Municipal Corporation’s ‘Mission Begin Again’, under which outlets in non-containment zones would be allowed to function on a P1-P2 basis. Several other stores had started operations on May 18. “I think it will take time for business to restart properly,” said Prashant Sasawade, owner of Shree Shrungar on the busy Hong Kong lane. It was a similar story at city’s oldest market place — Laxmi Road. “We received only 15 customers today. People don’t step out to buy only one thing, and with shops on one side of the road closed, people appear to wait for the entire market to open,” Surendra Jain, owner of Kajree, said. Kothrud Asmita Deshmukh said she was stunned to see the normally bustling Laxmi Road so quiet. “Tulshibaug was also similar. Sari shops on both sides of Kumthekar Road were too open on Friday morning,” Deshmukh said. Akash Gidwani, who runs a garment store on JM Road, said there was some confusion about the guidelines. “I believe that it will take about a week for clarity and shops to open,” he said. Many shopkeepers in Kalyaninagar observed that only those selling essential goods were doing good business. “Very few customers have shopped in my store, and that only out of a need for fitness wear,” Ashish Agarwal, who sells ready-made apparel, said. In Baner, many stand-alone stores and factory outlets of major brands were open. “We saw no crowd when we went to buy some shoes,” Prerna Goyal, a Baner resident said, adding that it was “a major relief” to be out shopping after so long. Shops in Model Colony were open only from 10am to 2pm as they were close to Wadarwadi, a containment zone. “We decided to restrict our hours because we don’t want to put our customers at risk,” a grocery shop owner in Deep Bungalow Chowk told TOI on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-open-to-a-lukewarm-response-in-lockdown-5-0/articleshow/76225565.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 18 new cases, 1 death||KOLHAPUR: Satara district on Friday registered 18 new Covid-19 positive cases, including five teenagers and three people below the age of 30. One death was also reported — a 75-year-old man from Sathewadi in Phaltan — taking the district’s toll to 25. According to district civil surgeon Amol Gadikar, the man died at his residence on Friday morning. “His throat swab sample was collected after he showed some symptoms of Covid-19 on Thursday. The report came on Friday in which he was found positive for coronavirus. The man had come back from Mumbai few days ago,” he said. The teenagers, four boys and one girl, testing positive for the contagion has also put the administration on alert. An 18-year-old boy from Samarth Nagar in Satara tehsil and a 12-year-old boy from Jorgaon have tested positive. Kawdi village in Jawli tehsil also reported two cases — 14-year-old and 11-year-old boys. A 17-year-old girl from Wanarwadi in Karad tehsil was the fifth teenager to test positive for coronavirus. A health department official said that majority of the patients identified on Friday were in the high-risk category. The number of active patients in Satara district stands at 318. As many as 254 have been discharged. Sangli reports 11 cases Meanwhile, neighbouring Sangli district registered a total of 11 positive cases of Covid-19 with majority of the patients have a travelling history to Mumbai. According to an official communication, Sangli rural has 99 patients while the urban area has 29 patients. The district currently has 57 active patients while it has recorded four deaths so far. Two patients are in critical condition and are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-18-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/76222555.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Bantwal businessman waives shop and home rent of Rs 14 lakh||MANGALURU: A young entrepreneur from Bantwal has waived two months’ rent for all his shops and homes after he felt all his tenants would be hard pressed to pay the same due to the lockdown. Surprisingly, it’s no small amount. Iqbal Bantwal, resident of Kelaginapete, has waived rent amounting to Rs 14 lakh. Iqbal Bantwal owns commercial complexes and supermarkets on BC Road, Bantwal, Uppala and Mangaluru. He has rented out about eight shops, 26 apartments and five independent houses, fetching Rs 7 lakh rent every month. Iqbal, 33, currently resides in Saudi Arabia with his family “This decision was taken after my businesses in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Dubai received a jolt due to the pandemic. I personally understood how the situation would be of my tenants who sustain themselves on small business and daily wages. When they requested me not to demand rent, I happily agreed without thinking twice,” said Iqbal. Iqbal had another reason that prompted him to take this decision. “Many of my tenants have been staying in houses for more than four to five years and some even nine years. Except a few, rest were prompt in paying the rent. It’s inhumane to collect rent from them in this difficult time. It is also a time to give back to society what we have received from it,” he said. “I run a super market and have been Iqbal’s tenant for the last three years. Every month I pay Rs 60,000 as rent. The shop has been open from the past few weeks but sales are hit due as there aren’t enough stocks. In this difficult situation, Iqbal has come as a saviour by waiving two months’ rent. He refused to take the rent when I went to pay the same,” said Sanket Kumar, a tenant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bantwal-bizman-waives-shop-and-home-rent-of-rs-14l/articleshow/76223790.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Matrimony sites cash in as parents in lockdown pursue match for children||CHENNAI: Lockdown appears to be the best time to find a ‘better-half’ as matchmaking websites see a surge in renewals. “The Covid pandemic will not be the end of life. We (parents) still have a duty to find a match for our children. I have recharged and upgraded my daughter’s profile on the matrimony site from premium to classic premium for the next three months. With more time in hand, I want to assess more profiles before I take a decision,” said 59-year-old S Sujatha. Matrimony.com has seen more new customers enrolling with 30% growth in April, 2020, compared to previous month. “On the collections side, we grew by 26% and stood at 94 crore in Q4FY20, compared to the previous quarter and by 6% on a yearly basis,” said Murugavel Janakiraman, founder and CEO of Matrimony.com. Though other businesses may have seen degrowth, matchmaking has seen an increase in profile growth in FY21 (April and May). Besides offering discounts on registration fees, matchmaking companies have provided video calling facilities. Launched during the lockdown period, the video calling feature of Jeevansathi, a subsidiary of Info Edge Ltd, allowes users to engage with in-app calling without sharing their mobile numbers or moving away from the platform. In a regulatory filing, Jeevansathi said its collections grew by 26% (4 crore) in Q4 until mid-March, and added 1 crore in April, 2020. The company statement said post announcements of lockdown, collections did slow down slightly to 20% YoY at the end of March, 2020. However, with the extension, collections picked up and grew at a modest 11% YoY in April. Its head of business, Rohan Mathur said, “The platform witnessed a 60% increase in the number of voice and video calls in the lockdown period with more user-engagement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/matrimony-sites-cash-in-as-parents-in-lockdown-pursue-match-for-children/articleshow/76225563.cms||Mamtha Asokan
June 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Citizens drive out to go shopping, for family reunions and joyrides||MUMBAI: With the Maharashtra government green-signalling movement of private vehicles for non-essentials within Mumbai Metropolitan Region, several parts of the city saw heavy vehicular movement on Friday. Most individuals were out in cars and on motorcycles on shopping trips, while others stepped out to visit friends and relatives in housing complexes where regulation of vistors was lax. Traffic police continued to take action for lockdown violations though and impounded more than 500 vehicles, many of them autos and taxis, which are allowed to ply only for essential work or carrying people working in frontline operations. Kharghar resident Rekha Krishnan said she had not visited her mother for over two-and-half months due to the lockdown and was eager to see her. “My mother is ailing and lives in Mahim. Now that an e-pass is not required for travel within Mumbai, my husband and I took out our car to check on her health,” she said. Suburban resident Nilesh Thakkar said he and his family went out for a spin in their SUV as they were missing the sights and sounds of the city. “There was heavy traffic though,” said Thakkar. Heavy movement was seen on Babasaheb Ambedkar Road at Byculla, Lalbaug flyover, EEH at Vikhroli, Dadar, WEH at Kalanagar, Wadala, Nagpada and JJ Marg. Roads being repaired at Nariman Point led to backlogs on the sea-facing stretch. “There was a huge number of private vehicles, bikes and autos on roads on Friday and we expect even more on Monday when offices open,” said transport commissioner Shekhar Channe. Several autos seen plying illegally, 214 impoundedSeveral autos were out ferrying people for non-essentials on Friday, though this is against the rules. “We are without earnings for the past two months and so we are all plying customers now,” said Sharad Sonawane, an auto owner from Mulund. Under the rules, only kaalipeeli taxis are allowed to ply passengers to and from railway termini while autos can ferry citizens for essential services. “The maximum vehicles impounded on Friday were autorickshaws (214), followed by motorcycles (196) for violations,” said Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner, traffic. Other vehicles impounded included 27 taxis and 93 private cars. Several private car owners could be seen driving down to garages and service centres to get their vehicles checked and serviced. “It took me a long time just to get my car started. I hadn't moved it from the parking lot since Janta Curfew. It was a sight as the handyman who cleans vehicles in my society hasn’t been allowed to enter,” said Nischay Modi, a chartered accountant. Motorists also included shop owners and their staff as establishments reopened on Friday. Sources in the RTO said several youngsters zipped around on motorcycles, catching up with friends or going on rides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citizens-drive-out-to-go-shopping-for-family-reunions-and-joyrides-/articleshow/76225572.cms||Nitasha Natu
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Cosmic conflict: Top GM to play in ‘Earth’ vs ‘Space’ chess match||Chennai: The coronavirus hasn’t been able to dim the magic of at least one sport, chess, which has boomed even as other outdoor activity has come to a near-complete standstill. It seems even the sky isn’t the limit for this game of 64 squares, which is readying for a unique ‘cosmic’ clash on June 9.A one-of-a-kind contest is set to be organised between ‘Earth’ — represented by Grandmaster Sergey Karjakin — and ‘Space’, featuring cosmonauts Anatoly Ivanishin and Ivan Wagner, who will team up and play from the International Space Station (ISS). The clash will mark the 50th anniversary of the first Earth-versus-Space clash on June 9, 1970, which ended in a draw.It remains to be seen if GM Karjakin, the 30-year-old Russian who is a former rapid and blitz world champion and holds the record of being the youngest-ever Grandmaster in chess history, will have the upper hand.“I’m sure that it will be one of the most unusual and unforgettable matches for me. I admire the cosmonauts as they are the real heroes, and I understand how difficult it will be for them to play from the middle of nowhere,” Karjakin told TOI. The only other instance of a ‘Space-Earth’ clash was held in 2008 when NASA partnered with the US Chess Federation (USCF), with ‘Earth’ emerging victorious.This time, the ‘Space’ team will get to open the proceedings from the ISS during the 15-minute contest, while Karjakin will be making his moves seated at the Moscow Museum of Cosmonautics.Mark Glukhovsky, executive director of the Chess Federation of Russia, told TOI, “The match is very important for us because the Russians love space and everything connected with it. The half-century anniversary is a great opportunity to remind people about the historical match. Sergey Karjakin is the most popular chess player in Russia and we are happy to have him for this occasion.”The players will make their moves on a tablet and live streaming is being organised both Russian and English. The broadcast will start at 12 am Moscow time.In the first-ever ‘Space vs Earth’ clash back in 1970, the crew of Soviet spacecraft Soyuz-9c — comprising pilot-cosmonauts Andriyan Grigoryevich Nikolaev and Vitaly Ivanovich Sevastyanov — represented the ‘Space’ team.‘Earth’ representatives featured the head of the Soviet cosmonauts training centre, Nikolai Petrovich Kamanin, and pilot-cosmonaut Viktor Gorbatko. The game took place when the crew had a rest day and lasted for about six hours. Communication was maintained over the radio. A unique chess set designed for zero gravity conditions was used for that game.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cosmic-conflict-top-gm-to-play-in-earth-vs-space-chess-match/articleshow/76225575.cms||Prasad RS
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Voluntary lockdowns can help steady pollution graph: Experts||Lucknow: After the lockdown flattened the pollution curve, experts say ‘voluntary shutdowns’ and ‘janta curfews’ even for a few days in a year can help steady the graph. This will not only help the environment heal naturally, but also set in motion an auto-recovery mode for a threatened biodiversity, said ecologists on occasion of World Environment day on Friday. These suggestions followed the release of a report on Thursday by Institute of Toxicology Research that found improvement in air and noise levels in the city during lockdown. However, pollution levels in the Gomti continued to be a cause for concern. “The lockdown can be viewed as a blessing in disguise as it helped heal the environment by bringing down air, noise and water pollution. Citizens can keep the momentum going through awareness and self-implementation,” said director, Indian Institute of Toxicology Research Alok Dhawan. “We should take lessons from UK, where everything shuts down on Sunday. People complete shopping and other work by Saturday and on Sunday, few venture out of homes, barring those in essential services. Only big complexes on outskirts remain open. This helps to control pollution,” he said. Dhawan said, the ‘work from home’ model adopted by corporates and PSUs will also help reduce vehicular load on streets and cut emission of harmful gases from air conditioners in office. Proper planning by maintaining only 25% staff in office would be work-from-home good model, he added. Director, air quality monitoring station, Lucknow University, Prof Dhruvsen Singh said, “Few days of lockdown in a year will be a great healer. Earth should be given time to rest and rejuvenate. Even a break of few days by shutting down industrial, construction and commercial activities will help maintain low pollution levels, he said. “We have to learn to live in sync with nature and it’s essential all factories, traffic, construction sites be strictly monitored. Inculcating an environment-friendly approach in every individual is the need of the hour,” said environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/voluntary-lockdowns-can-help-steady-pollution-graph-experts/articleshow/76225580.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||Summer capital Gairsain to have ‘e-assembly’, announces CM||Dehradun: On the occasion of World Environment Day on Friday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced that newly-announced summer capital Gairsain's legislative assembly would be developed as an e-assembly wherein no papers would be used. This is the second such move as on January 8 this year, the state government had initiated the process of e-cabinet, as part of which no papers are used during cabinet meetings and the ministers access data in electronic form using their laptops. “Through this process, we were able to save trees, and now moving a step ahead, we have decided to have an e-assembly at Gairsain where no papers will be used,” CM Rawat said. He added that in the last few months, the government has been successful in upgrading 17 government offices into e-offices. “This is an eco-friendly initiative and we intend to have e-offices on the block level too,” said the CM. Meanwhile, Harela — a festival symbolising new harvest season and marked by plantation of saplings — has already been announced a public holiday in the state. This festival will be observed on July 16 this year. On the occasion, the state government aims to plant as many as 2 crore saplings in the state. District magistrates have been directed to start preparations for Harela while maintaining social distancing norms. “The participation of public is important for the success of any campaign. Therefore, I have asked the district authorities to rope in as many people as possible for the plantation drive during Harela. However, all precautionary measures like wearing masks and gloves, and social distancing should be maintained,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/summer-capital-gairsain-to-have-e-assembly-announces-cm/articleshow/76223819.cms||Kautilya Singh
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||No more 14-day quarantine for health care staff if -ve||NAGPUR: With a number of corona positive patients emerging from private and state government-run hospitals, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has now ruled that doctors and paramedical staff will not have to undergo 14-day quarantine if they test negative. The high-risk contacts will be quarantined only if any one of them tests positive. The civic body will also now not shut down hospitals from which patients test positive. Patients admitted in four private hospitals — Dhantoli, Shankar Nagar, Wanjari Nagar and Congress Nagar — had tested positive in the last five days. The specific ward was closed for fumigation for a day and then reopened. Doctors and staff were allowed to work after their tests came negative. At the Dhantoli hospital, only one nurse out of 70 doctors and paramedical staff tested positive. Around 21 nurses who were high-risk contacts of the nurse were quarantined and rest allowed to resume work. In May last week when there were fewer occurrences of Covid-19 positive patients, the civic body had closed down a private hospital in Jaripatka for three days for fumigation and also two diagnostic laboratories. Around 20 doctors and staff were quarantined for 14 days but all came negative. Similarly, earlier a cancer hospital was shut by NMC for a couple of days and a team of 59 doctors and staff quarantined for 14 days in a part of the hospital. All tested negative. Another hospital at Kamal Chowk also downed its shutters for a day. Its staff of 48 were quarantined for 14 days and all, excluding a liftman residing in Mominpura, tested negative. When it came to NMC, 10 officials and employees who were not working in Covid-19 or hospitals were quarantined but not the health care staff of Satranjipura Zone. The NMC’s additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI that these decisions have been taken as per the new government guidelines. “Cases are on the rise and health care staff in government-run and private hospitals are working after taking all precautions,” he said. Dr Gantawar said it is because of the care taken by doctors and medical staff that resulted in just a nurse testing positive even though positive patients were admitted in the Dhantoli hospital for between 1-5 days. “In the current situation, we cannot shut down such private hospitals which might even stop treating patients,” he said With this, the NMC hopes to keep the morale of the doctors and paramedical staff high. An employee of a pharmacy located inside the Dhantoli hospital premises had also tested positive. The shop was shut for a few hours, fumigated and reopened after others tested negative. A private medical practitioner on condition of anonymity said NMC has taken a good decision. “Many private hospitals had built a system to screen patients. There are many hospitals registering more than 100 patients in a day at OPD. But few are testing positive. It only means that private hospitals are taking all precautions while admitting patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-more-14-day-quarantine-for-health-care-staff-if-ve/articleshow/76224898.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
June 6, 2020||Pune||Tough to ascertain autos’ reason for plying: CP||PUNE: A large number of autorickshaws were visible on the city streets on Friday. Police said there was no way of knowing whether they were rendering essential services or not. “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has said that cabs, autorickshaws can ply in non-containment zones in the city for essential services for which they do not require pass from the police. Whether the vehicles are plying for essential services or not is difficult to ascertain. There is no way for the police to know,” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI. Another police officer in the traffic department said that there was confusion when it comes to relaxations and they were waiting for clear instructions. “Altogether 500 passes have been handed over to the autorickshaw unions to operate vehicles. We are not taking any action against autorickshaws plying without passes and are ony contacting the unions,” ACP (traffic) Surendra Deshmukh said. PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “Transportation of health workers and ferrying a person to hospital constitute essential services.” Nitin Pawar, president, Rickshaw Panchayat, said that around 30% of autorickshaws plied on Friday. "Most drivers didn’t think it wise to ply," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cp-tough-to-ascertain-autos-reason-for-plying/articleshow/76225573.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sanguem, Curchorem tense after local tests Covid-19 positive||QUEPEM: After news that a Covid positive case was detect at Mugolli, Sanguem, panic spread in areas of Sanguem, Curchorem and Quepem as the patient had allegedly visited the Curchorem Bagayatdar outlet and also Sanguem town before the test was conducted on him. His confirmatory test result is awaited. “The person was working at a urban health centre in Vasco. His swab test was taken on Thursday and was declared positive early morning on Friday,” Sanguem deputy collector Ajay Gavde said. Sources said that after conducting the test he went for shopping at Curchorem and some places in Sanguem town, but was in quarantine at his house on Thursday night. Late Friday evening, the Sanguem primary health centre sent blood samples of the patient's nine family members and two neigbhours for testing. All have been kept in home quarantine till the results are out. “All neighours who reside in the vicinity will be tested for covid. The government will take a decision whether the area has to be declared as a containment zone only after the results are received. We will also find out from the person with who all he made any contact and accordingly all those will be tested,” said Gavde. Meanwhile, a tense situation prevailed at Igramoll, Quepem, on Thursday evening when three migrant labourers whose swabs were taken for testing went shopping in Quepem town instead of quarantining themselves at home. Igramoll locals have informed Quepem police, the primary health centre and deputy collector regarding the migrants and asked that they be lodged in a paid quarantine centre, but so far no action had been taken. Deputy collector Rohit Kadam said, “The borders are open and too many people have entered the state. It is difficult to control the situation.” Quepem mamlatdar Rosario Carvalho said the migrants have been warned that they will be sent to paid quarantine if they do not follow the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanguem-vicinity-tense-after-local-tests-covid/articleshow/76225568.cms||Johnny M
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Joint collectors to sanction bulk booking of sand||AMARAVATI: Taking a serious note of irregularities in sand supplies, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the officials to remove bulk orders booking facility from the sand portal. The chief minister also decided to allow free transportation of sand by locals of river bank villages. During a review on sand supplies in the state at the camp office on Friday, the CM asked the officials to make the joint collectors responsible to clear the bulk requests. He asked officials to improve sand availability. The CM said no one should complain that stocks are getting evaporated within minutes of opening the portal. He also cleared the proposal to allow the public to book sand through village and ward secretariats. “Bulk orders related to the government works and projects should be routed to the joint collector through department superintending engineer,” said Jagan. He said that sand should be supplied only from the depots and rate should be uniform in the assembly segment. The chief minister asked the officials to see that the portal remained open from 12 pm to 6 pm every day. The CM said that people residing close to small rivers and streams can take sand stock for their own construction activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jt-collectors-to-sanction-bulk-booking-of-sand/articleshow/76223823.cms||Samdani MN
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||HP files FIR over ‘ventilator scam conspiracy’||Shimla: A day after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said action will be taken against people raising questions on the purchase of ventilators, an FIR was on Friday registered against unidentified persons for trying to malign the image of HP State Electronics Development Corporation (HPSEDC). There were allegations from certain quarters that substandard and low-cost ventilators were purchased by the corporation for Rs 10,29,840 per unit, whereas their actual price was Rs 3,50,000 per unit in the private sector. Claiming the allegations to be baseless, a government spokesperson said the government is intolerant towards such false accusations, and therefore, the FIR has been registered against those involved in this conspiracy. He said that various committees were constituted for the purchase of ventilators at the level of directorate of health services, and before going ahead with the purchase, rates of ventilators were also studied on GeM portal. The committee had also studied the technical specifications and the process of purchase of ventilators in other states. Earlier, after questions were raised on the purchase of ventilators to fight Covid-19 pandemic, the state government constituted a high-level investigation committee headed by director, industries and controller of stores. Other members of the committee are director, medical education; IGMCH principal; deputy controller, finance; and directorate of medical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-files-fir-over-ventilator-scam-conspiracy/articleshow/76225571.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Khaunte slams CM, Lobo for ‘VIP service’ to woman||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant should prove that he has taken the Covid-19 pandemic seriously by launching an investigation to identify how the woman from Mumbai entered the state without getting tested, said former revenue minister Rohan Khaunte on Friday. In a direct reference to Calangute MLA and ports minister Michael Lobo, Khaunte questioned why special treatment is being accorded to Calangute constituency where weddings are organised and parties are held. “The chief minister should order an inquiry and book those who are responsible,” said Khaunte, adding that the woman, who is the mother-in-law of a Calangute panch member, would not have entered Goa and skipped the Covid-19 test if she had not been accorded preferential treatment. The independent MLA for Porvorim also questioned how permissions were given for a wedding to be held in Calangute in a church and a party to be organised with around 400 people in attendance. Under the Disaster Management Act, Sawant has the powers to initiate an investigation and penalise those who jeopardise the health of the state’s residents. Sawant, said Khaunte, should find out if the North Goa collector, Goa police personnel or health department officials were responsible for letting the woman cross into Goa by skipping the test. “If he acts, then I will accept that this man is a chief minister of substance. This person went without a check. How could she cross the border and come?” said Khaunte. The MLA criticised Sawant for not heeding to the demands of the opposition to close down the state’s borders and to restrict the entry of people from Maharashtra. “Till now we have been stressing on preventive measures, but the CM did not listen to us at all. What is in the chief minister’s mind, nobody knows. The chief minister, as the leader of the state, needs to look and see if he is serious on the corona issue,” said Khaunte. Khaunte also said that two residents of Delhi who arrived in Goa and stayed at Porvorim were taken away by health department officials. However, authorities are not confirming if the two tested positive for the virus and this has spread panic in the locality, said Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khaunte-slams-cm-lobo-for-vip-service-to-woman/articleshow/76225577.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist reports 6 cases, 1 death||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district registered one death and six fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 232. The district has reported seven coronavirus-related deaths so far. According to official communication, an 80-year-old man who had a travel history to Mumbai died on Friday morning. The man was a native of Ajara tehsil. The district administration had sent 131 swab samples for testing. Of which, 125 tested negative for the contagion on Friday. The remaining six — four from Ajara tehsil and two from Gandhilaj — tested positive. Meanwhile, the Kolhapur district court will start functioning from June 8 after three months. This decision was taken by local judicial authorities following directives issued by the Bombay high court.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-6-cases-1-death/articleshow/76222576.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Cabinet expansion seem to be deferred till RS polls||BHOPAL: Delayed by almost a month, the expansion of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet in Madhya Pradesh seem to have been deferred till Rajya Sabha elections in the state scheduled for June 19. Chouhan who was supposed to visit Delhi to get an approval from the high command early this week is still waiting for an appointment from the senior leaders. BJP national leadership on the other hand is eyeing two Rajya Sabha seats of the total three which have fallen vacant in the satte. They are confident given the numbers in the state assembly. Chief minister, who recently had clarified that expansion of his team will be taken up very soon, did not respond to queries on the proposed expansion, on Friday. Sources in BJP disclosed that Chouhan is likely to hold a final discussion with the party leadership on Saturday to decide whether he should visit Delhi to finalise the list of cabinet members or take up the exercise after Rajya Sabha polls. "After corona spread, the party leadership is more focused on its prevention. Apart from this, a pre-planned schedule for programmes has been released to commemorate the first anniversary of Modi 2.0. In addition, RS elections have been declared by the Election Commission. Now, it becomes very difficult to take up cabinet expansion,” disclosed a senior state functionary of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cabinet-expansion-seem-to-be-deferred-till-rs-polls/articleshow/76224871.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Ola and Uber resume service for essential travel in Pune||PUNE: Ride sharing service providers, Uber and Ola, claimed that they had resumed services for essential travel in Pune from Friday. When more vehicles hit the roads, both drivers and riders would be seen moving with masks if they are comfortable riding with each other. The two companies said they had introduced a flexible cancellation policy to accommodate the wishes of both the rider and driver, if either thought it was unsafe to carry on with the ride. During the onset of Covid-19 cases in the country in late February and early March, many infected riders who took cab rides ended up infecting the drivers. The two companies said both cabs and autorickshaws would be back on roads but did not state the number of vehicles that would sign up for resumption of services. The driver partners have been at the receiving end after the nationwide lockdown put sudden brakes on their wheels. Uber said people booking a cab for essential service would have to carry documentation as proof of purpose. It said drivers would have to upload a selfie prior to every trip with their masks on. Ola said people would be able to book rides in and out of Pune, provided the travel was within the state. It said the cabs would be cleaned before every ride, the cabs/autorickshaws would be fumigated thrice a week and there would be temperature checks for drivers every 48 hours. The companies said the onus on what constitutes essential lied with the rider and the usual one-driver-plus-two-passengers rule would apply for all riders. “A prescription is mandatory for travelliing to the hospital or clinic. If one logs on to Uber , there is a segment called ‘booking for essential services only’. The rider has to click on that first and confirm before being allowed to book,” a source in Uber said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ola-uber-resume-service-for-essential-travel-in-pune/articleshow/76225589.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||To safeguard cops, Punjab makes Covid-19 test must for all arrestees||CHANDIGARH: With criminals nabbed by police testing positive for Covid-19, putting police personnel at risk, the Punjab government has decided to test all arrested persons — both symptomatic and asymptomatic — for the virus. Around 200 police officials had to be put in quarantine, after the accused persons they arrested tested positive. Besides, close to 20 police personnel have also tested positive after coming in contact with infected persons. The government has revised its earlier guidelines which mandated testing for arrested people having coronavirus symptoms. The decision to revise the guidelines was taken at a meeting of the principal secretary, health with ADGP, prisons. Putting the arrested persons in the high-risk category, the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 has been made mandatory for all arrestees, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic. The health department has instructed all the deputy commissioners, senior superintendents of police and civil surgeons to ensure that samples of all arrested individuals are taken at the nearest health facility and sent to government laboratories. As per the guidelines, till the time result of the test is not known, the custody of the arrested person will be the responsibility of police and such persons will not be admitted to any Covid-19 health facility. If tested positive, the arrested person will be managed as per the laid down protocols. Jails in Barnala and Patti are being used as quarantine centres. Since the outbreak of virus, there have been instances of arrested accused testing positive for the virus, forcing cops into isolation. On April 10, about 17 police personnel were quarantined after a person arrested for involvement in snatching and vehicle lifting was tested positive. Similarly, on June 4, around 50 police personnel involved in an operation to nab a drug paddler in Barnala district were sent to home quarantine. As the Punjab Police personnel are actively involved in controlling the coronavirus outbreak in the state, the health department has created a total of 78 exclusive quarantine facilities for them. The government has also made it mandatory to test all the prisoners for Covid-19 before shifting them from special jails to regular jails. As per the health department instructions, a medical team from the department will visit the jail for collection of samples if the number of samples to be collected is 40 or more. If the number is less than 40, then the inmates will be taken to health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-safeguard-cops-punjab-makes-covid-test-must-for-all-arrestees/articleshow/76225592.cms||Vinod Kumar
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Bleaching powder quality tested by third-party agency: GMC chief||Guntur: Rubbishing allegations that Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) has procured inferior quality of bleaching powder, GMC commissioner C Anuradha has clarified that the bleaching power being used in the city containment zones is of high quality. She said that they have started procuring the high standard bleaching powder from the agencies only after getting cleared by the quality testing agency. Speaking to the media here on Friday, commissioner said that they would initiate criminal action against all persons involved in malicious campaign against the civic body. She said that the entire civic body administration is engaged in the battle against Covid-19 for the past two months and it was not proper to demoralise staff at such crucial juncture. The commissioner explained that they have awarded tender for purchase of 20 tonnes of lime powder to two private firms. “As per the rules, the lime powder should have the highest grading of 54 percent. Siddartha engineering college, a third party quality testing agency, has endorsed the lime powder supplied by two agencies and said it has 88 and 79 percent quality,” she said. Anuradha said that they would normally mix lime powder and bleach in 1:5 ratio but they have decided to go for 1:4 for effective disinfection since they launched containment measures in the city. She said that locals in Sampath Nagar area misunderstood when the agency supplies the lime powder in maida bags and spread rumours that GMC is using maida powder for spraying operations. “While the cost of 1kg maida is Rs 45, lime powder costs just Rs 9. Who would use maida instead of bleaching powder?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bleaching-powder-quality-tested-by-third-party-agency-gmc-chief/articleshow/76223848.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD orders enquiry into ‘smear campaigns’||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams chairman YV Subba Reddy said the temple body has ordered a vigilance probe to dig deeper into the frequent smear campaigns unleashed against the TTD. “Because it is the question of the reputation and integrity of the institution which is at stake, we have taken the smear campaigns very seriously and have ordered a vigilance probe into the recent mudslinging episodes on TTD,” the TTD chairman warned. TTD’s Tirupati JEO P Basant Kumar pointed out that following TTD’s decision to release a white paper on all TTD properties, information related to TTD properties was leaked by insiders and a vigilance enquiry is under way to expose the culprits. TTD has also ordered an enquiry into the Sapthagiri magazine episode in which a story written by a 9th class student about Lord Rama’s son Kusha in Sapthagiri magazine had sparked off a controversy recently. “The magazine is not available in the public domain yet but the printed story on Sapthagiri magazine was leaked which led to a major uproar. We want to send across a strong message that none who intends to belittle the organisation will be spared for their misdeeds,” TTD JEO P Basant Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-orders-enquiry-into-smear-campaigns/articleshow/76223834.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||2 judges, 10 officials isolated as ASI tests +ve||Kapurthala: Two judges, their eight staffers and two other court officials were on Friday asked to home quarantine themselves, after an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Begowal police station tested positive for Covid-19. The Kapurthala district and sessions judge issued an office order, stating that after the ASI was tested positive, additional district and sessions judge Raman Kumar and sub-divisional judicial magistrate Bholath informed him that he had attended their courts in two different cases on June 2. They also gave the names of others present in their courts. Accordingly, the order asked all those attending the court on that day to quarantine themselves at their homes. Apart from the two judges and their eight staffers, an additional public prosecutor and a naib court had also attended the proceedings in the court of the additional sessions judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-judges-10-officials-isolated-as-asi-tests-ve/articleshow/76225590.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Unlock 1.0: Haryana villagers lift barricades, ditch masks||JIND: If Covid-19 lockdown struck fear in the hearts of people and made them extremely cautious, Unlock 1.0 has made them more casual in their approach. Barricades put up around two months back to seal village boundaries to restrict the entry of outsiders are now being removed. Most people in villages of Jind, Hisar, Kaithal, Rohtak and Bhiwani districts have even stopped wearing face masks and don’t follow social distancing norms despite there being a number of Covid-19 cases. Sonu Kumar, a resident of Radhana village in Jind, said,“When the first coronavirus case was reported in the district, people were scared and started barricading the villages. Initially, 90% people were staying at home and only 10% ventured out, that too in case of emergency. But, it’s a different picture altogether now. Now, people are saying that one can survive even if infected so there is no need to be afraid of the virus.” Another Hisar native, Parveen Kumar of Rajthal village, said, “I visit several villages daily in Narnaund block to distribute newspaper but I don’t see most people taking any precautions. There are hardly around 30% people who follow the safety protocol and there are no ‘thikri pehra’ any more.” “People are tired of barricades and have stopped using face masks and following social distancing norms. One does that only when visiting a city or town to avoid a penalty of Rs 500,” claimed Jagbir Singh, a native of Bhiwani district. Pardeep Kumar, resident of Pai village in Kaithal, claimed things have changed now. “People have started shaking hands again and stopped using sanitisers and face masks. They are saying we can’t wait for so long and don’t care if the virus infects us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/unlock-1-0-hry-villagers-lift-barricades-ditch-masks/articleshow/76225579.cms||Vijender Kumar
June 6, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab’s Rs 5 lakh for kid who made Covid-19 videos||MOGA: A five-year-old girl and her elder sister’s short, witty video clips on TikTok for spreading awareness on Covid-19 have helped their family get Rs 5 lakh from the Punjab government. The family of Noordeep Kaur of Bhinder Kalan in Moga and her elder sister, Jashandeep Kaur, was presented a Rs 5-lakh cheque by Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans on Friday. The two sisters, in their videos, had been appealing to viewers to follow lockdown protocols to avoid spread of Covid-19. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had been sharing their videos too. Noordeep and Jashanpreet’s father Satnam Singh is daily wager. Howeverm after the videos started to go viral, he stopped going to work and has instead been entertaining people who visit their house in search of the girls. “During the curfew imposed to contain spread of coronavirus, Noor and her team had been entertaining people with videos. Their videos asked people to confine themselves to their homes and adopt all protocols. The videos resulted in massively increasing her fan following, and this came in handy for the government too,” Hans said. He said Noor had set an example of age just being a number if someone wanted to do something big. “It is unbelievable for us. Fortunes of our family have changed in a very short span of time. Her actions have changed our entire life for good,” said Satnam. Watch Punjab government presents Rs 5 lakh to kid who made Covid-19 videos||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pbs-rs-5l-for-kid-who-made-covid-videos/articleshow/76225582.cms||Neel Kamal
June 6, 2020||Pune||No new public transport options for Pune airport now||PUNE: The district administration on Friday ruled out the possibility of any new modes of public transport to the airport soon. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We are not looking towards increasing the number of public transport options at present for airport travel because Pune comes under the red zone.” A source said at present, flyers can avail only around 450 autorickshaws and about 50 private cabs for going to or from the airport. On an average, more than 2,000 passengers, including inbound and outbound, are using the flight services in the city. “The ratio of public transport vehicles and passengers is a big mismatch,” he said, adding that the situation could be a tad better with Uber and Ola starting their services. Rahul Shitole, running the “Dial an Autorickshaw” service exclusively to and from the airport and Pune station, said, “Of the 350 autorickshaws pressed for the service, around 50 are operational now under us. The rest are plying independently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-new-public-transport-options-for-airport-now/articleshow/76225596.cms||Joy Sengupta
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Rural police thank Malegaon citizens for their cooperation||Nashik: The rural police has come out with a five-minute long video thanking the residents of Malegaon and the cops there for their unrelenting support in the fight against Covid-19 in the textile town. Showcasing the population density and the religious setup, the video shows how the Covid-19 outbreak wreaked havoc in the lives of Malegaon residents. It also showed how deserted the Idgaah Maidan in the textile town looked this year, which otherwise has a congregation of 1.5 lakh members from the Muslim community on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. The video goes on to show the force of 1,500 police officers and jawans, who had been deployed for bandobast duties across the state for two months to ensure the efficacy of the lockdown, and three policemen who succumbed to the infection. The visuals further showed how citizens responded to the appeals of superintendent of Nashik rural police Arti Singh and the maulvis in the affirmative and mostly stayed indoors during the lockdown, even during festivals. The video ends with a note that self-discipline was the only way to eliminate the pandemic and asked people to keep abiding by the rules so that next year, Shab-e-Baraat and Eid could be celebrated with traditional fervour. Stating that the entire police force was deployed in the textile town for their safety, Singh thanked the people of Malegaon for their cooperation with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rural-police-thank-malegaon-citizens-for-their-cooperation/articleshow/76222595.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||People panic as tremors felt in Ongole town||Vijayawada: Mild tremors were felt across Ongole town in Prakasam district on Friday morning at around 10.15 am. The residents of Sharma College, Ambedkar Bhavan, NGO Colony and Sundaraiah Bhavan road areas panicked after feeling the tremors. According to National Centre of Seismology, the magnitude of the quake recorded around 2.6 on the richter scale. District joint collector J Venkata Murali was quick to allay fears and described it as a ‘mild one’. Officials said that it was an extension of the earthquake which occurred at Jamshedpur in Jharkhand with the magnitude of 4.7 on the richter scale. Speaking to TOI, Dr Srinagesh, a seismologist from National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) Hyderabad said: “The final reading on the richter scale showed it as 2.6 and it is very mild.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/people-panic-as-tremors-felt-in-ongole-town/articleshow/76223865.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Patiala cloth merchant abducted, rescued||PATIALA: The police have rescued a cloth merchant, who had been kidnapped and kept at a factory located along the bypass road. The accused persons have been taken into custody. According to the police, local cloth merchant Sarampreet Singh was on Thursday abducted by some miscreants reportedly known to him following a monetary dispute with him. Samarpreet said the two persons brought him to the factory with his hands tied. He somehow managed to call up his wife, who informed the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/patiala-cloth-merchant-abducted-rescued/articleshow/76225599.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Students’ anti-AKTU post: Prof made to delete FB page||Lucknow: A teacher in a private engineering college affiliated to Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) had to delete a Facebook page with over 16,000 followers after he was served a show-cause notice by the university for allowing a former student to post an anti-university remarks on the platform. The development comes three days after the university made it mandatory for students to enrol in a human values study camp and village community service to learn ‘decency’ if found posting unsavoury remarks on social media or misbehaving in online classes. The university’s IT team, which was looking for mischievous elements disrupting online classes and those posting unacceptable comments on the university’s social media accounts, landed on the Facebook page having AKTU’s name and logo. “The team found that the page had over 16,000 members and the university’s policies were criticized in as many as 60 posts in offensive language. It also found that the administrator of the page was a computer science professor of a reputed engineering college affiliated to the university,” said vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak. “On the page, a former student of a reputed college of Ghaziabad had also levelled allegations of corruption against the university by posting a picture of officials donating money in the CM’s Covid relief fund with the caption ‘ye loot ka paisa hai’ (its a donation from corrupt practices). Such wild allegations posted with the sole purpose of defaming the university and ridiculing teachers’ contribution in the fight against coronavirus are unacceptable,” he added. Prof Pathak also said that since the teacher approved and allowed such offensive comments to be posted on the page, a show-cause notice was served to the college where he taught. The college sought explanation from the teacher who immediately deleted the page and the matter was closed after a warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-anti-aktu-post-prof-made-to-delete-fb-page/articleshow/76225597.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Beauty parlour owners seek nod to resume biz||Nashik: A delegation from Achievers Beauty Association—a forum of over 1,500 salons and beauty parlours in Nashik city—met the district administration authorities to press their demand for allowing their establishments to start operations. Association president Lalita Patole said, “The lockdown has crippled around 4,000 beauty parlours across the district.” According to her, many beauticians have undertaken hygiene certification course in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/beauty-parlour-owners-seek-nod-to-resume-biz/articleshow/76222617.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||‘4 Covid labs to be set up in Punjab’||Chandigarh: To improve its Covid-19 testing capacity, Punjab government is going to set up four new laboratories, said minister of medical education and research O P Soni on Friday. The government intends to set up new labs at Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (North Zone), Jalandhar, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Ludhiana, and in Mohali’s State Forensic Science Lab and Punjab Biotech Incubator. “We are also in touch with IISER, NABIt and NIPER to start new viral testing labs being central government institutions. Punjab Government provided support to Dayanand Medical College and Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, in starting labs. We will be able to provide more data for Covid now,” he said. Giving details of initiatives taken by the medical education and research department for the testing and treatment of Covid-19, he said, “As part of testing strategy a lab was set up at Patiala on March 9 and then in Amritsar on March 10 in Amritsar. On April 12, a testing lab was started in Faridkot. Our faculty members, para-medics and lab technicians have worked very hard to start these labs in minimum possible time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-covid-labs-to-be-set-up-in-punjab/articleshow/76225594.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||People bleeding money: Demand to ban online rummy in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: A section of people in the state are demanding that the state government put a ban on online rummy. People seeking the ban say that many are getting addicted to the gambling game and losing vast amounts of money, putting financial health of families at risk. The Rummy Federation (TRF) has however claimed that the federation of focussed on responsible, secure and fair gaming and is taking initiatives to regulate the online rummy industry. CPI state secretary K Ramakrishna has recently written a letter to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy seeking a ban on online rummy. In the letter, the CPI state secretary has cited the example of a head cashier of a public-sector bank who allegedly used bank’s funds to play the game and was apprehended. The TRF however maintains that the federation has put a set of norms in place to self-regulate the online rummy industry. The norms, in the form of the TRF code of conduct, according to TRF, are in compliance with the global standards. The TRF ‘dynamic seal’ was awarded in December 2019 and the federation has since been ensuring that its members follow self-regulatory guidelines. TRF says that in an initiative to provide a safe and fair atmosphere to players, it has awarded accreditation seals to four online rummy operators— Ace2three, Junglee Rummy, Rummy Circle and Rummy Passion. The seal certifies compliance of operators to the TRF code of conduct. Sameer Barde, CEO of The Rummy Federation, said, “Online rummy is a rapidly growing industry with new players joining every day and several emerging operators. With the growing number of players and operators, the online rummy system has become quite robust.” Further, the TRF says that high-level SSL encryption for all communication between the platform and players, mandatory random number generation certification and strict timelines for withdrawal requests are some of the key requirements to receiving the TRF seal. TRF said that no underage players are allowed, vulnerable players are recognised and assisted, daily and monthly playing limits are there and one can self-exclude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/people-bleeding-money-demand-to-ban-online-rummy-in-state/articleshow/76223896.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Yadgir yet to get lab to test for novel coronavirus||HUBBALLI: All six districts, except Yadgir, in the Kalyana Karnataka region, are now equipped with RT-PCR labs to test for the novel coronavirus. Kalaburagi, Koppal, Ballari, Bidar and Raichur districts have now got the lab, but Yadgir is yet to get one. There has been a big spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in almost all the districts in the Kalyana-Karnataka region, with every passing day. The spike happened after migrant workers from other states came back to their homes in the Kalyana Karnataka region. This region has now crossed the grim 1,000 mark quickly, in the last few days. Kalaburagi reported 552 Covid-19 cases, Yadgir-373, Raichur-356, Bidar-214, Ballari-54 and Koppal-4 cases till today. In this backdrop, the new labs will help to conduct more tests, and results can be obtained in a day. A lab to test for Covid-19 was first set up in Kalaburagi and then in Ballari, two months back. In the last one week, full-fledged laboratories to test for the novel coronavirus have come up in Raichur, Bidar and Koppal, which has come as a big relief for the people and officials, as it expedites the testing of samples, and results can be obtained within 24 hours. Testing began in Koppal on Wednesday. Each lab has a capacity to conduct more than 200 tests a day. All these districts used to send throat swab samples to the National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru, earlier for testing, and had to wait for at least 3 days to get the results. An RT-PCR lab is yet to be set up in Yadgir district, which is reporting many Covid-19 cases every day.  Koppal deputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar said that a lab to test for the novel coronavirus has been set up at the medical college there, which began testing on Wednesday. The lab has the capacity to conduct 140 tests a day, in two shifts. “Now we can get the results within 24 hours, without waiting for results from the lab in Bengaluru. We are doing tests as per protocol, and subjecting people who have symptoms of influenza to the tests,” he said. Dr M S Patil, DHO, Yadgir, said that as there is no medical college in the district, the process of setting up a lab to test for the novel coronavirus is getting delayed. Besides, there is also a dearth of experts like microbiologists to carry out the tests in the district, he said. “Now, we have decided to rope in a microbiologist from Koppal. Efforts are on to set up a lab at the new government hospital here, which is converted into a dedicated Covid hospital. In the next 4-5 days, we will have a full-fledged lab in Yadgir. Now, we are sending 1,500-1,600 samples daily to Bengaluru, and get the results after 2-3 days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/yadgir-yet-to-get-lab-to-test-for-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/76223880.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Contractual workers say they are working sans protective gear, health officials refute claim||Nashik: The contractual employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) on Friday claimed that they have started working without wearing any protection gear to attract the attention of the government towards their demand. However, senior officials of the health department refuted the claims of the contractual workers saying that no one is being allowed to render his/her service at hospitals or in the office without the protection gear. Rajendra Bairagi, office-bearer of the union of NHM contractual workers, said, “We have been demanding that the contractual workers should be hired instead of recruiting new people. However, for more than a decade, this demand has been neglected.” Bairagi said they had earlier protested by sporting black bands at work, donating blood on the call of CM Uddhav Thackeray. There are 1,200 contractual workers, comprising nurses, doctors, pharmacists, clerk, etc appointed under NHM in the district, he said. Meanwhile, civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale said he did not have any report about the contractual workers rendering their service without wearing masks and other protective equipment. “This would be against the law. No one is allowed to work in the hospital or offices without the protective equipment. Their demands are of state level and it is no point protesting in such a way.” District health officer Kapil Aher also said that he had no such reporting. “By doing so, they would not only be risking their lives, but even of the public. I will call them for a meeting,” Aher added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/contractual-workers-say-they-are-working-sans-protective-gear-health-officials-refute-claim/articleshow/76222616.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE exams to be held between June 20-23||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) has decided to hold the remaining board exams of Classes X and XII between June 20 and June 23. The UBSE officials will come up with an exhaustive schedule for the remaining exams by Saturday. Meanwhile, state education minister Arvind Pandey revealed that the examination centres which were previously being used as quarantine centres will be heavily sanitised from June 15 to June 19. There are nearly 350 examination centres which are presently being used as quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-exams-to-be-held-between-june-20-23/articleshow/76223906.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||Second leopard dies in accident on NH-58 this year||Dehradun: A speeding vehicle on NH-58 (between Haridwar and Roorkee) crushed a leopard to death early on Friday. This is the second such leopard death on the same highway this year. Earlier, in February, a leopard was killed in a similar manner. Since January this year, five animals died on the roads in Haridwar forest division. Apart from the two leopards, two deers and one sambar have been crushed to death on NH-74. Meanwhile, a case has been registered by the DFO of Haridwar against unknown people and the area is being combed to check for any signs of poaching linked with the death of the leopard. “We are unable to get any clue as this area being a national highway doesn’t have CCTVs and it is not a case of poaching as per our preliminary findings.” said Haridwar DFO Neeraj Verma. He added that leopards prefer less dense forests and like to stay close to human habitation to prey on dogs and other pet animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/second-leopard-dies-in-accident-on-nh-58-this-year/articleshow/76223913.cms||Shivani Azad
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||State govt issues home learning guidelines||Ahmedabad: The education department on Friday issued guidelines for home-learning in all primary, secondary and higher secondary schools in the state. The department issued instructions that all primary and secondary schools will begin the admission process for Classes I and IX will begin from June 8. All teachers and staff members required for the admission process will have to resume work, as per the guidelines. Schools will have to make arrangement for distribution of education materials to students who are entitled to avail them free of cost between June 8 and June 13. This has to be done keeping in mind physical distancing norms. According to directives of the Union home ministry, schools will remain closed for students till June 30 but they will have to initiate home learning according to their curriculum. Various mediums like mobile applications, television programmes, online education platforms will be used for home learning. From June 15, DD Girnar television channel will telecast educational programmes for schoolchildren the schedule of which will be provided by GSHSEB and GCERT. The mid-day meal scheme will continue during home-learning period and the government will make necessary arrangements for proper distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-issues-home-learning-guidelines/articleshow/76224924.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST, NMMT to carry officegoers from Monday||MUMBAI: BEST, the city’s lifeline on the roads, announced resumption of services for officegoers from Monday after a gap of more than two months, during which time it ferried only essential staffers. Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) administration, too, has chalked out a plan to restart bus services for regular passengers from Monday. 200 of its 450 buses will ply initially. From Monday, 10% of employees across sectors are to resume work. In the absence of local trains, buses will help ensure their attendance, say employers. H R Shetty, managing director of a manufacturing firm with a corporate office in Andheri, said, “I have several staffers who are clueless about how to travel from Monday when 10% of office staff are required to be present. Buses will be a great relief for them.” Only one passenger for every two seats and up to five standees will be allowed on every bus. BEST senior officer Victor Nagaonkar said, “On a pilot basis, on Friday, we allowed a few shopowners and their staffers to travel in our buses. From Monday, we will go full-fledged and allow all office-goers to board after they show us ID cards.” He said for those who are self-employed or do not have ID cards or workmen, such as plumbers and electricians, conductors have been asked to use their discretion in allowing them entry. Students and senior citizens aged above 65 will not be allowed. BEST bus routes to skip big containment zonesIn a move that could help boost attendance in workplaces, BEST has decided to allow office-goers to board its buses from Monday. “According to the government notification, 10% office staff can work from Monday. How will those who do not have private vehicles travel to work? Local trains are unavailable for the general public. In such a scenario, citizens will depend on our buses to reach office and back,” said BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde. “We have sensitized our staff at all 27 depots and all conductors have been asked to ensure social distancing in our buses.” Mankhurd’s Sandeep Surve said he has been asked to report to work at a travel firm in Dadar from Monday. “Had there been local trains, I would have taken the Harbour line to work. Buses are affordable and reliable.” BEST will create routes in such a way that they do not pass through containment zones, said BEST additional general manager Rajendra Madne. He added buses will be available almost across the city, but will avoid big containment zones such as Dharavi. BEST will also increase its fleet gradually. On Friday, it increased the fleet to 2,000 buses from an average of 1,400 in May. The total fleet size of the undertaking is 3,500. Meanwhile, NMMT general manager Shirish Aradwad said, “In a 45-seater NMMT bus, only 23 passengers will be allowed to travel with only one passenger occupying two seats on one side, and there will be no standing passengers, as per the new state government guidelines. Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, we used to ply 400 buses across Navi Mumbai till Panvel, Uran Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Baldapur and we also plied AC Volvo buses till Mumbai. But as of now we are plying only 100 buses for essential services, including the 20 buses converted into ambulance service.” For additional 100 NMMT buses, around 300 drivers and an equal number of conductors will be deployed. Hence, apart from 320 trips by 100 buses already plying for essential services, 350 more trips are expected. Uber, Ola back for essentialsAggregator cabs resumed operations on Friday, albeit only for essential services. An Ola source said, “You can travel for medical emergencies. A cab can also be booked by those engaged in essential duties. You can book both in-city and out-station trips (intra-state only) for essential travel needs.” Shiva Shailendran, general manager, Uber, said, “Riders will be able to access Uber Go, Premier and Uber Auto for essential travel only and, as mandated by the government, will be required to carry suitable documentation as proof of purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-nmmt-to-carry-officegoers-from-mon/articleshow/76225622.cms||Somit Sen
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhavrao Scindia aide quits BJP, returns to Congress after a decade||BHOPAL: A close aide and childhood friend of Madhavrao Scindia, Balendu Shukla, quit BJP and rejoined Congress on Friday. Shukla, 74, had left Congress following alleged differences with Jyotiraditya Scindia. Now that Jyotiraditya is in BJP, Shukla is back in Congress. “Why Shukla resigned is a personal issue between him and Scindia. I will not comment on this matter,” said BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. A minister in the cabinets of Arjun Singh, Motilal Vohra and Digvijaya Singh, Shukla took primary membership of Congress at the residence of PCC chief Kamal Nath on Friday. Asked why he quit BJP, the veteran leader said he can’t bear “not being productive”. “The last few days, I saw that I have no utility in BJP. Workers of BJP gave me a lot of love and respect but as a political person, I wanted to be productive politically. They could not understand that.” “Shivraj Singh Chouhan brought me to BJP, made me chairperson of a board for six years and gave me ministerial rank. But since I was not very productive there, I did not want to stay on,” said Shukla. Former minister Lakhan Singh Yadav, however, openly claimed that Shukla is back because he has differences with newly inducted BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. “He left Congress because Jyotiraditya Scindia used to humiliate him. Only and only because of Scindia did Balendu Shukla keep changing posts. He is essentially a Congressman and has returned to the party,” Singh, MLA from Bhitarwar seat, alleged. Bhitarwar constituency was created in 2003 with parts of erstwhile Gird segment that Shukla represented. Shukla said Congress had contacted him and discussed his return to the party fold. “Congress is my old home. I spent 30 years in the party. After I spoke to leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, I decided to return,” he said. Asked about Jyotiraditya, he said: “Bade Maharaj Madhavrao Scindia was my friend.” BJP said it isn’t affected by Shukla’s resignation. “BJP is a cadre-based organisation with a huge base of workers. There are several people who join and quit BJP. This is not a matter of concern for us. We will, however, review why Shukla quit the party to join Congress,” said BJP state president VD Sharma. Shukla worked in a bank until Madhavrao Scindia brought him into Congress in 1980. He contested from Gird assembly constituency and became the Brahmin face of Congress in the Gwalior-Chambal region. With Madhavrao Scindia as Union minister, Shukla exercised immense power, not only in Gwalior-Chambal region. But everything changed with the sudden death of Madhavrao Scindia, then MP from Guna-Shivpuri Lok Sabha seat. Jyotiraditya Scindia contested the bypolls from the seat and was elected with a record margin of votes. However, differences with Jyotiraditya Scindia apparently got so deep that Shukla left Jai Vilas Palace. In 2003, he contested the assembly elections from Gwalior against BJP’s Narendra Singh Tomar (now Union minister) and lost. In 2008, he was denied a ticket by Congress and quit. He contested on a BSP ticket and lost again after which he switched to BJP. Over a decade later, he is back in Congress. Five days ago, former BJP MP Premchand Guddu joined Congress after speaking out against Scindia's joining BJP with 22 rebel leaders. Guddu is likely to get a ticket from Sanwer assembly seat against Scindia’s staunch supporter Tulsiram Silawat in the upcoming bypoll, sources said. Shukla may contest from Gwalior, which was won by Pradhumn Singh Tomar, who broke away with Scindia and joined BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhavrao-scindia-aide-quits-bjp-returns-to-cong-after-a-decade/articleshow/76224920.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Virtual meet with police from Saturday||PUNE: A virtual appointment system to redress citizens’ grievances will become functional on a pilot basis at the Deccan Gymkhana, Cantonment, Kothrud, Chatushrungi and the Kondhwa police stations from Saturday between 4pm and 6pm. The plan announced by the city police on Friday was a departure from its earlier proposal of the system’s launch at the police commissioner’s office. City police chief K Venkatesham, however, preferred starting the system with the police stations. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “A person will have to visit www.punepolice.gov.in and click on v-appointment to fill in a form mentioning the reason for interacting with the senior inspector in-charge of a police station. The person will receive a four digit token number on email address. A time slot will be given after the number is fed in the website. The person can interact with the police station in-charge for five minutes or more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virtual-meet-with-police-from-today/articleshow/76225605.cms||Asseem Shaikh
June 6, 2020||Pune||Artistes seek approval to perform||Pune: A group of artistes and theatre enthusiasts on Friday demanded that the auditoriums run by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) be opened for performances. Several options, including organizing shows in parks, conducting programmes without an audience and streaming performances online, are being discussed. The artistes assured authorities that all physical distancing norms would be followed. “A number of options have been discussed. Even allowing commercial programmes at public place with precautionary measures was considered. It was a primary meeting. No final decision has been taken as of yet,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/artistes-seek-approval-to-perform/articleshow/76225606.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||CM: Vasco will not be under lockdown||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government has decided not to issue lockdown orders for Vasco due to the rise in Covid cases at Mangor hill. On Thursday Sawant visited Mangor hill to review the situation after a spike in number of Covid cases. Sawant said people from Vasco were demanding for a total lockdown. “Many had asked for total lockdown of Vasco, but after taking review we came to understand that lockdown is not a solution. Conducting 100% tests at Mangor and keeping people in quarantine, or Covid positive people in hospital is the solution. At present there is no need for a lockdown,” he said. Sawant also said that the decision was taken after discussions with epidemiologists and experts. He also said that there were no cases detected outside Mangor hill. The chief minister said that the government declared the area as a containment zone and even though the transmission was restricted to two wards, the state tested all people in ward numbers 11 and 17. Sawant also said that around 350 families reside in that area and the deputy collector have been instructed to provide essential commodities for the week. “We have provided free of cost, essential commodities to people at Mangor,” he said. He also said that state administration has taken control of the Covid pandemic situation and after finding positive cases in a family at Mangor, an increase in Covid-19 cases was noticed. He also said that Goa is the only state testing all people entering the state via road, rail, airways and waterways. Sawant said that all corona positive cases have been treated free of cost at government hospitals and there has been a 100% recovery of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-vasco-will-not-be-under-lockdown/articleshow/76225607.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Thirteen involved in gang clashes arrested||Vijayawada: City cops finally cracked last week’s sensational ‘gang war’ case and arrested 13 persons involved in the clashes on Friday. Addressing a press conference, Vijayawada police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said all the accused who were arrested were all under the age of 25. “Based on CCTV footage evidence, we managed to identify and trace them to their residences in Patamata and Yanamalakuduru areas. Some of those who participated in the clashes are from Guntur town as well,” Tirumala Rao said. The commissioner said that both sides of persons had gathered at the spot on the request of the victim Thota Sandeep and Koduri Manikanta alias Pandu. The two groups headed by Thota Sandeep and Manikanta had been friends in the past and got separated over political affiliations and a dispute over a seven-cent land worth around Rs 2 crore in Yanamalakuduru. Officials said that back in 2018, Pradeep Reddy of Yanamalakuduru and Dhanekula Sridhar began construction of a group house at the disputed site. Soon, disputes over investments rose between Pradeep and Sridhar. To settle the matter, Pradeep got in touch with Battu Nagababu who then deputed Sandeep and Manikanta to discuss the matter. Tempers flared during this meeting when Sandeep allegedly abused Manikanta and even went to his home on May 29 and allegedly warned his mother. An infuriated Manikanta created a ruckus at Sandeep’s shop on May 30 to get back at him. Both Sandeep and Manikanta suffered grievous injuries during the clases. Sandeep died while receiving treatment, while Manikanta survived and was shifted to Guntur GGH for security reasons. “The attackers used knives, coconut stalls, blades, cockfighting knives, folding blades during the clashes,” Tirumala Rao said. Cops are yet to identify some other involved in the clashes. The commissioner said that suspect sheets would be opened against the accused. Six teams, headed by deputy commissioner of police Harshavardhan Raja, were constituted to to identify the accused and seize the weapons used during the offence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/thirteen-involved-in-gang-clashes-arrested/articleshow/76223919.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
June 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai: BEST, NMMT to carry officegoers from Monday||MUMBAI: BEST, the city’s lifeline on the roads, announced resumption of services for officegoers from Monday after a gap of more than two months, during which time it ferried only essential staffers. Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) administration, too, has chalked out a plan to restart bus services for regular passengers from Monday. 200 of its 450 buses will ply initially. From Monday, 10% of employees across sectors are to resume work. In the absence of local trains, buses will help ensure their attendance, say employers. H R Shetty, managing director of a manufacturing firm with a corporate office in Andheri, said, “I have several staffers who are clueless about how to travel from Monday when 10% of office staff are required to be present. Buses will be a great relief for them.” Only one passenger for every two seats and up to five standees will be allowed on every bus. BEST senior officer Victor Nagaonkar said, “On a pilot basis, on Friday, we allowed a few shopowners and their staffers to travel in our buses. From Monday, we will go full-fledged and allow all office-goers to board after they show us ID cards.” He said for those who are self-employed or do not have ID cards or workmen, such as plumbers and electricians, conductors have been asked to use their discretion in allowing them entry. Students and senior citizens aged above 65 will not be allowed. BEST bus routes to skip big containment zonesIn a move that could help boost attendance in workplaces, BEST has decided to allow office-goers to board its buses from Monday. “According to the government notification, 10% office staff can work from Monday. How will those who do not have private vehicles travel to work? Local trains are unavailable for the general public. In such a scenario, citizens will depend on our buses to reach office and back,” said BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde. “We have sensitized our staff at all 27 depots and all conductors have been asked to ensure social distancing in our buses.” Mankhurd’s Sandeep Surve said he has been asked to report to work at a travel firm in Dadar from Monday. “Had there been local trains, I would have taken the Harbour line to work. Buses are affordable and reliable.” BEST will create routes in such a way that they do not pass through containment zones, said BEST additional general manager Rajendra Madne. He added buses will be available almost across the city, but will avoid big containment zones such as Dharavi. BEST will also increase its fleet gradually. On Friday, it increased the fleet to 2,000 buses from an average of 1,400 in May. The total fleet size of the undertaking is 3,500. Meanwhile, NMMT general manager Shirish Aradwad said, “In a 45-seater NMMT bus, only 23 passengers will be allowed to travel with only one passenger occupying two seats on one side, and there will be no standing passengers, as per the new state government guidelines. Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, we used to ply 400 buses across Navi Mumbai till Panvel, Uran Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Baldapur and we also plied AC Volvo buses till Mumbai. But as of now we are plying only 100 buses for essential services, including the 20 buses converted into ambulance service.” For additional 100 NMMT buses, around 300 drivers and an equal number of conductors will be deployed. Hence, apart from 320 trips by 100 buses already plying for essential services, 350 more trips are expected. Uber, Ola back for essentialsAggregator cabs resumed operations on Friday, albeit only for essential services. An Ola source said, “You can travel for medical emergencies. A cab can also be booked by those engaged in essential duties. You can book both in-city and out-station trips (intra-state only) for essential travel needs.” Shiva Shailendran, general manager, Uber, said, “Riders will be able to access Uber Go, Premier and Uber Auto for essential travel only and, as mandated by the government, will be required to carry suitable documentation as proof of purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/best-nmmt-to-carry-officegoers-from-mon/articleshow/76226663.cms||Somit Sen
June 6, 2020||India||MHA gets new media communications team||NEW DELHI: Almost the entire media communications team at the home ministry was shifted out on Friday and a fresh one headed by senior IIS officer Nitin D Wakankar brought in its place. Wakankar, who until now was DG, Bureau of Outreach Communication and has served as CBI and defence ministry spokesperson, apart from being deputy press secretary to two former Presidents, will replace MHA spokesperson Vasudha Gupta who has been sent to the PIB’s fact-check unit. Others in the media team who were replaced include two deputy director-level officers. The new media team includes an ADG-level officer, a deputy director and an assistant director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-gets-new-media-communications-team/articleshow/76226551.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Residential societies in Nashik take steps to curb spread of coronavirus||NASHIK: Residential complexes have upped their guard as Nashik city emerges as a Covid-19 hotspot in the district. The measures are evident in big residential complexes, which have more than 100, 200 flats. The office-bearers of the housing societies have also put up measures and assistance for people, who are returning to Nashik from Pune and Mumbai. “During the initial phase of the lockdown, a lot of awareness activities were done on Covid19 infection spread. People realized the gravity of the situation. They started WhatsApp group, brainstormed on things that could be done at their level to prevent coronavirus spreading. This was seen in many residential complexes done by us,” said Amarsingh Patil, a realtor. “Hand sanitizers have been kept at the entrances of residential complexes, watchmen have been instructed to strictly ensure that no person or a family from outside the premises come to stay without showing relevant medical certificates and permission from the authorities regarding travel. Over the past two months, quite a few family members of our residents came from places like Mumbai, Pune, Thane and other places. We ensured that they all had the government passes apart from medical certificates from government hospitals. They were also told to get themselves checked for Covid-19 at the local government facility as well,” said Mohan Bidkar, a committee member of Shree Gajanan Park residential complex in Nashik Road which has over 300 flats. Meanwhile at Vini Park, which is a complex of over 100 row bungalows in Deolali Camp, the residents have kept a thermal scanner at the entrance, apart from hand sanitizers and compulsion of face mask. A member there said that many of the residents in our complex are from Mumbai and Pune, who have started trickling in from May onwards. While entry is strictly only after checking the relevant documents, we also support them in 14-day self-quarantine at their homes, by helping them get all the things they need from outside at their doorsteps. Rajendra Tryambake, NMC Health Officer said, “There is huge awareness among people across the city. People are extremely cautious and are not taking it lightly if someone in their vicinity or in their building premises has just returned home. For the past two months, we have been getting at least 100 calls from residents that someone in their neighbourhood has come from outside the district, which is a very good sign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/residential-societies-take-steps-to-curb-spread-of-virus/articleshow/76222627.cms||Santosh Sonawane
June 6, 2020||Pune||Stranded singer from West Bengal gets cop’s help to return home||PUNE: With his dream to make it big in a music reality show in Mumbai dashed and compelled to leave a friend’s house in Pune, Anjuman Islam (22) from West Bengal was spending nights under the Warje flyover in the middle of the lockdown. It was only a chance meeting with senior inspector Ashok Kadam of the Warje police and his out-of-the-way initiative that the young singer could board a Shramik Special train for his home state last week. “Islam had gone to Mumbai for the music show audition in March and hardly had any money. The audition was, however, postponed due to the lockdown. Islam could not return home and came to Pune, where he stayed with his friend at Sangat Vasti in Warje Malwadi,” Kadam said. The officer said Islam’s friend had to vacate his rented accommodation, as the latter did not have money to pay the rent. “He told Islam to leave the place. Islam was then forced to survive on the road in Warje,” Kadam said. When Kadam approached Islam last week, the officer found that the stranded youth was sleeping in a tent along the road under the Warje flyover and was eating food provided by the police. “He desperately wanted to return home, but was unable to do so as there were no trains for West Bengal,” Kadam said. The officer said a train for West Bengal was announced recently, but the Warje Malwadi police did not have any ticket quota. “We made a request to the special branch and managed to arrange a seat for Islam,” Kadam said, adding, “We arranged an autorickshaw for him and sent him to the Pune railway station, from where he boarded the train.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stranded-singer-from-bengal-gets-cops-help-to-return-home/articleshow/76225626.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||Environment day marked in state with webinars, plantation drives||Dehradun: Maintaining social distancing protocols, nature lovers on Friday marked World Environment Day with webinars and other activities. Experts participated in different webinars at different time slots, webcast on social platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. While speaking on this year’s theme — Celebrating Biodiversity — several speakers said that Covid-19 may have pushed them indoors, but it has given them a new perspective on how to handle environmental concerns. One such initiative was organised by Global Interfaith WASH Alliance (GIWA) and Parmarth Niketan, in partnership with UNICEF and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). It was hosted by Swami Chidanand Saraswati, president of Parmarth Niketan, and Sadhvi Bhagawati Saraswati, secretary-general of GIWA. The webinar — Moving from United Nations to a united creation: bridging science and faith is the solution — illustrated multilateral commitment to protect nature. United Nations resident coordinator in India, Renata Lok-Dessallien, said, “When we talk about bridging science and faith, especially in the context of environment, we find these bridges already exist in the most ancient of our moral codes. All sacred traditions worship nature, seek balance between human beings and ecosystems and warn against destruction of the earth’s wealth. We must use this wisdom to strengthen our global effort towards sustainable development.” Noted environmentalist Dr Sunita Narain urged the audience towards ‘green’ growth, which requires protection and sustainable use of natural resources. Another webinar was organised by Making a Difference (MAD), in which noted environmentalists Dr Anil Joshi, Lokesh Ohri, Vandana Shiva, Parmjeet Singh Kakkar, et al, participated and emphasised on Uttarakhand’s long-pending demand for additional funds or privileges as “green bonus”, for maintaining its robust biodiversity.Also as part of the World Environment Day, a Rudraprayag forest division team collected around 500 kg of plastic from Chopta, a prominent tourist spot.Elsewhere, premiere institutions like Forest Research Institute (FRI), Wildlife Institute of India and Forest Survey of India also marked the day by conducting tree plantation drives, internal workshops and competitions. A cleanliness and sanitisation programme was organised in the FRI campus, where a bamboo pedal sanitiser was inaugurated by director of ICFRE (Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education), Dr A S Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/environment-day-marked-in-state-with-webinars-plantation-drives/articleshow/76223946.cms||Shivani Azad
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK protests arrest of workers, over 2K partymen arrested||Coimbatore: Scores of DMK functionaries and cadres were arrested on Friday for protesting against state municipal administration minister S P Velumani across the district. Demanding release of arrested partymen and withdrawal of cases against them, DMK president M K Stalin launched a scathing attack on Velumani. Recalling his earlier statement that he would come down to Coimbatore to lead a massive protest against Velumani, Stalin threatened to expose the irregularities committed by the minister. In a statement, Stalin said DMK functionaries were being targeted for exposing Velumani. Functionaries like Coimbatore south district incharge Thendral Selvaraj, farmers wing organizer M S Ramamurthy and Kinathukadavu east union secretary A Durai were arrested multiple times for criticizing Velumani, he said. “If this continues, we will organize massive protest in Coimbatore and list out the irregularities committed by the minister.” Earlier in the day, the DMK staged protests at 57 places in the city and 91 rural areas. While 801 cadres were arrested in the city, 1,548 were held in rural areas. Besides attacking Velumani and the AIADMk government, the protestors also raised slogans against police for foisting cases on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-protests-arrest-of-workers-over-2k-partymen-arrested/articleshow/76224929.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 39 held, 31 NDPS FIRs filed daily in last 3 years||CHANDIGARH: On an average 39 accused were arrested every day in cases registered under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, in Punjab in the past three years. Punjab Police also registered an average 31 FIRs per day under the NDPS Act since March 16, 2017 in the state. The state police records reveal that from March 16, 2017, after the Congress government took over the charge, a total number of 46,724 accused have been arrested in 37,526 FIRs till June 3 this year. During this almost 40 months period, the state police have made recovery of a total of over 1,426 kilogram of heroin, over 1,569 kilogram of opium, 1.27 lakh kilogram of poppy husk, over 375 kilogram of charas, over 6,153 kilogram of ganja and over 852 kilogram of bhang. Similarly, over 1.94 lakh injections, 2.79 crore pills and capsules, and 427 kilogram of intoxicant powder has also been seized. There are 180 foreign nationals among those arrested in the last over three years in the NDPS cases. The state police have been able to achieve 68% conviction rate in NDPS cases. The STF police station in Mohali has recorded 100% conviction rate. Anti-drug special task force chief ADGP Harpeet Singh Sidhu said, “We have come a long way since 2017. We are putting in more efforts to completely implement Comprehensive Action against Drug Abuse (CADA) and Enforcement-Deaddiction-Prevention(EDP) strategy.” He added that 50% of the STF personnel were put on Covid-19 duty during the lockdown and once the force was back to full strength, the STF would pick up its operations more aggressively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/39-held-31-ndps-firs-filed-daily-in-last-3-yrs/articleshow/76225616.cms||Sanjeev Verma
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Anticipatory bail in atrocity cases: Issue referred to CJ after HC benches deliver conflicting verdicts||Ahmedabad: Within four months of the Supreme Court upholding Parliament’s amendment placing an absolute prohibition on granting anticipatory bail to persons accused under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, the Gujarat high court witnessed conflicting orders on the issue. Following this, a bench referred the issue to the chief justice for ‘appropriate consideration’ and to place it before a division bench for adjudication, if required.This happened when the bench termed anticipatory bail as not maintainable citing the newly asserted Section 18A in the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, but the court was informed that a co-accused in the same case was granted anticipatory bail in the past under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which has provisions for pre-arrest bail. On Monday, one Avinash Satapara came before the high court seeking legal protection against arrest in connection with a case of abetment of suicide from Surendranagar town. Since the person who had committed suicide was a member of SC/ST, the accused persons in this case were also booked under Section 3(2)(V) of the Atrocities Act.On perusal of the bail plea, the court said, “In view of insertion of Section 18-A in the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 vide the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2018, more particularly sub-section (2) of the said Section 18-A, it may not be open to the court to consider, as to whether discretion under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, needs to be exercised in such cases or not. This application therefore may not be entertained, as not maintainable.”When Justice Upadhyay said that the plea was not maintainable, the accused’s lawyer drew court’s attention to orders passed by the HC in the same case earlier by which anticipatory bail was granted to a co-accused in this case on May 4. The lawyer also submitted that there are many such orders passed by the HC. The government lawyer did not dispute the submission on factual aspects. On hearing this, Justice Upadhyay referred the issue to the chief justice with observation, “Judicial discipline demands that the orders passed by the co-ordinate bench should be followed and court should not be heard in different voices, on broad principles of law. At the same time, following those orders and exercise of discretion may lead to a situation, which is prohibited under the law. This needs to be reconciled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/anticipatory-bail-in-atrocity-cases-issue-referred-to-cj-after-hc-benches-deliver-conflicting-verdicts/articleshow/76224938.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Aquem screened after local health worker tests positive||Margao: Acting swiftly after a health worker attached to the Vasco health centre tested positive for Covid-19, the directorate of health services conducted a health screening and survey of the locality on Friday. Deputy director, health services, Dr Ira Almeida said none from the 134 households screened showed any signs of Covid-19. The Margao Municipal Council also sanitised the locality. The health worker who tested positive stays in Malbhat, Aquem. Sources said he along with other health workers was on a door-to-door surveillance for vector-borne disease in Mangor Hill, Vasco, an exercise the health services conducts periodically. This is when some of these health workers staying in different parts of the state are suspected to have been infected. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar told reporters that a health worker residing at Sanguem has tested positive. The exercise of screening the residents of the particular localities and sanitizing the areas was conducted by the health authorities on Friday. The affected health workers have been admitted in the Covid hospital. Almeida maintained that there has been no community transmission so far and the cases detected were localised in nature. Sources also said from among the positive cases which were initially believed to have had no travel history, it was later discovered that the patients had actually returned to the state by crossing the borders but had not revealed the information to the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aquem-screened-after-local-health-worker-tests-positive/articleshow/76225613.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nashik||CBD gets Rs 93 lakh from Union govt||Nashik: The Union government has sanctioned Rs 93.23 lakh to the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) for the first time through the finance commission, which will be used for developmental work. Bhagwan Kataria, the vice president of CBD said, “The 15th finance commission has sanctioned Rs 93.23 lakh to the CBD. The funds would be used for developmental works only in Deolali Camp cantonment board areas.” The Deolali Cantonment Board which has a population of approximately 60,000 would see various developmental works for the financial year of 2020-21, said elected representatives of the board. For many years, the representatives of CBD were putting in efforts to get benefits from the finance commission. The Deolali Cantonment Board provides services of water supply, sanitation, infrastructure, education, hospital, markets and other facilities to its citizens. With the exception of maintaining law and order, every other service is provided by the cantonment board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-gets-rs-93-lakh-from-union-govt/articleshow/76222640.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Keep status quo in PTIs’ case, Hry told||Chandigarh: Taking up a petition filed by physical training instructors (PTIs), whose selection has been set aside by the Supreme Court (SC), the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday ordered the Haryana government to maintain status quo in the matter. With this, all those teachers who have not been released from the service by the education department shall continue to work till June 9. On May 27, the elementary education department Haryana had issued orders to relieve them from the service in view of the recent verdict passed by the apex court. “The state counsel has firmly acknowledged that all the petitioners are still working against their respective posts despite the issuance of impugned order dated May 27. However, he seeks more time to have further instructions in the matter from the concerned quarter and to file a written response by way of an affidavit. Till the next date of hearing, status quo as exists today shall be maintained,” ordered the HC. The matter has now been adjourned for June 9 for further hearing. Although the HC order is a relief for these dismissed teachers, sources said a majority of them have already been relieved from the service by the state government. Talking to TOI, some of the teachers, who have been relieved by the authorities from their posts, said they are not sure if they would be called back by virtue of Friday orders. Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu of the HC has passed these orders while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by PTI teachers. Their main plea was that they should be permitted to continue in the service till the completion of fresh selection process. A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court in September 2012 had set aside the appointment of 1983 PTIs selected through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) in 2010 during the tenure of the then CM, Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The order was passed by the HC after observing massive irregularities in the selection process. The order was also upheld by a division bench of the HC in September 2013 after which the affected candidates had approached the SC against the quashing of their appointments. On April 8, 2020, the SC court also upheld the decision passed by the high court and ordered the state to conduct a fresh selection process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/keep-status-quo-in-ptis-case-hry-told/articleshow/76225609.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Social worker’ duping, extorting money from rich men arrested||NAGPUR: City police have arrested a woman who used to target elderly rich men and extort money from them by having a fake love affair. The accused, identified as Preeti Das, 39, has several offences registered against her. She used to target citizens through social media platforms. Sources said that the accused also had close connections with several senior police officials. It’s learnt that some officials also fell prey to her ‘honey traps’. In the incident that nailed her, Preeti came in contact with Umesh alias Guddu Tiwari through a social media platform. The duo started chatting and soon became friends. Preeti told Tiwari that after he divorces his wife, they can get married. After gaining Tiwari’s trust, Preeti told him that she can help him get a flat and took Rs2.6 lakh. However, even after several months, Preeti did not book any flat. When Tiwari asked her to return the money, the accused threatened him, saying she would file a fake case. The accused again extorted Rs2.42 lakh from Tiwari by threatening to file a fake case. For several months, the accused extorted cash and gifts collectively worth Rs14.87 lakh from Tiwari who finally approached Pachpaoli police station and filed a complaint. The accused had even targeted rich men from the city and other districts of Vidarbha. In 2010, an offence of fraud was registered against her at Sitabuldi police station while in 2016, another offence was registered against her in Bhandara. Sources said the accused used to pose as a social worker on social media and used to target rich men. She used to lure them with different promises before duping them. She had also targeted several youngsters by luring them with fake job promises by claiming to have close connections with senior government officials. City police have urged citizens to come forward and file a complaint if they have fallen prey to the fraud of this woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/social-worker-duping-extorting-money-from-rich-men-arrested/articleshow/76224928.cms||Viraj Deshpande
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: With ease in curbs, vehicles make a comeback on roads; so do snarls||PUNE: After nearly three months, a familiar sight was back on the city’s roads on Friday — traffic snarls. With a higher number of vehicles out of the roads, taking advantage of the ease in restrictions during Lockdown 5.0 Consequently, stretches that are known for traffic snarls — Satara Road, Tilak Road, Sancheti Junction, CoEP-RTO Chowk, Nal Stop and Karve Road — were once again reduced to a mass of honking vehicles and snarling motorists. Pune police said this was the highest volume of vehicular traffic after relaxations kicked in about a fortnight ago. “Everyone has been reading and hearing about the relaxations and stepped out, leading to an increase in traffic. We have operationalized traffic signals and also deployed personnel,” additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde told TOI. “The road between CoEP and RTO junction was completely choked around noon — it took me a while to reach the CID office, where I was stuck for another 10 minutes. I finally turned around and went back home.” one motorist read. “Parts of the road blocked by Metro work and traffic lights possibly caused the snarl. I was driving towards Shivajinagar and faced no issues,” another motorist said. Assistant police inspector Sambhaji Golande of Bund Garden traffic division said the jam was caused by a crane that was moving barricades further down the road. “We requested MahaMetro to remove or move the barricades on Raja Bahadur Mill Road and Bund Garden Road and they pressed a crane into service, affecting traffic,” Golande said, further adding that the traffic burden on this stretch was higher as people were avoiding Janata Vasahat and Mangalwar Peth, which are containment zones. “Vehicular traffic is not allowed from Patil Estate to Khadki and vehicles coming from Sangamwadi have to drive towards RTO and take a U-turn just before the bridge — this has been causing some snarls,” an officer from the Shivajinagar traffic division. Kothrud, which witnesses heavier traffic flow in the morning, is in the same position. Inspector Ajay Chandkhede of Kothrud traffic division said Nal Stop and nearby areas are busy between 10am and noon. “However, we turn off the signals after noon as the traffic lessens,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-ease-in-curbs-vehicles-make-a-comeback-on-roads-so-do-snarls/articleshow/76225611.cms||Rujuta Parekh
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal pledges to give ‘Time For Nature’||BHOPAL: Every year June 5 is celebrated as the World Environment Day, though the celebrations remained virtual this year but not low-key. With online lectures, photo exhibitions and plantation drives, Bhopalis vowed to make one of the most greenest cities of India even more greener. The theme for World Environment Day 2020 is, 'Time for Nature,' with a focus on its role in providing the essential infrastructure that supports life on Earth and human development. Charitable organization ‘caring for India’ conducted a plantation drive at an abandoned park at Alam nagar area, giving it a new life with the help of the BMC. “The municipal corporation extended its support to us and made it possible to plant the saplings at the barren land and dividers on the road. We planted around 35 plants with the help of BMC and local residents of the area. The BMC has also promised to extend its support to us in more such plantation drives and help us care for the newly planted saplings”, said Dr Shaji Thomas, Director, new-life development society of CFI. MP centre for science and technology also conducted a plantation drive on its campus and organised online lectures on topics like environment, innovation, sustainable development and coronavirus on Friday. The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalay hosted an online lecture on the topic — caring for the environment post pandemic — that was streamed live on social media. The speaker of the lecture was Ramnish Geer, joint director CBU, Bhopal. Praveen Kumar Mishra, Director, IGRMS, said, “The theme for the World Environment Day 2020 is, ‘time for Nature’, and its main purpose is to make people aware of it. Nature has started healing and rivers, seas, animals have found new life during the lockdown. In addition, there is a temporary reduction in the emission of toxic gases and a drastic reduction in air pollution. We must make sure we let this healing continue and work towards sustainable development.” A photography group of the city also organised a virtual exhibition on the World Environment Day to show the beauty of nature and how it recuperated during the lockdown due to reduction of human activities and pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-pledges-to-give-time-for-nature/articleshow/76224930.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||INLD virtually finished in Haryana: Ajay||Hisar: JJP leader and former MP Ajay Singh Chautala took a dig at his estranged younger brother Abhay Singh Chautala and his party, INLD, saying it would soon become a political non-entity as it is virtually finished in Haryana.  Ajay was talking to mediapersons here on Friday, after inaugurating the farmhouse of JJP’s district president Jaipal Bandaheri. He was accompanied by Haryana’s minister of state Anup Dhanak. He also hit out at the Delhi government for not releasing his father and former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala from jail.  Alleging bias, he said his father should have been released from jail on October 2, 2019, as per rules.  “The Delhi lieutenant governor can order the release of my father only after the recommendation of the Arvind Kejriwal-led government there. But it has not happened so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/inld-virtually-finished-in-haryana-ajay/articleshow/76225624.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Aliganj Hanuman temple to reopen on June 15, masks must||Lucknow: The Naya Hanuman Temple in Aliganj will reopen from June 15, instead of June 8. The main entry gate of the temple will remain closed. Rather, the authorities are planning to set up separate entry and exit gates from the parking area of the temple, where sanitizer rooms will also be put up for the public. People not wearing masks will not be allowed to enter. While foot operated hand-sanitizers will be installed, the public will not be allowed to offer flowers, garlands, ‘prasad’ or even touch the deity or the temple bell. Anil Tiwari, of Aliganj Shri Mahaveer ji Trust (Naya Hanuman Mandir), said that further changes will be made once the district administration issues their guidelines. Mankameshwar temple being readied The Mankameshwar temple dedicated to Lord Shiva will reopen on June 8 after making safety arrangements and completely sanitizing the premises. According to the proposed plan, apart from wearing mask, using sanitizer dispensers and maintaining social distancing, the public will have to bring their own small temple bells. The ‘jalabhishekh’ will now be done through a water pipe, while proper beelines with 4-feet distance will be maintained between two devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aliganj-hanuman-temple-to-reopen-on-june-15-masks-must/articleshow/76225632.cms||Aditi Singh
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Teachers told to carry out e-teaching work||Nashik: The Zilla Parishad has allowed the school teachers to use the school classrooms to carry out online teaching works for the students till the government orders to reopen the schools. According to the officials, the state government has permitted the school teaching staff to carry on necessary work without inviting the students to the schools. “All the teachers and the non-teaching staff can now go to schools and carry out their relevant activity – but without children coming in till the government orders so,” the officers said. With this, the teachers can now go to the schools and start their activities to generate e-content which they can use for reaching out to the students through various e-media. “This is a welcome relief for the educational offices where there is no 10 percent of employees criteria has been mentioned by the government. This means all the teachers and non-teachers also can come to schools, colleges etc and do their work,” the officer added. The school staff have been cautioned to strictly follow norms like physical distancing, cleanliness, sanitization, etc in the school premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/teachers-told-to-carry-out-e-teaching-work/articleshow/76222657.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Patients in private hospitals have to pay for doctors’ Covid tests, PPE kits||JAIPUR: Patients in private hospitals will have to bear the cost of safety equipment of doctors and hospital staff as well as their Covid-19 tests. Doctors using personal protection equipment in operation theaters and wards will charge the cost of the equipment on patients. The cost will be included in a patient's bill. Even the cost of Covid tests, which they have made mandatory before performing surgeries, will be paid by patients. Doctors use masks, face shields, gloves, which are included in PPEs, to prevent any risk of getting infection from Covid patients, including those who may not be aware that he is positive. “In view of the recent submission by the central government in the Supreme Court that the responsibility of self-protection from Covid lies with doctors themselves, we have clarified that all patients coming to private hospitals will be treated as suspicious positive cases and dealt with all due preventive measures, including PPE kits. A single negative test is not enough to declare a patient Covid-free,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Society (PHNHS). Patients to bear cost of PPE kits Kapoor further clarified that the extra charges for protection will be billed on a ‘no profit, no loss basis’ on the patient. The actual cost of the PPE kits and Covid tests will be added to the bills of patients. However, since insurance companies are not reimbursing the cost of PPEs and Covid-19 tests, the patients will have to bear the cost of such protective gear and tests. The PHNHS claimed that the cost of Covid test is Rs 4,500 and the cost of PPEs range from Rs 200 to Rs 2,000, depending on the quality. However, the PHNHS claimed that they have written to insurance companies to reimburse the cost of Covid tests and PPE kits to patients covered under mediclaim insurance schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patients-in-pvt-hosps-have-to-pay-for-doctors-covid-tests-ppe-kits/articleshow/76225634.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rain darkens THE Covid cloud over city||Ahmedabad: The city is battling a high number of Covid-19 cases, so the untimely rain on Friday — lashing several areas of Ahmedabad — could not have come at a worse time. The rain has stoked concerns of a sudden rise in viral infections, owing to an abrupt temperature fluctuation. Adjusting to the fluctuation can be difficult and it could help viruses multiply, especially when temperatures begin to rise again in the coming days, according to a senior doctor at VS Hospital. In Ahmedabad, areas such as Sarkhej, Bodakdev, Paldi, Vatva, and Danapith received an average rainfall of 11.89mm. The city received 14.73mm. These areas have been recording between 20% and 35% rise in Covid-19 infections since last week.The city’s outskirts such as Bopal, Shilaj, and Shela received showers, leading to waterlogging for a short duration. Dr Manoj Vithlani, a general physician treating Covid-19, said,“Considering that heat did not suppress the spread of the virus, we can assume that cases will rise in rains when humidity is high and atmosphere is conducive to viral growth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rain-darkens-the-covid-cloud-over-city/articleshow/76225150.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||19-yr-old delivers in shramik special||Balangir: A migrant woman delivered her first child early on Friday inside the Shramik Special Train while she was travelling from Nagampali in Telangana to Balangir. The new mother and child were immediately taken care of by a medical team at Titlagarh station and later shifted to the sub-divisional hospital. Nineteen-year-old Meena Kumbhar, who delivered the baby boy, is from Thudibahal village in the district. She was accompanied by her husband, mother-in-law and 10 relatives during her journey. “We were informed about the delivery of the baby and intimated the district administration. Our medical staff attended to the mother and newborn and provided primary treatment along with warm milk to them before they were shifted to the sub-divisional hospital,” said M S Kumawat, OIC, railway police force. According to railway officials, the woman experienced labour pain last night and again when the train left Kesinga station, which is 20 km from Titlagarh. She was travelling on berth no. 34 in S14 coach and gave birth between the two stations. The mother and newborn were taken to hospital by Janani ambulance from the station. The doctor removed the placenta from the mother and scissored the umbilical cord. They will be under medical observation for the next 48 hours. “Both the mother and newborn are stable. They have been provided with the prescribed food and medicines. We have allowed only one attendant along with the patient to contain the possible corona infection,” said Dr Sujatarani Mishra, sub-divisional medical officer. This is the third such delivery in a shramik special train under ECoR. Earlier, one Kunti Nag of Balangir delivered a baby boy and was admitted to Balangir hospital and another migrant woman Hema Kanti Biswakarma of Chhattisgarh gave birth to a baby girl and treated at Titlagarh hospital. General manager, ECoR, Vidya Bhusan gifted Rs 5,000 to Meena’s newborn and announced the same for the other two babies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/19-yr-old-delivers-in-shramik-special/articleshow/76223959.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘No fee’ campaign will render many jobless, USWAN to min, dist collector||NAGPUR: A group of CBSE schools, under the banner of Unaided Schools Welfare Association Nagpur (USWAN) , met home minister Anil Deshmukh and district collector Ravindra Thakare on Friday about the ongoing controversy over fee collection. Schools say the “no fee” campaign will straight away result in their economic collapse and leave massive numbers of teachers and other staff unemployed. The immediate trigger for schools to take a stand seems to be a circular issued on June 3 by the local education department. It was a reiteration of the state government GR of May 8 in which schools were asked not to force parents to pay, but at the same time did not ban fee collection either. In its letter, USWAN says some parents along with vested interests are promoting the “No School No Fee” campaign. The letter urged the collector to not succumb to “undue demands from such organizations for non-payment of fee to schools which will create unemployment to the core and create an environment of doubt among the teaching fraternity”. The letter goes on to urge the education department from being “a party to unwanted elements who wish to defame and disturb”. Schools say they are burdened with fixed costs like salaries, annual payments to contractors, EMIs etc which have not been “waived off”. USWAN says if the lockdown continues with the “no fee” clause then schools also have to take some drastic steps. “We have no other way of saying No Fee, No School and No Online class,” said schools in their letter. This, USWAN pointed out, will result in unemployment rising sharply in their field. In the last one month, the local education department has seen a steady stream of separate parents’ groups and social activists approach them with petitions for waiving off fees or reducing it by 50%. Local education officers have maintained their stand, that their role is of policy implementation and that changes can only by done at Mantralaya level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-fee-campaign-will-render-many-jobless-uswan-to-min-dist-collector/articleshow/76224941.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Inspection of passengers at Nashik Road railway station||Nashik: Passengers arriving at the Nashik Road railway station are required to undergo a mandatory health check-up, authorities have said, adding that they have made special arrangements for the same. “We have made an arrangement for health teams at the main entrance of the railway station. The teams will be present at the station round-the-clock to check health status of passengers boarding and alighting from the trains,” station manager Rakesh Kuthar said. While the frequency of trains is less, there are some special long distance trains that have started plying since Monday. The state government has been entrusted with the responsibility of examining the health of all passengers boarding and alighting from trains. Though the health teams were present at the station on Monday, they failed to turn up on Tuesday. However, the teams were back on duty since Wednesday. “The health teams work in an eight hour shift ever since the passenger traffic has increased. Two people have been deputed for each shift who carry out the thermal screening process and take down the details of passengers’ entry in the city. They also scan for passengers who are willing to travel by trains,” Kuthar said. People having high body temperature or those showing signs of any illness are not allowed to board the train. They are immediately referred to local hospitals for treatment. “Same is the case with arrivals. Passengers are screened and referred to home quarantine if required. Those with unsatisfactory health parameters are referred to institutional quarantine,” Kuthar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/inspection-of-passengers-at-nashik-road-railway-station/articleshow/76222683.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 6, 2020||Vadodara||Women celebrate Earth by wearing her colours on sarees||Vadodara: It will surely make the most beautiful picture: Women draped in sarees whose colours depicted the five elements of the earth. And what can be a better tribute to Mother Nature, but this creative expression by women from across the country and even overseas on World Environment Day?The women, who wore green to signify ‘pruthvi (earth)’, blue for ‘jal (water)’, brown for ‘vayu (air)’, red for ‘agni (fire)’ and white for ‘aakash (sky)’ catwalked, or struck poses draped in their six yards.The pictures of a few graceful ladies will now be put online as a compilation, by NGO Ni:svarth. The theme was conceptualised by prominent danseuse Parul Shah. Among the prominent faces are Padma Vibhushan Dr Sonal Mansingh, member of the royal Gaekwad family and M S University chancellor Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad, Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt, district collector Shalini Agrawal among many others who joined the event.President of Ni:swarth, Ritu Bansal said that more than 500 women registered for the event. She added that apart from 30 cities in India, participants from United Kingdom, Tanzania, France, Bhutan, United States of America, United Arab Emirates and South Africa also sent in their beautiful pictures on the theme.“On one hand the ladies thanked mother earth by by wearing colours of the five elements, and on the other, prayed and apologised for their sins asking her to uplift us from this pandemic (Covid-19),” said Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/women-celebrate-earth-by-wearing-her-colours-on-sarees/articleshow/76223010.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri king abstains from Chhera Pahanra ritual||Bhubaneswar: Puri king Dibyasingha Deb, who is revered as the living entity of Lord Jagannath, abstained from performing his hereditary Chhera Pahanra ritual (sweeping of the floor) on Debasnan Purnima in the 12th century shrine on Friday. Deb, who is also regarded as the first servitor of the sibling deities Jagannath, Balabhadra and goddess Subhadra, attributed his absence to the government’s Covid-19 guidelines. “I decided to stay home (Sri Nahar or Royal Palace in Puri) in compliance with the government’s Covid lockdown guidelines, which prohibit religious functions and congregations of more than seven persons outside the temple. The guidelines also asked persons above 65 years of age from venturing out of their homes,” the Gajapati Maharaja (66) told TOI. According to the age-old tradition, the king is always brought to the temple in a palanquin from his palace, about 200 metres from the temple, to perform Chhera Pahanra during Debasnan Purnima. The Maharaja sweeps the floor of the Snan Mandap (bathing altar) with a gold-plated broom. In his absence, Aditya Narayan Mudirasta (17) or only called Mudiratha servitor, officiated the Chhera Pahanra ritual. Aditya, the youngest servitor in the temple, said he was excited while performing Chhera Pahanra, officially on behalf the Gajapati Maharaja. “It was my first Chhera Pahanra on Debasnan Purnima,” he said. The Puri king said this was the second time during his tenure when he was unable to perform Chhera Pahanra on Snana Jatra. “The first time was in 1976 when I was in the USA for my law studies. It is a well-established tradition that Mudiratha performs all Gajapati Maharaja seba when Gajapati Maharaja is absent,” said Dibyasingha Deb, who ascended the throne in July 1970 following the demise of his father, Gajapati Birakishore Deb, in the midst of the car festival. Dibyasingha was only 17 then. Meanwhile, Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati, who was specially invited by the temple administration to have a darshan of the deities on the bathing altar, did not turn up. Unlike the king, the Shankaracharya does not perform any ritual in the temple. Though there was no immediate confirmation about the reason of Shankaracharya’s absence from the festival, sources said he skipped the festival in compliance of the Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-king-abstains-from-chhera-pahanra-ritual/articleshow/76223989.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 new cases in Bopal||Ahmedabad: The Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika recorded three more Covid cases, but this time the locality of the cases is a different one, at Iskcon Flower near Lal Gebi Ashram. Ahmedabad district, barring the municipal area, reported 27 fresh cases on Friday taking the total number to 329. Three deaths were reported, taking the total number for rural Ahmedabad to 22. According to officials, the three deaths included a 58-year-old male from Memadpur in Sanand taluka, a 70-year-old male from Dhandhuka town, and a 35-year-old male form Soham Park at Mahijada village. The 70-year-old from Dhandhuka died on the same days he tested positive. According to the Ahmedabad rural list of fresh cases, a 56-year-old male from Iskcon Flower tested positive. Jigisha Shah, president of Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika said, “The family was staying in Dholka during the lockdown and had come to their residence last Friday. An LIC agent, a resident of Sai Niketan II, also tested positive. One more person was tested positive at Angira Flats in the Bhavya Park complex. This is the second case in the Bhavya Park area.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-new-cases-in-bopal/articleshow/76225181.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Appoint 100 firemen on contract basis: Sanjay Balpande||NAGPUR: Number of firefighting personnel has been on the decline in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency services department for a long time. Against the sanctioned posts of 346 firemen, the department now has only 61 working firemen. To address this, NMC’s fire and electricity special consultative committee chairman Sanjay Balpande on Friday directed the department to hire 100 firemen on contract basis. With the onset of monsoon, the department will require manpower to attend emergency calls like flooding, waterlogging etc. Considering the population of the city, there is a shortage of manpower required to provide services. It was agreed by the administration that trained firefighters are needed at present. Citing an example of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s move to appoint two financial advisors on contract basis, Balpande said the department should also publish similar advertisements to hire firemen too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/appoint-100-firemen-on-contract-basis-balpande/articleshow/76224967.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mormugao civic body chief appeals for voluntary shutdown in port town||VASCO: With the state government rejecting the demand for lockdown of the port town in view of spike in Covid cases, chairperson of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) Nandadeep Raut, on Friday appealed to Vasco citizens to opt for a voluntary shutdown. “The chief minister will surely take all the necessary steps, but we too should take precautionary measures,” Raut said. Citing the cases detected in the urban health centre, he said, “A woman working at the urban health centre has a relative who sells vegetables at the market. This itself shows the risk we are at. It is very important that we go in for a voluntary lockdown keeping in view the safety of Vasco.” Raut said he had received many calls from shopkeepers and local businessman assuring that they would closing down from Saturday, while members of the vegetable, fruit and fish market committees have said they will close down from Monday. Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, who had been demanding a complete lockdown in the port town, said, “Several people have realised the seriousness of the situation. I support the chairperson in his demand for the lockdown.” Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha has also supported Almeida’s demand. She said people from Vasco work at different places, increasing the risk of community transmission. State NCP president and former Vasco MLA Jose Philip D’Souza, said the focus should be on safeguarding people’s lives. “This situation is very serious and we need to plan with everyone’s cooperation. Politics should not be involved where lives are concerned,” he said. He also urged Almeida to decide on an action plan, together with the chief minister and party members, and then make it known to citizens “to avoid the kind of chaos Vasco witnessed two days ago in the markets”. While the Vasco MLA and the MMC claim that there will be a voluntary shutdown, it all depends whether the shop owners cooperate on Saturday. There has been an appeal on social media requesting everyone to join the voluntary shutdown. Anand Naik, a general store owner who has three shops in different parts of Vasco, said he has decided to shut all his shops from Saturday. “If those who are infected come shopping, it can cause problems for many others and my family too,” Naik said. MGP’s senior functionary and Madkai MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar called for immediate sealing of Dabolim and Sancoale areas along with Vasco town to prevent community transmission. Mahila Congress has demanded sealing of state borders for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugao-civic-body-chief-appeals-for-voluntary-shutdown-in-port-town/articleshow/76225641.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana tops south in secondary infection rate for Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana tops the secondary infection rate charts in the south while it stands sixth across India amid growing fears over a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. In an elaborate analysis of novel coronavirus positive cases recorded in all the states and Union territories, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found out that secondary infection among Covid-19 contacts is one of the highest in Telangana despite a low testing rate. ICMR tested Covid-19 cases recorded between February 2 and April 30. As per the study, 5.6 persons had tested positive for 100 tests done on asymptomatic, symptomatic and unspecified category of people. Secondary infection occurs during or after treatment for another infection. It may be caused by the first treatment or by changes in the immune system. In this case, it is seen as the percentage of positives among asymptomatic and symptomatic contacts of confirmed Covid-19 cases and among unspecified people, a medical expert explained. The tests had been categorised into categories such as symptomatic international traveller, symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases, asymptomatic contacts of confirmed cases, healthcare staff in all categories, severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza-like illness in red zones. Telangana conducted 7,500 tests in February-AprilAs per the ICMR study, Telangana had conducted 7,593 tests among symptomatic and asymptomatic contacts of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases between February and April. It had also done another 5,952 tests among unspecified people for different reasons. Of the total 13,545 tests done, 752 people had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, it said. “However, during the said period, more than 18,000 tests have been conducted in the state,” an official source claimed. Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender agreed the high secondary infection rate is a cause for worry. “We are following the ICMR guidelines and conducting tests, but the spurt in secondary infection is not boding well for the state,” he said. Public health experts meanwhile observed that the high secondary infection rate among people calls for aggressive testing. “Despite Telangana’s low testing record, the secondary infection rate is very high. This is a big concern,” said an official on condition of anonymity. Confirming the worst fears, ISB professor Sarang Deo said Telangana was better equipped than several other states to carry out Covid-19 testing. “But, the tests done per 1,000 people is very low,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-tops-south-in-secondary-infection-rate-for-covid-cases/articleshow/76226271.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nikol murder: Two held, another two test coronavirus positive||AHMEDABAD: Cross complaints were filed after the murder of a youth, Ranjeet Parihar, in Nikol on Saturday night. In the first complaint, those accused of the murder had stated that Ranjeet and other accused had attacked them with swords. Sushil Singh, who had allegedly suffered a sword blow on his shoulder, and was sent to Civil Hospital tested Covid-19 positive.  Police rounded up all eight accused in the cross complaint filed by Kusumben, mother of the deceased. One of the accused, Sonu Rajput, also tested Covid-19 positive and was sent to Civil Hospital. Nikol police on Thursday formally arrested two of these eight accused, Anil Rajput and Ravi Rajput. The rest five accused, Ajit Rajput, his mother Mayadevi, Sunil Rajput and his wife, and Sonu’s wife are to be tested for Covid-19. Police will arrest them once their reports arrive, said ACP I division, N L Desai. According to case details, Sonu Rajput, who has tested Covid-19 positive, used to harass a woman whom Ranjeet Parihar used to help. So, Sonu stabbed and killed Parihar in a clash between two armed groups on Saturday night. Sushil Singh, who tested Covid-19 positive, and works as a security guard, filed the first FIR. In the cross FIR, Kusumben stated that the accused teased Parihar for coming to the defense of a woman, Pooja, whom the accused harassed frequently. Inspector H B Zala said neighbours and relatives had intervened after an initial fight over their relationship with the woman between Sonu and Ranjeet. The matter was then sorted out and both struck a compromise at Nikol Police station, the same night. However, later that night, the accused came with swords, irons pipes and knives and stabbed and killed Ranjeet, stated the deceased’s mother, Kusumben.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nikol-murder-2-held-another-2-test-ve/articleshow/76224977.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Numbers Proportional To Improved Testing Capacity||Vijayawada: While the number of Covid-19 cases continues to show a rapid increase in the state, officials claim that it is the increased testing capacity that has led to the spike in numbers. The higher case numbers, they said, can also help in early detection and prevent the spread of the virus. Andhra Pradesh had close to 1,460 Covid-19 cases when the state crossed the one lakh milestone in number of tests conducted. At two lakh tests, the tally rose to 2,130 positive cases. The pattern of transmission has been similar for the three lakh tests mark (2,797 cases) and the four lakh mark (3,791 cases). The state crossed the 4,000-case mark on June 4. Foreign returnees, people from other states and cases linked to the Koyambedu market account for nearly 1,100 cases in AP. The positivity rate stood at 1.42% for the first one lakh tests, while it decreased to 1.06% by the time the state crossed the two lakh mark. It further fell to 0.92% at the three lakh mark and rose marginally to 0.98% at four lakh tests. The state continues to top the chart in terms of the number of people screened per million population and on June 2, conducted 12,613 tests, the highest number of tests on a single day. The first Covid-19 viral research and diagnostic laboratory (VRDL) was set up at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), Tirupati on February 15. Till April 14, the state had conducted only 9,794 tests. By May 1, however, the state had conducted one lakh tests. Apart from RT-PCR testing, the state also used 350 Truenat machines to speed up the testing process. While it took over two months for the first one lakh tests, the next one lakh were conducted in 12 days, by May 13. Time taken to conduct the subsequent one lakh tests further decreased to 11 days and the four lakh mark was reached in another 10 days. At a recent review meeting, special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare department, KS Jawahar Reddy asked officials to augment testing and treatment facilities, in view of experts’ predictions of cases peaking in June. The special chief secretary also directed the officials to focus more on persons aged above 65 and suffering from chronic diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac issues, to reduce the number of Covid-19-related deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/numbers-proportional-to-improved-testing-capacity/articleshow/76223981.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP leader thrashes mkt panel official with sandal||Hisar: BJP leader and TikTok star Sonali Phogat on Friday allegedly hit the Hisar market committee secretary with sandal and also slapped him at the Balsamand village grain market of the district. Phogat alleged the official used vulgar language not only against her, but also against Haryana women and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and chairperson of the state agricultural marketing board and former minister Krishna Gahlawat. However, soon after the incident, a letter from Balsamand market committee secretary Sultan Singh went viral in the social media, stating that he accepted his mistake and was apologising for his conduct and did not want to complain about the assault. When contacted, Hisar superintendent of police Gangaram Poonia said complaints had been received from both sides over the incident and action was being taken. Sources in Chandigarh said the CM has sought a report on the incident from the CID. While Sultan did not answer repeated phone calls made to know his side of the story, Phogat said there were complaints of delay in purchase of gram and lack of shed in the Balsamand grain market for a long time. She said when she went to the office of Hisar market committee secretary (also in-charge of the Balsamand grain market), Sultan and asked him to go to Balsamand. She alleged at the Balsamand market committee secretary made obscene remarks about her, Gahlawat and Dhanda. Speaking about the incident, Haryana Pradesh Vyapar Mandal president Bajrang Das Garg said no leader has the right to assault any official. “If the official has done something wrong, then the police and the court should look into that. No one is allowed to take law into their hands,” he said. Later, posting a video of the incident in his Twitter handle, Congress communication wing in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala asked whether chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar would take action in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-leader-thrashes-mkt-panel-official-with-sandal/articleshow/76225649.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Semi-nude man found murdered with head smashed||NAGPUR: A partially decomposed body of an unidentified man, in his late 20s, was found in semi-nude condition at Babu Hardas ghat in Kamptee on outskirts of city, on Friday. The head was smashed, with some portion of it missing. Police have also found semen stains on the victim’s clothes, leading to suspicion abut some sexual assault or activities. The New Kamptee police and crime branch have started investigation to establish the victim’s identity. Police found an empty wallet lying near the body. A fishing hook was also found, leaving a doubt whether the victim or any of the assailants belonged to the fisherman community. The place where the body was found is close to Kanhan river. Cops also found an empty bottle and a paver block, which may have been used for the assault. Zonal DCP Neelotpal said the inner vest of the victim was torn and rolled onto the stomach, which is a telltale sign of struggle. “We are probing the case from every angle. The trouser and underwear were probably removed after murder,” he said. A senior officer from the New Kamptee police station said missing complaints from adjoining police stations in city and rural are being scanned to get a clue. “A family from Kanhan turned up at the police station to identify the body as their son too was missing from last two days. But it was not him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/semi-nude-man-found-murdered-with-head-smashed/articleshow/76224983.cms||Soumitra Bose
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Arogya Setu must for sectt employees||Amaravati: In move to contain the spread of coronavirus in the secretariat, the state government has made the downloading of Arogya Setu app mandatory for all secretariat employees. The app has been made a must even for visitors to secretariat. On Friday, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney directed chief security officer–Interim Government Complex (IGC), which houses the secretariat, to take necessary action to ensure that no one enters the secretariat without Arogya Setu on their phones. The CS also directed officials to screen visitors, including employees, with thermal scanners to track temperatures. She said that everyone should be made to use hand sanitizers placed at the entrance of each block. The chief secretary asked the department heads to allow people to work from home only when their Arogya Setu app showed that they were ‘at risk’. The CS said the decision has been taken after a few people working in the secretariat tested positive for Covid-19. “Although the government is taking all measures to handle the situation, it has been decided to explore easier ways to contain the virus,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/arogya-setu-must-for-sectt-employees/articleshow/76223998.cms||Samdani MN
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spikes at Vasna crematorium, Musa Suhag cemetery seen||Ahmedabad: Recent data of burials maintained by religious trusts and cremations from the 24-odd Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation-run crematoriums shows a spike in the number deaths for in April and May. After the Covid-19 outbreak in the last week of March, during the entire month of April this year there were 3,052 cremations in the city against 2,566 cremations in April last year. While halfway through May this year, the city at 2,690 had already crossed the number for all of last May, 2,504. Similarly, at the two major cemeteries, Musa Suhag in Shahibaug and Char Toda in Gomtipur, the number of burials in April and May compared to last year. While Musa Suhag cemetery registered 71 burials last April, it registered 139 this April. The number of burials rose from 66 in all of last May to 105 in just the first ten days of May this year. Across several crematoriums, the numbers of those cremated in just half of the month of May this year are even and even rose a few notches above the total for all of May 2019. Experts say that apart from Covid-19, heat and other related issues may be behind this spurt. At six major crematoria Thaltej, Vasna, Isanpur, Dudheshwar, Chamunda and Hatkeshwar the numbers were quite pronounced. Vasna crematorium witnessed seven cremations last April, but had 84 this April. In May 2019, it had just five cremations, but there had been 130 cremations in the first 16 days of May 2020. Thakkarnagar, Vejalpur and Vadaj crematoriums almost reached the May numbers of last year in the first half of May this year. A senior AMC official said that a 10% to 12% increase in deaths in certain months is normal in the city. Anticipating that there may be a further spurt in burials, several trusts have begun contributing by commissioning digging work and provisioning free extendable stretchers to help bodies to be buried 10 feet deep, as is done for Covid-19 victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spikes-at-vasna-crematorium-musa-suhag-cemetery-seen/articleshow/76225176.cms||Kapil Dave
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||VCs: College exams to get delayed||Dehradun: Governor Baby Rani Maurya chaired the meeting of vice-chancellors (VC) of state universities through video conferencing from Rajbhawan here on Thursday, in which the VCs maintained that the examinations and academic sessions would be delayed this year as many colleges have turned into quarantine centers and all the medical colleges are operating as Covid-19 dedicated facilities. During the video conference, VC of Pantnagar University Tej Pratap informed the governor that a large part of the university campus and hostel have been made into a quarantine centre. “There will not be entrance exams in the varsity this year, as admissions will be given on merit basis. All the preparations have been completed for the exams of final year students in August,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vcs-college-exams-to-get-delayed/articleshow/76224003.cms||Ishita Mishra
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid guidelines issued for cops||Ahmedabad: With rising numbers of Covid 19 cases, Gujarat police has come up with a standard operating procedure (SOP) on how to deal with cases and police station work. A senior Gujarat police official said it deals with not only how to make arrests when the person could be a Covid carrier, but also about who to deal with complainants who come to the police stations.  The SOP will also educate cops on how to deal with crime scenes in times of Covid 19. It will educate cops on dealing with visitors who come to police stations for passports and other police-related work.  A senior officer said it will cover arresting an accused, interrogation, recording of statements, producing an accused in court and admitting him to the hospital if he is found to be infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-guidelines-issued-for-cops/articleshow/76224989.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
June 6, 2020||Pune||PCB allows stores to function on odd-even basis from June 8||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) general body on Friday resolved to allow shops in the non-containment areas to remain open from 9am to 5pm on an odd- even basis from June 8. Prior to that, there would be a total shutdown on Saturday and Sunday. The PCB has so far registered 299 Covid-19 cases. Of these, three patients have succumbed to the contagion and 235 patients recovered and discharged from the hospital. The remaining 61 are active cases and still under treatment. The shops allowed to open are that of sweet marts, electronic and electrical appliances, cellphone stores, apparels, footwears and utensils and bakeries, among others. The board has not yet allowed opening of restaurants, malls, saloons and vegetable markets, including Shivaji market, Kumbharwadi and Wanowrie bazaar. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, “No shop — other than pharmacies and milk stores — will be allowed to operate in the containment zones. Shops in the severely affected areas such as Bhimpura, Modikhana, New Modikhana and Ghorpadi will remain closed till June 30. In non-containment areas, shops will have to adhere to the government guidelines.” There are about 3,000 shops in Pune cantonment. The board has prepared a map showing the areas where the shops will remain open and on which date. “We will issue a public notice on this,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-allows-stores-to-function-on-odd-even-basis-from-june-8/articleshow/76225648.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Now, book LPG cylinder on WhatsApp||NASHIK: The booking of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders has now become easier as consumers can book them through WhatsApp and make online payment. The Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) has started the process of booking LPG refill through WhatsApp so that people do not have to download its application to book cylinders. Consumers have to store the BPCL Smartline number 1800224344 and type ‘Hi’ on their WhatsApp chat board. “Since the launch of the system in a week’s time, about 10% of daily bookings (about 10,000 refills per day) are being done through the system,” a BPCL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/now-book-lpg-cylinder-on-whatsapp/articleshow/76222695.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Beat guards study data of lion kills for ‘avalokan’||AHMEDABAD: The much-awaited two-day Poonam avalokan for Asiatic lions began on Friday. The beat guards and the staff involved in the avalokan (sightings) had begun preparation from Wednesday for the lion counting exercise. A senior forest officer said that for accurate count of each pride they had collected data of the kills over the last two days, and asked village sarpanches and their sources to keep track of lions near their villages. The monthly lion count has been made public for the first time by the forest department. “Usually, the count was given after talking to the villagers, sarpanches and their sources, but this time the department has made it compulsory to take photographs and record the exact locations of prides and kills with latitude and longitudes, and hence it is an extensive exercise,” said a beat guard. Principal chief conservator of forest, Shyamal Tikadar, said, “The photographs will be uploaded on the government server and duplication will be removed. Once the data is ready, it will be placed before the government and the ACS forest and environment, Rajiv Gupta, who will then take a call. Once approved, the photographs will then be uploaded on the forest department website.” Forest officials said that the lion census will cover 30,000 sq km but the highest lion footfall has been recorded in 1,200 villages in Junagadh, Amreli, Bhavnagar and Gir Somnath. Lions have been spotted once in every three to four days in these villages. A beat guard from Jasadhar division said, “I have made a note of a killing on Thursday and have asked the village sarpanch to keep a watch. A lion pride is bound to return to the spot of the kill on the next day. Usually the villagers remove the kill from the area and move it away from the village. But on Friday the villagers and sarpanch were requested not to disturb the kill and leave it at the same spot.” He said that in his beat he had spotted six villages where there were lion kills. “This will make the task easy for me, as I would be able to take photographs of these six prides without much effort,” he said. Another beat guard said he even requested a sarpanch to let weak cattle and those past their prime roam in areas near the village where the big cats might make a kill. He said besides taking help of the local villagers, each beat guard has also prepared a map of his territory marking spots of kills made in the last fortnight. Meanwhile, beat guards who are mainly from lion territory have also requested their close contacts and relatives to keep an eye on sightings of the big cats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/beat-guards-study-data-of-lion-kills-for-avalokan/articleshow/76225009.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Cyclone effect: 823 hectares crop damaged in Nashik division||NASHIK: Cyclone Nisarg damaged about 823 hectares of agricultural land as it passed through the Nashik division on Wednesday, officials from Nashik divisional commissionerate said on Thursday. The cyclone has had a telling effect on Ahmednagar district of Nashik division as it was probably the route chosen by the cyclone that also affected Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon districts in Nashik division. “Ahmednagar district witnessed 632.30 hectares of crop being lost to the cyclone,” the officials said. Ahmednagar basically falls in the rain-shadow region of the Sahyadris and hence most of its areas are dry. The district is supported by the irrigation systems that evolved in Sahyadris on the western side of the district, with most of the dams falling in Nashik district. Based on this, some parts of the district have a rich crop of sugar cane while the dry regions have orchards of guava and pomegranates besides some horticulture. “The damage to the orchards has been extensive,” the officer said. This is followed by the 191.2 ha of damage in Nashik district, in which Sinnar has been hit the worst. Sinnar taluka shares borders and climate structure with Ahmednagar district and also the cropping pattern. However, the losses in the Dhule and Jalgaon region were limited. “The panchanama of the losses is being carried out. This is just a primary one and we are waiting for the final count, which is expected on Tuesday,” the officers said. The division has noted the death of 84 cattle — big and small — of which the maximum were in Nashik district. As many as 56 cattle were killed in Nashik district and 23 in Ahmednagar while Dhule and Jalgaon districts accounted for five. As many as 1,081 kaccha and pakka houses, temporary sheds and slums were damaged across the division, the officials said, adding that the reports of all the losses are being worked out and the same shall be presented to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cyclone-effect-823-ha-crop-damaged-in-nashik-division/articleshow/76222710.cms||Abhilash Botekar
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Kamal Haasan starts support group to help move Chennai into green zone||CHENNAI: Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan on Friday unveiled an initiative to bring together a large number of volunteers, cutting across party lines, to help Chennai move from red to green zone. Called ‘Naame Theervu’ (we are the solution), the actor said the plan is for people to come together and help those in need to successfully fight the Covid battle, which is the need of the hour. “Today (Friday) is World Environment Day. All of us have been fighting to help turn the Earth green. We now have another fight on hand, to turn Chennai from red zone to a green, safe zone. While Chennai has been the medical capital of the state, it should not be the Covid capital,” Kamal said, addressing the media through a virtual platform. Stressing the need to rise above politics, he urged people cutting across caste, community and political parties, to come together and work. “This is not the time for petty politics. There are people who need food, medical advice. We need people to supply relief material and others to deliver them to the needy,” he said. “As the people of the city come out in large numbers, we cannot sit back and allow the number of Covid victims to keep increasing. We need volunteers to be stationed at crowded places to distribute sanitizers and masks,” Kamal said. He registered himself as the first volunteer with a call centre set up by MNM for the purpose. “Doctors have come forward to offer medical advice to the needy,” he said, while stressing volunteers preferably need to be based in Chennai for active participation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kamal-starts-support-group-to-help-move-city-into-green-zone/articleshow/76225013.cms||D Govardan
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Gyms pitch hard for nod to get back into action||Coimbatore: A section of gym and fitness centre owners petitioned district collector K Rajamani on Friday, seeking permission to resume operations. They said keeping them indefinitely closed would threaten their very survival. The move comes after they were excluded from the list of services that were allowed to operate under the new guidelines, which would come into effect from June 8. They said the government can’t claim to be part of the “fitindiamovement” by keeping gyms closed. Gyms and fitness centres were shut on March 12. The owners said they were struggling to pay trainers without any earnings. Pointing out that beauty salons, where a stylist and customer can’t maintain physical distancing, were allowed to function, they urged the state to allow them to function and come up with some guidelines for the same. K Ravishankar, of Ravi’s Crossfit, said, “In beauty salons, nothing can be done by stylists without touching their clients. In textile shops too, there is a chance of contact between sales people and clients and among clients. Yet, they have been allowed to operate.” The fitness industry players said reopening has become a question of their survival. Nityanandini Manoharan, of 45 Degree Fitness, said, “We usually have new joiners every month and they keep us going in terms of revenues. With no new members coming in and the government insisting on paying full salary to the staff, we are in a tight spot.” Muthu Ramesh, CEO of Pink Fitness on Crosscut Road, said they were not only struggling to pay trainers, but also finding it difficult to make their both ends meet. “We have rent to pay. Regular maintenance is also expensive. After every phase of lockdown, we keep disinfecting the facility with a hope to reopen.” Trainers, meanwhile, said keeping gyms closed would take a toll on people’s health. They also referred to the popular hashtag “gyms are safe and exercise is medicine” that is doing rounds in the UAE. “Gyms and fitness centres keep people healthy and help build their immunity,” Nityanandini said. Ravishankar said while most of them have started online classes, people were struggling to stay motivated and complete their workouts. “It is also a huge stressbuster. But most people doing home workouts become irregular.” Muthu Ramesh said online classes were not as effective as real sessions. “We are not there to correct their form and technique.” Some of the international practices that are followed in gyms include thermal screening, wearing masks, ensuring social distancing by keeping every second machine out of action, increasing break between classes to disinfect equipment, not allowing personal locker facility and not working air conditioners, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gyms-pitch-hard-for-nod-to-get-back-into-action/articleshow/76225006.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Great success comes in time of great distress’||Chandigarh: As the Covid-19 pandemic has thrown various challenges before the society, there is a need to think creatively about how frugally one can leverage resources to build innovations. Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney expressed these views, while delivering the inaugural speech on the 29th foundation day of the Software Technology Park of India (STPI). “Finest successes come from distressing times, whether we look at Japan, Germany, South Korea or Taiwan. The successes came from challenging circumstances,” he added. Sawhney said it was the best time to re-imagine the role of STPI in the next decade as it had a big role to play in meeting the goal of the National Policy on Software Product (NPSP). The STPI was designed to succeed and help the industry succeed as both go hand in hand, he added. STPI director general Omkar Rai, in his welcome address, during a day-long webinar comprising different sessions, said from three centres in 1989, STPI was now a 60 centres pan-India with 52 centres in Tier-2 and 3 cities. “India is third place in the start up ecosystem. Indian government has come up with the policy on software products and this will benefit the 11 billion software product companies,” he added. “The sofware exports from the country have rose from Rs 52 crore for the financial year 1992-93 to Rs 4.21 lakh crore in 2019-20,” said Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/great-success-comes-in-time-of-great-distress/articleshow/76225666.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Schools likely to stay closed till July||AHMEDABAD: Schools in Gujarat, which have been closed since March due to Covid-19 and the nationwide lockdown, are not likely to reopen for at least another month. At a high-level meeting held by state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and other senior state government officials, various stakeholders were of the view that schools cannot reopen in June as was planned earlier. They should stay closed for at least a month more till the situation seems to be under control, teachers and school trustees who attended the online meeting said. After hearing views from all sides, the minister asked all the stakeholders, including parents, to submit their proposals in writing. According to the state government’s decision in March, schools were to remain shut till June 8. The school vacation ends on Monday and while the academic session will remain closed, teachers and other staff members are supposed to resume work, said sources. “We have to fight this pandemic unitedly. While schools may remain closed for a longer period, we have requested the government to allow schools to accept fees from students. There can be some exceptions for people who are facing financial issues, but schools need to survive financially,” said Naranbhai Patel, president of Gujarat Rajya Shala Sanchalak Mahamandal. Archit Bhatt, president of Ahmedabad Schools Progressive Management Association said that they have proposed financial aid from the state government in the form of soft loans. The government has responded positively by saying that they will hold talks with the banks about this, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-likely-to-stay-closed-till-july/articleshow/76224996.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Build broader consensus on exams issue, NU members tell governor||NAGPUR: Even as stalemate over final year/semester examinations continues in Maharashtra, Nagpur University statutory members wrote to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari requesting him to have a broader consensus on the issue with the statutory bodies of all state universities. Opposing the “unilateral decision” by Uddhav Thackeray government to cancel the exams and award average marks to students, the NU members asked chancellor to conduct meetings of academic and management councils along with senate of all universities and know their views about the move. Apprising the chancellor of confusion created due to CM’s declaration, they warned of severe repercussions on the students in future if exams were cancelled. “If students are promoted without exams, what would be the value of such degrees. They, in fact, would suffer in future while applying for jobs as candidates from other states where exams are being conducted would also be in the race. Maharashtra students would be at a big disadvantage,” senior senate member Manmohan Bajpayee told TOI. In his letter to Koshiyari, he questioned whether the apex bodies like UGC, AICTE, Council of Architecture, NCERT, Bar Council of India (BCI) and others would accept degrees of students conferred on them without testing their skills in the subject. Echoing same sentiments, management council member Vishnu Changde in his letter to Koshiyari called for a broader discussions with the university authorities and even the students’ community before arriving at any decision. “The government is granting an option of improving grades to some students through an exam. It will create two sets of students — those promoted on average marks and those who appeared in the exam. Imagine the disparity between students from the same class when they go for the jobs,” he told TOI. Changde demanded the governor should defer the exams. “If grade improvement tests could be conducted in October-November, why not regular exams be held at the same time? I have requested the chancellor to decide as per UGC recommendations and leave it to the universities to decide future course of action, instead of applying same yardsticks to all regions,” he said. Both members also warned government of facing legal difficulties if those in favour of exams approached the judiciary for it. “As per the provisions of ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’, degrees can’t be conferred without exams. Even UGC rules state the same. Therefore, it is not proper to dilute standards of our degrees by promoting students without exams,” they said. Final decision on exams soon: Samant Higher education minister Uday Samant told TOI on Friday they were yet to receive opinion from state Law and Judiciary department on the government’s proposal to cancel all final year/semester exams and award average marks to the students. “I was in my constituency Ratnagiri for a couple of days to oversee the damaged caused by the cyclone. We will declare the government’s stand as early as possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/build-broader-consensus-on-exams-issue-nu-members-tell-guv/articleshow/76225003.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Get ready for new shopping experience as malls reopen||AHMEDABAD: Shopping at a mall was indeed no less than retail therapy, hopping from store to store, making your way through the crowds, waiting in queues at the trial rooms in departmental stores and getting tokens for one’s favourite sweets and savouries at the food court. However, as malls in Ahmedabad resume operations from Monday, it will indeed be a new normal that will alter a customer’s shopping experience, and perhaps add more cautions and precautions alongside. While the state and central governments have issued guidelines, mall owners are prepared to impose the strictest measures to ensure cleanliness, hygiene and most importantly, social distancing is maintained. To ensure social distancing, malls will also be imposing restrictions on the footfalls inside the mall. “We will be allowing five people at a given point in time in a smaller store and in bigger departmental stores, 20 customers will be allowed. Stickers have been placed guiding people on maintaining social distancing. We will also be monitoring number of people entering and exiting the mall from three entry and exit points,” said Aditya Shah, CFO, Gulmohar Park Mall. Mall owners said they will restrict entry depending upon the footfall, asking people to reschedule their visit to ensure social distancing is maintained. Interestingly, the tables at the food courts at malls have also been set apart. “Staff serving and preparing food will be under a strict check at the restaurants located in malls. That apart, even the tables at the food courts which were earlier in close proximity will now be set apart,” said Jayen Naik, senior vice president – operations, Ahmedabad One Mall. “We will also introduce contact-less ordering using QR codes at food courts to minimize contact through human interface,” Naik added. As a precautionary measure, all staffers including those employed at various stores will be mandatorily made to sign an undertaking declaring their health condition every day at the mall. Some have even made use of Arogya Setu mandatory. Cinema halls as well as entertainment zones at malls however, will remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/get-ready-for-new-shopping-experience-as-malls-reopen/articleshow/76225173.cms||Niyati Parikh
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Markets open; traders seek relaxation in timings||Nashik: Markets across the city, except malls and commercial complexes, opened on Friday, even as traders sought relaxation in timings and cancellation of the odd-even norm, which will come into force on Saturday. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Friday held a meeting with various trade associations to inform them about the norms for opening the shops. “Permissions for opening of the market on odd-even basis are being given as per the guidelines of the state government. I will convey their suggestions to the state government,” Game said. The meeting was attended by office-bearers of various trade associations, including Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (MACCIA), Nashik Grain Merchants Association, Nashik Cloth Merchants Association, Nashik Jewellers’ association, among others. Permission has been given to all standalone shops across the city to resume operations with certain conditions. “Shops will be opened on the lines of the parking style of the traffic department. Shops on one side of the road will operate on odd days while those on the other side will operate on even days,” Game said. “But all shops under essential services like grocery shops, pharmacies, vegetable markets, have been exempted from odd-even formula and they will remain open on all days,” he added. “We urged the municipal commissioner to give us a day’s time to open the shops on odd-even basis and he agreed to give relaxation on the first day,” Chetan Rajapurkar, president of Nashik Jewellers Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/markets-open-traders-seek-relaxation-in-timings/articleshow/76222724.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 6, 2020||Goa||Moti Dongor locals with virus symptoms tested, results awaited||Margao: Moti Dongor area of Margao which houses a sizeable population of slum dwellers has come under the radar of health authorities. Twenty-five people from the area who were found to have symptoms of Covid-19 during the community health screening conducted on Thursday and Friday were subjected to Covid tests and their results are awaited. After it was learnt that a family of six from Moti Dongor had come in contact with a Covid positive patient from Mongor Hill, their swab samples were taken for testing but the reports came negative. However, as a matter of caution, the health authorities undertook health survey and screening of households in the locality since Wednesday morning. The residents were subjected to thermal screening, checked for symptoms and their travel history probed. The family who was earlier subjected to Covid test has currently been kept in isolation, and they will be further subjected to repeat tests soon. Panic gripped the residents of Margao as many women from Moti Dongor work as domestic help in many households. Many young men from the area are also employed as drivers or labourers. Several fruits and vegetable vendors in Gandhi market, Margao, also stay in Moti Dongor. As the locality is congested with a large number of hutments, authorities fear a breakout of the virus if any carriers of Covid-19 are left undetected. This, sources said, explains the urgency of authorities in conducting the screening of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/moti-dongor-locals-with-virus-symptoms-tested-results-awaited/articleshow/76225665.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Monsoon-like feel as rain douses blazing June sun||LUCKNOW: June is the month of peak summer when the blazing sun makes the weather unbearable. But on Friday, the city witnessed monsoon-like-weather, with day-time temperatures plunging 15 degrees below normal — the level usually experienced in November. However, the weatherman has predicted a partly cloudy sky on Saturday, with little possibility of rains on the weekend. Mercury is expected to rise by a few degrees, but conditions will remain pleasant. The change in weather was due to a low pressure area — remnant of the severe cyclonic ‘Nisarga’ — formed over Bihar and adjoining southeast Uttar Pradesh and associated cyclonic circulation. The system was aided by a western disturbance over the Himalayan region, said weather department officials. As a result, the city witnessed cloudy sky and a few spell of light rains on Thursday. It again started drizzling in the wee hours of Friday and continued intermittently till evening. Total rainfall in 24 hours from 5.30pm on Thursday was 6mm. Maximum temperatures in June are usually above 40 degrees Celsius maximum temperatures till the monsoon arrives in the latter part of the month, but on Friday maximum temperature was 24.6 degrees Celsius, 15 notches below normal. The minimum temperature was 22.5 degrees Celsius, 3.8 units below normal. Relative humidity was high, between 88%-95%, but cool winds and low mercury kept the weather pleasant. State Met director JP Gupta said the possibility of rains in Lucknow is less on Saturday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 32 and 22 degrees, Celsius respectively. Thunderstorms may occur at isolated places in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-like-feel-as-rain-douses-blazing-june-sun/articleshow/76225661.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Madurai||Government school in Sivaganga adjudged best in the district||Madurai: A government school at Paganeri in Sivaganga, has been adjudged the best school in the district, something that had been remotely impossible till two years ago. It will receive a cash award of Rs one lakh on the birth anniversary of late chief minister Kamarajar.OERM government higher secondary school in Paganeri, established in 1965 has produced many successful alumni. Children from the neighbouring villages of Ammanpatti, Nadarajapuram, Kottapatti among others come here for their education.However, the school saw its student’s strength dwindling to less than 100 and buildings became dilapidated. Parents did not wish to send their children there, as it did not even have electricity. When V J Britto was appointed as headmaster, he took it upon himself to develop the school and power connection was restored. All the classrooms were fitted with fans and lights.“I spent Rs 2.5 lakhs on painting and strengthening the building,” he said, for which he used government and private funds. Even CCTV cameras have been installed on the premises. Now the student strength has increased to 200 and the school has 27 computers and 3 air-conditioned smart classrooms. Periyasamy,, a local resident, says that the parents now consider it a privilege to have their children studying in this school. The school has now bagged the best school award for developing the infrastructure and also increasing the student strength. District collector J Jayakanthan has lauded the school for its achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/government-school-in-sivaganga-adjudged-best-in-the-district/articleshow/76349168.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Ex-pradhan's husband tries to molest woman constable||PILIBHIT: A 40-year-old man identified as Rajesh Kumar, the husband of a former woman pradhan of Durjanpur village under Seramau North police station was booked on Friday, for attempting to outrage the modesty of a 28-year-old woman constable posted at a police station in Pilibhit district. The constable had brought a woman from Durjanpur under Puranpur tehsil circle to the district headquarters for her medical check-up after sustaining injuries at a group clash on Thursday. She had also leveled allegations of molestation in a written complaint. The SHO said that following a written complaint filed by the constable, the police have lodged an FIR against the accused under section 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC and appropriate sections of SC/ST Act. The accused was nabbed and sent to jail, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ex-pradhans-husband-tries-to-molest-woman-constable/articleshow/76224052.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||When cops worked tirelessly to feed stranded guest workers||Coimbatore: The city police have distributed four lakh food packets to guest workers during the lockdown.City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said, “People from across the country approached us through our Twitter handle with a request to help the stranded guest workers. We subsequently formed six mobile teams to supply food packets to them. Handling them was a big task for us.”He said they had help from NGOs and other organizations to distribute food packets to guest workers. The drive, he said, started on March 25. “Some of them wanted groceries. We helped them with rice, dhal, wheat flour, salt, masala, edible oil and vegetables.”Sumit Sharan said social media had played a major role in helping them identify the needy and offer assistance. “A woman from Tirupur, who had come to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for dialysis, was stuck in the city without e-pass for return journey. She tagged a message to our Twitter handle and we immediately arranged the e-pass. Likewise, we arranged e-passes for many girl students from Assam.”The city police have also worked with the revenue department to send 44,676 guest workers back to their native places in 34 special trains and another 3,000 in special buses.The city police commissioner said they had deployed the entire force to ensure complete lockdown. “A mini control room was set up at the city police commissionerate to coordinate with all the other departments. Our focus was on curtailing the public movement by booking violators of prohibitory orders. During the drive, we also seized thousands of vehicles from the violators.”He said they had also thermal screened the guest workers and other people who had come out on streets during lockdown. “We have thermal screened 1,00,700 people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-cops-worked-tirelessly-to-feed-stranded-guest-workers/articleshow/76225016.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Another jolt to Congress, eighth MLA quits||GANDHINAGAR: Following the resignation of two Congress MLAs on Thursday, another party MLA submitted his resignation to the assembly speaker. With eight MLAs having tendered their resignations ahead of the 2020 Rajya Sabha election, the Congress, in all likelihood, will get only one candidate elected to the Rajya Sabha. Morbi assembly constituency MLA Brijesh Merja on Thursday night handed over his resignation to assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi. Trivedi informed the media of Merja’s resignation on Friday morning. The assembly secretariat confirmed that speaker Rajendra Trivedi has accepted the resignation of Merja. Merja, whose resignation comes ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls for four seats in Gujarat on June 19, is the third Congress MLA to quit in the last three days. Before quitting as legislator, Merja resigned from the primary membership of the Congress and shared his resignation letter with the media, which he sent to all India president Sonia Gandhi. In his resignation letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, Merja said though he had joined the Congress to serve people, he was “unable to do so while being in the party”. Merja is a former bureaucrat who joined politics. In 2014, he had joined the BJP for a short period. However in 2017, he joined the Congress and won on Congress ticket for the first time. On June 3, Congress MLAs Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary had handed over their resignations to Trivedi. In March this year, when the RS polls were originally scheduled, five Congress MLAs had resigned. However, the election was postponed indefinitely due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The election is to be held on June 19. While the Congress has fielded senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, the BJP has nominated Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin as its candidates for the polls. In the 182-member Gujarat assembly, the BJP has 103 MLAs, while the Congress’ count now stands at 65. A candidate will have to get 35 first preference votes to secure an outright win. With 103 seats, the BJP requires just two first preference votes to secure easy wins for all its three nominees and lone NCP MLA Kandhal Jadeja has already pledged his support to the BJP. The Congress has the support of lone independent MLA Jignesh Mevani, but is still four seats short of ensuring outright wins for its two candidates. Ten assembly seats are vacant, two because of court matters and eight as a result of resignations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-jolt-to-cong-8th-mla-quits/articleshow/76225020.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nashik||NMC restores water supply after 2 days||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation resumed water supply in all six divisions of the city on Friday after a gap of two days. However, some parts of the city were supplied water at low pressure. A civic official said the process of lifting raw water through pumping stations and purifying it has been affected due to power cut by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) in dam areas. “We have regularized the water supply even as some parts of the city got water at low pressure on Friday. But the city will get water at normal pressure from Saturday,” he said. The MSEDCL had disconnected power supply in Gangapur and Mukane dam areas of the city from Wednesday noon after the state issued an alert due to cyclone Nisarg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-restores-water-supply-after-2-days/articleshow/76222735.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 6, 2020||Goa||‘Ensure public utility phones are in service’||Saligao: The Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) has written to the North Goa collector, R Menaka, on the need to maintain public utility telephone numbers functional during the Covid-19 lockdown. Goacan coordinator Roland Martins pointed out that it has been receiving many complaints from consumers that many numbers have remained non-functional for days on end during the ongoing lockdown, thereby putting the general public through hardship. He said Goacan volunteers have been regularly doing a phone-in to check whether these public utility BSNL landlines like police stations, health centres, village panchayats, etc, are functional, and if found to be non-functional, a complaint is filed by them via the helpline numbers..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-public-utility-phones-are-in-service/articleshow/76225668.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Notice to hospital for Covid bed misuse||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Friday issued a show-cause notice to Artham Hospital, which was notified as a Covid hospital by the civic body on May 16. The hospital was recently found to be admitting patients privately and charging them while giving them beds meant for Covid-19 patients referred by the AMC. The notice also mentioned that the management of Artham Hospital had cited non-availability of beds, when a Covid-19 patient was supposed to be shifted there from SVP Hospital. According to the agreement signed between the AMC and the hospital management, 50% of the 90 beds at the hospital were to be reserved for Covid-19 patients admitted by the civic body; while the hospital management could admit patients separately on the remaining 50% of beds and charge them accordingly. Over suspicions of alleged irregularities, when an AMC representative visited the hospital on Wednesday, it was found that six patients were admitted privately on beds earmarked for patients sent by the AMC and they were charged as well. Upon further investigation it was found that a total of 51 such patients were admitted privately, at their own expense. “The charges for the beds that remain empty under the AMC’s quota of beds are taken from the AMC. Moreover, the same beds are used to admit patients privately and these patients are also charged. This is a deliberate attempt by the hospital to admit patients privately on beds allotted for patients to be admitted by AMC. This is a very serious matter and is in violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act and cannot be tolerated,” stated the show-cause notice issued to the hospital. According to a report by a department representative, when the patient from SVP Hospital was denied admission, 29 beds of those allotted to AMC and 19 of those under private admissions were found to be vacant. This is in clear violation of the agreement signed by the private hospital with the AMC. The civic authorities have asked the hospital management to state why its registration should not be cancelled. The notice also asked the hospital to explain why 10-times the charge levied by the hospital on privately admitted patients in beds allotted to AMC, should not be charged as a penalty and why a police complaint under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code should not be filed against the hospital. The civic authorities have asked for a response from the hospital within a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/notice-to-hospital-for-covid-bed-misuse/articleshow/76225171.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Nalini video call: HC asks if nod on humanitarian grounds is possible||CHENNAI: As Tamil Nadu government was stern in disallowing Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convicts Nalini Sriharan and her husband Sriharan alias Murugan to make video calls to the latter’s mother and sister in Sri Lanka and London respectively, the Madras high court asked the government whether it can consider the request under humanitarian grounds. While Sriharan was not allowed to watch his father’s final rites, Nalini was not allowed to make video calls to her in-laws to express condolences. “Leave alone law, we would like to know from the government whether they (Nalini and Sriharan/Murugan) can be permitted to make the calls on humanitarian grounds,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha asked, directing the state public prosecutor A Natarajan to get instructions from the government. The issue pertains to a plea moved by S Padma, mother of Nalini, seeking direction to the prison authorities to permit her daughter and her husband to make video call to her mother-in-law and sister-in-law. Murugan’s father died in Sri Lanka in April. Therefore, they wanted the authorities to permit them to make video calls to his mother and sister for at least 10 minutes daily. When the plea came up for hearing on Friday, the prosecutor reiterated the stand of the state that the duo cannot be permitted to make calls to a foreign country. Natarajan further suggested the court to suo motu implead the Union home ministry, as it would be the appropriate authority to take a decision. Opposing the same, petitioner’s counsel M Radhakrishnan submitted that prisons are subject matter of the state government concerned and the Union home ministry has nothing to suggest in the issue. Recording the submissions, the bench adjourned the hearing to June 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nalini-vid-call-hc-asks-if-nod-on-humanitarian-grounds-is-possible/articleshow/76225018.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: With workers gone, realty sector stares at manpower shortage||VISAKHAPATNAM: With migrant workers back home due to the lockdown, the real estate sector in Visakhapatnam is finding it extremely difficult to get back to work. Sources say that 60 per cent of the 3,000-odd daily wage labourers, who come to Visakhapatnam from neighbouring districts as well as from Bihar and Odisha, have left causing the industry to face a major manpower shortage. Of the nearly 450 developers in the city, 100 have begun work with locally available daily wage workers. But that, according to realtors, has pushed up costs. Further, the number of workers available is vastly inadequate, they say. P Koteswara Rao, chairman of Credai (Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India), Visakhapatnam said, “The shortage of an active labour force has forced us to manage with the little locally available labour. We have to pay them Rs 100 extra per head per day.” “Further, the unavailability of material— cement, iron, tiles— has also put us on the face of a challenge,” Rao said while adding that the real estate sector had resumed operations on April 15 following government guidelines, but is having a lot of difficulty with migrant workers gone. “Migrant workers, particularly those from Bihar and Odisha, are sincere, hardworking and ask for lower charges. But they have gone back home on Shramik trains,” the chairman of Credai-Visakhapatnam said. He added that costs have gone up significantly since April 15, by nearly Rs 300 per square feet. Further, a Madhurawada-based developer said that procuring material has also become a difficult task. “We procure tiles from Gujarat. That has become extremely difficult now. We are spending more time and money, which automatically increases the cost of our project,” he said. Another developer complained about the increased cost of cement. “The price of cement has gone up by Rs 100 to Rs 150 a bag,” he said. “The construction sector will be under huge stress till the end of this financial year,” predicted a key developer registered with Credai Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-workers-gone-realty-sector-stares-at-manpower-shortage/articleshow/76224034.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Constant drizzle enough to submerge, damage Lucknow roads||LUCKNOW: Drizzling all day on Friday kept the weather pleasant, but broken roads full of puddles acted as a nightmare for people. Although waterlogging was not as severe as on May 30 when record rainfall lashed the city, roads in several areas including Gomtinagar Extension, Indiranagar, Vikasnagar, Rakabagnj, Jankipuram, Aishbagh, Balaganj and Chowk witnessed collection of water in potholes and on the roadside. The loose concrete also made roads slippery. It resulted in minor accidents and traffic bottlenecks. TimesViewRoads are in bad shape in many parts of the city. If civic authorities do not start repairing now, broken and potholed streets will create havoc in the monsoon expected to arrive by the end of the month. District administration should take cognizance of the matter and ensure that the renovation is done before the start of the rainy season.Harshit Anand, a resident of Aishbagh, said, “Commuting becomes risky during monsoon due to potholed roads. I avoid driving but was forced to as no other means was available.” A similar situation was found in Indiranagar. Manak Shukla said, “The condition of roads in some localities is pathetic. As a result, most of the residents in this area avoid going out altogether when it rains.” Corners of roads in Alambagh were filled with dirty water, forcing pedestrians to walk on roads. Utsav Mishra said, “We are forced to walk on roads, as the footpaths are filled with dirty water. We are scared of injuries due to potholes and because of oncoming vehicles.” Vishesh Khand resident Abhijeet Verma said, “Whenever it rains, it becomes difficult for us to step out of our homes because of waterlogged streets. It takes hours for the water to flow out. Sometimes, it needs to be pumped out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/constant-drizzle-enough-to-submerge-damage-city-roads/articleshow/76225671.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Shimla||8-month-old girl among 10 positive in Himachal||Shimla: An eight-month-old girl from Nirmand in Kullu district was among 10 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday. Of the remaining nine cases, three were from Kangra, two from Hamirpur and one each from Shimla, Bilaspur, Una and Chamba. Ten people recovered from the virus too. Of them, seven were from Hamirpur, two from Kangra and one from Mandi. The number of cases in Himachal Pradesh has reached 393. Of them, 199 are active and patients in 185 cases have recovered. The eight-month-old girl’s grandfather tested positive on May 31 and had been isolated in a Covid-19 care centre in Kullu. The girl was already in isolation at her home in Nirmand. All three Kangra cases are from Nurpur. They include a 40-year-old man and a 34-year-old man from Mijhgran village and his wife. All of them had returned from Delhi. The couple’s two-year-old son had already tested positive. In Una, a 75-year-old man from Haroli, who returned from Mumbai on May 30, was infected. The Chamba case is of a 24-year-old man who returned from Noida, Uttar Pradesh. The patient in Bilaspur is a woman from Jhanduta who returned from Delhi. Bilaspur district has total 21 positive cases,Chamba has 29, Hamirpur has 120, Kangra has 101, Kinnaur has two, Kullu has four, Mandi has 20, Shimla has 12, Sirmaur has 11, Solan has 32, and Una has 41.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/8-month-old-girl-among-10-positive-in-himachal/articleshow/76225678.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bareilly||Now, migrants to be tested for both Covid and malaria in Bareilly||Bareilly: After two migrant workers were recently diagnosed with malaria in Bareilly, the health department has now decided to test migrants with fever for both Covid-19 and malaria. Bareilly has been reporting an outbreak of malaria for the past two years as 37,482 cases in 2018 and 46,717 cases in 2019 were reported in the district. According to sources, a man, who returned to Ramnagar from Maharashtra, and another person, who migrated from Delhi to Bhamora’s Sirohi village, were recently tested positive for malaria. Both Ramnagar and Bhamora have been identified as highly sensitive blocks for malaria in Bareilly district. After the duo complained of fever, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers examined them with rapid diagnostic kits. They both tested positive for malaria. Bareilly divisional surveillance officer Dr Akhileshwar Singh told TOI, “The migrants with fever are currently being screened for Covid-19 but such migrants will now also be tested for malaria. Many people from other states have returned to villages. To contain the spread of malaria in the district, our policy is immediate detection and prompt treatment. Migrants with fever will be tested for both Covid-19 and malaria.” In 2017, only 274 malaria cases were detected in Bareilly and the number of total cases spiralled to 37,482 in 2018. After a large number of people had mysteriously died due to Covid-19, teams of the Centre and state government had found presence of malaria in the region. Of the total 37,482 cases reported in 2018, 17,425 cases were of plasmodium falciparum (PF), a “killer” strain of malaria, while the remaining cases were of plasmodium vivax (PV), a common variant. Uttar Pradesh recorded 86,486 malaria cases in 2018 and of these, the highest number of cases was reported in Bareilly district with 37,482. Similarly, a total of 92,732 cases of malaria were reported in UP in 2019 and of these, Bareilly district recorded the maximum cases with 46,717, including 12,141 PF cases. Director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey said, “I have directed health staff to focus on both malaria and Covid-19 in Bareilly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-migrants-to-be-tested-for-both-covid-and-malaria-in-bareilly/articleshow/76224073.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 6, 2020||Goa||Spl officer for Mopa land disputes||Panaji: The state government has appointed the ad-hoc district judge of the fast track court at Mapusa as the special judicial officer to perform the functions of the court for the land acquisition for the under construction greenfield airport at Mopa. Under secretary (revenue) Sudin Natu issued the notification after obtaining the approval of the high court of Bombay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spl-officer-for-mopa-land-disputes/articleshow/76225669.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Mapusa civic body to shift weekly mkt||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) is looking for a favourable open space to temporarily shift the Friday weekly market to avoid overcrowding in the municipal market. MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza said the municipality is “thinking of shifting the weekly market in the open space close to St Jerome church or the open space near the Bodgeshwar temple”. “We will request the church and temple authorities to allocate some open space where we can have the Friday weekly market,” Braganza said. “The open spaces near the church and the temple are being used for parking. We are still trying to identify a suitable place to locate the weekly market,” the Mapusa municipality chairperson added. Two weeks back, the Mapusa municipality had evicted vendors after they began operations along the road from the Mapusa Urban Cooperative Bank leading to the St Jerome's Church. This had led to overcrowding and congestion in traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-civic-body-to-shift-weekly-mkt/articleshow/76225675.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Opening of govt schools in Rajasthan worries teachers||JAIPUR: With relaxations in lockdown, discussions are going on to re-open schools while practicing social distancing. Government teachers have expressed concerns whether it will be possible for the state government to provide facilities in every school for social distancing. Unlike private schools, government schools do not have infrastructure in classrooms, furniture and budget for handwash/sanitizers that have been made mandatory under corona protocol. According to many private schools that TOI contacted, they have already started to chalk out plans about the precautions to be taken – running schools in shifts, thermal scanners, hand sanitizers, censor water taps, masks, one student on a bench etc. In government schools, it is difficult to have such facilities given the low budget. “Most of the primary schools are being run in one or two rooms. If the government is planning to call the secondary classes first, the population of students is higher in class IX and X. It will be difficult to maintain social distancing. Moreover, will the government be able to provide an extra budget for it?” said the principal of a government school on condition of anonymity. The state government recently started online classes for government schoolchildren which is said to be ineffective as most students in rural areas do not possess smartphones and internet. Hence, reopening of schools looks more urgent. Spokesperson of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh, Narayan Singh Sisodia said, “It is not feasible for the government to call students in both private and government schools. Government schools already lack basic infrastructure. Students of various classes sit in one classroom. How many shifts will we have for social distancing? We provide mid-day meals in our schools and we expect them to wear clean masks every day. It will be risky.” Government officials were not available for any comment.Expressing concerns about the situation, education expert K B Kothari said, “Getting water for washing hands will be a difficulty in government schools. Israel and South Korea had to shut down their schools after re-opening. Problem with Rajasthan is that no one in the government is making a plan for re-opening given the limited resources. They all are waiting for central guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/opening-of-govt-schools-worries-teachers/articleshow/76225674.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Containment zones cross 100 after positive count hits 300-mark||NASHIK: The containment zones drawn up in Nashik city has breached the 100-mark after 35 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours ending Friday evening, which took the city’s positive cases’ tally to 323. Till May 26, there were 50 containment zones in Nashik city. However, 64 more containment zones were drawn up in the city in the last nine days. Of 114 containment zones drawn up so far, 34 have been lifted as patients from zones have recovered and no new suspects have been found during the last 14 days. 80 containment zones are still in place in the city. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) sealed 10 containment zones after 30 people’s reports returned positive on Thursday evening and eight more zones after five people reported Covid-19 positive on Friday. While it took the city 49 days between April 6 and May 24 to report the first 100 Covid-19 cases, the second 100-days were recorded in a span of seven days. The third set of 100 cases were reported between June 1 and 4. Officials from the NMC’s health department said the movement of people to the textile town from cities worst-affected by Covid-19 during the relaxed phase of the lockdown, people coming in trains from other states and citizens not honouring social distancing norms had led to a sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases. Of the 323 Covid-19 patients registered in the city, 116 patients have recovered, 14 have succumbed to the infection and 193 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The health teams also has conducted door-to-door survey in Cantonment area of the city. As many as 144 teams surveyed 20,000 people in 4,820 houses on Friday. Around 85 high-risk contacts were identified and admitted in the isolation ward of hospitals run by the civic administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/containment-zones-cross-100-mark-after-ve-toll-reaches-300/articleshow/76222740.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 6, 2020||Madurai||Eye hospitals see half the usual patient count||Madurai: Since the last few weeks, general outpatients have started returning in numbers for routine check-ups at eye hospitals. Despite lockdown relaxations, so far, according to various eye-care hospitals, the outpatient numbers are still just about half the usual numbers. Mandatory temperature screening and sanitisation of hands are done before any patient enters the premises and they are required to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Attenders have also been denied entry unless it is a child or an elderly person requiring assistance. “We have ensured procedures are in such a way to ensure minimal physical contact. All the equipment we use, including trial frames and lenses for vision tests are all cleaned after every use. Our staff handling equipment are also given masks and face shields,” said Dr R Kim, Chief Medical Officer, Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai. The hospital is currently seeing around 900 outpatients per day as against the usual 1,500-2,000. But, the number is expected to rise in the coming weeks. Elective eye surgeries like cataract surgeries have also been resumed at the hospitals. “We don’t get as many surgeries now but some people have started coming in. As per guidelines from the All India Ophthalmological Society, for surgeries like cataract surgery with topical anaesthesia, Covid-19 testing is not required. But, it may be necessary for surgeries with general anaesthesia. However, in any case, apart from checking for symptoms, we also take details of the patient’s travel and contact history,” said Dr Badri Narayanan T, Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital, Madurai. Doctors meanwhile continue to advise patients to use tele consultations as much as possible and avoid hospital visits unless an emergency. They also added that eye care is extremely crucial amid Covid-19 pandemic and to seek immediate help if there is any discomfort in the eye. “Conjunctivitis may sometimes be a sign of Covid-19. Practising personal hygiene is very important. Contact lenses may be avoided as the lens would be exposed to infection via air. Spectacles is a better alternative,” said Dr Badri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eye-hospitals-see-half-the-usual-patient-count/articleshow/76225026.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
June 6, 2020||Bhopal||Diggy set to get 2nd term; Scindia & Solanki upbeat||Bhopal: With 24 seats vacant in the 230 member Madhya Pradesh assembly and 22 former MLAs not eligible to vote, the number of votes required to secure a Rajya Sabha seat has also gone down.As per the present strength, number of votes required for one Upper House seat is 52.Rajya Sabha elections are scheduled for June 19 and Congress after the fall of its government has 92 legislators in the House as opposed to BJP’s 107. The present composition of the House suggests that BJP is all set to get two of the three vacant RS seats from the state.For Congress, Digvijaya Singh is sure to get his second term in the Rajya Sabha while the party’s second candidate Phool Singh Baraiya’s election is likely to fall short by 12 votes.Congress is depending on former BSP state president Phool Singh Baraiya’s Dalit card and personal rapport with the four independents, two BSP MLAs and one SP legislator. But even after adding all these members, he may not be lucky.State Congress leaders claimed that the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections is one of the several factors why chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has postponed cabinet expansion. Toppling of the Kamal Nath government has paved the way for 22 former Congress MLAs, who are now in the BJP, vying for ministerial berths. And the more these berths are given to Congress rebels, there are chances of rebellion and discontent within the BJP. “In the Rajya Sabha elections, no whip is issued. So, an MLA can cross-vote without the risk of his disqualification,” AICC media coordinator Abhay Dubey explained.Though BJP might walk away with two RS seats, yet Congress is not to give-up so soon. Sources in the party said that after the biennial elections, Congress will approach the courts against BJP candidates Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had in March raised objections with the Election Commission claiming Scindia has not provided details of cases pending against him in the nomination papers. Phool Singh Baraiya had approached EC and demanded that Sumer Singh Solanki be disqualified because he was working as professor in a college on the day of filing his nomination papers. His resignation was accepted a day after he filed nominations.Scindia and Solanki filed their statements to the returning officer and were cleared to contest the Rajya Sabha election. But Congress claims, it will reach the courts and fight a legal battle against the two BJP candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diggy-set-to-get-2nd-term-scindia-solanki-upbeat/articleshow/76224095.cms||Suchandana Gupta
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||316 new cases, Hry at 3,597||Chandigarh: With 316 fresh cases of Covid-19, the number of cases in Haryana reached 3,597 till Friday evening. The hghest number of cases were reported from Gurgaon, 153. The district’s tally has now reached 1,563. Faridabad got 59 cases and there was a spurt of 22 cases in Charkhi Dadri. A total of 12 Covid-19 patients in the state are in critical condition. While eight of them are on oxygen support, four are on ventilator. Of the remaining cases, 14 are from Palwal, 12 from Kurushetra, 11 from Rewari, nine from Hisar, seven from Karnal, six from Ambala, four each from Rohtak and Narnaul, three from Fatehabad, two each from Jind, Jhajjar and Sirsa, one each from Panipat, Panchkula and Kaithal. In Ambala, a nine-year-old girl was among the new patients, said district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “The girl is from Hanuman Colony in Barara. The other patients include a woman (75) of Khateek Mandi, Ambala Cantonment; a man (27) of Taparia village; a man (28) who from Mullana village; a man (31) from Kajiwara, Ambala City, who returned from Dubai; and a man (21) of Naraingarh who works in Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh,” he said. While the state bulletin said there was one case in Panipat, district chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said four people tested positive. The patients in Jind include a 51-year-old woman who returned from Delhi two days ago and a 20-year-old woman who visited PGIMS, Rohtak, said an official. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the new patients included two men, aged 20 and 25, from Ward 2 of Taraori, a 47-year-old woman from Shiv Colony, a 27-year-old man from Mukhapuri village, a 26-year-old man from Bhaini Khurd village, a 28-year-old man from Preetam Nagar and a 24-year-old man from Banso Gate area in Karnal city. Kurukshetra civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said the new patients included a woman (32) of Umri village; a man (58) of Thaska Miraji village who has a history of visiting a private hospital in Ambala; a woman (37) from Barna village who came from Mumbai; and a man (42) from Sadhu Mandi who came from Delhi. (With inputs from Ambala, Panipat, Jind, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/316-new-cases-hry-at-3597/articleshow/76225672.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM lauds GPCB’s efforts to control spread of Covid-19||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani has appreciated the efforts of Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) frontline warriors who have been working tirelessly to manage the challenge of handling Covid-19 bio-medical waste. On the occasion of World Environment Day, GPCB organized a webinar on the theme of biodiversity on Friday. The webinar, technical sessions and a quiz competition was organised by GPCB in association with the state forests and environment department (F&ED). The CM urged people to be united, and to join their hands for environment conservation. GPCB member secretary A V Shah, highlighted GPCB’s role as facilitator and spoke about the proactive measures taken by GPCB, such as granting 164 permissions in a single day related to sanitizers, pharmaceuticals, bulk drug and API and change in product mix through mail and video conferencing. Apart from this, all regional officers were part of respective district collector’s team for efficient management and disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste. Jaydrathsinh Parmar, minister of state, environment, spoke on the Gujarat government’s policy for reuse and recycling of sewage.  Rajiv Gupta, ACS, F&ED, talked about the initiatives undertaken by the state for promoting biodiversity by quoting the example of the recently developed Safari Park at the Statue of Unity spread over an area of 140 hectares.  GPCB chairman Mukesh Puri said that learning from the Covid-19 experience, every individual, entrepreneur, farmer, civil society member, government and all stakeholders should contribute to protect biodiversity in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-lauds-gpcbs-efforts-to-control-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/76225022.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Roofs of schools gone with the wind, study aids soaked||PUNE: As many as 73 anganwadi and 134 zilla parishad schools were damaged by the cyclone that hit Pune district on Wednesday, Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad who received the assessment reports said on Friday. The strong winds blew away roofs, doors and windows. Twenty gram panchayat buildings and 24 crematoriums were also damaged, officials added. The maximum number of schools damaged are in Mulshi (62), Maval (25) and Khed (17). Education officer Sunil Kurhade said the panchnama is being carried out and a final figure is expected to come in a day or two. “Till Friday afternoon, we have information about 134 schools that suffered damage. More reports are coming in. We are still getting calls from various places as the damage is extensive. The staff from engineering departments will assess it. Since the roofs were gone, the material inside the school buildings has been destroyed in the rain,” he added. Kurhade said almost all schools are equipped with LCD TV, computer and books and other study material. “Once the panchnama is done, we will estimate the monetary loss. The engineering department will come up with an estimated budget for repairs. We would need to start the work immediately as schools are expected to start this month in some areas,” he added. Dattatrey Munde, deputy CEO, said a total of 97 anganwadis had suffered damage till Friday afternoon. The numbers were expected to rise. “ The engineering department will draw up the estimated damage and the budget required for repairs. Most of the ration and other material were already distributed due to the pandemic. Hence, we think the damage to material inside the anganwadis will be much less. Missing roofs are the biggest problem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/roofs-of-schools-gone-with-the-wind-study-aids-soaked/articleshow/76225670.cms||Ardhra Nair
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Waterlogging on DP Farms Road irks Kharadi residents||PUNE: The DP Farms Road in Kharadi has literally turned into a swimming pool after the recent downpour owing to poor stormwater drainage in the area. A year ago, the residents had complained to the Pune Municipal Corporation. Inspection by officials gave the residents some hope, but there was no action. Deepak Pati, member, Kharadi Residents' Welfare Association, said, "The D P Farms Road, which leads towards EON IT Park, World Trade Centre, Kharadi, and connects multiple societies, was waterlogged after Monday's rains. A complaint was raised last year, too. Civic officials visited the spot, but there was no action." He said, "Kharadi residents contribute nearly Rs72crore as property tax to the Pune Municipal Corporation. This year it will cross Rs100crore. And we don't even get proper facilities here. Where is our tax going?" Nagar road ward officer Rajesh Bankar said, "Eengineers of the particular area have been informed about it. We will take up the issue and resolve the problem."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/waterlogging-on-dp-farms-road-irks-kharadi-residents/articleshow/76225673.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
June 6, 2020||Bareilly||Fear of contracting Covid-19 has grappled the population, say psychiatrists||BAREILLY: Over the past two-and-a-half-months, a 23-year-old youth has got himself admitted to Bareilly’s district hospital three times, complaining of severe cough. “I have severe cough. Please help me, or I’ll die of novel coronavirus,” he has been repeatedly heard telling doctors. After examining the patient and conducting tests, experts have now diagnosed him with hypochondria — a mental illness in which the patient believes he or she has a serious illness. Psychiatrists in UP told TOI that with Covid-19 cases rising, cases of hypochondria too are on the rise, as many people have started obsessing over contracting the infection. Dr Ashish Kumar, a psychiatrist at district hospital, said, “In this case, the patient was first admitted to the hospital’s general ward. The case was later referred to me. The patient wasn’t actually suffering from cough, but would start coughing repeatedly no sooner than he would spot a doctor or relative. After counseling, he has now been discharged. However, the patient’s condition relapsed after a man in his neighbourhood was tested positive for Covid-19, and he was back in hospital.” Kumar added that eight people were admitted to Bareilly district hospital in the last two-and-a-half-months, all of them claiming they have contracted Covid-19 as they have similar symptoms. “They neither had any physical symptom, nor did their test reports come positive, but they believed they were ill. They all had anxiety and were diagnosed with hypochondria.” Even the helpline number is flooded with calls of people fearing they have been infected by covid. S Dhananjai, a clinical psychologist in Moradabad, said, “We have been receiving calls on the helpline number all the time, with people saying they feel feverish and fear they might have contracted the virus. But their body temperature when checked turns out normal.” Experts said most of the patients developed this fear after reading or listening excessively to news related to Covid-19. Psychiatrists said they advise patients to consume limited news related to coronavirus and not to believe news from social media. Patients are being advised to engage themselves in some activities and to talk to family and friends over non-corona topics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fear-of-contracting-covid-19-has-grappled-the-population-say-psychiatrists/articleshow/76224062.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
June 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: First repatriation ship sets sail for Andamans||VISAKHAPATNAM: Passenger ship services between Visakhapatnam and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands resumed on Friday after a gap of three months. The passenger ship MV Nancowry left Visakhapatnam Port with 417 passengers and three infants on board. This is the first repatriation ship bound for the Andamans after the lockdown. “Following a request from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands’ authority, the state and the Union government have allowed the ship to sail carrying islanders who got stranded here due to the lockdown. We have maintained all SOPs as advised by the government,” PL Haranadh, deputy chairman of Vizag Port told TOI. Covered waiting facilities were provided outside the port gates for passengers who arrived from across the state to board the ship. The assembled passengers were advised to maintain a physical distance of one metre amongst each other. “We have arranged proper medical arrangement for each and every passenger before they boarded the ship. Sufficient sanitisation facilities have also been provided at the entry gate of the cruise terminal and on board by the shipping agency appointed by the Shipping Corporation of India (SCI),” added Haranadh. The last time vessel services from Visakhapatnam to the Andamans set sail was in March. Services were stopped following imposition of the lockdown. Officials said passenger movement between the state and the islands, which increases over the summer, has been affected this year. “Generally residents of different districts in Andhra who have settled in the islands return home this time of the year. Normally we operate at least one vessel a month. But during this time, services increase to at least two vessels a month,” said V Anil Kumar, from AVBGPR, the SCI-appointed shipping agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1st-repatriation-ship-sets-sail-for-andamans/articleshow/76224064.cms||Arpit Basu
June 6, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Squatters thrash DTR forest team for trying to evict them, booked||BAREILLY: Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) officials on Friday registered an FIR against 35 identified and several unidentified people for allegedly attacking a forest team for attempting to free 325 hectares of forest land from squatters. Six forest guards were injured, a JCB was vandalised and a forest department vehicle was set afire on Wednesday, the officials said. A video of the incident has gone viral. A complaint was lodged by the forest department on Friday after gathering evidence. Anil Patel, DFO, DTR (buffer), told TOI, “Our motive is to develop the encroached forest land as a habitat for wild animals to ensure they don’t stray into human habitats. Nearly 9,100 hectares of forest land in Mailani, Dhaurahra, Nighasan have been encroached upon by the squatters after the forest range concerned was transferred to Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in 2017. Since then, forest department has been continuously trying to identify the encroached forest area and making efforts to get it back.” He added, “We had served notices on the squatters to release the encroached land. They had even approached the high court but failed to get any relief. We have sufficient evidence that there were forests in the area before the squatters cleared them. They started farming when it was under social forestry.” Om Prakash Rajak, SHO Tikunia police station, said, “We have booked the accused under the sections of rioting and voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty. All the accused are absconding from the village but they will be caught soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/squatters-thrash-dtr-forest-team-for-trying-to-evict-them-booked/articleshow/76224087.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Morbi takes Gujarat Gas’s Q4 volume to record high||Ahmedabad: Buoyed by demand in the ceramic town of Morbi, Gujarat Gas saw its volumes reached 9.05 million metric standard cubic metres (mmscm) for the fourth quarter of the 2019-20 financial year. The company posted a net profit of Rs 250 crore for Q4 FY20, a rise of about 115% compared to Rs 117 crore it posted in Q4 FY19. Though it missed the 10 mmscm mark, company officials said this was the highest gas volume achieved by a city gas distribution company in India. “Morbi was a prominent factor for the growth witnessed by Gujarat Gas in the fourth quarter. Various other initiatives especially the CNG Sahabhagi Yojana announced by the chief minister, have boosted gas sales in the state,” said Sanjeev Kumar, managing director of Gujarat Gas. While gas volumes dipped during the Covid-19 lockdown period, demand has picked up after partial relaxation for industries. “Presently gas demand is up to 5.8 mmscm and we hope it will further pick up quickly from here,” said Kumar. The company on Friday announced its fourth quarterly results for FY20. Net sales stood at Rs 2,722 crore for the quarter ended on March 31, a rise of about 38.6% from the corresponding quarter the year previous. Morbi, is a mid-sized city in the state known for its contribution in the global ceramic sector, with a total of 900 ceramic manufacturing units, which contribute significantly to the region’s economy. The use of coal gas in the manufacturing of the ceramic tiles was making ambient air quality of the area very poor causing problems to the citizens of the area and regulators of the state. The National Green Tribunal in its order in March 2019 banned the use of gasification technology in ceramic units of the Morbi-Wankaner area and ordered Gujarat Pollution Control Board to shut down all coal gasifiers of this area. As a result, all ceramic units of the area switched to the piped natural gas for which the supply and network was already available. About 65-70% of Gujarat Gas’ gas volumes is consumed by Morbi ceramic units. The company continued its supply of natural gas to its customers, based on demand, even during the lockdown period. With restrictions being lifted gradually in many of the company’s operating areas there is an increase in demand, both in industrial and CNG category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/morbi-takes-gujarat-gass-q4-volume-to-record-high/articleshow/76225038.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Stop being rigid or will stay SSC exams, Telangana high court warns govt||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday threatened to stop the SSC exams, which are scheduled to begin on June 8, if the state government was not willing to allow those students who wanted to take the exams at a later stage in view of Covid-19 fears. The court said the government must come up with an answer by Saturday afternoon, failing which it would be forced to stay the entire exam schedule. Stressing that the state should be cautious as it concerns the lives of children, a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said the government should display flexibility in respect of those students whose parents do not want to send them out for exams in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “Those who miss the exams now should be allowed to write the supplementary exams, which are likely to be held in August or September. Their marks memos should show them as regular students and not as ones passed in supplementary exams, which is considered as a stigma,” observed the bench, indicating that it would allow the exams with such a condition. Talking tough, the bench further said: “But if you (government) are not ready to display such flexibility, then we may have to stay the examinations.” It was hearing a PIL filed by M Balakrishna, seeking postponement of the exams. “We will hold a special sitting on Saturday (though it is a holiday for the court) at 1 pm for hearing the case in view of the urgency,” the bench said. Govt keen to start SSC exams on MondayThe government is keen to see the exams commence on Monday. The bench also heard another petition filed by social activist Sai Mani Varun Chevuri of Hyderabad who wanted the government to cancel the SSC exams and promote all the students. His counsel P Nagesh also urged the court to issue notices to the government and the Telangana Board of Secondary Education and seek counters on the issue. Nagesh argued that the government took 14 days to sanitise all its schools earmarked as examination centres and expressed apprehensions over the conditions prevailing in private schools which would also serve as exam centres. “The coronavirus cases are rising exponentially and we have our own fears,” he said. The bench, however, sought evidence about private schools that have not been sanitised. “The advocates’ associations are asking us to reopen the courts. Does it mean that the advocates will not be affected by the virus?” the bench wondered. The bench also refused to entertain an implead petition filed by Balala Hakkuka Sangham, saying it cannot do so at the last minute. “We have stayed the exams before. Later, after taking a look at the elaborate arrangements made by the state government, we vacated the stay. Now, you (sangham) cannot come and intervene in the matter,” the bench said addressing its counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-being-rigid-or-will-stay-ssc-exams-hc-warns-govt/articleshow/76226285.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tourism minister’s turban challenge trends on Twitter||JAIPUR: At a time when everyone is busy handling Covid-19, state tourism minister Vishvendra Singh took Twitter by storm for a different reason. A safa (turban) challenge on Twitter by him has been trending for two days and evoking interest from deputy CM Sachin Pilot to BJP state president Satish Poonia as well as Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. In support of #SafaWithTwitter!पगड़ी राजस्थान की शान है।वीर धरा की पहचान है।@avinashkalla @vishvendrabtp https://t.co/C5jtlXKrcg— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1591285056000Intended to promote Rajasthan’s culture and heritage, the trend started with a tweet by the minister on June 4: Starting #SafaWithTwitter to promote Rajasthan globally and domestically! Upload your photo wearing a Safa. I further nominate @SachinPilot Sahib, @mlaruparam Ji, @ParveenKaswan Bhai, and @RamniwasGawriya! Starting #SafaWithTwitter to promote Rajasthan globally and domestically ! Upload your photo wearing a Safa. I furt… https://t.co/Up9KlWbM8x— Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur (@vishvendrabtp) 1591245564000Soon, the tweet went viral with responses not only from the political circles, but bureaucrats, celebrities and commoners posted their pictures with different turbans. Pilot responded to the call of his cabinet colleague and posted a video of his wrapping a long turban from his Rajasthan diaspora summit in London. His message read: In support of #SafawithTwitter Pagdi Rajasthan ke shan hai (Turban is a mark of respect for Rajasthan), Veer Dhara ke pechan hai (Symbol of courage and valour). The video was viewed by 4.23 lakh people on twitter in just 22 hours after it was posted. Poonia also responded by tweeting :Thank you @Jodha4life ji, Here’s the picture with Rajasthan’s pride safa. Great initiative by @vishvendrabtp ji for promotion of Rajasthani culture. #SafaWithTwitter. Thank you @Jodha4life ji, Here's the picture with Rajasthan's pride safa.Great initiative by @vishvendrabtp ji… https://t.co/K7nVrBhaJS— Satish Poonia (@DrSatishPoonia) 1591324494000Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari also couldn’t stop expressing her interest in the campaign. She tweeted: In support of the call to promote our rich Rajasthani culture & promoting @my_rajasthan by Hon. Tourism Minister @vishvendrabtp Ji, I join with #RajasthaniSafa. Even bureaucrats were not behind in posting their responses to the unique campaign. From the DM of Dholpur R K Jaiswal to Dr Om Machra, who is posted as deputy commissioner (health and hospitals), Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, shared their pictures with safa. The response has gone beyond the contours of state and country. Harendra Jodha, president of the Rajasthan London Association also tweeted his picture with a safa Known for speaking his mind on the micro-blogging site, Singh’s praise for PM Narendra Modi’s ‘aatmnirbhar’ message to the nation had earlier caused embarrassment to his party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-ministers-turban-challenge-trends-on-twitter/articleshow/76225682.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Elderly man commits suicide, cites fear of Covid-19||AURANGABAD: A 65-year-old man on Thursday committed suicide by hanging himself to a tree in his farm, leaving behind a suicide note citing fear of getting infected with covid-19 for taking the extreme step. The incident took place in Mangewadi of Patoda tehsil situated on Beed – Latur border, about 275 km from here. The deceased man was identified as Asaram Pote, who left behind a note stating that ‘I am committing suicide out of the fear of getting infected from covid-19. Nobody should be blamed for my act.’ Beed police have registered a case of accidental death and statements are being recorded. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “A 65 year old man from Mangewadi village committed suicide. A suicide note found in his pocket said that he was doing so due to fear of the ongoing pandemic. An accidental death has been registered, further enquiry is on.” Authorities said that no one in Pote’s family or friends had tested positive for Covid-19 and it was his own anxiety and fear of getting infected. Incidentally, Beed district did not report any new Covid-19 case on Friday. It has recorded only 65 cases so far and 53 of these patients have been discharged after being cured. The district has reported only one death so far, health officials said. Family members informed the police that the man was not suffering from any underlying physical or mental illness. An autopsy was performed on him during the day, following which body was handed over to the family for performing of last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/elderly-man-commits-suicide-cites-fear-of-covid-19/articleshow/76222782.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Rs 38,000 laptop replaced with tile in delivery||PUNE: A 36-year-old United Kingdom-based software engineer received a red tile in place of a laptop from an e-commerce website, against an online payment of Rs37,990, in the last week of May. On May 29, the man’s wife was shocked to find a red tile instead of a laptop in the parcel that she received around 11am. The techie pursued the matter with the company for a week. When he did not get any positive response, he approached the Dehu Road police and lodged an FIR. Sub-inspector Chaya Borkar of the Dehu Road police told TOI that the complainant works with a leading software company and was settled in UK. “He came to Talawade to meet his parents in March and has been stuck here since due to the lockdown. He works from home at the moment,” Borkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-38k-laptop-replaced-with-tile-in-delivery/articleshow/76225681.cms||Mihir Tanksale
June 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Over 200 polyhouses affected||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Over 200 polyhouses in Khed, Ambegaon and Maval talukas suffered heavy damage due to the cyclone Nisarga in the last two days. Officials of the Indian Society of Floriculture Association said the plastic cladding protecting the crop blew away in the cyclone, leaving the crop exposed. “With plastic cladding torn and crop getting exposed, the operational cost for the farmers will go up further,” Pravin Sharma, president, Indian Society of Floriculture Association, said. Babaji Ghadge, a farmer from Khed taluka, said he has incurred losses up to Rs 2 lakh this year. Maval taluka agriculture officer Devendra Dhage said, “Around 50% of panchnamas are done. There are a total of 137 polyhouses in Maval taluka alone, covering 59 hectare. We will soon submit the report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-200-polyhouses-affected/articleshow/76225679.cms||Piyush Bhusari
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||State allots Rs 5.16 crore to revive rural enterprises in district||Coimbatore: The district administration has started identifying beneficiaries for the Covid Assistance Package (CAP) aimed at providing financial assistance to rural enterprises in distress due to the lockdown. The state government has allocated Rs 5.16 crore to assist 5,047 beneficiaries in the district.Under the scheme, working capital support fund up ts Rs 50,000 would be given to nano and micro enterprises, one-time capital grant up to Rs 1.50 lakh to existing enterprises groups, capitalization fund up to Rs 10 lakh to farmer producer organizations (FPOs), financial assistance up to Rs 20,000 to enterprises run by differently-abled or other vulnerable people and start-up grant support up to Rs 1 lakh to skilled youth migrant returnees. The scheme would be implemented in 54 village panchayats from four blocks – Karamadai, Annur, Sarkar Samankulam and Periyanaickenpalayam – in the district.“The purpose of the scheme is to extend support and uplift the rural enterprises that were severely affected during the lockdown,” said M Manimaran, executing officer of Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project (TNRTP), the government body implementing the scheme.Apart from the enterprises, for the first time, financial assistance would be given to migrant workers who had been working in other districts, states or countries until recently and had returned to Coimbatore after losing their business or jobs, to start a new enterprise in the district, he said. The scheme is not just aimed at assisting the workers to uplift their livelihood but also to create employment opportunities through them, he added. “At present, we have been collecting details with the help of officials from district administration and at block levels. The beneficiaries would be selected based on government criteria after scrutinizing them. The fund would be credited to the beneficiaries within 10 days once the approval is obtained,” he added. People are also requested to approach the TNRTP officials directly to apply for the assistance. They could reach out to A Philips Ilayaraja, district executive officer, S Kavitha, executing officer either by visiting their office at Town Hall or through telephone number 0422-2300633.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-allots-rs-5-16-crore-to-revive-rural-enterprises-in-district/articleshow/76225032.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Bareilly||Some states acted irresponsibly, says UP min on migrants' march||Bareilly: Commenting on the issue of migrant workers who had to walk hundreds of kilometres to reach their homes during lockdown, UP power minister Shrikant Sharma on Friday said that the incident caused him immense pain. Sharma, minister in-charge of Bareilly, said while addressing a video press conference, “One should have stayed wherever he or she was present as the Centre had provided proper budget and food items to state governments. However, a few states like New Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan acted irresponsibly. We had arranged facilities for migrants and 10,500 buses were deployed to take them to their destination. However, we are very sad for those who walked all the way to their homes. We would not have faced this issue if all states had remained united. Many people even crossed our state to other locations, such as Bihar.” He added that the UP government will provide a 24-hour power supply to villages which register line losses less than 15%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/some-states-acted-irresponsibly-says-up-min-on-migrants-march/articleshow/76224078.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hospital put uninfected man among patients?||Ahmedabad: The son of a 62-year-old man from Gomtipur has alleged that his father, though uninfected, was placed in the isolation ward with Covid-19 patients at Shardaben Hospital in Saraspur. The patient, Jagdish Divakar, a resident of Mansuri ni Khadawali Chawl in Gomtipur, was declared to have Covid-19 and then moved to a private hospital in Bapunagar as beds were not available at Shardaben Hospital Covid ward. When he reached the private hospital, he learned that he was negative but had been kept in the isolation ward with Covid-19 patients at Shardaben Hospital. His son, Prakash, 28, said, “As my father had cough and fever, I took him to Shardaben Hospital to have him tested for Covid-19.” The authorities admitted Divakar to the isolation ward on Wednesday, Prakash said. “One day later, a doctor told me that my father had tested positive and would be shifted to Tapan Hospital in Bapunagar,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hospital-put-uninfected-man-among-patients/articleshow/76225199.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Revenue officials under scrutiny in SIT probe||Amaravati: The special investigation team (SIT) has intensified investigation into the capital city area land scandal. After arresting a deputy collector rank officer, the SIT is looking into the role of at least three more deputy collectors and six tahsildars who handled land pooling during the TDP regime. The revenue officials allegedly transferred huge chunks of government land to private individuals and allowed them to surrender the same under the land pooling scheme (LPS). Sources said the SIT is investigating the purchase of high-value assets by some realtors and builders in Vijayawada, Guntur and Hyderabad, considered to be close to the revenue officials. Sources said the SIT has found that the builders invested huge amounts without any known source of such income and suspects that the investments could be benami assets of the revenue officials in the capital city area. A tahsildar, who worked in the capital city area for about three years, is believed to be under the SIT’s radar for making big investments in a real estate firm in Vijayawada. This official is also allegedly involved in the Rs 80 crore worth land acquisition scandal, wherein land was purchased at astronomical prices from benami land owners for house sites for the poor scheme. The government has ordered a separate probe into the land scam. Revenue officials under watch are believed to have purchased assets worth over Rs 200 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revenue-officials-under-scrutiny-in-sit-probe/articleshow/76224085.cms||Samdani MN
June 6, 2020||Madurai||TN, Guj fishers to return on separate ships||(Cleard/Gopa) Madurai: The Union government’s plan to bring back fishermen stranded in Iran on board two Navy ships, INS Shardul and INS Jalashwa, has brought some cheer to those from Tamil Nadu who have been pleading for repatriation since February. Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI that INS Jalashwa with a capacity of 700 people will proceed to Iran after repatriating the Indians stranded in Maldives and bring the fishermen to Tuticorin around June 17 . The ship had brought stranded Indians from Colombo on June 2. Those stranded in Iran – including nearly 700 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and around 50 from Kerala – were a bit confused when the Indian embassy sent a “Notice for Indian Fishermen from Gujarat” accompanied by a form from the health ministry asking nearly 150 fishermen to fill. They were told that INS Shardul is scheduled to depart from Bandar Abbas on June 7 and reach Porbandar in Gujarat. “We were upset that there is no such communication for Tamil Nadu fishermen,” Robinson, 38, of Kanyakumari stranded in Kish Island said. As for INS Jalashwa, the collector said, “We are yet to get the passenger details but are told that most of them are from the south.” A fisherman stranded in Iran who did not want his identity to be revealed has sent an audio message saying his Iranian employer demanded money from the fishermen if he should stamp the exit visa. Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam’s (MOS) secretary Charles Johnson has requested the state and Union governments and the Indian embassy to intervene and help the fishermen get their exit visa stamped by their employers so that they don’t miss the ship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-guj-fishers-to-return-on-separate-ships/articleshow/76225036.cms||M K Ananth
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Modi greets ‘dynamic’ Yogi on birthday||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath celebrated his 48th birthday on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first to wish him on Friday morning. Sources said that the CM did not meet anyone personally to receive their wishes, keeping in mind the protocols under the current state of lockdown, officials did wish him during the morning meeting with the heads of 11 committees. “Principal secretary (health) took the lead in wishing the CM and the remaining officers followed suit. The CM said that his best gift would be if the officials were able to scale up facilities for Covid-19 patients and ensure that there were no deaths due to the virus in the state,” said an official present during the meeting. Several senior BJP leaders also wished the CM on Twitter. Yogi thanked them, writing elaborate messages to each of them, ending with prayers to “Lord Ram to bless their friendship”. In his wishes to the CM on Twitter, the PM said: “Birthday greetings to UP’s dynamic and industrious CM, Yogi Adityanath Ji. Under his leadership the state is scaling new heights of progress across all sectors. There is a marked improvement in the lives of citizens. May Almighty bless him with a long and healthy life.” To this, the CM responded: “Respected PM, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your good wishes. I pray to Lord Ram that under your inspiration and guidance, we continue to work towards a ‘New India, Strong India’.” Other leaders who wished him included UP Governor Anandiben Patel, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, CMs and former CMs of other states including Devendra Fadnavis, Sarbanand Sonwal, Conrad Sangma, Raman Singh, Shivraj Chauhan and BS Yeddiyurappa, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Harsh Vardhan, Kiren Rijiju and Piyush Goyal, whom he specifically thanked for ensuring that migrant workers were sent safely by train to UP from other states. Leader of Opposition in the UP Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary also sent personal wishes to the CM, praying for his healthy life so that he could continue serving people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-greets-dynamic-yogi-on-birthday/articleshow/76225680.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Miyawaki forest turns zone environment positive||CHENNAI: The urban forest initiated by the Greater Chennai Corporation at Rayala Nagar in Valasaravakkam zone (zone 11) has yielded success. The civic body adopted the Miyawaki method to grow a mini forest at the Open Space Reservation (OSR) land on Second Main Road, Rayala Nagar. Miyawaki method, pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, is use of native species to create dense forests and is adopted by many urban municipalities across the world. It involves planting saplings close to each other so they receive sunlight only from the top and grow upwards than sideways. Several reports suggest that an urban forest can grow within a short span (20-30 years) if the Miyawaki method is adopted, while a conventional forest takes around 200-300 years to grow naturally. The one in Rayala Nagar is done with the assistance of residents and from NGOs, said a corporation official. “It was initiated on February 8. We have utilised about 6,000sqft of the 10,000sqft land available and have planted about 762 saplings of 45 different species,” said S Sasikala, zonal officer, Valasaravakkam. The saplings were donated by Trees Foundation, an NGO. While the pandemic outbreak intensified in the city within a month after the initiation of the project, that did not deter the staff from taking care of the urban forest. “Staff checked on the saplings and watered them regularly. We are happy with the result so far,” said a staff with Zone 11. The result is now for everyone to see. Regional deputy commissioner (south), Dr Alby John, took to Twitter to congratulate the team’s efforts on Friday — World Environment Day. The civic body had plans to initiate similar urban forests in OSR lands and one such was developed in Kotturpuram. Apart from such innovative techniques to increase lung space, the civic body has also planned to set up 55 new parks across extended areas in the city, which will take the total number of parks in the city to more than 700. These were supposed to be completed by the end of the year but the pandemic is likely to defer the deadline, say officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/miyawaki-forest-turns-zone-environment-ve/articleshow/76225033.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Private agency to help improve cleanliness rank||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has taken serious cognizance of the city’s cleanliness rating that has dropped from three-star to one in the garbage-free cities category under Swachh Survekshan 2020. To improve the ranking and overcome its lacuna, The civic body has decided to rope in a private consulting agency to improve the ratings of the city in line with that of Indore and Surat. The NMC’s decision comes after its observation that the rating of some cities, including Indore and Surat which had hired consulting agencies, have improved. Last year, the city had bagged three-star rating. It had geared up for five-star rating in the next survey, However, the results were quite disappointing. Cities like Dhule and Jalgaon from north Maharashtra performed better than Nashik, taking their one-star rating to three. “We were expecting better rating this year. We also coducted ward-wise examination of our reports. We may be lagging behind on collection and reuse of construction debris. But, this can’t affect the whole rating,” said an NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-agency-to-help-improve-cleanliness-rank/articleshow/76222753.cms||Tushar Pawar
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Saplings planted on environment day||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Six members of Pune Ploggers planted saplings near Dighi to commemorate World Environment Day on June 5. The group, started by the 24-year-old techie Vivek Gurav to encourage people to pick up trash while jogging, had kept themselves busy during the lockdown with various activities related to environment conservation. A part of the activity involved growing saplings from the seeds they had collected during their previous visits to the hills near the city, Gurav said. “When we used to go jogging, we collected mango, chikoo and sitaphal seeds and created a seed bank,” he said. When the lockdown was imposed, they participated in a few indoor tasks. “The first one was to make seeds balls and look after it. The seeds have grown into saplings now. We have planted these saplings in Dighi hills to commemorate World Environment Day on June 5,” said Gurav. “Since we are not allowed to gather in large groups, only six of us went to plant the saplings,” Gurav added, The group is looking forward to restart their plogging operations once the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/saplings-planted-on-environment-day/articleshow/76225686.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||1st Covid-19 death in Tarn Taran, 46 new cases in Pb||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 46 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one death on Friday, taking the state’s tally for the coronavirus disease to 2,461 and the number of fatalities to 48. The death took place in in Tarn Taran, the district’s first since the virus made inroads in Punjab in March. Twenty-five of the new cases are contacts of people who have already been found infected by Covid-19.Of the 46 new cases, 16 are from Ludhiana, eight from Jalandhar, four from Mohali, three each from Amritsar and Gurdaspur, two each from Tarn Taran and Kapurthala, and one each from Faridkot, Pathankot, Sangrur, Moga, Muktsar, Bathinda, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib. In Ludhiana, 12 of the new cases are contacts of positive patients and this figure is four for Jalandhar. Also, 26 patients were discharged in the state after they recovered from the virus. In Bathinda, a 10-year-old girl from Rampura Phul town tested positive. She is said to have come in contact with a woman in her neighbourhood who was found infected on May 29. Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said active cases in the district had risen to 10. In Faridkot district, a 24-year-old pregnant woman from Sirsadi village tested positive. She has been put in isolation at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot. While the state bulletin said there was one case from Fatehgarh Sahib, district officials confirmed four. All new patients in the district came from Uttar Pradesh recently, said an official. In Patiala, civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said a Ludhiana resident was the new case. He said the middle-aged man was getting his son treated for Covid-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital. (With inputs from Bathinda and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1st-covid-19-death-in-tarn-taran-46-new-cases-in-pb/articleshow/76225684.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||IIA survey on firms’ need for migrants||Lucknow: Indian Industries Association (IIA) has drafted a mobile survey form to collect data on the requirement of workers by its member companies. The association recently signed an MoU with the UP government to ensure that at least 3 lakh workers were given jobs within the MSME sector in a year. The MoU was signed keeping in mind the massive influx of migrant workers into the state from across the country due to the lockdown enforced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Once the data is collected, it will be shared with the MSME department and the directorate of industries. District office-bearers will be the nodal authority and will coordinate with deputy commissioners and employment officers at the district-level. IIA national general secretary Manmohan Agarwal will be monitor the process. IIA’s executive director DS Verma said, “After survey, IIA would match it with migrants’ data prepared by the government. In case of a match, workers would be offered jobs in MSME units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iia-survey-on-firms-need-for-migrants/articleshow/76225685.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||AHNA seeks govt help||Ahmedabad: The current policy of hospitalizing suspects for Covid-19 testing is against the goals of Covid-19 management, wrote the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) to principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi on Friday. “This will saturate the existing hospital infrastructure which is already stretched. This will also restrict testing of mild cases, contacts, healthcare workers, patients with atypical symptoms and patients in incubation period,” the letter says. “It is our earnest appeal to you that you allow Covid-19 testing on outpatient basis for all suspects, mild cases, contacts, healthcare workers, patients undergoing elective procedures and hospital admissions.” AHNA has also sought help of the state government to get a share of the economic relief package. In a letter to Nitin Patel, deputy CM and state health minister, the members urged the government to immediately release the dues of the MAA scheme till April 30 for hospitals enrolled in it. “Please release the subsidy amount for the new hospital projects, waive government duties on electricity for all hospitals, clinics, etc., 50% waiver of property tax for hospitals, incentives in the form of subsidies on capital expenses for equipment purchased for Covid treatment,” the letter said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-seeks-govt-help/articleshow/76225163.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Amaravati||Telangana lays claim on 967 tmcft of Godavari, Andhra Pradesh disputes move||HYDERABAD: Even as the dust on sharing of Krishna river water is yet to settle down, both Telangana and AP on Friday crossed swords on Godavari water sharing. While Telangana argued that it has every right to utilise 967 tmcft of water from the Godavari, AP countered the claims saying there was no specific allocation made to Telangana as per the Bachawat Tribunal award. Amid claims over rightful sharing of Godavari waters and various projects taken up by both neighbouring states, Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) chairman J Chandrashekhar Iyer reminded both the governments to stick to the June 10 deadline for submission of detailed project reports (DPRs) on the new projects undertaken by them. GRMB also asked the Telugu states to immediately inform the Union ministry of jal shakti on the various projects and water use. Reiterating that the board had asked Telangana not to go ahead with any new projects, the chairman said till the project DPRs were apprised and sanction of the Apex Council was obtained, Telangana should steer clear of the issue. In a letter (dated May 30, 2020), the board had clearly told Telangana not to press ahead with new projects. Briefing reporters after the ninth meeting of the board, Iyer said Telangana has agreed to submit the DPRs of the new projects for appraisal of GRMB and the Apex Council as stipuated in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. “The AP government has also agreed to supplement the remaining DPRs of the new projects taken up on the Godavari,” he said. He said both the states have agreed to resolve the issues related to the modernisation of Peddavagu project. A committee will be constituted for identification of suitable sites and instruments at all inter-state border points for installation of telemetry stations in the Godavari basin. “The committee will have members drawn from AP, Telangana, Central Water Commission and Central Water and Power Research Station, Pune,” Iyer said. Soon after the meeting, Telangana irrigation principal secretary Rajat Kumar said they have informed the GRMB that Kaleshwaram and Tummidihatti were not new projects. He said the secretary of GoI wrote a letter in 2017 that both Kaleshwaram and Tummidihatti were re-engineering projects and not new projects. He also dismissed the claim that they were trying to hide DPRs. He said many projects were taken up on Godavari flood flow water. “AP is demanding DPRs of all the completed projects. We are opposing this demand. DPRs of projects, which were taken up prior to June 2, 2014, should not be asked.” He also said Telangana could utilise 967 tmcft of water from Godavari. Telangana and AP, which earlier proposed to link Godavari and Krishna rivers for utilisation of Godavari waters, have been fighting, of late, over their rightful share of Godavari waters and complained against each other with GRMB. AP complained that Kaleshwaram and Sita Rama projects were taken up without seeking the approval of Apex Council by Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/t-lays-claim-on-967-tmcft-of-godavari-ap-disputes-move/articleshow/76226687.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana lays claim on 967 tmcft of Godavari, Andhra Pradesh disputes move||HYDERABAD: Even as the dust on sharing of Krishna river water is yet to settle down, both Telangana and AP on Friday crossed swords on Godavari water sharing. While Telangana argued that it has every right to utilise 967 tmcft of water from the Godavari, AP countered the claims saying there was no specific allocation made to Telangana as per the Bachawat Tribunal award. Amid claims over rightful sharing of Godavari waters and various projects taken up by both neighbouring states, Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) chairman J Chandrashekhar Iyer reminded both the governments to stick to the June 10 deadline for submission of detailed project reports (DPRs) on the new projects undertaken by them. GRMB also asked the Telugu states to immediately inform the Union ministry of jal shakti on the various projects and water use. Reiterating that the board had asked Telangana not to go ahead with any new projects, the chairman said till the project DPRs were apprised and sanction of the Apex Council was obtained, Telangana should steer clear of the issue. In a letter (dated May 30, 2020), the board had clearly told Telangana not to press ahead with new projects. Briefing reporters after the ninth meeting of the board, Iyer said Telangana has agreed to submit the DPRs of the new projects for appraisal of GRMB and the Apex Council as stipuated in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. “The AP government has also agreed to supplement the remaining DPRs of the new projects taken up on the Godavari,” he said. He said both the states have agreed to resolve the issues related to the modernisation of Peddavagu project. A committee will be constituted for identification of suitable sites and instruments at all inter-state border points for installation of telemetry stations in the Godavari basin. “The committee will have members drawn from AP, Telangana, Central Water Commission and Central Water and Power Research Station, Pune,” Iyer said. Soon after the meeting, Telangana irrigation principal secretary Rajat Kumar said they have informed the GRMB that Kaleshwaram and Tummidihatti were not new projects. He said the secretary of GoI wrote a letter in 2017 that both Kaleshwaram and Tummidihatti were re-engineering projects and not new projects. He also dismissed the claim that they were trying to hide DPRs. He said many projects were taken up on Godavari flood flow water. “AP is demanding DPRs of all the completed projects. We are opposing this demand. DPRs of projects, which were taken up prior to June 2, 2014, should not be asked.” He also said Telangana could utilise 967 tmcft of water from Godavari. Telangana and AP, which earlier proposed to link Godavari and Krishna rivers for utilisation of Godavari waters, have been fighting, of late, over their rightful share of Godavari waters and complained against each other with GRMB. AP complained that Kaleshwaram and Sita Rama projects were taken up without seeking the approval of Apex Council by Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-lays-claim-on-967-tmcft-of-godavari-ap-disputes-move/articleshow/76225049.cms||Koride Mahesh
June 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: One dead, 25 in hospital after consuming stale meat||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 45-year-old man allegedly died of food poisoning on Thursday night, while over 25 others were admitted to hospitals after they consumed stale meat at Donkinivalasa village in Ganneruputtu panchayat under Hukumpeta police station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency. The deceased was identified as S Venkata Ramana (45). His body was shifted to the hospital for postmortem. Sub-inspector of Hukumpeta police station, Appala Naidu said that a group of people consumed the meat of a dead goat on Wednesday and complained of vomiting on Thursday. One of them died on Thursday night, he added. The police said the condition of those undergoing treatment was stable. “There are also some chances of water in the village being contaminated,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1-dead-25-in-hospital-after-consuming-stale-meat/articleshow/76224118.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three bungalows burgled over two months||PUNE: The Paud police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old man for stealing five television sets and a home theatre from three bungalows at Sahara City in Ambavane village, around 90km from here, over the past two months. The police have recovered five LED TVs and a home theatre, collectively worth Rs1.50 lakh from suspect Vilas Ghogare of Mulshi. The owners of these bungalows are based in Mumbai. They came to know about the burglary only after the Paud police informed them. They made the arrest based on a tip-off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-bungalows-burgled-over-two-months/articleshow/76225683.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||48-yr-old man found killed at bus stop||Coimbatore: A 48-year-old man was found murdered near Ambalaparai village bus stop at Thirmalaiyampalayam on Friday morning. The KG Chavadi police identified the deceased as P Nagamanickam, of Pichanur, on the outskirts of the city. A police officer said, “The body has injuries to the right side of head, right eyebrow, right ear and mouth. Nail scratch mark was found on the chest and abdomen, while it had abrasion on left knee.” During inquiry, Saravanan, of Ambalapari, told police that he and his wife had noticed four people fighting with each other in an inebriated state on Thursday night while they were passing by the bus stop. According to him, they were speaking in Madurai slang. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/48-yr-old-man-found-killed-at-bus-stop/articleshow/76225044.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Police medal, housing, medical facilities for police: CM Gehlot||JAIPUR: The Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday announced many sops to the police personnel including chief ministers police medal for excellence, permanent pass in Roadways buses, free annual medical examination and medical facilities, housing under Housing Board, UIT, JDA schemes. Gehlot made these announcements during a video conference with district SPs and at police station level officials. This is the first time a Chief Minister had interacted with police personnel up to the police station level. Expressing concern over the incidents of suicide, he said “the incidents of suicide committed by some police personnel in the recently were sad and worrying. He said it was the responsibility of the officers from the Director General of Police to the Station Incharge to understand the problems of their subordinate and provide them emotional support.” The mental health of the personnel must also be taken care of, he said Gehlot said the police have displayed their human image by performing the duties with dedication during lock down. He said it was due to the collective efforts that the state was able to fight Corona battle successfully. Medical Minister Raghu Sharma said that the promptness with which the police worked as a frontline worker was praiseworthy. It had certainly changed the perception of the police in public mind. Chief Secretary DB Gupta said that there were many such examples of delivering sanitary napkins to needy women, distribution of food and inspiring messages to combat Corona, which had changed people’s perception of the police. Additional Chief Secretary Home Rajiv Swaroop said state police have won the hearts of the people with sensitive behaviour, they should continue to work in the same way. The lockdown has been largely lifted, but the threat of Corona is still intact, in which the police are vigilant to follow the health protocols and guidelines. Director General of Police Bhupendra Singh said nearly one lakh police personnel involved in the Rajasthan Police, along with 15,000home guards and 24,000 police friends, have faced this challenge strongly together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-medal-housing-medical-facilities-for-police-chief-minister/articleshow/76225697.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||2 new cases take dist’s Covid-19 tally to 155||Coimbatore: The district’s Covid-19 count increased to 155 from 153 on Friday. A 22-year-old woman, who recently returned from Dubai in the Vande Bharat flight is one among the two new cases. She has been listed under the Coimbatore airport surveillance list. A medical student, she reached the city in the wee hours of Wednesday morning. The student was admitted to PSG Hospital. “While this case is an airport quarantine case, another girl who landed in the city from Chennai a couple of days ago has been added to Coimbatore list,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. Besides these two women, a 27-year-old from Mannady in Chennai and a 20-year-old from Kannagi Nagar in Chennai also tested positive for the virus in the city. There are currently eight active cases in the city, including five in ESI Hospital, one in Madurai, one at Royal Care and the Dubai returnee at PSG Hospitals. Meanwhile, health department officials have been working on tracing the source of infection of the 24-year-old post-graduate doctor, from Malumichampatty, who tested positive for the virus in Madurai on Wednesday. “We have lifted almost 100 samples, including 30 people working and living in and around her house in Malumichampatty, though she was living in a house in a farm. When everyone tested negative, she said she visited a department store in Podanur two to three times. We tested 70 of that store employees, but they all again tested positive. But she visited the store 20 days back,” said a health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-new-cases-take-dists-covid-19-tally-to-155/articleshow/76225047.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Up to 12-hr power cut in Pimple Saudagar||Pune: Thousands of consumers in the Pimple Saudagar and Rahatani areas of Pimpri Chinchwad went without electricity for 6-12 hours on Thursday and Friday. The MSEDCL had to fix blown transformers and snapped connections in as many as half-a-dozen locations in the 5 sqkm proposed smart city zone. The MSEDCL in a statement said, “Power supply in all areas of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, affected because of extensive damage caused to distribution network, has been restored. Supply in all affected areas of Maval, Junnar, Khed and Ambegaon has restored.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/up-to-12-hr-power-cut-in-pimple-saudagar/articleshow/76225693.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unlock 1.0: Lockdown cases nosedive, prohibition cases soar||Ahmedabad: With Unlock 1.0 cases related to lockdown have come down as expected, but the rising number of prohibition cases are more than making up for that lack. While cases of Section 188 IPC violation have come down from a daily average of 150 to around 6-7, just on Wednesday, 24 cases of prohibition were registered in 13 police stations of eastern Ahmedabad. Even in the western parts of the city, prohibition cases are growing, police said. With home delivery the new norm, most cases of IMFL are of carriers booked while intent on doorstep delivery. Even most cases of country liquor involved small quantities. The highest number of prohibition cases were in Naroda police station, where five cases were registered against bootleggers. “Now, with lockdown lifted, bootleggers who were sitting idle for two months have suddenly become busy. Most are smuggling country liquor in small vehicles like scooters, autorickshaws and cars and some them are home delivery boys. Some manage to evade cops but most get caught and hence the figures are surging,” said special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar. Tomar added that they had anticipated a surge in bootlegging with easing of lockdown and had posted extra cops to catch bootleggers. “We have alerted our human intelligence network, kept extra staff to watch activities of listed bootleggers. We have also deployed some policemen to raid known liquor dens on a daily basis and that is the reason why more prohibition cases are being registered,” Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unlock-1-0-lockdown-cases-nosedive-prohibition-cases-soar/articleshow/76225058.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre has failed small states in this crisis: Capt||Chandigarh: Regretting that the Centre had failed to provide any help to the small states in dealing with the impact of Covid outbreak and prolonged lockdown, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said it was the Union government’s duty to help the states revive their battered economies. Even though Punjab was on top of the Covid situation and managed to control the medical aspect of the problem to a great extent, economic revival would require support from the Centre, he said at a video press conference. Describing the Centre’s present attitude as “sad state of affairs”, he said all steps taken at the moment to restart the economic activity in Punjab were purely the result of the state government’s own efforts. Pointing to the conditional increase in borrowing limit of GSDP, he said by curtailing the state’s rights the Centre had negated the benefit of even “miniscule and delayed” financial help it had extended. Regarding initiatives being taken by the state to revive its economy amid the pandemic, he said nearly Rs 24,000 crore has been pumped into rural economy because of the bumper wheat crop during the just concluded rabi season. He added that of the 2.56 lakh industrial units in the state, all but 20,000 had resumed operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-has-failed-small-states-in-this-crisis-capt/articleshow/76225692.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept tags areas with max cases as high-priority zones||Ludhiana: Seeking to check the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the Ludhiana health department has identified six high-priority areas which have reported several positive cases so far. According to the list, the high-priority areas in Ludhiana commissionerate were Kabir Nagar on Daba Road, Chhawani Mohalla and 33 foota road in Guru Nanak Nagar, Mundiyan; Govind Nagar on Machhiwara road in Samrala; and Guru Ramdass Market, Mata Rani Mohalla in Khanna. In Doraha, the rural area has been designated as the high-priority area. The health officials said ten cases have been reported from Chhawani Mohalla, five cases surfaced in Doraha (rural area), three cases each were reported from Kabir Nagar, 33 foota road and Govind Nagar in Samrala. They said two cases were reported from Guru Ramdass market at Mata Rani Mohalla in Khanna. The health department’s internal letter, a copy of which is with TOI, suggested that extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in the cluster zone will be carried out in these areas. The letter suggested testing of all suspect cases and high-risk contacts, isolating all suspects/confirmed cases and providing medical care to the patients. The letter further suggested quarantine and implementation of social distancing norms in these areas. It said intensive risk communication is required in these areas. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said samples of suspected Covid-19 cases are being collected in these areas and random sampling is also being done. Khanna senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Rajinder Gulati said in a high priority zone in Khanna, they have already completed the survey and collected samples as well. He said the high-priority areas are restricted areas where nobody is allowed to enter from outside or go out. “Police teams are there to restrict the entry of people and food and medicines are allowed after proper screening. Also, the persons entering with such stuff has to wear proper protective gear. We also carry a door-to-door survey in such areas,” said SMO. A Samrala resident, who lives near the high-priority area, said there is a strict vigil and entry of the people has been banned in the area. Box: Restriction in zones No relaxation in curfew No outsider, except officials, allowed inside. Person with food and medicine supply allowed after proper screening No one allowed to move out of the area Restricted movement within the area, with permission from the administration||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-tags-areas-with-max-cases-as-high-priority-zones/articleshow/76216543.cms||Shariq Majeed
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Now, development authority to bear power infra cost||Lucknow: To streamline power supply for housing and industrial projects undertaken by any development authority in the state, the government has issued an order that the cost of providing electrical infrastructure and land will now be borne by the development authority. Principal secretary, industries, Alok Kumar said that till now, the policy on who would bear the costs for power infrastructure for development projects was not clear and therefore, payments to the power department were often made in part or not at all and ended up delaying the project. Kumar, who was earlier posted in the power department, said: “Due to lack of clarity on the policy, authorities would be hesitant in paying for the infrastructure, especially after the CAG once highlighted the payment made by one authority and deemed it irregular. Often development authorities would not pay, saying that it was not their duty, or pay only part. The new rule makes it clear that the responsibility of payment for power infrastructure now rests with the development authority,” he said. The order specifies that the responsibility of ensuring timely completion of construction and payment of construction expenditure of electricity infrastructure in housing and industrial projects will rest with the housing and industrial development authorities. It says that the expenditure incurred on phased construction of the electricity infrastructure up to 220KV, corresponding to the estimated energy load in the industrial and housing development authority area will be borne by the development authority. The development authority will have to provide the required land free of cost and without any encumbrances for the construction of the electricity infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-development-authority-to-bear-power-infra-cost/articleshow/76225696.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Pune||Urban forest scheme on Smriti Van model||Pune: The Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday announced ‘Nagar Van’ scheme — an initiative based on the model of Pune’s Smriti Van — to develop 200 urban forests across India in the next five years. The Smriti Van in Warje, Pune, has been developed over the past few years by the state forest department, citizens of Pune, a number of corporate organisations and their charitable arms, with contributions from the PMC as well.Before becoming a pioneering urban forest, Warje Hill was a barren land, dumped with garbage and full of encroachments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/urban-forest-scheme-on-smriti-van-model/articleshow/76225689.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||5 days after dismissal, ex-cop arrested for mobile theft||Ludhiana: Almost a month after a man lost his mobile phone to snatchers, Ludhiana police arrested a dismissed cop and his accomplice for the crime. The accused were identified as former sepoy Gurdeep Singh of Lohara colony and his friend Kuldeep Singh of Shimlapuri. The incident had occurred on May 8, when two masked motorcycle-borne miscreants had targeted Pawan Kumar Verma of Janta Nagar, who worked at a factory. On May 11, police had booked unidentified accused under Section 379 B (snatching) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. Inspector Amarjeet Singh, SHO, division number six police station, said police started investigation and circulated the CCTV footage in the area to get clue about the snatchers. The police officer said they arrested Gurdeep and his accomplice from his home on Wednesday evening. He said the police have seized the motorcycle used by them in the crime and also a Punjab Police uniform of the dismissed cop. Cops said the accused sent to two-day police remand on Thursday. They added that the accused will be questioned about their involvement in more such cases. The SHO said both the accused had been addicted to drugs for the past two to three years and had started snatching mobile phone mainly from migrant workers. He said Gurdeep, worked as sepoy in the Ludhiana commissionerate. Since he was hooked to drugs, he would remain absent from duty. Because of that, he was dismissed from police service on May 30. They said Gurdeep had got job in Punjab Police on compassionate grounds after his father Darshan Singh had died in firing in 2008 at Chandigarh road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-days-after-dismissal-ex-cop-arrested-for-mobile-theft/articleshow/76216521.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Poultry moves out of common man’s plate in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: As opposed to the trend at the beginning of the year, chicken prices have hit the roof in the city. Dressed broiler chicken sold for Rs 320 per kilogram in local markets on Thursday and poultry traders expect the trend to continue. Earlier, the complete lockdown and rumours about coronavirus infection from chicken had impacted the market. By March 15, the price of dressed chicken had fallen to Rs 60 per kilogram and some poultry traders even distributed chicken free of cost. Prices, however, recovered a little after government included chicken in the list of essential items and dispelled the rumours. Campaigns were conducted and doctors explained the benefits of consuming lean protein to boost immunity. But before the market could recover and prices could stabilise, the scorching summer heat impacted the production, which pushed up the price. “A majority of the poultry farmers discontinued raising chicks due to coronavirus fear. No one predicted that the prices would increase to this extent. People are now showing interest in eating chicken and there is shortage of birds. The mortality rate of chickens is high in summer and that too has had an impact on the pricec. It will take at least a month to boost production,” said K Mahendra, who runs a poultry farm at Vadali of Krishna district, told TOI. Mahendra predicted that the price of chicken in the city will touch Rs 360 per kilogram within the next ten days. Unhappy with the price-rise, K Anil a city-based techie told TOI, “Price of meat are increasing every day. First, people removed mutton from their menu as its cost touched Rs 950 per kilogram. Now it is the chicken. The government should take necessary measures to control the prices as it meat is being recommended by doctors to boost immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/poultry-moves-out-of-common-mans-plate/articleshow/76224132.cms||Venu Lanka
June 6, 2020||Dehradun||No UBSE exams for those residing in containment zones||DEHRADUN: The state education department has decided not to hold the remaining Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) exams for classes 10 and 12 in the areas which have been declared as containment zones. The exams are supposed to take place from June 22 to June 25. “As per the Government of India guidelines, there shouldn’t be an examination centre in the containment zone. Also, a student residing in a containment zone can’t move outside the zone. If the containment zone is declared a non-containment zone before the June 22 then everything will go as per the schedule for the students residing over there, otherwise such students will get a chance to appear for the exam after June 25,” said R K Kunwar, director of school education (Uttarakhand). Notably, students would have to go through thermal screening before entering the examination centres and if there body temperature is found abnormal then they will sit at some facility nearby on the same day to write their papers. Other essential facilities like police and ambulance would be made available at the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-ubse-exams-for-those-residing-in-containment-zones/articleshow/76328763.cms||Mohammad Anab
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Tax recovery: F&CC says no to outsourcing||Ludhiana: The members of Finance and Contracts Committee of Ludhiana municipal corporation rejected the proposal on hiring staff through outsourcing for recovery of property tax, water supply, sewerage and licence branch. The move was earlier suggested to increase revenue, but the members of committee said that they don’t want to give recovery in private hands. The members also kept the proposal to construct a boundary wall around illegal hadda rodi at Satluj bank pending, saying it falls outside MC limits, so the civic body should not spend money on the same. Moreover, carcass utilization plant of the MC is under construction and it will become operational in the next few months. As many as 310 proposals were placed before F&CC, but only 156 proposals were discussed on Thursday. The rest will be taken up later. The proposals related to development works, especially roads and water supply works, were given approval. Members of F&CC also recommended blacklisting of two firms for not starting construction work despite orders. Senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra demanded action against officials who were responsible for releasing payment to the contractor without any work. The F&CC approved extension of hiring staff in horticulture purpose for plantation and maintenance of existing plants. They also gave nod to renewing the contact of park management committees in city. Purchase of flowers for Rose Garden was also given approval. The staff will maintain over 200 parks and 76-kms of central verge. The officials claimed that a few green belts have also been handed over to private companies for maintenance. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “We discussed 156 proposals and rest will be taken up on Tuesday.” He said they will consider supplementary agenda after discussing these proposals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tax-recovery-fcc-says-no-to-outsourcing/articleshow/76216556.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CBI visits Narsipatnam to investigate doc’s case||Visakhapatnam: CBI officials on Friday interacted with officials and medical staff of Narsipatnam as part of the bureau’s investigation into the incident surrounding Dr Sudhakar, who used to work at the Narsipatnam Area Hospital until his recent suspension. CBI officials met revenue divisional officer (RDO) Sivadevi Jyothi, municipal commissioner Usha Rani and medical staff of the Narsipatnam Area Hospital. Sources said CBI officials had conversations regarding Dr Sudhakar’s attitude, behaviour, skill and the incident about him making allegations against the government over supply of PPE kits. The CBI has been investigating the circumstances surrounding Dr Sudhakar’s detainment upon orders of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. The bureau has registered two FIRs regarding the case. The first FIR is against unknown police officials, public servants and others over allegations of assaulting the doctor. The second is against Dr Sudhakar over allegations of obstructing public servants in the performance of their duties. CBI officials have reportedly inquired about the allegations made by Dr Sudhakar about PPE kits being not given during a meeting with government officials at the municipal office on April 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cbi-visits-narsipatnam-to-investigate-docs-case/articleshow/76224148.cms||Siva G
June 6, 2020||Amritsar||In Amritsar, beginning of community spread?||AMRITSAR: On Friday, 20 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar, but this was not confirmed in the state bulletin, which showed there were three cases in the district. Goiny by figures of the district administration, 103 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in just 10 days from May 27 to June 5. From May 27 to 30, 16, 9, 12 and 13 cases were reported. On June 1, 4 and 5, in all 9, 15 and 20 cases were recorded in the district. With the sudden rise in cases of positive cases post lifting of curfew, there is scepticism about June 8 when all the shopping malls, cinema halls and religious places would be opened. While talking to TOI on Friday, civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “You can call it beginning of community spread stage. On our part, there is active surveillance of the area wherever a positive patient is found.” There had been a total of 440 coronavirus infection cases in Amritsar so far. Of these, 327 had been discharged, while 105 were under treatment and 8 had died. On Thursday late evening, a 60-year-old man from Katra Sher Singh died of Covid-19. He said the patient was undergoing treatment for at EMC Hospital and was referred to Guru Nandk Dev Hospital . Meanwhile, three persons were reported positive from Gurdaspur district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-asr-beginning-of-community-spread/articleshow/76225700.cms||Yudhvir Rana
June 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: After 80 days of lockdown, Tirumala temple to reopen||TIRUPATI: The Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala will reopen its doors for pilgrim worship from June 11, after remaining closed for nearly 80 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The timings would be 6.30 am to 7.30 pm Several precautions and curbs will be in place both inside and outside the temple to ensure social distancing and hygiene. There would be a trial run for three days starting June 8. Darshan would be restricted only to employees of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams and their families on June 8 and 9, while Tirumala locals can have darshan on June 10. Darshan for general public will start from June 11. Only 6,000 devotees would be allowed entry into the temple per day as against the daily normal rush of over 60,000. Devotees will need to maintain six feet distance between each other and wearing of face mask would be mandatory. Children aged below 10 years and elderly people above 65 would not be allowed into the shrine. TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy and EO Anil Kumar Singhal appealed to devotees to strictly adhere to the guidelines to ensure a safe pilgrimage for everyone. All TTD employees involved in regulating devotees would be wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) suits Before permitting devotees, TTD would study their travel history and randomly conduct COVID-19 screening. Those found having symptoms such as fever would be immediately sent for quarantine, the officials said A total of 3,000 special darshan tickets each priced at Rs 300 would be available online daily. The remaining 3,000 quota would be set apart for free darshan and devotees opting for it can register themselves for the time slot at designated places here, including Alipiri at the foothills of Tirumala. TTD had barred entry of devotees from March 20 into the temple for a week in the wake of the coronavirus scare and later extended it after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nation-wide lockdown four days later The Centre in its recent "Unlock 1" guidelines has allowed opening of temples for public darshan among other relaxations A temple official said that during the lockdown so far, the over 2000-year old shrine incurred a loss of about Rs 500 crore revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-80-days-of-lockdown-tirumala-temple-to-reopen/articleshow/76226289.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Workers stuck in Bahrain, seek Telangana help to return home||HYDERABAD: A group of 36 workers from Telangana have appealed to the state government to help them return home from Bahrain. The workers said they were stuck in Bahrain without employment, proper accommodation and food. They said though they were desperate to return to India, they did not get a chance to fly in the evacuation flights under Vande Bharat mission that were being operated by the government of India. The workers made public a list of their names and also included the name of another worker form Andhra Pradesh who was also suffering on account of Covid-19 pandemic. The workers said they had no work for the last three months and did not get wages also. They said their families at home were also suffering as they were not able to send money. Meanwhile, Telangana workers in various Gulf countries began a movement to demand additional flights to be operated to bring them back home. They pointed out that several flights had been operated to Kerala because of the interest taken by state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. They urged the Telangana government also to prevail upon the Centre to operate more flights to Hyderabad from the Gulf countries and also bear their travel expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workers-stuck-in-bahrain-seek-state-help-to-return-home/articleshow/76225076.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chandigarh||10k PPE kits for govt health centres||Chandigarh: The department of science, technology and environment released 10,000 PPE kits, provided by Punjab Pollution Control Board, for distribution among government healthcare facilities. These kits were handed over by Alok Shekhar, principal secretary, science, technology and environment, on occasion of World Environment Day. A webinar was jointly organised by PPCB and Pushpa Gujral Science City. Prof S S Marwaha, chairman, PPCB and Krunesh Garg, member secretary, PPCB, attended the event in which around 100 students from across the state along with officers and industrialists participated. Shekhar said human actions, including deforestation, encroachment on wildlife habitats, intensified agriculture, and acceleration of climate change, have pushed the nature beyond its limit.  “If we continue on this path, biodiversity loss will have severe implications for humanity, including collapse of food and health systems,” he said. Speaking about the impact of Covid-19 on environment and bio-resources, the PPCB chairman said the theme for this year’s World Environment Day is ‘Biodiversity’ and the slogan is ‘Time for Nature’.  He said it has become more important to nurture the environment at this time when the entire world is fighting the pandemic. Dr Marwaha also stressed the need to improve the quality of river water as industries were not only the source of water pollution, but also the domestic waste was a significant polluter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10k-ppe-kits-for-govt-health-centres/articleshow/76225698.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four Corona-beating cops resume duties on their beats||Ahmedabad: Joyous scenes were witnessed at the Krishnanagar police station on Friday when four policemen resumed their duties after winning the battle against Covid-19. Their colleagues showered flowers on them as the cops who recovered thanked their seniors for giving them strength and motivation to fight Covid-19 and come out victorious. More than 300 police personnel had got infected by the virus, of them 80 are still active carriers. Among the policemen who have recovered is 57-year-old Ranjitsinh Vaghela who got infected while serving in the surveillance department of the police station. Sometime back, the staff of the same police station were in tears when they lost two of their colleagues to Covid-19. Vaghela said that there is no need to fear the Covid-19 virus. “Some precautions, strictly following the doctor’s advice and having warm water and milk mixed with turmeric powder will certainly help in recovery from Covid-19,” he said. Police inspector N K Taiwad and five other police personnel of Bapunagar police station, including a woman cop, are still under treatment for Covid -19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-corona-beating-cops-resume-duties-on-their-beats/articleshow/76225078.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||Double danger: Now, Covid-19 patients contracting dengue too||MUMBAI: City doctors have encountered a handful of curious cases where Covid-19 patients have walked in with dengue-positive reports. With the monsoon expected in 10 days, the Covid-dengue combination — both are viral diseases — could prove a tough challenge for doctors. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Srivasatava, a member of the state task force on Covid, said he has three patients who have tested positive for both. Physician Dr Pratit Samdani, who consults with Breach Candy Hospital, said he has seen three patients who came with dengue-positive reports but exhibited classic signs of Covid-19. Among them was an 82-year-old man, who had pneumonia — a classic Covid sign — but was admitted for dengue. “His son was stumped when I told him he didn’t have dengue but was suffering from Covid. The man had bilateral pneumonia and was breathless, but had no dengue symptoms at all,” said Samdani, adding that the man’s RT PCR and CT scan confirmed Covid-19. The other two patients too didn’t have any dengue symptoms, such as dropping platelets, typical retro-orbital pain or a splitting headache. According to Samdani, there could be a “serological lap” between the two viral diseases, but barring a few signs of fever and headache, it shouldn’t be very challenging to differentiate. “Dengue patients wouldn’t have a sore throat or respiratory difficulty as main complaint,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/double-danger-now-covid-19-patients-contracting-dengue-too/articleshow/76226564.cms||Sumitra Debroy
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Noyyal restoration work commences||Coimbatore: The multi-crore project to restore and rejuvenate river Noyyal commenced at Chithiraichavadi check dam, Perur ghat and Irugur Pirivu on Friday.The Rs 230 crore project, which involves an array of works including desilting and widening the river to its original span, reinforcing bunds, strengthening check dams along the course and building new ones wherever necessary, is expected to be completed in a year.“I request all officials to work with dedication to complete the works satisfactorily in a year,” said municipal administration minister S P Velumani after inaugurating the work at Chithiraichavadi in the presence of deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman and Coimbatore collector K Rajamani.Though the project was inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing last week, the work commenced on Friday with dredging of Noyyal bed. The government will take steps to prevent discharge of sewage into the river, Velumani said and urged the district administration and local bodies to ensure that the river is not polluted.A committee is being formed to supervise the Noyyal rejuvenation project, the minister said. “It will comprise officials from the public works department (water resources), revenue and local bodies. In addition to them, representatives of NGOs and farmers association functionaries will be present in the panel. They will closely watch the restoration work and suggest measures for improvement,” he said.Out of the 230 crore fund, Rs 174 crore will be spent in Coimbatore district, on the 72-kilometre course of the river. Damaged portions of 18 out of the 21 check dams will be repaired and faulty sluice gates will be repaired. “Inlet and outlet channels will be desilted, bushes cleared and retaining walls will be built,” Velumani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/noyyal-restoration-work-commences/articleshow/76225089.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Common man should join hands with nature: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said that common man joining hands with nature will not only protect the environment, but also the world. “The environment is the basis of all life, which we have the responsibility to conserve,” said Gehlot, calling for the common man to join hands with nature, while speaking during a webinar held on the occasion of World Environment Day. The webinar was organized by the Rajasthan Forest Department in which more than 65 officials of the forest department and environment department, along with Rajasthan minister for forest & environment Sukhram Bishnoi and principal secretary, forest & environment Sreya Guha, participated. Bishnoi said that protecting the environment is the need of the hour and every officer should contribute towards it wholeheartedly. He also reminded that the epidemic has made one clearly understand the importance of environmental protection. “Therefore, the need to respect nature while conserving water, air and environment is crucial,” he added. Speaking at the webinar, Guha said that ‘World Environment Day’ is an important day and the global pandemic has given us a clear indication that environmental protection, biodiversity conservation and climate change should be given priority. “The present global conditions are a clear message to bring change in human lifestyle as well as to improve the water, air and environment,” said Guha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/common-man-should-join-hands-with-nature-cm/articleshow/76225062.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Stages a no-go, artists and art schools struggle to survive||CHENNAI: Classical artists and cultural institutions in the city, who solely depend on audience, donations through their performances and teaching classes for income, have been deeply impacted by the Covid-19 lockdown. As all events in halls and theatres remain canceled and group classes stopped, they are now finding new ways to reconnect with their audience and students. “I had three performances lined up in April and May, and they were cancelled due to the lockdown,” said Ganesh Swamy, a Carnatic vocalist. Ganesh had left his job as a banker two years ago to pursue his passion in music. “But the past three months were the hardest, even to meet daily expenses. I started to borrow from my relatives to make ends meet,” he said. Ganesh has also started streaming his videos online. “Though it appeals to a wider audience, the economic issues remain. I keep going since it’s my passion,” he said. Apart from live-streaming, several cultural institutions are also re-streaming old performances to stay in touch with the audience. “We earn our remuneration solely based on our performances in sabhas. For the past two months, there has been none. If this continues longer, we might have a hard time maintaining the academy,” said Vempati Venkatachalapathy, secretary, Kuchipudi Art Academy, a 56-year-old institution in the city. A few artists have started taking classes over Skype, Zoom and other digital platforms just to motivate students and ensure they do not lose touch with the art form. “It is a little difficult compared to the regular classes because it is hard to focus on the nuances, make corrections and instill discipline among kids this way,” said Sugathan Mohandass, classical dancer and secretary of Sri Sumukhi Rajasekharan Memorial Foundation, Mylapore. Sanhita Basu Ghose, director, Konarak Odissi Dance Academy, said she often holds talks with her students to boost their morale. “Since there are no performances happening now, some feel dejected. They wonder why they should continue learning or acquiring knowledge when there is no platform for them to grow.” “But this is also a time which is bringing out the creativity in all of us. That’s a positive outcome.” Artists raise concerns that the Margazhi season, which is only a few months away, will also be hit due to the uncertainty. “It might take at least a year for things to get to normal,” said Vempati. “But before that, we need to find ways to reach out to the hundreds of musicians and accompanying artists whose livelihood solely depended on this. They are all struggling,” he said. “This is a big challenge for all of us and we only hope to come out stronger and better than before,” said Sanhita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stages-a-no-go-artists-art-schools-struggle-to-survive/articleshow/76225090.cms||Aditi R
June 6, 2020||Goa||GIM is a private commercial institute, cannot avail tariff like IIMs, IITs: Power department||PANAJI: The Goa electricity department has turned down a request from Goa Institute of Management (GIM) for private management instituted to be billed under the high tension industry category (like IIMs and IITs) instead of commercial category. In a tariff order, the department said that IITs and IIMs are government-aided institutes, and that private educational institutes can’t be billed like them. The department added that IITs and IIMs are billed either under domestic or a separate category for educational institutes with a clause that states that they’re government aided. “GIM doesn’t come under the category of government-aided institutions,” the department said, requesting the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), the statutory authority that regulates power in the state, to retain GIM in the category of HT-commercial. “Even though it is run through a society, significant fees are being charged from students, and hence it cannot be compared with IITs or IIMs,” the order stated. The JERC clarified that categorisation of consumers is dependent upon the nature of consumption. “Since GIM is a commercial organisation, the consumer has to fall under the commercial category,” the commission stated. Commercial tariffs are applicable to educational institutions in the state excluding government schools and related facilities, whereas high tension industry tariff is applicable for bulk supply of power for educational institutions owned or aided by the government. Meanwhile, to ensure better planning, the commission has directed the electricity department to start collecting information of energy sales, connected load, number of consumers, power factor, etc, for different types of consumers, including hotels, industries, government and private educational institutions, and government and private hospitals, and submit it by September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gim-is-a-pvt-commercial-institute-cannot-avail-tariff-like-iims-iits-power-dept/articleshow/76225711.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Water to be released from dams||Coimbatore: Water will be released from Aliyar dam here and Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district from June 6 and 7 respectively.In a statement issued on Friday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said he had directed officials to release not more than 1,156 million cubic feet water for 146 days depending upon the storage and inflow. Water from Aliyar dam will be released into five old channels, benefiting 6,400 acres of agriculture lands in Anamalai.As much as 241.92 million cubic feet water will be released from Bhavanisagar dam for 19 days. This will benefit 24,504 acres of agricultural lands in Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani and Andhiyur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-to-be-released-from-dams/articleshow/76225091.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||GIM is a pvt commercial institute, cannot avail tariff like IIMs, IITs: Power dept||Panaji: The Goa electricity department has turned down a request from Goa Institute of Management (GIM) for private management instituted to be billed under the high tension industry category (like IIMs and IITs) instead of commercial category. In a tariff order, the department said that IITs and IIMs are government-aided institutes, and that private educational institutes can’t be billed like them. The department added that IITs and IIMs are billed either under domestic or a separate category for educational institutes with a clause that states that they’re government aided. “GIM doesn’t come under the category of government-aided institutions,” the department said, requesting the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), the statutory authority that regulates power in the state, to retain GIM in the category of HT-commercial. “Even though it is run through a society, significant fees are being charged from students, and hence it cannot be compared with IITs or IIMs,” the order stated. The JERC clarified that categorisation of consumers is dependent upon the nature of consumption. “Since GIM is a commercial organisation, the consumer has to fall under the commercial category,” the commission stated. Commercial tariffs are applicable to educational institutions in the state excluding government schools and related facilities, whereas high tension industry tariff is applicable for bulk supply of power for educational institutions owned or aided by the government. Meanwhile, to ensure better planning, the commission has directed the electricity department to start collecting information of energy sales, connected load, number of consumers, power factor, etc, for different types of consumers, including hotels, industries, government and private educational institutions, and government and private hospitals, and submit it by September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gim-is-a-pvt-commercial-institute-cannot-avail-tariff-like-iims-iits-power-dept/articleshow/76225710.cms||Lisa Monteiro
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Male elephant found dead on foothills of Palamalai||Coimbatore: The forest department on Friday carried out postmortem of a male elephant, which was found dead on the foothills of Palamalai in the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range on Thursday.District forest officer (DFO) D Venkatesh, range officer S Suresh and department’s veterinary officer Dr Sukumar visited the spot. No injuries were found on the 12-year-old elephant, Sukumar said. It had died 10-15 days ago. The ivories were intact. The carcass was left at the reserve forest for scavenger after samples were collected for analysis. With this, eight elephants have died in the Coimbatore forest division since March.On June 1, decomposed carcass of a female elephant aged 5-7 years was found in Kallar reserve forest in Mettupalayam forest range. It had fell into a 30-foot-deep gorge while searching for water.A male elephant was found dead in Mettupalayam forest range in May. On April 7, a seven-year-old male elephant was found dead inside the reserve forest in Sirumugai forest range. A female elephant aged 32-35 years was found dead on April 17 in Sirumugai forest range. Lesions in intestines caused the death, veterinary doctors said. On May10, an 18-year-old female elephant died from pregnancy-related complications in the range.On April 16, a six- year-old male elephant was found dead in Manur beat of Karamadai forest range due to brain hemorrhage. A male elephant was killed following infighting in Boluvampatti forest range on April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/male-elephant-found-dead-on-foothills-of-palamalai/articleshow/76225084.cms||A Subburaj
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Malls, restaurants eager to reopen, build confidence among customers||JAIPUR: For mall and restaurant owners, the wait to reopen is turning out to be tiring. After the Centre’s decision, malls have undertaken flurry of activities, including cleaning, re-routing visitor flow, training staff and putting in place safety and hygiene precautions to be followed. Similarly, restaurants chalked out their SOPs although they are still a bit cagey about reopening. But all eyes are on the state government’s decision if they would be allowed to restart from June 8. To be back in the business would require a lot of time, but what is important for them is to start now. Mall owners in Jaipur said there is no place which is protected from the virus and they also have to live with it. “Over the past few days, around 250 people have been working on innovative models to make the mall safe for visitors. Besides training staff, putting in place SOPs and a host of other protocols, there will a doctor in the mall as well. The social distancing SOPs also include having one person in a 100sqft area. We are waiting for the government go ahead,” said Anup Bartriya, promoter of World Trade Park. He said the most important part is winning confidence of people and the process will take time, but for that the malls need to open. “The immediate plan is to create confidence. Business will take time. If we don’t open, that process of confidence building will not start. Even though the cost of running the mall without business would be a huge burden, we have no other way,” added Bartariya. Similar is the sentiment among managers and operators of the malls in the city. They said the outlets in their malls have been suffering on multiple fronts. But only solution before them is to open first and then face the problems. “All the outlets are impatient to reopen and they are waiting for the state government orders. Only after reopening we will know if people are confident or not. But our feeling is that people will come out and there is a pent up demand that cannot be postponed indefinitely. So we are hopeful even in terms of transactions,” said Anil Yadav, general manager of MGF Metropolitan mall. However, some restaurants are a little edgy despite they feel that they have to start because they need to pay their remaining staff even though 70% of the workforce have left for their homes. “We have a 70-year history and enjoy a huge reputation in the city. We do not want to take any risk. The waiting has a cost but we will bear it. When we feel safe, we will open the restaurant. But we want the government to help us in paying salary to our staff. That will go a long way,” said Hamit Pardal, whose family runs one of the oldest restaurants in the city. Many have started takeaway services. But the volume is miniscule. While reopening remains the only solution, they said that would not be easy. Aziz Panwar, the owner of a new-age restaurant, said, “The takeaway services are not even 5% of our business. We are eager to open but unless we have enough visitors, the whole operation will be unsustainable. Because, there will be fixed costs irrespective of the number of people coming to the restaurant that includes electricity charges, staff salaries, etc.” Sources said the government is mulling to allow the malls and restaurants before the end of the month, but all will depend on the intensity of the Covid pandemic in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/malls-restaurants-eager-to-reopen-build-confidence-among-customers/articleshow/76225709.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP temples differ on reopening plan||LUCKNOW: Although UP governeent has allowed religious places to open from June 8, prominent shirines have different plans for unlocking. So, while Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi is opening from June 8, temple managements in Mathura have said that they can't open until they get proper police protection. Some prominent temples in Lucknw, too, will open from June 15. Directions were issued by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday while he was reviewing preparations to enforce ‘Unlock-1’ from June 8. The CM has said that all religious places will be required to have hand sanitizers, thermal scanners and pulse oxymeters at the entrance so that devotees can be scanned for temperature or low oxygen levels. Additional Chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that footwear will have to be left outside the religious place, preferably in the devotees’ vehicles, before they enter the place. The administration of the religious place should also make arrangements for people to keep their footwear safely outside the building. To enforce social distancing, not more than five persons will be allowed inside at any point. “We are following the central government’s guidelines on this issue. The CM has said that before religious places are opened, the administration and police should establish contact with religious leaders and inform them of all the rules. They should ensure their assistance and cooperation in enforcing the rules,” he said. As also directed by the Centre, nobody will be allowed to touch any idol or religious book inside the place of worship while no prasad will be distributed either. The CM has stressed on constant surveillance by administration and police, directing officials to intensify patrolling especially in crowded areas. Patrolling will also be done outside places of religious worship while they open up to ensure that rules are being adhered to. Restaurants, hotels and places related to hospitality services are also set to open up from June 8. Officials said that the government is in touch with industry representatives to ensure that all protocols are strictly followed in these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-temples-differ-on-reopening-plan/articleshow/76225705.cms||Neha Lalchandani
June 6, 2020||Vadodara||Day later, Amul back on Twitter, pins its defiant tweet on dragon||VADODARA: In a development that took many by surprise, microblogging site Twitter restricted the official account of home-grown dairy giant Amul early on Friday morning. The top brass of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets India’s largest food brand Amul, too was surprised by the caution alert that was momentarily displayed on its official twitter handle without any intimation to it. Twitter got abuzz with the move as twitteratis linked it with Amul’s latest creative take ‘Exit the Dragon?’ that supports boycotting Chinese products. In the latest topical, the iconic witty Amul girl wearing a red and white polka-dotted dress can be seen saving her country by fighting a dragon. The creative also seems to make an indirect reference to the Chinese video-sharing app Tik Tok. The Chinese app's logo and the words ‘..K Tok’ are visible behind the dragon's tail in the picture. India is one of the biggest drivers of Tik Tok globally, with Indians accounting for over 30 percent of its total installs (611 million of 2 billion downloads). India has seen a vigorous social media campaign in recent days, after the Chinese aggression on the LAC, to uninstall Chinese apps, like Tik Tok. The creative also reiterates in bold letters that Amul is “Made In India” focusing on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Aatmanirbharta’ (self-reliance). “Caution: This account is temporarily restricted. You’re seeing this warning because there has been some unusual activity from this account. Do you still want to view it?” a post placed by Twitter on Amul’s official handle read. Twitter yet to respond on restriction rowLater, however, Amul could operate its account without any restrictions. “We have asked Twitter why we were not taken into confidence before putting such restriction. They should have intimated us,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF, a $5.1 billion co-operative. Twitter is yet to respond to Amul. There is nothing suspicious about @Amul_Coop ! Why you are showing Suspicious account warning @TwitterIndia ?If r… https://t.co/HvmPX7FfoG— G J Shankar Nath (@gjsnath) 1591323933000A twitterati G J Shankar Nath reacted: “There is nothing suspicious about @Amul_coop! Why you are showing suspicious account warning @TwitterIndia? If reason is below tweet we Indians stand by Amul always. Stop your prejudice on our Desi Super Brands! Do not force us to go legal.” He also posted Amul’s tweet of ‘Exit the Dragon’ topical. #BowDownChinaWtf is this @jack @TwitterIndia ,@Twitter Just became amul supported made in India?? https://t.co/87beZwViQS— 🇮🇳🇮🇳Hindu Sanatan Aditya🇮🇳🇮🇳 (@Aditya79654415) 1591319843000“Just became amul supported made in India?? (sic)” another twitterati reacted with a screenshot displaying the caution alert posted by Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/twitter-temporarily-restricts-amuls-account/articleshow/76223556.cms||Prashant Rupera
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||CM Gehlot launches Raj Kaushal portal, has data of 13 lakh migrants||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday launched the Raj Kaushal portal and online shramik employment exchange, developed by the department of Information and Technology (IT) and RSLDC, to ensure giving jobs to the migrant workers who have returned from other states and those who have been rendered jobless. The portal will also ensure making workers available to the industries facing labour shortage. So far, data of nearly 53 lakh workers (52.67 lakh) and 11.18 lakh employers (industries) have been uploaded on the portal. Labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan said the portal consists of data of nearly 13 lakh migrant workers, who have returned from other states. These workers include registered building and other construction workers and those who have been trained by RSLDC and Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). There are 23.5 lakh building and other construction workers, 3.37 lakh were trained by RSLDC and 1.21 lakh were trained by ITIs. There are about 12.7 lakh registered unemployed persons in the state. The chief minister had earlier announced creation of an online labour employment exchange for the migrant workers returning to the state in the wake of COVID-19 crisis. He had directed RSLDC to impart short-term skill training to inbound migrants and prepare them for local industries. Both industries (employers) and the labourers (those who are seeking jobs) can register themselves on the exchange through E-mitra. Through this, the mismatch between demand and supply of workers in the state will be addressed. The industrial units can raise their demands on the portal. During the video conference, principal secretary, IT, Abhay Kumar said the portal was prepared in just two weeks following the directions of the chief minister. The portal will also be introduced on mobile application platform soon, looking at the demand for the use of the portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-gehlot-launches-raj-kaushal-portal-has-data-of-13-lakh-migrants/articleshow/76225715.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Leopardess found dead on highway in Koppal||HUBBALLI: A leopardess and its prey were found dead on the state highway at Hemagudda Hills in Gangavati taluk of Koppal district on Friday morning. The female leopard, about 1-year-old, is believed to have been hit by a vehicle in the early hours. Villagers said a dog was found dead 100 metres away from the carcass of the leopard. Gangavati Range forest officer Shivaraj Meti, who visited the spot, said a vehicle would have hit the leopard as the animal bore injury marks. However, people were in confusion as to whether it was same leopard which had grabbed a dog from a house in Gangavati town three days ago. The forest department in Vijayapura finally caught the leopard which had created panic in Babaleshwar taluk since the past one week. The big cat had killed nearly 25 goats, said villagers of Devar Gennur. On Friday morning, the animal walked into a cage placed by the forest staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/leopardess-found-dead-on-highway-in-koppal/articleshow/76222434.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Woman nurtured over a 100 trees in Bagalkot||HUBBALLI: Yellamma Bhovi, 70, used to witness the weekly cattle fair while working at the APMC premises at Jalihal village in Bagalkot district, which used to take place under the hot sun. She was a daily wage employee. She requested her superiors to plant more than a 100 saplings in the premises, about 23 years ago. She took the responsibility of looking after them. Now the saplings have turned into over a 100 trees. She extended her duty time by an additional two hours per day to look after the plants. Now these trees give shelter to thousands of animals and visitors to the APMC premises. Due to her selfless work, the people of Bagalkot recognized her as the Saalumarada Timmakka of the district. Yellamma said that she started working as daily wage worker at the APMC premises, on a contract basis, 30 years ago. “My starting salary was Rs 75 per month. As I was a midwife, people used to give me foodgrains, if I helped a woman from their family deliver a child. My husband the late Churchappa Bhovi was also a daily wage worker in the gram panchayat. As I used to see animals suffering in the heat, I repeatedly requested officials to plant saplings. Finally, APMC officials arranged over 100 saplings, and I took the responsibility of looking after them. So, I started going for work at 8am instead of 10am, and used to take care of the plants till 6pm, after office hours” she recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/woman-nurtured-over-a-100-trees-in-bagalkot/articleshow/76221813.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Train service resumes partially, but no change in porters’ luck||Ludhiana: Left without a livelihood for the past two months, porters of Ludhiana railway station have little to celebrate even as the Indian Railways has started some long-route trains since June 1. Struggling to manage their daily expenses during the lockdown period, porters who hold licence for the job were left with no option but to work as vegetable vendors or delivery boys for grocery stores. Now, after the partial resumption of train services, 54 porters working at the Ludhiana railway station said there was no demand for them as people prefer to carry their own luggage and don’t want their services out of fear. Suresh Kumar, a porter working at city station from past 30 years, said, “I have not seen such a crisis in the life of porters. We all are struggling to manage our daily expenses.” “I never imagined that porters will be forced to leave their profession and look for other means of livelihood for survival,” said Kumar. He said, “From almost 70 days, all licenced porters didn’t earn a single penny. Now when railway has resumed some long-route trans, passengers are not ready to take our help to carry their luggage.” “We can feel a sense of fear among passengers who totally ignore the existence of porters to stay away from Covid-19, but they should also realise that we are like daily wagers who barely manage our expenses,” Kumar added. A woman porter, Lajwanti Devi, who had left for her hometown in Haryana after facing difficulties in managing daily expenses in the city, said, “Earlier, each porter used to earned around Rs 400 to 600 after 8 to 10 hours of duty. But since lockdown, porters at Ludhiana railway station have been dependent on ticket collectors (TCs) for their survival, as they haven’t got any aid from the government so far.” “The railway ministry should look after licensed porters,” she added. Maya, who has been a porter in Ludhiana railway station for the past decade, said, “I also left the city for my hometown in Rajasthan as I have found it difficult to manage my daily expenses amid the lockdown and suspension of railway service.” The porter community has approached the All-India Railway Lal Vardhi Union to provide basic financial help to all porters working in railway stations across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/train-service-resumes-partially-but-no-change-in-porters-luck/articleshow/76216569.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Party acts as court & police station: Josephine||Thiruvananthapuram: State women’s commission chairperson M C Josephine on Friday kicked up a controversy by stating that her party, CPM, was a court as well as police station. She made this remarks while responding to questions regarding the party’s practice of conducting internal inquiries in sexual-abuse cases against their leaders, when she visited the Kadinamkulam gang-rape survivor. The questions were related to the party’s action against MLA P K Sasi following sexual harassment allegations raised by a DYFI leader over a year ago. Elaborating on her statement, Josephine said it was the complainant’s discretion to choose the agency to file her complaint. She had faith in the party and hence chose an inquiry by the party. She also cited examples of commission registering cases against MLAs S Rajendran and C K Hareendran to contradict the allegations that women’s commission seldom acted against CPM party leaders. She also cited the example of her public response against party convener A Vijayaraghavan, who made derogatory comments against UDF’s Ramya Haridas during election campaign. BJP state president K Surendran termed Josephine’s statement as a mockery towards the legal system of the country. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala criticised Josephine and said she lost all moral right to continue as women’s commission chairperson. Both have demanded her resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/party-acts-as-court-police-station-josephine/articleshow/76224171.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Planters seek moratorium on rubber imports||Udhagamandalam: The United Planters’ Association of Southern India (Upasi) has sought a moratorium on import of natural rubber for two years.Natural rubber sector has been going through a phase of severe crisis due to the steep fall in prices for the last eight years, Upasi president AL RM Nagappan said in a letter to the ministry of commerce.The spread of Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown turned out to be a double whammy as production came to a grinding halt, a press release from Upasi said. The present situation is threatening the very existence of the sector.The association requested the government to introduce safeguard duty on natural rubber imports for three years post removal of import suspension.Given the magnitude of the crisis, it has become extremely important for the government to take a decision to protect the sector, which provides livelihood to 1.3 million growers, the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/planters-seek-moratorium-on-rubber-imports/articleshow/76225101.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||KVGB offers easy farm loan||DHARWAD: in a bid to strengthen the farm credit delivery system, the Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) has launched a new scheme ‘Vikas Varsha’ . Chairman Gopikrishna said the bank has taken several farmer-friendly measures to facilitate smooth credit flow to the agriculture sector. As a first step it has decided to cover all the uncovered farmers under Kisan Credit Card facility before September 30, 2020. Farmers may contact the nearest KVGB branch for availing fresh crop loan under Kissan Credit Card facility and to renew their existing crop loans with higher limit available under new scale of finance. “At present the Bank is charging 7% simple interest up to Rs 3 lakh for crop loan and also extending 3% interest concession available from Union government and and 1% additional interest concession available from state government (up to Rs 1 lakh) for prompt payers,” he added. Among other measures, to double its exposure to the agriculture sector. The bank has drawn up its own Agriculture Credit Plan (ACP). One nodal officer in each regional officer (RO) has been nominated exclusively for reviewing the bank’s progress in farm loan disbursement, the chairman said. Still few of the farmers have been left out of the simple crop loan facility. A survey has been carried out in this regard and the bank has directed all its 633 branches to approach each house in the villages under its jurisdiction so that no eligible farmer is left out. The bank will seek the assistance of Farmers’ Clubs, NGOs and agriculture department to accomplish this task, Gopikrishna added. The bank currently provides services in over 2,045 villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kvgb-offers-easy-farm-loan/articleshow/76222245.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Student stabbed to death on crowded street, four arrested||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death by his relatives on a crowded street at Rein Bazar on Friday evening. The victim died on the spot. Police suspect property dispute to be the reason behind the murder of Mohammed Imran Khan, a student from Chunne Ki Bhatti area in Chandra Nagar of Yakhutpura. At 5.23 pm, four assailants waylaid Imran Khan and attacked him with daggers while he was at Zafar Road in Rein Bazar. “The accused intercepted him near M S Wooden Works and stabbed him with daggers. Two of the daggers remained stuck in his chest and back as parts of their handle broke in the hands of the assailants at the time of attack,” Rein Bazar inspector P Anjaneyulu said. The accused fled from the scene and the victim collapsed on the road. The murder initially caused panic among the locals and a mob gathered around the body. “One of the accused is my father’s second wife’s son, Mehtab. He, along with three others, attacked my brother and killed him. I came to know that their initial plan was to attack another family member,” Imran’s younger brother Irfan said. Police shifted the body in an auto rikshaw and collected evidence from the crime scene.  Police found out that the victim’s father, Md Ghaleb Khan, who was a government employee, was married twice died 10 years ago. “Victim’s family has property disputes with the family of his father’s second wife. We suspect that it was the reason for the murder,” the inspector said. Police identified the accused as Imran’s half brother Mehtab and his associates, Taleb, Pasha and Chotu. The accused have been taken into custody and a murder case was registered based on the complaint of victim’s mother, Habeeb Unnisa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-stabbed-to-death-on-crowded-street-four-arrested/articleshow/76225097.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Govt waives Rs 6 crore power dues of Panaji market||PANAJI: In a major relief to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), the government has waived off the Rs 6 crore electricity bill of the Panaji municipal market. CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the chief minister waived off the bill. “It was a long pending issue. Initially, the bill was around Rs 50 lakh and then rose to Rs 70 lakh and kept rising with interest. He has waived off the entire bill. It was a big burden on us and impossible for us to pay it as market agreements were not signed,” he said. Signing of agreements with market tenants will start next month, Madkaikar said. “The draft agreement is ready. We are only awaiting full-fledged ownership. The cabinet has approved this and we are awaiting the official letter. Once we get it we will be signing agreements next month,” he said. Madkaikar added that it has become difficult for the corporation to maintain the market through sopo fees alone and said CCP will be outsourcing the cleaning and maintenance of the market, including the fish market, which will work out cheaper for it. In November last year, power minister Nilesh Cabral said he had moved a note to the chief minister to recover pending power dues from the grants the corporation receives. He had stated that the power department cannot provide electricity for free merely because the corporation doesn’t sign contracts with the vendors in the markets. After the power department last year cut power supply to the municipal market, the corporation agreed to pay dues in instalments and later withdrew its consent stating that it didn’t have sufficient funds to meet the department’s requirement of paying Rs 1 crore initially followed by further instalments of Rs 1 crore every fifteen days. The vegetable, fruit and flower vendors in the municipal market who pay regular sopo fees bore the brunt of the power department’s crack down on the corporation last year as they struggled to sell produce in the market in the sweltering heat. The issue began when the temporary electricity connection, issued in the name of Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) which constructed the first phase of the market in 2003 and the second phase in 2007, was not transferred to the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-waives-rs-6cr-power-dues-of-panaji-market/articleshow/76225714.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||World Environment Day a muted affair||Coimbatore: Unlike the previous years, environmental enthusiasts here observed the World Environment Day on Friday by sensitizing people through webinars.Every year, the enthusiasts would gather together to plant saplings and conduct seminars to discuss environmental issues. But, this year, as there are restrictions on public gatherings due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all sessions turned virtual. “The webinars were about learnings during the lockdown. How water and air pollution had come down and the movement of animals has increased when movement of people was stopped,” said K Kalidas, president of Osai, an environmental organization. “A large number of people could be reached out through webinars than through normal sessions.”It is high time we reconsider progress and development as we are destroying nature in the name of development, Kalidas said. “We should work to change our lifestyle to minimize emission and to preserve nature.” R Manikandan of Kovai Kulangal Padukapu Amaippu said that they planted a banyan sapling brought from Kerala near the Vellalore lake. The team also conducted a webinar on ‘Tamil Community and Nature’. Popular writer Nanjil Nadan deliver a speech. “The webinar discussed how people had forgotten the habits they had been following traditionally and how they are making everything artificial,” Manikandan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/world-environment-day-a-muted-affair/articleshow/76225099.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Biomining project inaugurated||Coimbatore: One and a half years after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed the city corporation to dispose the accumulated solid waste at the Vellalore dump yard in a scientific manner, municipal administration minister S P Velumnai inaugurated the biomining project on Friday.The Rs 60.11 crore project is expected to prevent degradation of water and air in Vellalore and also reclaim 69 acres of land at the yard.Since 2013, the corporation has been disposing over 1,000 tonnes of solid waste at the yard every day, polluting underground water and air. The accumulated waste used to catch fire during dry seasons. The civic body plans to dispose about 9.5 lakh cubic metres of accumulated waste through biomining process, an official said. “Accumulated waste will be segregated into biodegradable, non-biodegradable and hazardous categories. While biodegradable waste will be shredded and turned into manure, non-biodegradable waste will be further segregated to recyclable and reusable.”The project is expected to be completed within 24 months.Organizer of Vellalore Dump Yard Opposition Committee J Daniel Jesudass welcomed the development. “It is a good move but the corporation should implement it properly. Several projects that the corporation had started to scientifically dispose accumulated waste had failed,” he told TOI. “It should depute an expert to monitor the project and should not limit its role after handing over the project to a private contractor. Only by doing so, air, water and land can be saved from further pollution.”The civic body should stop disposing more waste at the yard, said secretary of the Kurichi-Vellalore Pollution Prevention Action Committee K S Mohan. “What is the point of spending such a huge amount and implementing the project if the civic body continues to dispose fresh waste at the yard? It should operate the micro composting centres set up across the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/biomining-project-inaugurated/articleshow/76225092.cms||Nivedha Selvam
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Abnormal temp: 20 passengers taken to civil hosp||Ludhiana: More than 20 passengers, who were either to board trains at Ludhiana railway station or had reached city, were taken to the civil hospital after the local health department found their body temperature abnormal during their medical screening on Thursday. Two of three trains whose passengers were taken to civil hospital were Maharashtra-bound Paschim Express and Shaheed Express. A passenger, who was screened, said, “I had been travelling in Shaheed Express train from Amritsar to Ludhiana since Thursday. When I was leaving the Ludhiana railway station on Thursday, the district health department stopped me for medical screening and found my body temperature abnormal. They took me to the civil hospital for conducting throat swab test.” Satwinder Bassi, in-charge of the health team deputed at the city railway station, said, “We have been following the best standard protocols by conducting body screening of each and every passenger. Once we find anything suspicious during medical screening, we took people to the civil hospital for further testing.” “On Thursday, more than 20 passengers were taken to civil hospital for further testing after their body temperature seemed abnormal during screening,” Bassi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/abnormal-temp-20-passengers-taken-to-civil-hosp/articleshow/76216586.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tulsi programme causes a stir||Mayor Bijal Patel distribute Tulsi plant on world environment day at Naranpura area in Ahmedabad on Friday.Ahmedabad: A public function organized by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, caused an uproar as the venue of the program was near a containment area. The AMC, for World Environment Day, held a programme to distribute 5 lakh tulsi saplings in the city. The venue was in Naranpura, close to a block of Mangalmurti Society is in containment. Deputy municipal commissioner D Sangwan, in a statement, said, “The venue was not a micro containment zone.” He said micro containment zones are very limited areas and in many cases only a part of a society is micro-contained, keeping in mind the larger public convenience as well as incidence of cases. Today’s venue was not inside any micro containment area.” Some BJP councillors argued that the area was in micro containment and the function was organised with the coming local elections in mind. Chief minister Vijay Rupani addressed the gathering through video conferencing. Social distancing was not observed and people crowded around civic officials. In his address, Rupani said, “The city and state are battling Covid-19 and a cure is yet to be found. The battle against corona is a long one and the people of Ahmedabad and Gujarat will have to fight it and each one will have to act as a corona warrior.” He said that the use of tulsi can improve his immunity and hence tulsi leaves should be used extensively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tulsi-programme-causes-a-stir/articleshow/76225167.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress defers its agitation to June 13||Hyderabad: The proposed agitation programme of Congress at irrigation project sites on Godavari river has been postponed from June 6 to June 13. TPCC president and Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy said the date has been changed as state government is not allowing them to go to project sites. “The lockdown will almost come to an end on June 8. So, we have decided to organise our agitation programme on June 13,” Uttam said. AICC secretary V Hanumantha Rao charged TRS government of unleashing police power to stop Congress leaders from visiting irrigation projects. “We are Indian citizens and have the right to visit any place in the country,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-defers-its-agitation-to-june-13/articleshow/76225102.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Corona in your prayers: Quick 'darshan' and no 'prasad' in Delhi temples||NEW DELHI: You will no longer see a throng of worshippers jostling for darshan, clutching on to puja samagri and offerings, in the Capital’s temples. It will be a quick dekko and a quicker exit. No sprinkling of holy water or distribution of prasad by the pujari. The bhajan mandli has a long wait ahead of it since only recorded music will be played. And this may be interspersed with messages on preventive measures to be taken inside the shrine to keep Covid-19 at bay. Identical restrictions will be enforced at all places of worship, including gurdwaras, mosques and churches under the SOP brought out by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday. Anticipating that they would be allowed to open next week, all places of worship are getting ready to welcome people wearing masks with appropriate social distancing and sanitising measures. At Kalkaji temple, devotees will be barred from entering the main puja area and will be stopped at the parikrama. “No offerings of any kind will be allowed. We have a sanitisation tunnel right at the entry and every visitor will be screened. Only if they are asymptomatic will they be allowed inside,” says Brijmohan Bhardwaj, joint secretary of the temple management. Mahant Jagannath Das of the Hanuman temple in Connaught Place says they will not allow entry of more than five to 10 people at a time. “Each devotee will have to pass through the sanitisation tunnel installed at the entry gate and prasad will not be distributed by the priests,” he says. Jhandewalan temple trustee Ravindar Goyal says they will not put a ceiling on the number of people who can go in but they will be kept six feet apart and only two queues would be allowed at a time. “People will be asked not to touch the railings, and anyway these will be sanitised at regular intervals. No offerings will be allowed, but when they walk out, we will give them a small pack of mishri,” he says. The pool of still water at all gurdwaras wherein people used to dip their feet before stepping inside are being emptied and taps are being placed for everyone to wash their hands and feet before stepping inside. This has been laid down in the SOP. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee says to ensure that the waiting time at grudwaras like Bangla Sahib and Sheesh Ganj Sahib is reduced, more entry points are being created. The guidelines include physical distancing of at least six feet; mandatory use of face covers; frequent hand washing with soap for at least 40-60 seconds; use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and covering mouth and nose while sneezing or coughing. Visitors have been advised to take off their footwear preferably inside their own vehicle. Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Imam Bukhari, says social distancing measures will be strictly followed. The main pond where the wazu (washing of feet and hands) has been emptied and people will be encouraged to do it at home before coming to the mosque. For those who can’t, taps are being installed. “Namaz is offered at the mosque five times a day but we are expecting the maximum number of people to turn up at evening and night because of the weather. We are well prepared to handle the crowd and have made the social distancing markings,” he claims. At all places of worship, people will have to bring their own prayer mats. Father Savarimuthu Sankar of Sacred Heart Cathedral said the church will provide sanitisers to worshippers and the seating arrangement will ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-in-your-prayers-quick-darshan-and-no-prasad/articleshow/76225721.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Banks, schools object to JMC digital birth & death papers||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) is receiving continuous complaints from people who are claiming that digital birth and death certificates printed on plain paper were not being accepted by banks, LIC and schools. After the outbreak of coronavirus, birth and death registrations were made online to prevent overcrowding on JMC premises. People are required to register documents for birth/death certificate online to obtain a certificate with a digital signature. But, banks and other institutions are raising objection saying these digital certificates are not printed on the official paper issued by JMC. Officials in JMC said, “We are getting complaints from people that these certificates are not being accepted in banks, LIC and even by some private schools since the documents are not printed on official paper. But this should not be an issue as the certificates can be printed on any paper.” Explaining how to identify whether a certificate is authentic or not, a senior JMC official said, “All the government institutions should be made to understand the value of digitally generated certificates. The banks or LIC officers having doubts about the certificates can log on to Pehchaan website where the details of birth/death certificate are uploaded. The officers can put the certificate number on the website. If the birth/death certificate is authentic, its number would be found there. But for that, the officials need to be made aware by the government.” The JMC officials have written to State Registrar of Birth and Death, Rajasthan, to write a letter to all the government institutions- asking them to accept the certificates as authentic and explain them the process to verify their authenticity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/banks-schools-object-to-jmc-digital-birth-death-papers/articleshow/76225086.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||No one came to claim patient’s body: Telangana to high court||HYDERABAD: Shedding more light on the controversy surrounding a Covid-19 patient from Vanasthalipuram, the government on Friday informed the Telangana high court that the patient had died on May 1 due to Covid-19. The wife had filed a habeas corpus plea seeking to know the whereabouts of her husband, charging the government with not sharing information on him ever since he was hospitalised. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told her counsel that the purpose of a habeas plea is to know the status of a person. “Now that we know he is no more, this plea cannot be continued. If she has any grievance against the state government or GHMC at the way the authorities had dealt with the issue, she has other legal remedies,” the bench said. The bench posted the case to June 9 to know if death certificate and ashes of her husband were handed over to her. Advocate general BS Prasad said there was no one to claim the body of the petitioner’s husband. “Hence, GHMC and police personnel cremated his body. We informed his wife, but she expressed her inability to collect his body because she was kept in quarantine at that time. We have handed over the death certificate to her,” he added. However, her counsel refuted the AG’s claims and said that she still believes her husband is alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-one-came-to-claim-patients-body-t-to-hc/articleshow/76225116.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Chennai||NGT constitutes panel to look into elephant deaths in Kerala||Chennai: National Green Tribunal southern zone has taken suo motu cognizance of elephant deaths in Kerala. The case was registered based on news reports about the recent death of a pregnant elephant in Pallakad district after it was fed pineapple stuffed with fireworks and a similar incident reported in Kollam last month. NGT south zone members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta on Friday observed that such things were probably happening because norms meant for protecting wild animals were not followed and they wanted the government to come up with a long term strategy to minimise man-animal conflict in forest areas. Therefore, a joint-committee was constituted to look into the issue and submit a factual report on the same before July 10. The committee will have a senior officer (not below the rank of chief conservator of forest), chief wildlife warden, wildlife warden of Silent Valley Division, divisional forest officer of Mannarkkad and Punalur, Palakkad district collector and another senior officer from Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Southern zone. Officials from Silent Valley division will be the nodal agency for coordination. The committee’s report will also explain if any scheme was already in place to avoid such tragedies, along with suggestions and action taken in respect of investigation, arrest and recovery of compensation. Besides this, NGT southern zone had taken suo motu cognizance of another issue highlighted in TOI on June 3. The report was on how sewage from industries polluted Adyar River, thereby leading to spread of water hyacinth. A separate joint-committee was constituted to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-constitutes-panel-to-look-into-elephant-deaths-in-kerala/articleshow/76225113.cms||Ram Sundaram
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||New road to Pollachi in the works||Coimbatore: If everything goes well, one could reach Pollachi from the city without getting stuck at traffic snarls via Podanur, Chettipalayam, Myleripalayam and Arasampalayam. This will be an alternate road to reach Pollachi.The state highways department is planning to lay two-lane road for a stretch of 23.65km on this route at an estimated cost of Rs 62 crore. The road would be 10 metres wide. The project entails acquisition of 23.65 acres land, the cost of which is not included in the project cost.A state highways department source said they have sent a proposal to the government, seeking around Rs 22 crore for land acquisition. “The fund is yet to be sanctioned.”The source said they would take over the roads that come under the jurisdictions of village panchayat, panchayat unions and district panchayat for the project. The plan is to convert the existing single lane roads into two lanes.According to the source, the road would pass through Mettupalayam village, Mullupadi, Kaniyalampalayam, Kothavadi, Nallattipalayam, Kodangipalayam, Kondampatti and Arasampalayam village that fall under Kinathukadavu taluk, and Chettipalayam, Othakkalmandapam and Myleripalayam village, which come under Madukkarai taluk. “Land, including fertile ones, will be acquired from all these places for a width of 16 metres.” On June 3, district revenue officer Rama Duraimurugan, Kinathukadavu tahsildar Sridevi and revenue department officials had conducted a meeting with landowners at a marriage hall in Kinathukadavu. The landowners didn’t raise any objections to acquiring their land. Now, the state has to disburse funds for land acquisition.The district revenue officer said the landowners would be compensated in accordance with the new land acquisition act that was implemented in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-road-to-pollachi-in-the-works/articleshow/76225104.cms||A Subburaj
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Religious places gear up to reopen, wait for govt guidelines||JAIPUR: Religious places in the state are gearing up to open their gates for the devotees again, as they wait for the state government’s guidelines for it. The management committees and priests of famous religious places in the state said that they will follow every guideline by the government related to temples, gurudwaras, mosques and churches. Many of them have already started installing ‘no touch’ water taps and making sanitisers available. BM Sharma, general secretary of Kholey Ke Hanumanji temple in the city, was of the view that until the state is witnessing Covid-19 cases, no offerings should be allowed at the temples. “We also decided not to allow the devotees to offer sweets in the temple and we too will not give them any prasad (offering) in return. Also, we will have separate entry and exit for the temple and at the entry point, every single devotee will have to go through thermal screening and sanitisation,” Sharma said while talking to TOI. Mahant Kailash, priest of the famous Moti Doongri temple, said, “We are waiting for the guidelines by state government. Also, our temple, whenever it will be opened, would be opened from 5am to 9pm, so people can come in smaller numbers at different times and we will maintain social distancing.” The management committee of Mehandipur Balaji in Dausa said that with the help of local administration including police, the guidelines would be followed. “We can’t do it single handedly as we need support from the administration,” said Mahant Naresh Puri of Mehandipur Balaji temple. However, Mahaveer Prasad, priest of Salasar Balaji temple in Churu believes that temples should remain closed for some more time. “I believe for everyone’s safety, religious places can remain closed for another month. At a religious place, we also find people who are going for a surgery and they come to seek blessings, how will you stop them?” On the other hand, Naeem Qureshi, of the management committee of Jama Masjid, Jaipur too has planned on ensuring social distancing. “If we have a capacity of 1,000 people for a namaz, we will ensure entry of not more than 125 people. Also, we will suggest people to offer a portion of the namaz at the mosque and some portions at home so that it takes lesser time and give us time to accommodate more people for the namaz.” At Raja Park, the Punjabi community have arranged for ‘no touch’ sanitiser and hand washing machines. “We will not allow any offerings. We have ample arrangement for hand washing and sanitising. In these tough times, we have no option other than following rules,” said president of Raja Park gurudwara management committee. Father Varkey of St. Xavier’s church said that they will wait for the state’s guidelines and will work and plan according to that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/religious-places-gear-up-to-reopen-wait-for-govt-guidelines/articleshow/76225723.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Don’t depute teachers for non-Covid work: CS to DMs||Jaipur: Chief secretary D B Gupta has directed all the district collectors not to depute teachers in departments or in offices which are not related to Covid-19, on Friday. The move came a day after education minister Govind Singh Dotasra shot a letter to the chief secretary, drawing his attention towards the practice of local district administrations engaging teachers at offices other than specified by the government. He highlighted how teachers have been deputed to combat locust operations, entertaining people in quarantine centres, census of animals, stopping marriages or to ensure the number of guests should not exceed the limit and monitoring of MGNREGA work. The order reads, “Teachers should not be posted in non-teaching offices other than those related to Covid-19.” Gupta further cleared that these orders should be followed strictly. Dotasra had cancelled several such orders issued by its own district education officers on the directions of the district collectors in the last one month alone. In the letter to Gupta, Dotasra stated that such weird orders are creating resentment among the teachers’ community. “It is also affecting the regular work of teachers,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-depute-teachers-for-non-covid-work-cs-to-dms/articleshow/76225095.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase testing where cases have been found, urge RWAs||Hyderabad: With a high number of positive cases being reported from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, residents living in containment clusters are urging authorities to conduct tests for people living in the vicinity of the house or apartment where a flat/ building has been contained. “A family, which includes a five-month-old baby, in our housing society was tested positive. Authorities had not tested the parents for two days even after their five-month-old tested positive. The parents then got themselves checked. Testing people in containment clusters is the need of the hour,” said Praveen Rao, joint secretary of a residential society in Gachibowli. Lashing out at the officials, another resident of the society, said: “After the baby was tested positive, it was admitted in a private hospital and the parents were sent back. As the parents are the primary contacts, they should have tested immediately by the hospital management or by the government. The government did not bother to test them despite society members informing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).” Some residents also requested that staffers working in supermarkets and grocery stores in their locality should also be tested. A request was raised by a resident of Sri Ram Nagar Colony (Kondapur), where a software engineer was tested positive. “ I request the government to at least test the people who are above 60 years,” said a senior citizen from the area. According to officials, they are following government orders. An official on Covid-19 duty said, “We are conducting fever survey around the contained flat/house. About 500 metres area around the house contained is marked as buffer zone. As per government orders, asymptomatic people are not being tested for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-testing-where-cases-have-been-found-urge-rwas/articleshow/76225111.cms||Nabinder Bommala
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven held for selling spurious seeds in city||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police arrested seven persons, including the MD of a private firm, and seized Rs 52 lakh worth spurious seeds along with other material from their possession. Acting on specific information, the Special Operations Team (SOT) of Cyberabad and officials of the Agriculture department apprehended K Srinivas, MD of Vikas Bio Science Pvt Ltd in Shamirpet, and the owner of Adarsh Seeds fertilizer shop in Aliabad, his house on Thursday night. Based on the confession of Srinivas, the authorities arrested P Mahendhar, Md Hussian, S Ramulu, C Venkatesh of Mahbubnagar, C Venkat and Rama Chandraiah. Cops seized 3,400 kilos of spurious cotton seeds and 7,000 kilos of spurious maize seeds, a DCM van and two cars, all worth Rs 52 lakh from their possession. According to the police, Srinivas, has been procuring banned BG-III cotton seeds from Nandyal. After processing and packing them at his plant, he distributes them to other accused for sale. Four separate cases were booked in relation to the illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-held-for-selling-spurious-seeds-in-city/articleshow/76225118.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Delay in promotions, govt teachers announce protest on June 12||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana unit of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, Punjab, has taken a stern notice of the dilly-dallying attitude of the Punjab government and the district education officer (elementary education) towards the promotion of primary teachers. At the same time, the teachers have taken up the issue of recent letters issued by the education department, directing teachers of mathematics, social studies and English subjects, working in various schools, to apply for transfers. The teachers will hold a symbolic dharna on June 12 at 10 am in front of the district headquarters, Ludhiana, keeping in view the coronavirus guidelines. Leaders and workers of various block units will also be present in the protest and press their demands on the Punjab government. They said if their demands are not met, a strategy will be devised by the organisation to intensify the stir. The district president of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, Hardev Singh Mullanpur; general secretary Daljit Samrala, finance secretary Manjinder Cheema, and press secretary Gurpreet Singh said it seems that the educational and socio-economic interest of students and teachers have no place in the royal priorities of the Punjab government and the officials of the education department. They said in this critical period, the government is keeping tight lipped and no policy has been framed for promotion of teachers. “The government does not care about the fact that a teacher needs stability to carry on with his/her jobs in a quality manner, which cannot be sustained by repeated expulsions from one school to another,” they said. Hardev Singh said, “Such an unbalanced policy of transfers will not bring any relief, but the education department will only suffer a massive structural setback.” Daljit Singh said, “Besides the mental torture being inflicted upon the underprivileged students in the name of online education, teachers too are being victimized in the name of salary cuts. The government’s move to reduce quota of promotions and increase the quota for direct recruitment on basic meager salaries, has triggered the protest wave among teachers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/delay-in-promotions-govt-teachers-announce-protest-on-june-12/articleshow/76216607.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TTP set to propel its growth by producing lithium titanate||Thiruvananthapuram: Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTP), one of the state public sector industrial units here, has successfully passed the quality test of its new chemical product, lithium titanate, which is used for the making of lithium titanate battery (LTO), and is all set to explore the commercial aspect of its feat. LTO batteries are regarded as safer and more powerful ones compared to graphite-based lithium ion batteries. Currently, there is no industrial production of lithium titanate in India and so is the case with lithium titanate batteries. “The lithium titanate produced by Titanium has got the stamp of approval of VSSC here and it has also passed the quality test in Central Electro Chemical Research Institute, Chennai. The LTO batteries are regarded as the batteries for future. Titanium can mass produce lithium titanate for the global market. We are already in talks with several agencies, including Kerala development and innovation strategic council (KDISC) for the production of LTO batteries,” said K Johnson, deputy general manager, R&D, Travancore Titanium. Japanese company Thoshiba is one of the major producers of LTO batteries worldwide. American electric vehicle major Tesla is one of the major automobile companies that explores the potential of titanate-based batteries over the graphite based ones. “Titanate batteries will have 10 to 20 times longer life and it has clear advantage over other batteries in terms of charging time. They can be fully charged in 10-15 minutes. It also means that public transport fleets could get charged quickly from halt points,” Johnson said. The LTO batteries are known for its high resilience in extreme weather conditions. It would perform smooth in minus 10 or 20 degree Celsius as it would do in tropical conditions where atmospheric temperature could go up to 45 degree Celsius or above. The high resilience makes the LTO batteries fire resistant. “The only disadvantage of the LTO batteries is that it would cost around five percent more compared to graphite batteries. But, the higher performance, extended life cycle and flash charging capabilities could very well offset the higher price factor,” experts involved in the development of Lithium Titanate claim. The technology edge Titanium has acquired for the mass production of lithium titanate also offers new possibilities to renewable power generators. The high volume of power generated by wind or run-of-the-river hydel power generating stations during off-peak hours may use the LTO technology for power storage, provided the cost factor could be addressed satisfactorily, pointed out experts in power sector. Travancore Titanium is one of the leading companies producing titanium dioxide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ttp-set-to-propel-its-growth-by-producing-lithium-titanate/articleshow/76224193.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Loans given to 70 farmers, says collector||Jaipur: District collector Joga Ram on Friday said that under the Sahakar Kisan Kalyan Yojana, loans amounting to Rs 32.41 lakh have been provided to 70 farmers so far since the inception of the scheme on June 1. “Farmers will be given loans at a cheaper rate to meet their immediate financial needs. This loan will be made available to farmers for a period of 90 days, which can be extended up to 180 days under special circumstances,” said the collector. Quality Control Week from June 22: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday said that Quality Control Week will be launched by the PWD through a video conference on June 22 and would continue till June 28. He said various activities will be carried out to ensure effective quality control in the construction works of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/loans-given-to-70-farmers-says-collector/articleshow/76225100.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Govt to garland UP with a string of expressways||Lucknow: As Purvanchal expressway is set to complete by the year-end, the Yogi government is drawing up a roadmap to start work on Ganga expressway, connecting eastern UP with the national capital via the western region, garlanding the state with a string of e-ways. Talking to TOI, Awanish Awasthi, chief executive officer, UPEIDA, said that efforts are on to lay the foundation stone of Gangaexpressway around Diwali this year. This would be the longest expressway in UP and the second longest in the country, next only to the Samruddhi expressway of Nagpur, he said and added that when the second phase of Ganga expressway from Prayagraj toBalia would start it would become the longest e-way in the country. Awasthi, who reviewed the project at a meeting held here on Friday, said that the Ganga expressway would be the first project on the north of the Ganga as it would go along all major industrial cities of western UP. The map of Ganga e-way has been finalised and UPEIDA has also got a traffic survey report which clearly states that the proposed e-way would have more traffic in comparison to Lucknow-Agra expressway and Purvanchal expressway and would become a potential revenue source for the state. “Before the lockdown the traffic flow on the Lucknow-Agra e-way was around 42,000 vehicles per day. Purvanchal e-way is going to have traffic flow of around 50,000 vehicles per day and the proposed 603-km Ganga expressway from Prayagraj toMeerut would have double the traffic flow of these two expressways combine,” Awasthi said. He, however, declined to reveal exact figures as he said that this is only the projection. The UPEIDA CEO said that after chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s clearance, the project would face no paucity of funds and the off road work is already in full swing. If the Lucknow-Agra expressway and the Purvanchal expressway are going to change the socio-economic condition of the central and eastern parts of the state, the greenfield expressway, which would connect the eastern and central UP with its western part and then finally with the national capital via Meerut-Delhi expressway, would create immense opportunities for people of western and central regions of the state. “With the Ganga expressway also turning into reality soon, UP will be garlanded with a string of expressways. It would also revolutionise the state’s economy,” Awasthi said adding that “even during the first step of land acquisition farmers would be benefited with huge compensation.” As the state is already credited with Agra and Purvanchal e-ways, the third and the longest e-way of the state is seen as a major step for boosting UP's economy by having an excellent connectivity with the national capital, offering a smooth access to state traders to national and international markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-garland-up-with-a-string-of-expressways/articleshow/76225730.cms||Subhash Mishra
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 cases rise to 10 in Secunderabad Cantonment, SCB asks citizens to follow safety norms||SECUNDERABAD: Coronavirus cases are rising across Secunderabad Cantonment with New Bowenpally recording it’s first case after a 27-year-old techie from Hanuman Nagar tested positive on Friday. Late on Thursday, a doctor living in Mahendra Hills also tested positive. Bowenpally is one of the largest residential areas in the cantonment. Cases have been confirmed in Mahendra Hills, Bollarum, Picket and Karkhana in the civilian-military area. With these new cases, the total cases in the cantonment has gone up to 10. “The techie is working at a multinational company. He was down with fever, cough and sore throat. He is now quarantined at Gandhi Hospital. We are waiting for the test results of three of his family members,” M Devender, SCB senior superintendent (SWM), told TOI. “As per new norms, we have barricaded only his house instead of the whole of Hanuman Nagar. The area is declared as a red zone, and has been sanitised,” said Devender, adding that the doctor’s house has been barricaded. “A lady doctor, who is working at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), was tested positive on Thursday night. Her house in Mahendra Hills was barricaded and sanitised,” he said. Meanwhile, a team of medical staff led by Dr Mary Meena Kumari, conducted door-to-door survey at Mahendra Hills, in the wake of new case. Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) vice-president, J Ram Krishna, who is also the representative of Mahendra Hills, said he is concerned about the rising number of cases. “Though we have taken up sanitisation thrice, covering Mahendra Hills and adjoining residential colonies, the cases are increasing. We will sanitise all the colonies in the ward again. Residents need not panic but should follow preventive measures,” Ramakrishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-cases-rise-to-10-in-cantt-scb-asks-citizens-to-follow-safety-norms/articleshow/76225120.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||4 IPS officers promoted, Soni is new DG crime||Jaipur: The state government on Friday promoted four senior IPS officers to the rank of director general (DG). B L Soni, who held the post of additional director general (crime), has been promoted to the post of director general (crime). Utkal Ranjan Sahoo, who was additional director general (planning, modernization and welfare) has been promoted to the post of director general (planning, modernization and welfare). K Narsimha Rao, who held the position of additional director general (reorganisation and rules), has been promoted to the post of director general (reorganisation and rules). Pankaj Kumar Singh, who held the position of ADG BSF, has been given proforma promotion. It is believed that when DGP (Rajasthan) Bhupendra Singh retires, one of them could succeed him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-ips-officers-promoted-soni-is-new-dg-crime/articleshow/76225114.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Online education to stay here forever: KSHEC||Thiruvananthapuram: The roiling criticism from political opponents and the tragic death of a dalit girl, who had no access to classes broadcast on television channel, might have forced even the otherwise stubborn chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to dress up online mode of education as a stop-gap arrangement to get across the crisis brought about by the pandemic. But, the Kerala state higher education council (KSHEC) led by left intellectual and historian Rajan Gurukkal minced no words in stating how ineffectual the protests against online mode of education could be in the post Covid-19 scenario in the higher education sector. A draft policy document prepared by the Kerala State Higher Education Council reads, “Thoughts about post Covid-19 higher education policy tries to capture the scope and depth of technology-aided education, which the council predicts would drive higher education sector in multiple ways in the coming days. The only question that remains pertinent would be how adept the higher education sector is in reinventing itself in the new techno-economic culture that the post Covid world is most likely to embrace”. “Pandemic lockdown has helped the world exhilarate the reforms, especially the mode of teaching and evaluation. It appears that the contingent situation will predictably divide the higher education institutions into two types. One type covering humanities and social sciences taught informally through virtual mode involving less expense and meant for the general public. The other type covering medicine, pharmacy, nursing, pure sciences, engineering and architecture taught formally through the campus mode involving more expense,” the draft documents predicted. Lockdown-induced closure of higher educational institutions will compel teachers and students to resort to online mode and there would be a call for a ‘de facto switching to the system of virtual learning’, said the draft document that has been sent to a consultative committee comprising of education experts for fine tuning. “Hailed more effective, quick and less expensive, the online mode of teaching would allow all the open and other universities to run UG and PG programmes in online mode pushing an unprecedentedly huge number of teachers into a mode unfamiliar to them,” said the document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/online-education-to-stay-here-forever-kshec/articleshow/76224219.cms||B S Anilkumar
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||SUV mows down girl, engg student||Hyderabad: In a hit-and-run case, an eight-year-old girl and an engineering student were mowed down by an SUV when they were crossing Armoor-Karimnagar national highway on Thursday night. Two other children suffered injuries. Police said all of them are cousins and reunited at their uncle’s house in Kammarpally village following easing of lockdown. They were headed to their grandfather’s house. B Lakshmi Aditya (8), P Srija (23), B Lakshmi Atitya (11) and Devansh (4) were crossing the road when SUV hit them. “Srija and Aditya died after being shifted to hospital,” Kammarpally SI Mohammed Asif told TOI. SUV driver allegedly sped away. Police said they traced registration number. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suv-mows-down-girl-engg-student/articleshow/76225124.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Trichy||2,000 native tree saplings planted in Srirangam for World Environment Day||TRICHY: The Trichy Corporation planted 2,000 native tree saplings using Miyawaki method in a 9,000 square feet vacant land in Srirangam to commemorate the World Environment Day on Friday. The afforestation drive that went on for eight hours was completed by 25 civic body employees, while adhering to social distancing. The land chosen for the ‘Forest in the City’ initiative is situated at Balaji Avenue. TRICHYOfficials said that the land was chosen since it was fenced on all sides and has a water source. The saplings were planted at the rate of three saplings in one square metre land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2000-native-tree-saplings-planted-in-srirangam-for-world-environment-day/articleshow/76225753.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Shut for 2 months, malls & hotels hope to open doors next week in Delhi||NEW DELHI: All malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship in the capital — barring those in the containment zones — may reopen next week, with Delhi government likely to give relaxations from Monday as per a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union health ministry. The capital’s close to 80 malls and scores of hotels and restaurants have been shut since March 25 due to the lockdown, leaving thousands of people without work and drying up a major source of revenue for the government. All these places, which used to be crowded before the novel coronavirus pandemic, are now getting ready to resume business in a new way. “The guards at the gates will wear personal protective kits and all others who do not come in close contact with visitors will get masks, face shields and gloves,” said the owner of a south Delhi mall. Harsh Vardhan Bansal, general secretary of Delhi Builders and Promoters Association, assured that malls would be completely safe as they have a controlled and organised environment and would restrict the crowd to the maximum 50% of their capacities at any given point. “The malls have prepared for contactless shopping experience. Doors of many shops have been removed and the rest will always keep them open so that consumers don’t need to touch them,” Bansal said. All staff will be screened at the entrance and will wear green bands. “It will reassure the customers that they are safe inside the malls,” he said. The theatres and playstations inside the malls will, however, remain closed as per the central SOP. At least six-foot social distancing and face covers will be mandatory for all visitors. All premises will also have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions for everybody at the entrance. “Only visitors with no symptoms will be allowed and the management will undertake queue management to avoid any unorganised crowd,” said a source. According to the health ministry’s SOP, not more than 50% of the sitting capacity can be permitted in food courts. The premises will also have to be disinfected periodically. The restaurants, as per the SOP, can also use only 50% of the seating capacity, besides adhering to other safety rules. The hotels will have to disinfect the luggage before sending them to a guest’s room and ensure contactless check-ins and check-outs. The hotels are prepared to ensure safety of guests, said an owner. No establishment, as per the central SOP, can allow people above 65 years, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shut-for-2-months-malls-hotels-hope-to-open-doors-next-week/articleshow/76225748.cms||AlokKNMishra
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||With summer at its peak, demand for water goes up||Ludhiana: With the summer season at its peak, the demand for water supply has also increased. People in many areas have now started protesting against the municipal corporation for failing to get proper water supply. With Covid-19 pandemic taking a toll on almost everything, people have been advised to wash their hands a number of times. This has also resulted in an increase in wastage of water in the residential areas. The civic officials have not started the drive to check water wastage as most of the staff members are still busy in Covid-19 duties. The depleting ground water level, which is the only source of drinking water for the city, can be gauged from the fact that the water level in 41 tubewells have reduced further during the last eight months. The officials concerned, however, are going to dig deep borewells to find water at the ground level. This has also raised an alarm for the authorities as well as the residents. The water level has reduced in tubewells situated in areas like Islam Ganj, Maharana Partap Nagar, Sunet village, labour colony, Abdullapur Basti, Tilak Nagar, Muslim Colony, Rajesh Nagar, Santokh Nagar, Nanak Nagar, Bihari Colony, Kabir Road, R K Road, NKH Park, Sardar Nagar, Mohalla Nanaksar, Sua Road, Anandpura, Baba Than Singh Road, Shimla Colony, Karamsar Colony, New Shastri Nagar, MIG Flats Sector 32 Samrala Chowk, Jai Singh Nagar at Rahon Road, Janta Nagar, Bharat Nagar, Punjab Mata Nagar, BRS Nagar Block-A, Tagore Nagar, Jagannath Puram, Maha Singh Nagar, Jawaddi, Mahinder Nagar, Mohalla Gobindsar, Dashmesh Nagar, Sham Nagar, Shere Punjab colony, Dyal Nagar and Kutcha Harnam Dass. Of the 300 proposals to be kept in the meeting of the finance and contracts committee, 41 proposals are only about depleting water level in tubewells. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had allowed these proposals before the meeting, but even then the residents faced water crisis for a long time. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that they have almost 1,000 tubewells in the city for water supply and in case a few tubewells do not function, the supply will not be affected as all the water supply lines are interconnected. He said water pressure can be a little low, but it is not possible that people did not get water supply at all. When contacted mayor Balkar Sandhu, he said, “The situation of the ground water level is alarming and this is the reason we are trying to bring canal-based water supply for residents. As far as challaning is concerned, I will ask the officials concerned to check the violators. ------------------------------------ NGT orders 7-hour water supply in industrial town According to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), only seven-hour water supply should be given to the residents in the city because of the low water level and poor condition of treatment plants. During summer, the demand increases to at least 10 hours, but officials are unable to increase the timings. They have now decided to increase supply in areas where there is a major problem, while in the rest of the areas, water will be supplied for only 7 hours. -------------------------------- No challans for water wastage this season The civic officials have not issued a single challan against water wastage in the city. The officials have, however, blamed Covid-19 duties for their failure in issuing the challans. They have claimed that people are already facing financial problems so they avoided challans. But in case there is a complaint from any area regarding water wastage, they will immediately issue challan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-summer-at-its-peak-demand-for-water-goes-up/articleshow/76216615.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents heave sigh of relief as SCB, GHMC clean up Patny nala||Secunderabad: In a big relief to about 200 families residing the the Patny nala, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Friday jointly took up the cleaning of the open drain. In view of the ensuing rains, the two bodies have decided to clean the nala so that drain water can empty into the Hussainsagar Lake. “The Patny nala is clogged with plastic, thermocol and other waste. Both SCB and GHMC have jointly taken up this operation to remove the waste,” said M Devender, senior SCB superintendent, health and sanitation wing. “We have identified three to four points where a lot of waste enters into the nala and decided to close them,” he added. According to a GHMC official, the cleaning works will be completed within two weeks and the expenditure incurred will be shared between SCB and GHMC. Happy that their longstanding demand is being fulfilled, a resident of Paigah Colony said, “We welcome the efforts and will hopefully get some relief from the overflowing drain water and foul smell”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-heave-sigh-of-relief-as-scb-ghmc-clean-up-patny-nala/articleshow/76225128.cms||Sunil Mungara
June 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Bittu pays Rs 10k for upkeep of pitbull dog||Ludhiana: Congress MP Ravneet Bittu on Thursday gave a c heque of Rs 10,000 to mayor Balkar Sandhu and officials of the municipal corporation for the upkeep of a pitbull dog, which is under the MC custody, for over two months now. The owner of the pitbull dog has not contacted the corporation to take its custody and the civic officials do not want to leave the dog on road as it can prove a threat to humans as well as other animals. The company which is handling animal birth control programme for the civic body, was earlier taking care of the food for the dog and had already spent Rs 6,000. Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla, senior veterinary officer of the MC, said, “The Congress MP, after reading the report in the newspapers, decided to pay for the food for the dog till its owner takes it back from the MC custody.” He said Bittu is in Delhi, but he asked his staff to hand over the cheque to the mayor. He also claimed that Bittu has promised to pay more if the owner of the dog does not come to take it. Dhalla said being a public representative, Bittu is also an animal lover. Notably, the pitbull was caught by a team of ABC centre from Isher Singh Nagar in April and since then they are taking care of the dog. The owner of the dog had called up the civic officials stating that she was unable to reach the due to the lockdown. She said as soo n as the flights resume, she will reach Ludhiana and take her dog. However, civic officials are unable to contact her as her mobile number isnt available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-pays-rs-10k-for-upkeep-of-pitbull-dog/articleshow/76216641.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Take mock test to prepare self: Delhi University||NEW DELHI: Delhi University (DU) has advised the final year students going to take the open book examinations (OBE) to try the mock test to get used to the system. It has also suggested that students should prepare well as they may not get time to consult books during the tests. Meanwhile, over 100 physics teachers have petitioned the dean of examination to rethink the decision and suggested alternatives to OBE. In the guidelines for students issued on Friday, DU pointed out that the candidates won’t require very high speed internet and would have to arrange for adequate numbers of A4 sheets. “This may be the first time that you are appearing for an open book examination... Mock tests will be available on the portal one week prior to the start of the examinations” to help students get acquainted with the new mode and assess the network and infrastructure required for downloading question papers and uploading scanned answersheets, it stated. The examination will be conducted in three sessions every day from July 1. The morning session will start at 7.30am, lunch session at 11.30am and the last one at 3.30pm. Students will have to sign a declaration before taking the exam. In the meantime, physics teachers have listed their objections to OBE. Sanjay Kumar of St Stephen’s College said, “In pushing OBE, the university is abdicating its constitutional duty to provide equal academic and evaluation opportunities to all students irrespective of their background.” “This is neither an open book exam nor an online exam... This is equivalent to centralised online assignment that has to be submitted in given three hours’ time,” alleged Sangeeta D Gadre of Kirori Mal College. “Not open book because there is no invigilation. Not online because common IT facilities under supervision is absent,” she said, adding considering only internal assessment and average of last five semesters would be better. Teachers have also pointed out that the online teaching learning process was not satisfactory. “The working group constituted by the university does not even include teachers’ and students’ representatives,” the petition stated. DU didn’t conduct any survey to “arrive at solutions for these unusual times”, it added. The dean of examination didn’t respond to queries related to the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/take-mock-test-to-prepare-self-du/articleshow/76225123.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||No pollution from offshore casinos in Mandovi, reveals water audit||Panaji: The water audit conducted of River Mandovi has ruled out pollution from offshore casinos, the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) said. GSPCB member secretary Shamila Monteiro informed the board members that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the pollution control board to carry out a water audit of the casinos in the river. “M/s TUY-SUD has submitted the final report, and the findings state that there is no pollution from casinos into the Mandovi,” Monteiro said. This exercise was required to be carried out since a matter had come up in the high court and NGT that the river was stressed due to discharge of sewage by the casino operators, she stated. Monitoring of the water quality was carried out following orders of the court, Monteiro said. She also said that casino and cruise operators are required to mount a tank for collection of sewage generated in the vessel. “The tank is locked and opened in the presence of board officials and the captain of ports for discharge into the sewage tankers for treatment in the sewage treatment plant,” she said. The records of the sewage that is collected and transported is maintained by the board. “Board members have approved for placing this report before the NGT,” GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar said. On June 15, a day after Congress alleged that the state government was not doing enough to monitor water pollution caused by offshore casinos in the Mandovi, environment minister Nilesh Cabral had announced that GSPCB would conduct a water audit of all casino vessels. Cabral said that on a monthly basis, GSPCB would monitor raw water that is being pumped into casino vessels and sewage discharged into the sludge tanks. The state government is also examining a new location to shift the offshore casinos from the river. Local MLA Atanasio Monserrate in the run-up to the Panaji bye-election had promised voters to move offshore casinos from the river within 100 days of getting elected. Recently, the government granted another extention of six months for the offshore casinos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-pollution-from-offshore-casinos-in-mandovi-reveals-water-audit/articleshow/76225738.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP government wants schools to plant Sahjan, lemon saplings this year||LUCKNOW: ‘Sahjan’ (moringa oleifera) and ‘Nimbu’ (lemon) is what the UP government wants its schools to plant during this year’s plantation drive. The UP government has set a target of 25 crore saplings to be planted this year. Of this, the responsibility to plant 23 lakh trees rest with education department — basic, secondary, higher and technical. According to a recent order issued by the basic education director, Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh to all district basic education officers, five saplings each of the wonder crop, Sahjan, and of lemon, the fruit bearing tree are to be compulsorily planted in the school garden. Lemon trees are to be planted in a way that they act as a fence to this garden and Sahjan is to be used to make a nutritious meal, the order states. Officials said, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has, in a meeting held with forest department officers, stressed upon the need to plant Sahjan and lemon saplings due to their medicinal properties. Mukesh Kumar, mission director in-charge for 25 crore plantation for 2020 said, “Sahjan is a miracle tree. From its leaves, to fruits and flowers, every part is useful. Lemon too has numerous health benefits. Students will make most of these plants.” Sahjan, which bears fruit within a year of its plantation, is also useful in Ayurveda. It helps cure liver diseases and has also been found helpful in preventing cancer. Lemon is an effective exigent food which helps improves the digestive system and is promoted as a weight loss food. In addition, other fruit-bearing trees like guava, mango, papaya, pomegranate, jackfruit, golden apple (bael), gooseberry (amla), neem and rose are to be planted during the plantation drive considering the agro-climatic conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-wants-schools-to-plant-sahjan-lemon-saplings-this-year/articleshow/76225744.cms||Isha Jain
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Buzz missing from Walled City markets||Jaipur: Traffic jams, shopkeepers screaming and drawing attention of customers, aroma of kebabs and small shops selling kachoris, the Walled City seems to be missing this usual buzz. Despite the fact that markets in the Walled City, except a few restricted areas, have opened, people are still cautious about venturing out. TOI on Friday visited the Walled City markets to analyse the ground situation. Be it Johari Bazaar, famous for gems and jewellery, Bapu and Indira Bazaar, known for clothes or Chaura Raasta, known for books, shops in every market were open, but without customers. “We are only rubbing and washing our hands every now and then. I have never seen such silence in the Walled City,” said Hoshiyar Singh, a shopkeeper at Bapu Bazaar. At Johari Bazaar, there were hardly any customers. “Logon ke bas phone aa rahey hain log nahin aa rahey (People are calling over phone, but they aren’t coming),” said Risabh Soni, a jeweller at Johari Bazaar The parking lots only had vehicles owned by the shopkeepers and the famous tea stalls and shops selling snacks were almost empty. “People in the Walled City enjoy coming to the market for buying spices, snacks and to have milk at the halwai shops. But all this is missing,” said a sweet shop owner at Johari Bazaar. Likewise, people said their priorities have changed for time being. “It’s not just about health, it’s also about the family budget. For our daily puja, we prepare mithai at home rather than visiting a sweet shop. The situation might remain the same till Diwali,” said 76-year-old Durgesh Khandelwal, a retired government employee and a native of Mishra Rajaji Ka Raasta. A traffic cop at Chandpole Bazar was looking more relaxed. “I have to scream literally on a regular day. There is hardly any traffic. Only traders and locals who have homes here are coming out,” said the traffic constable at Khajane Walon Ka Raasta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/buzz-missing-from-walled-city-markets/articleshow/76225740.cms||Ashish Mehta
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: School hikes fee by 9%, parents start online plea||HYDERABAD: After a well-known school in the city hiked the fee for academic year 2020-21, the students’ parents have began a petition on Change.org, demanding the school to do away with the ‘promoted class fee’ and collect last year’s tuition fee instead. The parents said that the school, which has its branches in Kondapur, Gachibowli, and Jubilee Hills, is using a loophole in the government order and has increased the fee by at least 9%. “The GO was released to provide little relief to parents during this economic crisis. The school management, however, is trying to make us shell out more by saying that we have to pay the promoted class fee of last year,” said a parent, whose pupil currently studies in Class 7. They also questioned how the school arrived at the promoted class fee for 2019-20 ( the baseline fees) when fees payable varies for every student depending on the year the student was admitted into the school. The parents said that they will approach the management on Monday with the petition, demanding the school to maintain the status quo on fees similar to the year 2019-2020. The petition has over 260 signatures and is addressed to the education minister and the school management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-hikes-fee-by-9-parents-start-online-plea/articleshow/76225135.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Woman, unborn baby die in botched-up surgery||Lucknow: A 35-year-old woman and her unborn baby died after a botched-up surgery by a quack couple, who misdiagnosed her labour pain as tumour, in Azamgarh on Thursday. The couple were arrested on Friday and a probe has been ordered to find out how the clinic continued to operate unnoticed for years. Superintendent of police, Azamgarh, Triveni Singh, told TOI that Kusum Yadav (35) went into labour pain on Wednesday after which her husband Ravindra Yadav took her to Maa Parvati Sewa Sadan in Mehnazpur area. “The quack couple, Sheela Chauhan and Shiv Chand Chauhan, examined Kusum and told Ravindra that she had a tumour in the stomach and asked him to deposit Rs 35,000 for operation. On Thursday evening, they informed Ravindra that Kusum has died,” the SP said. In his FIR lodged during wee hours of Friday, Ravindra said, “When I went inside the clinic, I saw there was no proper machine or equipment in the clinic. I could only find photocopiers and computers there. A room, outside which ‘private ward’ was written, was closed. When I opened it, I found cots in place of beds. I found my wife’s body on one of the cots.” The SP said a team raided the clinic and found Ravindra’s allegations to be true. “The couple have been arrested under charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-unborn-baby-die-in-botched-up-surgery/articleshow/76225758.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Medical officer booked for harassing doctor||BHUPALAPALLY: The district medical and health officer (DM&HO) in-charge at Bhupalapally has been booked for sexually harassing a doctor at the Chelpur public health centre (PHC). According to a sub-inspector of the area, the district medical officer, N Gopal Rao, has been harassing the doctor for months now. The doctor lodged a complaint against Rao on May 7, after which, he was served a notice. Rao has been booked under IPC Section 354. TOI tried to contact him but he was unavailable for a comment. The doctor said that she believes strict actions will be taken againt the district medical officer. - Shiva Kumar Pinna ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/med-officer-booked-for-harassing-doc/articleshow/76225139.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Private hospitals start routine OPDs, non-emergency surgeries||NAGPUR: As per the guidelines of the state government, all private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes in Nagpur have started their outpatient departments (OPDs) now. Doctors informed TOI that some important planned surgeries that were postponed for the last two months are now being conducted following all necessary precautions. “We are also admitting non-Covid patients. We are taking all necessary protective steps before admitting and checking patients,” said Dr Anup Marar, coordinator of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA), a body of private hospitals in the region. “It is important to take care of Covid-19 patients. But it should not come at the cost of other patients. We cannot keep them waiting forever for the treatment that they need. So, services at private hospitals have been resumed. We are functioning normally and conducting all surgeries,” said Dr Raju Khandelwal of Kingsway Hospitals. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur, which is now treating Covid-19 patients, kept its OPD functioning even during lockdown. “Our OPD will continue to function even though we are treating 43 Covid-19 patients here,” informed a senior official from AIIMS. Indian Medical Association (IMA) Nagpur’s president Dr Archana Kothari said that though the hospitals are open now, patients should take prior appointments to avoid rush. “Doctors are at your service and we are committed to treat all the non-Covid cases. Regular visits, tests and surgeries are being conducted. Doctors are taking all necessary care like wearing PPE kits. Patients should also follow the rules of new normal like Covid distancing and wearing masks,” she said. Even if the OPDs are functioning, patients are hesitant while visiting hospitals due to Covid-19 fear. Many hospitals have started sending SMSs and reminders to their regular patients. Doctors said that patients of hypertension, diabetes and renal disorders, who need periodic visits to revise medicines, are asking for teleconsultation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-start-routine-opds-non-emergency-surgeries/articleshow/76224242.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Appointment process of new RU V-C sparks row||Jaipur: The appointment process for Rajasthan University’s vice-chancellor has sparked a controversy. R K Kothari is the current vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University. A UGC appointed search committee member has informed the governor and chancellor Kalraj Mishra that the process underway lacks transparency and violates the basic UGC norms. The search committee constituted for the appointment of the VC includes — Prof S K Dubey nominated by the governor, Prof D R Saini who is the nominee of the RU, Prof P C Trivedi, VC, Jai Narain Vyas University, has been nominated by the state government and Prof G D Sharma, VC, Atal Bihari Vajpayee University in Bilaspur is UGC nominee. Sharma slapped two letters to the governor on May 23 and 28 drawing the attention of the chancellor office towards the two major lapses in the process. He stated, “The Chairman of the search committee without any consultation of any member of the search committee has issued the advertisement for the post of the vice-chancellor.” He termed the move non-transparent and in utter violation of the mandatory norms which states that the search committee must hold a meeting before floating the advertisement for the post. “Even if the lockdown is in place, the meeting could have held virtually. The absence of the meeting makes the advertisement illegal,” said an official who is closely following the events. The letter further raised the issue of violation of the UGC norms in stating the qualification for the post. “I would like to inform that the qualification mentioned in the advertisement ‘distinguished academician having a minimum of ten years’ experience as a professor in a university/college or equivalent position in reputed research’ is not in accordance with the existing UGC regulation,” the letter reads. It demands that the advertisement needs to be recalled and modified without any further delay. Reacting to the letter, Subir Kumar, secretary to the governor, told TOI, “Yes, the governor house has received the letters. The office is examining the issues raised in the letter by the experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/appointment-process-of-new-ru-v-c-sparks-row/articleshow/76225122.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Chaos & confusion prevail as clarity eludes both shopkeepers, customers||Nagpur: Chaos and confusion marked ‘Mission Begin Again’ on Friday as efforts of the administration to put economic activity back on track failed to strike the right chord.TOI came across rampant violations of the odd-even formula in almost every part of the city, primarily due to what many called ambiguity. However, in the city’s containment zones, shops remained closed, except the ones selling groceries. Crowds weren’t seen in areas like Mominpura, Satranjipura, Timki and Naik Talao, where roads too were barricaded.Shops selling garments, bed sheets, books, curtains, kitchenware etc started functioning as early as 9am. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) rules stipulate reopening of shops on an odd-even basis after remaining shut for over two months due to the Covid-induced lockdown restrictions.Though the NMC had made some changes like clarifying the previous order by announcing shops facing north and east on odd days and south and west on even days, shopkeepers remained unaware about the revised plan. As a result, shops in many localities, including Khamla, Dharampeth, Laxmi Nagar, Bajaj Nagar, Sakkardara, Kelibagh Road, Itwari, Kalamna, Indora etc remained opened on either side. Vehicular traffic was back to normal and many city areas saw hawkers returning to the streets, leading to traffic snarls on stretches like Kelibagh road, Itwari, Sitabuldi main road, Laxmi Bhuvan to Ram Nagar chowk and the main road in Khamla. During a drive on Sitabuldi main road, TOI spotted abject violation of the odd-even formula and Covid distancing norms with hawkers occupying a major portion on either side. Similar was the situation on Kelibagh road and the stretch between Indora chowk and Kamal Talkies chowk. The situation was no different in Jaripatka either.To avoid crowding inside establishments, some shopkeepers restricted the entry of customers while many were found violating the guidelines. NMC’s nuisance detection squad along with 10 zonal teams were seen patrolling in some busy commercial areas to check the chaos. Assistant municipal commissioner from Gandhibagh zone Ashok Patil along with the civic cops also closed some shops in Itwari and Mahal areas after they were found open not on their stipulated day.While announcing the guidelines, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had said, “Coronavirus is very much present. But we need to allow economic activities carefully. We must try to normalize the situation with due care and safety measures while venturing out for any work.”TOI found that most of the shopkeepers kept sanitisers at the entrance and also placed banners at visible places, requesting customers to maintain covid distancing and use masks mandatorily while venturing outside.(Box)NMC fines 36 people for not wearing masks With effect from April 15, masks have been made compulsory in public places, workplaces and also while commuting. Following the state government’s guidelines, the NMC, too, had fixed a fine of Rs200 for violations. On Friday, the civic body penalized 36 and collected Rs7,200 as fines.The most number of people venturing out without masks were found in Dhantoli. Here, civic cops fined 12 and recovered Rs2,400. Following Dhantoli was Dharampeth zone where seven citizens end up paying Rs1,400 as fines. Five each were penalized in Hanuman Nagar and its neighbouring Nehru Nagar zones.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe made wearing masks compulsory. From April 15 till May 30, the NDS squad from 10 zones penalized 534 people and recovered Rs1,18,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chaos-confusion-prevail-as-clarity-eludes-both-shopkeepers-customers/articleshow/76224232.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Applications invited for LLM entrance test||Thiruvananthapuram: Applications have been invited for the entrance examination for admissions to LLM course, 2020-21, in government law colleges at Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kozhikode and in private self-financing law colleges in the state which have entered into seat sharing agreement with the government. Candidates who have passed the LLB examination (five year or three-year course) with a minimum of 50% marks from the universities in the state or other universities recognised by the universities in the state as equivalent thereto are eligible for admission. Candidates appearing or those who have appeared for the regular final-year LLB examination can also apply. There is no upper age limit for admission to the LLM course. The online entrance examination (computer-based test) will be conducted in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur on June 28 (Sunday). There will be two parts of a total of two-hour duration. Each part will consist of 100 objective-type questions. The questions will be of the standard of LLB examination. The application fee is Rs 840 for general and SEBC candidates and Rs 420 for SC/ST candidates. Candidates seeking admission to the course can apply online through the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in of the commissioner for entrance examinations from June 5 to 15 (till 5pm) and then remit the required application fee by way of online payment or by way of e-challan. After remitting the fee the candidate has to upload a recent passport size colour photograph, signature and required documents and certificates along with the application as mentioned in the prospectus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/applications-invited-for-llm-entrance-test/articleshow/76224233.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Two chargesheets for 2 murders in one locality during northeast Delhi riots||NEW DELHI: A group of men who had allegedly murdered two men at Bhagirathi Vihar during the northeast Delhi riots were named in the chargesheets filed by Delhi Police on Friday. Cops filed two separate chargesheets for the murders as two FIRs were registered on different dates. The accused were allegedly part of a WhatsApp group that was being used to instigate rioters in Gokulpuri. The chargesheet mentions that in the first incident, a mob caught hold of a car-mechanic, Aqil Ahmed, near New Mustafabad. They bludgeoned him to death on the Jal Board Puliya, Bhagirathi Vihar, and threw his body in a drain. The body was recovered two days later along with four other bodies. The second incident took place in the evening. A group of men switched off the power connection at Bhagirathi Vihar and entered a house to drag out an auto driver, Musharraf. He was bludgeoned to death with clubs and the body dumped in the same drain. Two separate FIRs were registered at the Gokulpuri police station on the complaints of the family members of the deceased. The chargesheet mentioned that during the probe it was found that both the areas where the murders took place did not have CCTV cameras. Cops came to know that some men had joined hands on February 25, to avenge the massive rioting that took place on February 24. Some members of a WhatsApp group were tracked down. During questioning, they said that the group had 125 members. Several members of the group were silent while the others spoke about taking revenge for the widespread murder and damage to property. Subsequently, witnesses confirmed the roles of the accused. Bases upon oral evidence and chat in the WhatsApp group, the identity of the perpetrators was fixed, police said in the chargesheet. Cops arrested 10 people for the murder of Aqil. Nine others were arrested for the murder of Musharaff. Police also found these men to be involved in the murder of a few other men and they will be booked under different chargesheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-chargesheets-for-2-murders-in-one-locality-during-ne-riots/articleshow/76225133.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||75-year-old moves Delhi HC for Covid bed, dies hours after petition accepted||NEW DELHI: Moti Ram Goyal, a resident of Nand Nagri, had moved Delhi high court seeking that Delhi government be directed to provide him a bed in a government hospital as he was suffering from Covid-19. But in a tragic turn of events, Goyal died on May 3, hours after his petition was accepted for hearing the next day. The 75-year-old had contracted the virus from a nursing home where he had been admitted for check-up by his son. His family members alleged that when he started showing symptoms of the viral infection, they tried to admit him in four hospitals, but they refused saying no beds were available. He died in the private hospital where he had been admitted. Goyal’s son, Anil, told TOI that his father had been suffering from chronic blood pressure. On May 25, he fainted and was taken to a private clinic in Shahdara. The doctor there referred him to a nursing home near Anand Vihar. “Though he was treated by the doctors there, the hospital authorities realised that he was in a ward where they had admitted Covid patients. He was immediately shifted to another ward, but the damage had been done by then,” said Anil. Within two days, Goyal developed symptoms of coronavirus and started getting high fever. “Initially, we couldn’t shift him due to the high fever. Later, the hospital authorities started pressuring us to shift him to a government hospital since they didn’t have ventilators,” Anil said. When TOI tried to contact the hospital on the number available online, the calls were answered by an automated system and then disconnected. The family runs a cycle repair shop in Nand Nagri in northeast Delhi. “I went to GTB, Rajiv Gandhi, Sanjeevani and Max Patparganj hospitals, but was told that all the beds under the BPL quota were full. I didn’t have money to pay for the private beds,” said Anil. The family members said Goyal lost precious time as the private hospital didn’t have adequate life support facilities. “I virtually pleaded with all government hospitals to get my father admitted. We then approached the high court with a plea,” Anil said. The petition stated how Goyal had contracted the disease owing to the alleged negligence of the private nursing home. He then couldn’t get a bed in a government hospital. His condition had deteriorated by then. The petition was received on June 2 around 9am and Goyal died around 11am the next day. The matter was listed for hearing on Friday, but the case was declared infructuous as the petitioner had died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/75-yr-old-moves-hc-for-covid-bed-dies-hours-after-petition-accepted/articleshow/76225764.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
June 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Adding hope and humanity to patient deaths in Covid-19 wards||AHMEDABAD: Earlier last month, a man in from Vatva, in his late sixties, succumbed to Covid-19 at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital at Civil Hospital. For the statistics, he was yet an unnamed victim like several others on the same day. But for the staff at the hospital, his was a case that needed empathy. “When we phoned his wife, we came to know that she was also at the hospital, getting treated for Covid-19. The couple was living alone, and their family was in Bengaluru,” said Dr Badal Gandhi, leading the team at Covid-19 hospital for dead body management. “We contacted the family but due to lockdown, it was not possible for them to come. We not only arranged for the last rites but also to collect his ashes and send it to the family.” As a trauma expert, Dr Gandhi is no stranger to deaths. “But Covid-19 is something else. The initial few days were surely difficult as we were managing multiple bodies. The death toll increased then and we observe about 10-odd deaths daily,” he says. Deaths in Covid-19 wards are no less than a ritual. After the vitals are no more sensed, a team of doctors declare the patient dead. After disinfection on the bed itself, the body is put in a blue body bag and then taken out on a stretcher. Two workers disinfect the bed, the room, and walk with the stretcher for the entire path till the enclosed area on the ground floor of the left wing of the hospital. The inquest is again filled up and the body is disinfected before it’s packed in a bag and the relatives are contacted. The body is identified and handed over in sanitized mortuary vans as they depart for the patient’s last journey. Even as he talked, his phone kept buzzing with the updates of bodies to be brought down or of coordination with the relatives. “I would be lying if I say that I don’t fear Covid-19 – I see death every day. I am concerned about safety of my family. But I also know that it’s my work and I must do it in the best possible manner with all precautions,” he said, adding that a team of 15-odd persons right from doctors to helpers are working round the clock to ensure that all patients get dignified death. Does the daily toll affect him? “It’s not all about despair – it’s also about finding hope and humanity. The relatives go to great lengths to ensure that their dear ones get the best possible last rites. Even that was difficult during lockdown,” said Dr Gandhi, who often has to inform the relatives about their loss. “We keep on telling the staff that it’s not just a person – he or she meant the world for someone and we must respect that. Deaths can move you and also make you see the good around you when you realize that life is too short.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adding-hope-and-humanity-to-patient-deaths-in-covid-wards/articleshow/76225145.cms||Parth Shastri
June 6, 2020||Goa||Goa: Chaos in Mangor Hill over delay in arrival of ambulance, testing too comes to a halt||VASCO: Chaotic scenes were witnessed in the containment zone of Mangor Hill on Friday afternoon after residents started to gather outside their houses. People were furious when an ambulance took more than two hours to arrive after five locals, including a two-year-old child, complained of uneasiness and fever. They were also upset that no essential commodities had been supplied to them till afternoon despite assurances from chief minister Pramod Sawant. News about the delay in the arrival of the ambulance spread quickly and angry residents rushed out of their homes and spilled on to the roads. They were already upset as they had queued up for around three hours in the morning waiting to be tested and had to return as the staff from the urban health centre failed to turn up. Testing of residents at the containment zone came to a standstill after seven health workers from the urban health centre (UHC) that had been on duty there tested positive for Covid-19. Councillor Fredrick Henriques said, “People stood in a queue from 9am till noon waiting for their check-up, but nobody turned up.” According to councillor Yatin Kamurlekar, who rushed to the site along with Mormugao Municipal Council’s (MMC) chairperson Nandadeep Raut and other councillors, said since the ambulance did not arrive for almost two hours, the councillors arranged for a private vehicle and the patients were then moved to the sub district hospital at Chicalim. The police standing near the barricades were seen requesting people to move inside their houses, but the crowd dispersed only after they were assured that prompt medical attention would be provided and that groceries would be made available. Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida said he has asked the collector to keep an ambulance at Mangor Hill 24x7 exclusively for the containment zone. Meanwhile, supply of groceries to the Mangor Hill residents commenced from Friday evening. However, the Vasco MLA said that “the arrangements made are not enough”. “There are many houses and not all are getting the supply of essentials. In fact, there are people who are starving as they are poor, and when they contacted their family and friends from outside the containment zone to provide them food, it was not allowed by the police,” Almeida told TOI. When contacted, the Vasco police said that initially they had no instructions to allow food inside the containment zone. “But, after the deputy collector and others came to the site and it decision was taken, people were asked to come and pick the parcels from their acquaintances without them being allowed into the containment zone,” a police officer said. While rice and dal were being supplied free, the residents have been asked to call on the helpline number and place their orders for other groceries. “The groceries will be kept on a table and the persons concerned will be called up to pick their packets and drop the money into a box,” a member of the disaster management team said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chaos-in-mangor-hill-over-delay-in-arrival-of-ambulance-testing-too-comes-to-a-halt/articleshow/76225759.cms||Ruvina Khan
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Team inspects city school for holding exam||St Xavier School, C-Scheme, allegedly called 13 students of Class IX to conduct a supplementary exam on Friday. After a complaint received on district collectors Covid-19 helpline, a team of education officers went for inspection to the school. No school is allowed to hold any educational activities during the lockdown according to government guidelines. TOI was unable to the contact school authorities. Ram Chandra Pilaniya, district education officer of Jaipur, said, “We received orders from the district collector to investigate the issue. We sent the chief block education officer for inspection of the school. They showed us some CBSE order from May 13, 2020, but that wasn’t applicable in Rajasthan. We have made a report and sent it to district collector who will take appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/team-inspects-city-school-for-holding-exam/articleshow/76225127.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Will only shell out tuition fee, say parents to schools||HYDERABAD: Parents of school students in the city said that they would not be clearing the first term fee unless schools adhere to government guidelines and collect only tuition fees. Parents said that despite making several requests, school managements are forcing them to pay various other types of fees including transport, mess, activities, among others, in order to issue books and allow children into online classes. “While my child’s tuition fee for the first term is Rs 42,000, the school is asking us to pay about Rs 56, 000 towards sports, labs, library, field trip among others. Why should I pay anything apart from the tuition fee when my son is not availing any of these facilities?” questioned a parent. “Along with my son and daughter, two other children from the family attend the same school. If the school agrees to collect only tuition fees, I will pay immediately,” said the parent, a marketing professional. He added that it is surprising to see one of the branches adhering to all government guidelines while others don’t follow any. Parents said that both teachers and administration staff have been calling them about paying fees so that they can collect books and join online classes. They also said that on one hand while schools are claiming that they have to pay salaries to teachers, the same managements are sacking teachers . “We don’t have a problem in paying the fee, but the school can’t add everything into the tuition fee and force us to pay even mess and transportation fees,” said another parent, whose children are in class 4 and pre-primary section. School managements, meanwhile, said that the fixed costs of schools are very high and added that their only source of income is fees. They claimed that while they could only collect about 45% of the first term fee, their total expenditure has gone up significantly due to online classes and to put in place precautionary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-only-shell-out-tuition-fee-say-parents-to-schools/articleshow/76225143.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Why NCR stands for national chaos region||NEW DELHI: The novel coronavirus pandemic has brought to the fore an issue that has plagued the very idea of NCR since the beginning — seamless, integrated and affordable transport. This issue is, perhaps, the primary reason why chaos has been witnessed during the lockdown often at the borders, which get sealed by the governments of the three states periodically. Urban planners and transport experts have been emphasising on a unified transport system and authority for nearly four decades, but the plans have remained on paper despite the formation of NCR Planning Board (NCRPB) in 1985. The only public transport system that gave NCR a semblance of being an organic entity was Delhi Metro. With the metro now shut, the fault lines have reappeared and, in fact, deepened. Buses of neighbouring states are diesel-run and can’t enter the capital, which switched to CNG following court directions in 1998. Despite autorickshaws having NCR permits, most drivers prefer to operate within their respective state borders. Those willing to travel beyond state borders demand exorbitant fares. In the past few years, app-based cabs have become a popular mode of transport, but toll tax has added to the travel bill. At present, cabs are not crossing borders either. NCRPB’s Regional Transport Plan 2021 recommends the creation of a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority for the NCR. The plan also talks about providing interconnection between Delhi and satellite towns to reduce pressure on the capital’s transport infrastructure, which includes unrestricted movement of buses, taxis and autorickshaws within NCR. The plan, however, remains on paper. PK Sarkar, former head of transport planning at School of Planning Architecture and member of the technical steering committee of NCRPB, said, “While the concept of NCR is more than three decades old, Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority never materialised. There were plans to have multi-modal integrated transport way back in 2007.” AK Jain, former commissioner (planning) of Delhi Development Authority, said, “The problem is that district administrations and state governments don’t understand the concept of NCR. As a result, people who moved out of Delhi are regretting their decision now.” “The contiguous urbanised area around Delhi, such as Gurgaon, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida, should have an integrated transport plan. Many industries, government offices and PSUs moved out of Delhi as part of the decongestion plan, but transport remains a problem,” Jain said. Ashok Bhattacharjee, urban planner and former director of UTTIPEC said that Delhi Metro and Regional Rapid Transit System connecting Delhi with Meerut, Panipat and Alwar would allow faster movement, but intercity and short trips need integrated planning too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-brings-to-fore-fault-lines-in-ncrs-transport-infra/articleshow/76225158.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Mangor Hill cases cross 100 mark||PANAJI: Goa’s active Covid-19 count rose to 131 on Friday after 30 new cases were detected, 26 of whom are linked to the Mangor Hill containment zone. Since the fisherman and his wife from the area tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, Mangor Hill has accounted for 116 of the state’s positive cases. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the government has taken “maximum measures” at Mangor Hill to contain the spread of the virus, and that people in the containment area are being provided with essentials. There are 350 families living in the area, he said. He also said that the state government has arrangements in place in case there’s a spike in positive cases. While the health department collected swab samples of 400 persons at Mangor Hill on Thursday, no testing was done on Friday even as health secretary Nila Mohanan said that the department would continue testing people in the containment zone. Meanwhile, four travellers who returned from Dubai earlier this week and had been placed in facility quarantine have tested positive for Covid-19. Also, eight patients who were at the Covid hospital in Margao have been cured and discharged. They have been placed in facility quarantine for seven days, and after that they will be home quarantined for another seven. Sawant said that the swab samples of around 290 passengers who arrived by rail on Friday have also been collected and taken for testing. He added that the state has ramped up testing. The CM also said that out of the total 196 cases reported in the state since March, 65 have recovered. He added that only ten patients had symptoms. “As of now, we have seen 100% recovery in patients reported positive,” he said. “That may be because Goans have a good immune system.” He said that asymptomatic patients are kept in isolation wards, and most of the time, they do not require any treatment. “They are discharged after eight days on testing negative twice for the virus,” he said. Sawant said that Covid-19 patients are not charged for treatment. On Friday, out of the 2,170 samples sent for testing, 1,023 returned negative while 1,117 reports are awaited. Three domestic travellers were placed in home quarantine and 415 in facility quarantine. Also, 19 suspects were admitted to isolation wards at various government hospitals. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa said that the condition of all Covid patients is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-hill-cases-cross-100-mark/articleshow/76225768.cms||Bindiya Chari
June 6, 2020||Kochi||Connectivity issues hit courier services in Kochi||KOCHI: Even though courier services have been given exemption from the lockdown regulations, operators are unable to gain benefits. Though many service providers have opened their offices in the city for courier delivery and courier booking, most of them are accepting bookings only to those regions where van operations can be made possible. “Service providers cannot undertake door delivery. Though customers can come to office and collect their courier or parcels, we cannot function at containment zones. Our activities are restricted to a very few areas. At the max, we deliver to Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad, and do not provide services beyond these regions,” said a staff of The Professional Couriers. As air and train services have not resumed full-fledged operations, courier service providers say they face issues related to logistics. “However, we try to deliver all items, except those in liquid form,” he added. However, there are several courier service outlets that remain closed. Customers are being directed to other branches. Though e-commerce companies have started delivering in many places, they are yet to resume full-fledged operations. Niranjana Hari (name changed), a customer who placed an online order for some dresses on May 25, said: “When I checked with pin code, the service provider said they were delivering in my area. I am yet to get an update on the order. Though payments have been made, there is no information regarding dispatch of goods. I don’t know how long I will have to wait,” she said. Many people are waiting for Flipkart, Amazon, Myntra and other service providers to resume full-fledged operations. They are of the view that e-commerce companies can save them from the risk of venturing out for shopping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/connectivity-issues-hit-courier-services/articleshow/76224268.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Nagpur||Nothing in relief package, hotels still shut: Owners a worried lot||NAGPUR: Owners of hotels and restaurants are a despondent lot. While shops have been allowed to open, their establishments are still closed. Centre guidelines permit them to open but the state government is not ready. Centre, in its relief package, did not announce anything for the hospitality sector. Piyush Rathi, a hotelier from Khamgaon, said that the central government had not made any provision for hospitality industry in its Rs20 lakh crore package. “We are facing a lot of problems. Our staff has left and bringing them back will be challenge. The central government wants us to run restaurants at 50% capacity. This is not economically feasible because overheads are very high. We have been allowed to exhaust our liquor stock. As we are not allowed to operate our establishments, we should at least be allowed to buy liquor from wholesalers and sell it at maximum retail price (MRP). Due to the lack of business, we are unable to pay salaries to our staff. Centre should do one-time restructuring of our loan instead of six months moratorium,” he added. TS Renu, president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA), said local hoteliers were elated when the central government had issued guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) for opening hotels and restaurants. “However, we soon realized that state government and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) would not allow us to operate till June 30,” he added. “It is such discouraging situation. Small lodges are facing extreme financial problems with almost 75 days of lockdown,” said Renu. The hotelier lamented that in every few days an amendment order is passed by local authority and they eagerly go through it to check if any relief given to hotels and restaurants. “As many employees are usually from neighbouring states, a few hoteliers kept them paying salary fearing they may not return once leaving city, but now they are also worried as liquidity is shrinking day by day,” he added. Hotelier Jasbir Singh Arora said it would take another six months before normalcy returned. “We have been paying salaries to our staff since last three months and will have to do it for another six months without earning much. It will break the back of many hotel owners. We are included in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) but the government will give only 20% extra of the loan remaining. If a person has repaid his loan he wont get anything. This is unfair,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nothing-in-relief-package-hotels-still-shut-owners-a-worried-lot/articleshow/76224280.cms||Ashish Roy
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Safety steps in place, Delhi government schools start giving books for new session||NEW DELHI: Students may not be back in class anytime soon, but Delhi government schools have started distributing books for the next session. The process has been on since Thursday and schools have devised several ways to follow safety protocols against novel coronavirus — bundling books in advance, calling parents in groups of 10-20 to ensuring sanitisation. Books are being distributed to the students of nursery to Class VIII as per the Right to Education Act. At the senior secondary level, the government transfers money to the account of every student. A K Jha, principal of Government Co-Ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, called in teachers in advance to keep books ready in bundles. “Parents then don’t have to move around. They just come to school, go to a point and collect the books,” said Jha. The school has also prepared a schedule to avoid crowding. “Parents and students are coming in groups of 10. To minimise contact, they are also not asked to sign the register. The teacher just maintains a chart,” he added. The school has finished distributing almost 60% of the books. At RK Puram, a school is being sanitised every time a distribution session gets over. “We are also maintaining a social distance of 1.5 metres. When parents and students enter the school, we sanitise them. Then they stand in circles drawn to maintain social distancing,” said principal Ratti Ram. For each class of 40 students, two teachers are called and the distribution is over in two hours. “We have enough space to accommodate 40 parents at a time safely,” he said. Some schools have also asked parents to come without their children. “In the message sent to them, we have also asked them to wear a mask and gloves. As the majority of our children are from the neighbourhood, most parents can just walk to the school,” said the principal of a school in Vasant Kunj. “The children are sitting at home without books. So I had to come, though I was a little scared. At least they can study now,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safety-steps-in-place-govt-schools-start-giving-books-for-new-session/articleshow/76225142.cms||Shradha Chettri
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Property dealer kills wife & three children, hangs self||Barabanki/Lucknow: A 38-year-old property dealer allegedly killed his wife and three children and then hanged himself at his house in Safedabad area of Barabanki. Their bodies were found on Friday. The motive behind the crime was not clear, police said. A note recovered from the house, however, revealed that he was under heavy debt due failed businesses. The deceased were identified as Vivek Shukla (38), his wife Anamika (38) and their children Ritu (7), Poem (10), and Babal (5). Vivek, along with his family, lived on the first floor of the house, while his parents and two brothers lived on the ground floor. Vivek’s relations with his family were strained after he married Anamika, who belonged to a different caste, against his family’s wish, said police. According to the police, Vivek’s mother Mithlesh went upstairs on Friday after foul smell emanated from the first floor of the house. “She peeped into Vivek’s room and saw him hanging from the ceiling fan while the room’s AC was on. She rushed downstairs and informed her younger son Mohit about it,” said SHO Kotwali, Pankaj Singh. Mohit went upstairs and broke up open the door of Vivek’s portion. He found all the family members dead and immediately informed the police. Senior officials, including DM and SP, reached the spot on getting information. SP Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi, told TOI: “Prima facie it appears that Vivek killed his wife first and then his children before hanging self. Bodies had brutal injuries. A knife and stone pestle has also been recovered from the spot,” he said. Chaturvedi said all the bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. “Forensic team has collected samples from the room while a note written in red-ink has been recovered,” police said. The note talks about the family being under heavy debts as a reason behind the incident. “We are trying to verify the contents of the note and establish who actually wrote it,” said Chaturvedi. “We are also verifying reports that Vivek initially owned a mobile phone shop and later on shifted to automobile modification business and then got into real estate. He is said to have suffered losses in all his business ventures which needs to be verified,” police said. Vivek’s father Bhuvan told the police that their relations with Vivek were strained after he married Anamika, who hailed from a lower caste. “There was a separate gate to Vivek’s portion in the house,” said SHO Pankaj Singh. The bodies of Anamika and children had decomposed, police said. “It appears that Vivek first murdered his family and hours later ended his life too. Since the AC was on, the stench spread outside the room quite late,” said Singh. The police are investigating whether Vivek was under a debt which he was unable to pay off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/property-dealer-kills-wife-three-children-hangs-self/articleshow/76225784.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw dole to officers’ kin: Cong||Hyderabad: The Congress on Friday demanded that CM KCR immediately withdraw orders issued to extend government service of retired employees and officers belonging to Velama community or relatives of gazetted officers’ association leaders and ministers. TPCC general secretary Koturi Manavatha Roy, OU JAC members Koppula Pratap Reddy and M Bhikshu Naik were taken into police custody after they cleaned the premises of Telangana martyrs’ memorial at Gun Park. Roy said unemployed youth will soon lay siege to Pragathi Bhavan if vacancies in government sector are not filled up. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/withdraw-dole-to-officers-kin-cong/articleshow/76225155.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Calangute case: Day after, CM Pramod Sawant dodges queries, dithers to act||PANAJI: Over 24 hours after it came to light that a woman who arrived from Mumbai ducked the Covid-19 test at the Patradevi border and then tested positive, the state government appears clueless about how the lapse occured. While public opinion swelled against the incident, which could put thousands of lives at risk, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that an inquiry he ordered is ongoing, and that “We will get her entry details”. The peculiar nature of the case — the senior citizen woman is mother-in-law of a panch member in Calangute, and had come for a wedding party — was reported by TOI in its edition dated June 5. However, speaking to reporters, Sawant ducked questions on whether her political connections let her slip through so easily, instead saying “people shouldn’t make allegations against government employees working hard at the borders”. However, on Friday, Calangute MLA and waste management minister Michael Lobo went out of his way to “clarify” the incident. “The 76-year-old woman is not from Calangute,” he said. “She came from Mumbai. Her daughter is married in Calangute. She got a health certificate from Mumbai and with the permission of the collector, came to Goa... Her Maharashtra driver told her he couldn’t go any further, and she should either walk or call her Goa driver... Since there was a queue at the checkpost, she got out of the car and started walking towards the checkpost with her documents.” A car was sent to pick her up on the Goa side. “After she called the driver and was told he was waiting 250m away, she went and sat in the car.” He said that perhaps nobody noticed the 76-year-old, or there was some miscommunication, but she was not checked. “According to me this is not a security lapse,” Lobo said. He also said that the wedding she allegedly attended was on May 31 and she arrived on June 2. “It was a small family get-together,” he said, adding that rumours that the woman died were unfounded, and that her doctors told him she’s responding well. Meanwhile, the CM hinted that human error could have caused the goof. “As per my information, she entered Goa on June 2,” he said. “Goa is the only state to test all entrants at the border (since March 22). Perhaps her test wasn’t conducted, and I’ve issued instructions to verify why it wasn’t. Nearly 3,000 people enter Goa every day, and our staff works 24x7. However, she didn’t meet many people after entering the state, and was restricted to her family.” Some of the CM’s own party colleagues referred to TOI’s report to question their government. “Will our system show some intention to punish the officers who allowed this violation?” asked BJP Goa veteran and former speaker Rajendra Arlekar. Former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar also weighed in. “Will someone plug the loopholes used by her to circumvent the system?” he asked. The woman, who attended a wedding party but not the wedding itself, was taken to a private hospital after she complained of breathlessness. After a private hospital didn’t admit her, she was referred to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, after which she was admitted in the Covid hospital in Margao. Meanwhile, Sawant said that he spoke to the executive magistrate and police officers deployed at checkposts so that such errors are not repeated. “I have instructed them to tighten the entry of people,” he said. “We cannot man the entire border with police staff, especially if people enter the state through inside roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-case-day-after-cm-dodges-queries-dithers-to-act/articleshow/76225777.cms||Murari Shetye
June 6, 2020||Delhi||New Delhi Municipal Council forms panel to review cases daily||NEW DELHI: The rapid increase in Covid-19 cases prompted New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Thursday to form a core committee to deal with emergencies and review the situation daily. In the past 10 days, NDMC reported 57 cases, including two deaths. Over 50 officials were put under home quarantine after contact tracing. On Thursday, a beldar working at NDMC’s Hanuman Road office and a shift in-charge at an electric sub-station died under suspicious circumstances. Officials said the beldar had fever and came to office till June 2. The shift in-charge faced difficulty in breathing. However, both were not tested for Covid-19. To keep a track of the health of suspected and Covid-positive employees and their families, a staff welfare cell has been formed on the direction of the NDMC chairman. The cell members will be responsible for immediate treatment of patients and their families. The move came after NDMC Employees’ Union wrote to the Union home ministry complaining about lack of seriousness shown by the civic agency in containing the situation and contact tracing Sudhakar Kumar, president of NDMC Karamchari Sangh, said that 30 cases were reported at Palika Kendra, the civic body’s headquarters, till Thursday, but no contact tracing was done. NDMC has now ordered all heads of departments to provide details of officials and employees found Covid-positive or suspected of being infected to the staff welfare cell. “A cell member will immediately contact the patient or his family members for facilitating treatment, including testing, consultancy and hospitalisation. A follow-up of the health status will be done on a regular basis and the information will be passed to the state nodal welfare officer,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-forms-panel-to-review-cases-daily/articleshow/76225148.cms||Vibha Sharma
June 6, 2020||Kanpur||All 22 piers for IIT Metro station have been completed||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has completed all 22 piers (pillars) of IIT Metro Station. UPMRC is aiming to compensate for the time loss for civil construction of priority corridor (IIT to Motijheel) due to lockdown. After resuming civil construction of corridor on May 15 with district administration’s approval, UPMRC engineers completed all the proposed piers for IIT Metro Station. Before the announcement of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, UPMRC had successfully completed 21 out of 22 proposed piers of IIT Metro station and in the post lockdown period remaining one pier has also been completed. Besides, UPMRC has also completed piling work till Kalyanpur Metro station. Managing director, UPMRC, Kumar Keshav, congratulated Metro engineers and said, “After stagnancy of last few months due to lockdown, Metro engineers are moving ahead with full zeal and trying to regain the desired speed of work at site and that have started bringing results in implementation of the Kanpur Metro project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/all-22-piers-for-iit-metro-station-have-been-completed/articleshow/76225147.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||2 waylaid, stabbed to death||Hyderabad: A group of assailants rammed into the bike of a history-sheeter and his associate with a four wheeler and stabbed them to death at Langar Houz on Friday night. According to police, the incident happened took place around 10.30 pm on Friday at Md Lanes in Langar Houz. When the history-sheeter from Golconda, Sk Mohammed and his associate, Faiyaz, were riding a two-wheeler near Olive Hospital, the accused chased them with his Qualis and rammed into the bike from the back. As soon as Mohammed and Faiyaz fell from the bike, the assailants launched an attack on them with daggers, Langar Houz Police said. Both the accused died on the spot and police launched a manhunt to nab the offenders. A case has been registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-waylaid-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/76225153.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Toll crosses 700 in Delhi; 44 deaths reported in 3 days||NEW DELHI: The capital has recorded 44 Covid-19 deaths in three days, from June 1 to 3. Of this, 25 deaths took place on June 3, 10 on June 2 and 9 on June 1. This has been revealed in the latest data shared by the government on Covid-19 situation in the state. The total number of death, data shows, has reached 708. The state’s Covid-19 tally has reached 26,334, including 1,330 new cases confirmed on Friday. After Maharashtra (80,229) and Tamil Nadu (28,694), Delhi has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases. In terms of fatalities also, Delhi ranks third after Maharashtra (2,849) and Gujarat (1,190). Though Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of cases in the country, fatality remains low in the southern state as it has recorded only 232 deaths due to the disease. City doctors said the situation in Delhi has worsened over the past few days only. “In the last one week, we have seen sudden increase in patients coming to the hospital with Covid-19 symptoms. The rate of positivity among them is also very high,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Saket. Another doctor, deployed at a government hospital designated for Covid management, raised similar apprehension. “There is increase in cases that indicates that the disease transmission is happening at a much higher speed and in multiple clusters,” he said. The doctor, however, added that most patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, which does not require admission. Delhi has 15,311 active cases of Covid-19, as per latest data. Of this, only 3,899 (25%) are admitted in hospitals. Total 244 (2%) patients are requiring ICU or ventilator support. “Severe symptoms are seen mostly in elderly patients who also have comorbidities, for example diabetes, hypertension, heart disease or cancer. They are most vulnerable to complications and fatality rate is also high among them,” say doctors. According to Dr Harish Gupta, co-ordinator of the Covid task force of Delhi Medical Association (DMA), one of the problems being faced by them is lack of testing facilities. “Many labs are refusing to test even if they have prescription,” Dr Gupta said. Delhi government has been conducting inquiries against several labs approved for Covid-19 testing for collecting samples from asymptomatic persons. However, some doctors feel testing direct contacts of Covid-19 patients is important, whether they have symptoms or not, to ensure they don’t spread the disease. The doctors say patients scheduled for surgery, too, need to get the test done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/toll-crosses-700-in-city-44-deaths-reported-in-3-days/articleshow/76225775.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Discharge patients with mild or no symptoms: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has ordered hospitals to discharge all mild and asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 within 24 hours of admission and report them to district surveillance officers. It has warned that non-compliance will be viewed seriously and invite legal action without any notice. The order has been issued by state health secretary Padmini Singla. “It has come to (our) notice that many asymptomatic and mild symptom cases have been admitted in the hospital facilities,” says the order. It says such patients should be sent for home isolation. If their home is not suitable, they should be sent to Covid care centres or Covid health centres, it adds. This comes days after the government ordered an inquiry against some private labs for testing asymptomatic patients and delaying reports. A senior official in the state health department said the order was in conformity with guidelines issued by the Centre. ‘Don’t keep suspected and confirmed cases in 1 ward’The guidelines issued by the Union health ministry clearly state asymptomatic and mild symptom cases do not need hospitalisation,” pointed out the official. This order on admission policy comes against the backdrop of multiple complaints from citizens about denial of admission to Covid hospitals which, in some cases, has even led to death of the patient. The Delhi government recently launched an app where people can see in real time the availability of beds in the city hospitals. All hospitals have been asked to add their daily admissions of positive patients, discharges and changes in bed availability status on a real-time basis on the App. “In addition, it must be noted that if there are any Covid-19 suspect admissions in the hospital facility, they must be kept in a separate ward and, therefore, the number of isolation beds dedicated for Covid patients must not be allocated to any suspect patients,” the government has ordered. Delhi has reported a total of 26,334 Covid-19 cases and 708 persons are confirmed to have died due to the viral infection. On Friday, government data showed there were 15,311 active cases. Of this, 3,899 (25%) were admitted in hospitals, 187 (1%) were at Covid health centres, which are equipped with basic medical facilities, and 1,060 (7%) in isolation at Covid care centres. Dr S K Sarin, chairman of the task force appointed by the Delhi government for Covid-19 management in the state, said mild and asymptomatic cases should be managed at home or at Covid care centres or Covid health centres. “Hospitals should be reserved for severely ill patients, those with high grade fever and very low oxygen saturation,” he said. The committee led by Dr Sarin had suggested making some hospital-hotel clusters in Delhi where people with mild symptoms of Covid-19 --who cannot stay at home and don’t want to go to quarantine facilities either -- could stay on a payment basis. Only a few such clusters have been created across the state as yet. Many doctors argue that the decision on whether a patient requires admission or not should be left to the treating physician. “A 55-year-old patient with mild symptoms may require admission if he or she has co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension or heart disease. We have observed that many such patients deteriorate very fast on the seventh to eighth day of the infection due to sudden deterioration in oxygen saturation levels. If that happens, the patient will be forced to run from one hospital to another looking for a bed with adequate medical support, like high-pressure oxygen or a ventilator,” said a senior doctor, who did not wish to be quoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discharge-patients-with-mild-or-no-symptoms-delhi-government/articleshow/76226566.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
June 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Fever cases reduce by half during lockdown in Ernakulam||KOCHI: During the lockdown period (April and May), the number of fever cases in Ernakulam reduced by more than half. Ditto with malaria and chicken pox cases, even as dengue cases increased. There was even a leptospirosis death. But now, with lockdown relaxations, fever cases are gradually increasing and those who fall sick now have to go to a fever clinic before meeting a physician. From 2017 to 2019, more than 10,000 fever cases were reported in April per year and 14,700 cases in May on an average. But this year in April, there were just 5,460 cases and in May it was 4,700. Health experts said the main reason for this was that people were not going out or mingling with others. Also, they were at home, relaxed and eating home-cooked food. All this must have helped bring down fever cases and reduced risk of infection. “Fever cases had drastically reduced. Those who had fever during that time opted for self-medication rather than going to a hospital. Only serious cases reached hospitals,” said Dr T P Vijayan, physician, General Hospital. However, with increased relaxation and change in climate, things are slowly changing in June. “If anyone who has travel or contact history develops fever, they should immediately call Disha helpline and get guidance for Covid testing. If not, they should stay at home, isolate themselves, try to take telephonic advice from a known doctor. If cough is accompanied by breathing difficulty, then they should immediately go to hospital. Precautions should be taken to prevent spread of the infection while at home and even outside,” said Dr Sheethal Binu, physician, Sunrise Hospital. During the first four days of June, 1,147 fever cases and 127 suspected cases of dengue were reported. These cases were from in and around the city like Kalamassery, Thrikkakara, Cheranelloor, Kaloor, Chottanikara. “In the last one week, we have been seeing a spike in fever cases, especially dengue,” said Dr Shyamla Menon, physician, Medical Trust hospital. “We have to be extremely careful during monsoon as the risk of all communicable infection is high during the rains,” said district medical officer Dr M K Kuttappan. He said it has been decided that any person with fever will have to go to a fever clinic where they will be screened by a team of doctors. Also, their travel and contact history will be taken. If need be, their blood tests, including Covid tests, would be done and based on their medical needs, they will be referred to a doctor. “Unlike in the past, patients cannot meet a specialist directly. Instead, they have to go through the fever clinic. We can’t take any chances now,” Dr Kuttapan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fever-cases-reduce-by-half-during-lockdown-in-district/articleshow/76224326.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In troubled waters, states move court once too often||NEW DELHI: The shortage of water in Delhi occurs due to a combination of two major problems — pollution in the Yamuna and upstream states not releasing the requisite amount of water for treatment plants to function. Every year, the three key water treatment plants in the capital — Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla — have to be shut down in January or February owing to increased levels of ammonia, industrial waste and filth in the Yamuna. Warning messages are flashed and catchment areas have to grapple with supply shortage. However, the source of these pollutants lies 85km upstream in Panipat Industrial Area, where Delhi has no jurisdiction. During summer, resource-stressed Delhi has to again spar with upstream states over the amount of water being released by them. While there are institutional mechanisms like Upper Yamuna River Board (UYRB) to deal with the issue, the fights usually end up in court. One of the functions of UYRB, which was set up by the Centre in 1995, is to regulate and supply water up to Okhla barrage in Delhi. This is in accordance with the agreements between the governments of the six basin states. “The fact that the existing mechanism can’t be enforced without intervention of court shows that the system has failed. Courts should be approached in extremely rare circumstances, but this is a regular feature in water disputes,” a senior DJB official claimed. Water management in the area, which needs the cooperation of NCR states, is clearly lacking. This has been adversely affecting watershed management, keeping depleting groundwater levels under check, spiking of ammonia levels and Delhi wanting to recycle its sewage. The capital receives 375 million gallons water per day (MGD) from Haryana through three sources — Yamuna, Carrier-Lined Canal (CLC) and Delhi Sub-Branch. “The core of the dispute between Delhi and Haryana lies in calculating the water obligation and who should get the benefit of the water losses curtailed due to the concretised CLC,” said an official. Haryana argues that the share should be calculated on the amount of water released at the barrage. Because of the width of Yamuna and other factors, there is 50% loss of water. However, the losses via CLC are just 5%. “Since Delhi paid for concretisation of the canal, it should get the benefit of the water saved. But that is not reflected in the calculations,” the official argued. The perpetual dispute is not restricted to water supply alone. In July 2018, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that recycling would be done using the Singapore model to recharge the river at Palla. However, the project, which had a timeline of two years, was stalled due to objections raised by Haryana in UYRB. “Despite the fact that Haryana’s water share wouldn’t have been impacted and the quality of treated water would be world-class, the state raised the issue of social acceptability. But that is Delhi’s internal matter,” said former Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Dinesh Mohaniya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-troubled-waters-states-move-court-once-too-often/articleshow/76225194.cms||Paras Singh
June 6, 2020||Goa||Four sarpanchs turned ‘labourers’ for cash: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Hours after labour minister Jennifer Monserrate denied allegations that funds from the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers (GBOCW) Welfare Board Assistance Scheme — Covid-19 had been misused, chief minister Pramod Sawant admitted that there were some lapses. He said that he had “cross-checked” the release of funds and had found at least four sarpanchs had registered as labourers and had received Rs 6,000 each from the GBOCW fund. “If some sarpanch registers as a labourer, what can I do? It is not just one sarpanch, there are two or three more in the list,” Sawant said. “They filled the forms thinking they would get some money and they filled the forms when they were the sarpanchs,” he said. The alleged list of beneficiaries of the GBOCW Welfare Board Assistance Scheme — Covid-19, shows 2,070 beneficiaries in Bardez, 1,890 in Pernem, 1,522 in Bicholim, 1,330 in Sattari, 700 in Tiswadi and 3,440 from outside Goa. Strangely, there are many women who are listed as masons, painter assistants and construction workers. The list also includes at least four serving panch members and eight former sarpanchs. In some places, the entire family has been listed as construction workers, former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker, said. He has called for an immediate investigation into the “mischief” played by the labour department and the fraudulent beneficiaries. “Prima facie if you see the list, it looks like a scam. Immediate investigation should be ordered. Why should someone be afraid?” said Kuncalienker. On Tuesday, GFP had said that a Rs 13.15 crore package meant for construction workers had turned out to be a “multi-crore scam”, with residents of Sakhali and Bicholim being the biggest beneficiaries. The party’s vice-president, Durgadas Kamat, on Friday said, “All of the panchas and sarpanchas on the list are BJP members. The money has been diverted to the karyakartas.” Former Pale-Kothambi sarpanch Mohini Tari is among the 11,000 people who was paid Rs 6,000 this April. The list shows that nearly 940 people received Rs 6,000 each, while another 1,500 received Rs 10,000, whereas 600 people received Rs 20,000 each. Also, there are 300 people who received Rs 30,000, while another 306 got Rs 40,000. Over Rs 9 lakh was given to five people each. “We are in the midst of a pandemic and every rupee counts. The state cannot squander away money. It is for the government to investigate who has done this mischief,” Kuncalienker said. A day earlier, Monserrate had said that monetary relief meant for registered construction workers had benefited genuine workers and only in a few cases, due to “confusion”, the funds may have been deposited in accounts of those who are not labourers. “What happens is that when we registered these people on the board, we take a self-declaration. Their names are registered and may be on this ground there was some confusion because we go by the self-declaration given by the people,” Monserrate had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-sarpanchs-turned-labourers-for-cash-cm/articleshow/76225798.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Reduce wasteful expenses: Goa governor Satya Pal Malik to CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Governor Satya Pal Malik has written a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant requesting him to adopt appropriate austerity measures in the state and reduce expenditure so that more resources are made available for battling Covid-19 and bringing the economy back on track. In the letter, the governor has stated that the Covid pandemic has thrown various challenges before the state like never before. Since the pandemic has severely dented the economy, it is imperative for the state to bring in greater economy in the expenses and set an example, Malik has stated. “The need of the hour is to make available greater resources towards Covid–19 relief measures and for reviving the economy,” he stated. The state faces an 80% drop in revenue at present with the finance department projecting a 50% drop in earnings for the entire financial year. In May, Goa collected a mere Rs 83.25 crore as GST while the figures were even worse in April, with just Rs 32 crore earned. The tourism dependent state continues to face a revenue slump with commercial tax collections dropping by 53% and GST collections seeing a 55% drop year-on-year for May. The state’s monthly GST collections usually hover between Rs 300 crore to Rs 360 crore on an average. The drop in revenue comes alongside rising debt and significant committed payments that the state cannot avoid. After contributing 30% of his salaries for entire financial year 2020-21, Malik had told the Raj Bhavan to reduce expenditure and make optimal use of resources. The Raj Bhavan will work to limit expenditure to 80% of its overall budget, thereby saving 20% as an austerity measure, sources had said. The governor had stated that this would be small but significant contribution towards combating Covid-19 and mitigating the plight of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reduce-wasteful-expenses-guv-malik-to-cm-sawant/articleshow/76225794.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR ferries home 3L migrant workers||Hyderabad: As many as 3 lakh migrant workers were ferries back to their native states across the country as on Friday by the South Central Railway (SCR). Beginning on May 1, the SCR has run 235 Shramik Special trains, out of which 146 started from Telangana to transport 1.87 lakh passengers. According to officials, supply of food and water were also taken care at every stage, in coordination with the state governments. Among the 235 trains, 71 trains were run from Andhra Pradesh to transport around 90,000 passengers and 18 from Maharashtra. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-ferries-home-3l-migrant-workers/articleshow/76225183.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Traffic diversion in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: Heavy movement of vehicles on ghat roads has forced the Nilgiris to come up with a traffic diversion plan. Heavy vehicles entering the district have to now take Mettupalayam-Kotagiri-Ooty road, while light vehicles have to proceed via Mettupalayam-Coonoor-Ooty road. Nilgiris superintendent of police (SP) V Sasi Mohan said, “The diversion is only on need basis. Check posts see traffic snarls, as officials thermal screen and collect throat/nasal swabs from commuters. Hence, heavy vehicles are diverted through Kotagiri road and passenger vehicles via Coonoor road.” However, while leaving the district, vehicles are allowed to take either of the routes. Passengers have to carry ID proof, while entering the district. Tourism activities are strictly prohibited in the hill district. Vehicles from other districts are not allowed to enter the district, unless they have a valid reason for the visit, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traffic-diversion-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/76225184.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Applications invited for LLM course||Thiruvananthapuram: Applications have been invited for the entrance examination for admissions to LLM course, 2020-21, in government law colleges at Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kozhikode and in private self-financing law colleges in the state which have entered into seat sharing agreement with the government. Candidates who have passed the LLB examination (five year or three-year course) with a minimum of 50% marks from the universities in the state or other universities recognised by the universities in the state as equivalent thereto are eligible for admission. Candidates appearing or those who have appeared for the regular final-year LLB examination can also apply. There is no upper age limit for admission to the LLM course. The online entrance examination (computer-based test) will be conducted in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur on June 28 (Sunday). There will be two parts of a total of two-hour duration. Each part will consist of 100 objective-type questions. The questions will be of the standard of LLB examination. The application fee is Rs 840 for general and SEBC candidates and Rs 420 for SC/ST candidates. Candidates seeking admission to the course can apply online through the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in of the commissioner for entrance examinations from June 5 to 15 (till 5pm) and then remit the required application fee by way of online payment or by way of e-challan. After remitting the fee the candidate has to upload a recent passport size colour photograph, signature and required documents and certificates along with the application as mentioned in the prospectus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/applications-invited-for-llm-course/articleshow/76224364.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Erode||Erode: Woman, 33, kills self after drowning her 3-month-old infant||ERODE: A 33-year-old woman committed suicide after murdering her three-month-old baby girl near Perundurai in Erode district on late Thursday night. Perundurai police have registered a case and initiated inquiry. The deceased was identified as G Sangeetha, wife of P Gunasekaran, 38, of Vijayamangalam living near Perundurai. According to the investigation officer M Selvaraj, inspector of Perundurai police station, Sangeetha delivered a baby girl in February, this year. “She had expected a baby boy and was looking upset after delivering a baby girl,” he said.On Thursday morning, Gunasekaran went to work. When he came back, he witnessed his wife Sangeetha hanging from the ceiling with a nylon rope. He began searching for his baby. He spotted the infant drowned in a water filled tub, the inspector added. He immediately alerted Sangeetha’s brother C Kumar, 35 who also was residing in the same village. Both alerted Perundurai police who retrieved the bodies and sent them to the government hospital in Perundurai for post-mortem. “We have registered the case under section 302 (murder) of IPC read with section 174 of CrPC (murder followed suicide),” the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/woman-33-kills-self-after-drowning-her-3-month-old-infant/articleshow/76225209.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||Patients and doctors struggle to procure two 'life-saving' Covid-19 drugs||MUMBAI: Precious lives in the times of Coronavirus are being held hostage by systems and processes. Even as there is a pressing demand for two ``life-saving’’ Covid-19 drugs--remdesivir and tocilizumab, patients and doctors are running from pillar to post to procure them. While several patients and doctors have written to companies like Mumbai-based BDR Pharma to provide the drug on ``compassionate grounds’’, they have been unable to do so, in the absence of regulatory clearances. Sources told TOI that key legislators have now taken up the matter with the Union health minister. Further, a grey market is said to be thriving with a hugely-marked up, generic remdesivir version from Bangladesh, whose authenticity and veracity is still to be proven. Locally-manufactured remdesivir cannot be marketed as three companies-- Cipla, Hetero and Jubilant are still awaiting marketing approval from the drug controller, while BDR Pharma’s application was not taken up possibly due to patent issue. This comes at a time when coronavirus cases have shot through the roof and India has become the third-highest country in terms of daily infections. ``We have been receiving multiple requests from patients and medical fraternity who are struggling to get vials (of the drug), but the company is not able to help them due to a pending marketing authorisation’’, Dharmesh Shah, chairman & managing director of BDR Pharmaceuticals told TOI. Four companies --Cipla, Hetero, Mylan and Jubilant Lifesciences have signed voluntary licensing agreements with US-based Gilead. TOI reviewed prescriptions of patients at major Mumbai-based hospitals --Breach Candy, Bhatia hospital, Nanavati and SRV, and spoke to doctors who confirmed it.  ``We have been trying to procure remdesivir for our patients, but have not been able to do so. Some patients are also trying to get it on ``compassionate’’ ground, and are writing to the companies. Another drug, tocilizumab has been facing irregular supply. Both the drugs are potential therapies for critically-ill Covid-19 patients,” Dr Trupti Gilada physician, infectious diseases, Unison Medicare and Research Centre, who consults at Prince Aly Khan Hospital and Masina Hospital said. Legislators and ministers including Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad said the non-availability of critical Covid-19 drugs in the state will be taken up with the Union government. BJP MP Gopal Shetty said he has written to the Union health minister to expedite approval of key drugs, and ensure their supply to patients. Calls and messages to the drug regulator's office on the query were not answered. The second drug, Roche Pharma’s tocilizumab approved for use in rheumatoid arthritis, is imported and marketed by Mumbai-based Cipla, and has been facing supply issues. ``In the grey market, for 160mg of tocilizumab, the price being quoted is Rs 90,000 each vial, taking up the therapy cost to nearly Rs 3 lakh. Usually, 400 mg vial is used which is for around Rs 35,000 per vial, but that is out of stock'', a Mumbai-based doctor said. When contacted, a company official said “Cipla has always stood for access to life-saving treatments. Given the surge in demand for this drug, we are working expeditiously to secure supplies”. Recently, US-based company Gilead received regulatory approval for remdesvir in India, and will market the drug in July. Multiple global trials are evaluating the drug’s safety and efficacy for the treatment of Covid-19. Earlier, US Food and Drug Administration had granted remdesivir an emergency use authorization for treatment of hospitalized patients with severe infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-life-saving-covid-drugs-still-waiting-for-clearance/articleshow/76225201.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: SHGs clock Rs 8 crore by selling masks, PPE kits, sanitizer||LUCKNOW: While lockdown hit economic activities across the country, cash registers were ringing for women self-help groups (SHGs) of rural development department which earned around Rs 8 crore just through the sale of face masks, PPE kits and sanitizers in last two months. SHGs also earned another Rs 7 crore through the sale of nearly 28 lakh solar study lamps for students. According to latest data of the department, around 14,000 members of SHGs manufactured at least 62 lakh face masks, while another 571 members made around 36,300 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits in April and May. PPE kits were marketed in various government departments including health and panchayati raj department. Likewise, 384 SHGs manufactured 9,634 litres of sanitizers for being sold at local level. Data show that SHGs are also being engaged in distribution of face masks among public distribution system (PDS) shop operators. Till date, over 80,000 face masks have been sold to PDS shops operators in various parts of the state. At least 1,654 members of SHGs ran 792 community kitchens to distribute around 29,000 food packets among the needy. Officials in the state rural livelihood mission (SRLM) said members of SHGs were also engaged in distribution of food grain amongst the poor. SRLM was also roped in by the state government in skill mapping of migrants who returned to UP in view of lockdown. Data show that until May-end, SRLM had skill-mapped over 3.5 lakh migrants who were subsequently adjusted in SHGs engaged in different works. The government had also roped in rural development department to help start-up village entrepreneurs. Till date, 5,221 small scale industries have benefitted from the move. Constituted under SRLM, SHGs also managed to stitch 40 lakh school uniforms for supply to students ahead of new academic session. Officials said the department was also imparting self-employment training to members of over 42,000 SHGs. The department has so far employed more than 8 lakh people in different activities through constitution of SHGs. SHGs are engaged in as many as 68 activities like poultry, dairy and animal husbandry, production of food grain, vegetables, mushroom, pepper mint and honey, and manufacturing of face masks, incense sticks and artificial jewellery. Maximum engagement is in food grain production where nearly 1.93 lakh people are working. This is followed by animal husbandry and cattle management which provides employment to 1.62 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shgs-clock-rs-8cr-by-selling-masks-ppe-kits-sanitizer/articleshow/76225806.cms||Pankaj Shah
June 6, 2020||Varanasi||Companies looking towards UP for new ventures: Min||Varanasi: A three-day international webinar on ‘Covid-19 and its Global impact’ organised by the department of economics, Arya Mahila PG College began on Friday. Addressing the inaugural session, UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari focussed on the challenges faced by the Indian economy and tourism industries during this period of crisis. He said that the pandemic should be seen as a golden opportunity as companies are looking up towards UP for new investments/ventures, which would generate employment at large scale in the state. Noted academician Prof Ravi Srivastava, director, CES, Institute of Human Development Delhi, delivered his talk on the issues of migrant labourers. He said this had been the most massive migration since independence, and millions of people lost their livelihood. Prof Swati Dhingra from London School of Economics, UK, talked about Covid-19 and Sampoorna Rozgar, while Prof BV Singh from the department of economics of BHU emphasized the uncertainties arising in the post-corona scenario. Three speakers were invited for the technical session. Prof Nidhi Sharma from department of economics, BHU discussed the challenges and opportunities for international trade, while Dr Mohan Chutani, former IES officer, talked about the economic recovery and stimulus package. Prof Mrityunjai Mishra, department of economics, BHU said, though COVID-19 has caused severe loss to the economy, but it has enriched the environmental quality. The programme commenced with the address of manager Arya Mahila PG College Varanasi Dr Shashikant Dikshit. Principal Prof Rachana Dubey welcomed the guests while organizing secretary Dr Annapurna Dixit conducted the program and introduced the theme of the webinar. More than 800 participants from different parts of the country and overseas participated in the online event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/companies-looking-towards-up-for-new-ventures-min/articleshow/76223032.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation serves notice to NGO running Nigambodh Ghat||NEW DELHI: The increase in the number of bodies of Covid-19 patients has aggravated the tension between the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Nigambodh Ghat Sudhar Samiti that runs its operations.  The corporation has issued a show-cause notice to the NGO asking why its contract with the civic body should not be terminated for not cooperating in running the facility. The NGO has been running the crematorium along the Yamuna - the largest in the city - since the last decade. A senior corporation official confirmed the notice. A supervisor at the crematorium said the problem was triggered by the diversion of all Covid-19 bodies of east and north Delhi to this facility. "As the wood-based cremations have started, there is no need to divert east Delhi's victims to Nigambodh. We are simply not equipped to take so much load but officials are not listening," he added. A senior NGO functionary said that out of the 95 platforms, 15 had been reserved for Covid bodies. "Some times we receive 14-15 corona bodies for wood-based funerals, besides 50-60 non-Covid bodies. Because asthis and ashes are not collected for three to four days after a normal funeral, we are facing a shortage of platforms for such bodies," he added. Another official said relatives often weren't getting booking for non-corona bodies after 2pm. "The Seemapuri cremation ground is lying closed. The Ghazipur facility is only receiving normal bodies. We are just concerned about crowding and delays," he said. Nigambodh Ghat currently receives corona-protocol cremation bodies from GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, Patparganj Max and Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital.  Last week, a similar action was taken by South Delhi Municipal Corporation after the staff of Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhoomi Sudhar Samiti initially objected to wood cremation of corona bodies citing safety issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-north-corporation-serves-notice-to-ngo-running-nigambodh-ghat/articleshow/76226575.cms||Paras Singh
June 6, 2020||Noida||Needed: Pollution plan without boundaries in NCR||NEW DELHI: The National Capital Region (NCR) consists of some of the most polluted cities in the world with Delhi often stealing the limelight, especially during winters when PM2.5 and PM10 levels cross 10 times the Indian safe standards. The Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) rolled out by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) every winter to tackle pollution applies to the entire NCR. However, most plans have largely centered around Delhi, despite data showing that Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad are potentially more polluting. The air quality monitoring stations across the capital are also far more than other more polluting regions. Coal-based power plants at Rajghat and Badarpur have been shut, while industries have switched to cleaner fuel. Diesel vehicles, too, cannot be registered in the capital. In comparison, the neighbouring areas still have 11 coal-based power plants within a 300km radius of Delhi. Experts believe that without considering NCR as an airshed and ensuring regional cooperation, Delhi and cities like Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad cannot show improvement alone. A Teri source-apportionment study in 2018 found that Delhi only contributed 36% to its own pollution in winters, with 34% coming from NCR and the remaining 30% from outside. This holds similar for other NCR cities, which often receive transboundary pollution. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said, while Delhi has cleaned up its act, the NCR needs to follow suit, however, this won’t be possible if states act individually. “Delhi has implemented the clean fuel policy and coal has been phased out. CNG and petrol are being given a push, alongside PNG for industries. However, this is not the case with NCR. A large number of polluting industries are still functioning across the neighbouring states, which means air quality cannot improve in Delhi if the surroundings are polluted,” Roy Chowdhury said. Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, an NGO, said an airshed approach has worked abroad and was needed across the Indo-Gangetic plains. “Tackling it state-wise has its limitations, especially in a region where pollution is widespread,” she added. Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, coal-based power plants alone account for a large chunk of pollution in NCR. “Our assessment of the existing emission inventories for Delhi finds that the contribution from power plants alone ranges from 3-11% and all the 11 coal-fired plants in NCR are situated outside Delhi,” she said. The studies suggest that across the country the contribution of sources outside the city boundary could range from 15-50%. “While Delhi’s clean air action plan includes multiple measures that call for coordination between states, no interstate coordination mechanism has been established. Hence, to meet the democratic demand for clean air in Delhi-NCR, government-led regional coordination is must,” said Ganguly. Ashish Jain, founder director, Indian Pollution Control Association, an NGO, said that pollutants see no boundaries, which make it a problem for the entire region and not the state alone. “They travel under the impact of various atmospheric conditions, so each state cannot have its own strategy or policy and interstate cooperation is crucial,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/needed-pollution-plan-without-boundaries/articleshow/76226647.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 6, 2020||Delhi||Needed: Pollution plan without boundaries in NCR||NEW DELHI: The National Capital Region (NCR) consists of some of the most polluted cities in the world with Delhi often stealing the limelight, especially during winters when PM2.5 and PM10 levels cross 10 times the Indian safe standards. The Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) rolled out by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) every winter to tackle pollution applies to the entire NCR. However, most plans have largely centered around Delhi, despite data showing that Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad are potentially more polluting. The air quality monitoring stations across the capital are also far more than other more polluting regions. Coal-based power plants at Rajghat and Badarpur have been shut, while industries have switched to cleaner fuel. Diesel vehicles, too, cannot be registered in the capital. In comparison, the neighbouring areas still have 11 coal-based power plants within a 300km radius of Delhi. Experts believe that without considering NCR as an airshed and ensuring regional cooperation, Delhi and cities like Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad cannot show improvement alone. A Teri source-apportionment study in 2018 found that Delhi only contributed 36% to its own pollution in winters, with 34% coming from NCR and the remaining 30% from outside. This holds similar for other NCR cities, which often receive transboundary pollution. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said, while Delhi has cleaned up its act, the NCR needs to follow suit, however, this won’t be possible if states act individually. “Delhi has implemented the clean fuel policy and coal has been phased out. CNG and petrol are being given a push, alongside PNG for industries. However, this is not the case with NCR. A large number of polluting industries are still functioning across the neighbouring states, which means air quality cannot improve in Delhi if the surroundings are polluted,” Roy Chowdhury said. Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, an NGO, said an airshed approach has worked abroad and was needed across the Indo-Gangetic plains. “Tackling it state-wise has its limitations, especially in a region where pollution is widespread,” she added. Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, coal-based power plants alone account for a large chunk of pollution in NCR. “Our assessment of the existing emission inventories for Delhi finds that the contribution from power plants alone ranges from 3-11% and all the 11 coal-fired plants in NCR are situated outside Delhi,” she said. The studies suggest that across the country the contribution of sources outside the city boundary could range from 15-50%. “While Delhi’s clean air action plan includes multiple measures that call for coordination between states, no interstate coordination mechanism has been established. Hence, to meet the democratic demand for clean air in Delhi-NCR, government-led regional coordination is must,” said Ganguly. Ashish Jain, founder director, Indian Pollution Control Association, an NGO, said that pollutants see no boundaries, which make it a problem for the entire region and not the state alone. “They travel under the impact of various atmospheric conditions, so each state cannot have its own strategy or policy and interstate cooperation is crucial,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/needed-pollution-plan-without-boundaries/articleshow/76225262.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 6, 2020||Chennai||Class X students will be thermal-screened before exams: Tamil Nadu education minister K A Sengottaiyan||ERODE: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Friday said Class 10 students will be allowed to enter the examination hall only after checking with thermal scanner. He said his department hasn’t taken any decision on giving exemptions for students with high temperature from appearing for the exams. Talking to reporters at Singiripalayam village at Gobichettipalayam taluk, Sengottaiyan said the state government had procured sufficient quantity of thermal scanners. “They were sent to all the schools across the state,” he said, adding that all the Class 10 students will be given two face masks while coming for examination. The minister urged the parents to come forward and inform about their wards if they have any Covid-19 symptoms. “The parents should contact the health department officials even if their son or daughter has fever,” he said. The students should to the examination centres before 9.45am to help health officials check their temperature using scanners. “Exams will start at 10 am,” he said. Later, he distributed house pattas to 91 beneficiaries at Vinobha Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/min-class-x-students-will-be-thermal-screened-before-exams/articleshow/76231529.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Salem||Class X students will be thermal-screened before exams: Tamil Nadu education minister K A Sengottaiyan||ERODE: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Friday said Class 10 students will be allowed to enter the examination hall only after checking with thermal scanner. He said his department hasn’t taken any decision on giving exemptions for students with high temperature from appearing for the exams. Talking to reporters at Singiripalayam village at Gobichettipalayam taluk, Sengottaiyan said the state government had procured sufficient quantity of thermal scanners. “They were sent to all the schools across the state,” he said, adding that all the Class 10 students will be given two face masks while coming for examination. The minister urged the parents to come forward and inform about their wards if they have any Covid-19 symptoms. “The parents should contact the health department officials even if their son or daughter has fever,” he said. The students should to the examination centres before 9.45am to help health officials check their temperature using scanners. “Exams will start at 10 am,” he said. Later, he distributed house pattas to 91 beneficiaries at Vinobha Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/min-class-x-students-will-be-thermal-screened-before-exams/articleshow/76231600.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Erode||Class X students will be thermal-screened before exams: Tamil Nadu education minister K A Sengottaiyan||ERODE: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Friday said Class 10 students will be allowed to enter the examination hall only after checking with thermal scanner. He said his department hasn’t taken any decision on giving exemptions for students with high temperature from appearing for the exams. Talking to reporters at Singiripalayam village at Gobichettipalayam taluk, Sengottaiyan said the state government had procured sufficient quantity of thermal scanners. “They were sent to all the schools across the state,” he said, adding that all the Class 10 students will be given two face masks while coming for examination. The minister urged the parents to come forward and inform about their wards if they have any Covid-19 symptoms. “The parents should contact the health department officials even if their son or daughter has fever,” he said. The students should to the examination centres before 9.45am to help health officials check their temperature using scanners. “Exams will start at 10 am,” he said. Later, he distributed house pattas to 91 beneficiaries at Vinobha Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/min-class-x-students-will-be-thermal-screened-before-exams/articleshow/76225229.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Needed: Pollution plan without boundaries in NCR||NEW DELHI: The National Capital Region (NCR) consists of some of the most polluted cities in the world with Delhi often stealing the limelight, especially during winters when PM2.5 and PM10 levels cross 10 times the Indian safe standards. The Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) rolled out by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) every winter to tackle pollution applies to the entire NCR. However, most plans have largely centered around Delhi, despite data showing that Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad are potentially more polluting. The air quality monitoring stations across the capital are also far more than other more polluting regions. Coal-based power plants at Rajghat and Badarpur have been shut, while industries have switched to cleaner fuel. Diesel vehicles, too, cannot be registered in the capital. In comparison, the neighbouring areas still have 11 coal-based power plants within a 300km radius of Delhi. Experts believe that without considering NCR as an airshed and ensuring regional cooperation, Delhi and cities like Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad cannot show improvement alone. A Teri source-apportionment study in 2018 found that Delhi only contributed 36% to its own pollution in winters, with 34% coming from NCR and the remaining 30% from outside. This holds similar for other NCR cities, which often receive transboundary pollution. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said, while Delhi has cleaned up its act, the NCR needs to follow suit, however, this won’t be possible if states act individually. “Delhi has implemented the clean fuel policy and coal has been phased out. CNG and petrol are being given a push, alongside PNG for industries. However, this is not the case with NCR. A large number of polluting industries are still functioning across the neighbouring states, which means air quality cannot improve in Delhi if the surroundings are polluted,” Roy Chowdhury said. Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, an NGO, said an airshed approach has worked abroad and was needed across the Indo-Gangetic plains. “Tackling it state-wise has its limitations, especially in a region where pollution is widespread,” she added. Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, coal-based power plants alone account for a large chunk of pollution in NCR. “Our assessment of the existing emission inventories for Delhi finds that the contribution from power plants alone ranges from 3-11% and all the 11 coal-fired plants in NCR are situated outside Delhi,” she said. The studies suggest that across the country the contribution of sources outside the city boundary could range from 15-50%. “While Delhi’s clean air action plan includes multiple measures that call for coordination between states, no interstate coordination mechanism has been established. Hence, to meet the democratic demand for clean air in Delhi-NCR, government-led regional coordination is must,” said Ganguly. Ashish Jain, founder director, Indian Pollution Control Association, an NGO, said that pollutants see no boundaries, which make it a problem for the entire region and not the state alone. “They travel under the impact of various atmospheric conditions, so each state cannot have its own strategy or policy and interstate cooperation is crucial,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/needed-pollution-plan-without-boundaries/articleshow/76226646.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 6, 2020||Faridabad||Needed: Pollution plan without boundaries in NCR||NEW DELHI: The National Capital Region (NCR) consists of some of the most polluted cities in the world with Delhi often stealing the limelight, especially during winters when PM2.5 and PM10 levels cross 10 times the Indian safe standards. The Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) rolled out by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) every winter to tackle pollution applies to the entire NCR. However, most plans have largely centered around Delhi, despite data showing that Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad are potentially more polluting. The air quality monitoring stations across the capital are also far more than other more polluting regions. Coal-based power plants at Rajghat and Badarpur have been shut, while industries have switched to cleaner fuel. Diesel vehicles, too, cannot be registered in the capital. In comparison, the neighbouring areas still have 11 coal-based power plants within a 300km radius of Delhi. Experts believe that without considering NCR as an airshed and ensuring regional cooperation, Delhi and cities like Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad cannot show improvement alone. A Teri source-apportionment study in 2018 found that Delhi only contributed 36% to its own pollution in winters, with 34% coming from NCR and the remaining 30% from outside. This holds similar for other NCR cities, which often receive transboundary pollution. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said, while Delhi has cleaned up its act, the NCR needs to follow suit, however, this won’t be possible if states act individually. “Delhi has implemented the clean fuel policy and coal has been phased out. CNG and petrol are being given a push, alongside PNG for industries. However, this is not the case with NCR. A large number of polluting industries are still functioning across the neighbouring states, which means air quality cannot improve in Delhi if the surroundings are polluted,” Roy Chowdhury said. Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, an NGO, said an airshed approach has worked abroad and was needed across the Indo-Gangetic plains. “Tackling it state-wise has its limitations, especially in a region where pollution is widespread,” she added. Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, coal-based power plants alone account for a large chunk of pollution in NCR. “Our assessment of the existing emission inventories for Delhi finds that the contribution from power plants alone ranges from 3-11% and all the 11 coal-fired plants in NCR are situated outside Delhi,” she said. The studies suggest that across the country the contribution of sources outside the city boundary could range from 15-50%. “While Delhi’s clean air action plan includes multiple measures that call for coordination between states, no interstate coordination mechanism has been established. Hence, to meet the democratic demand for clean air in Delhi-NCR, government-led regional coordination is must,” said Ganguly. Ashish Jain, founder director, Indian Pollution Control Association, an NGO, said that pollutants see no boundaries, which make it a problem for the entire region and not the state alone. “They travel under the impact of various atmospheric conditions, so each state cannot have its own strategy or policy and interstate cooperation is crucial,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/needed-pollution-plan-without-boundaries/articleshow/76226648.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||‘Safe to use sanitizer 2-3 times a day’||Q: I am a physiotherapist and want to restart my work. I make home visits for my patients. I plan to use a new pair of surgical gloves and triple-layer surgical mask for every new patient. Is this sufficient precaution for myself and my patients or should I do something else too? | Shubhanshu Srivastava A: Make sure that the patient does not belong to a containment or hotspot area. If not, then besides using gloves and masks, use a hand sanitizer before and after treating a patient. Also disinfect or sanitize the equipment which you will be using. Q: People say that sanitizer needs to be applied frequently to stay safe against coronavirus but I have heard that applying sanitizer frequently can lead to skin cancer. Is that true? | Divyanshu Srivastava A: Alcohol-based sanitizers do not possess any harm of skin cancer. Ideally, if you are using an alcohol-based sanitizer, it lasts and is effective for 2-3 hours. If you do not touch many materials or are not going out, then you can use it up to three times a day. Q: My wife and 2-year-old child are in Bihar. If they come to Lucknow, will they be quarantined or I can home-quarantine them? Neither has any symptoms of virus or flu. | Ajay Manjhi A: If they are coming from a non-containment zone in Bihar, then they will be advised home quarantine for 14 days. All questions answered by veteran virologist Prof TN Dhole, former head of microbiology at SGPGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/safe-to-use-sanitizer-2-3-times-a-day/articleshow/76225842.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizman bludgeoned to death by friend||Hyderabad: A 27-year-old businessman was bludgeoned to death by his friend in Golconda area on Friday. Police registered a murder case and launched a manhunt for the accused. The deceased was identified as Rahul Chand Agarwal, who owned a medical shop in Mallepally. “Rahul and Azhar have been friends since childhood. On Thursday night, they met at Mallepally and came to the graveyard at Alijahpur in Golconda to consume liquor. While consuming liquor, they had an argument. In a fit of rage, Azhar hit Rahul’s head with a boulder,” Golconda inspector K Chandra Sekhar Reddy said. At around 6.30 am, locals of Alijahpur found the body of a man lying in a pool of blood at the graveyard and alerted cops immediately. A police team rushed to the spot. It found a scooter near the body. “By verifying the registration number and vehicle documents found in the dickey, we could easily identify the victim as Rahul,” Chandra Sekhar said. During a preliminary probe, police found out that Rahul left his house to meet Azhar, who is a mechanic from Mallepally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-bludgeoned-to-death-by-friend/articleshow/76225271.cms||Mahesh Buddi
June 6, 2020||Goa||Seventh charter lands with 279 seafarers from Italy||Panaji: The seventh repatriation flight landed at Goa International Airport early Friday bringing back 279 seafarers who were working with MSC Cruises in Italy. Of the 279 passengers, the 70-odd Goan seafarers were quarantined in hotels while the rest were allowed to travel back to their respective states by road. This is the second flight chartered by MSC Cruises to bring Indian crew members back. The seafarers arrived aboard a Qatar Airways chartered flight with the crew members wearing full PPE. The flight took off from Rome with a brief stopover at Doha before landing at Dabolim. “Today (Friday) early morning 279 seafarers from Italy reached India through the seventh repatriation flight landing at Goa International Airport. The entire process from disembarking to exit went smoothly,” said Goa Airport Director Gagan Malik. All the passengers were screened and swab samples were collected of the Goan seafarers. The seafarers have been put up at Colva Kinara, said Captain Venzy Viegas, member of the Maritime Union of India. Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited buses were deployed to ferry the seafarers to the quarantine facilities. The 270-odd seafarers who arrived from Italy last week completed their institutional quarantine on Friday and were sent on home quarantine. This batch includes a seafarer who tested positive and was hospitalised for more than a month in Italy. He was also on a ventilator before he recovered and was brought back to Goa. Till date a total of seven chartered flights carrying seafarers from Italy and Sri Lanka have arrived in the state with more from Brazil and Europe due to land. A repatriation flight from Dubai under the Vande Bharat mission brought back stranded Goans from Dubai and the Middle East. Another 275 seafarers have been brought to Goa by road, including 50 who were sent on a South African flight back to India. They were picked up straight from the airport in Mumbai and brought to Goa by bus. Under the revised MHA guidelines for international arrivals, the seafarers have to undergo only seven days paid institutional quarantine followed by another seven days home quarantine. The earlier batches of seafarers underwent two weeks of institutional quarantine in hotels in Panaji and Vasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seventh-charter-lands-with-279-seafarers-from-italy/articleshow/76225859.cms||---
June 6, 2020||India||2 ‘life-saving’ drugs still waiting for nod||Even as there is a pressing demand for two ‘life-saving’ Covid-19 drugs, remdesivir and tocilizumab, patients and doctors are running from pillar to post to procure them as the drugs are still waiting for clearance from the regulatory body. While several patients and doctors have written to firms like Mumbai-based BDR Pharma to provide the drug on ‘compassionate grounds’, the firms have been unable to do so, in the absence of regulatory clearances. Sources told TOI that key legislators have now taken up the matter with the Union health minister. Further, a grey market is said to be thriving with a hugely-marked up, generic version of remdesivir from Bangladesh, whose authenticity and veracity is still to be proven.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-life-saving-drugs-still-waiting-for-nod/articleshow/76226586.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TN man found dead near Kalady||Kochi: A 40-year-old man was found dead at Marottichuvadu near Kalady on Friday morning. The deceased person has been identified as Kumar, 40, a Tamil Nadu native. Police conducted inquest proceedings on Friday and registered a case under CrPC 174 (unnatural death). Passers-by found the man lying by the road by around 7am and informed police."The man was found near a bar here. There was some food material in his mouth. However, there were no injuries or other signs that would evoke suspicion of any foul play. We are awaiting an autopsy report to find the cause of death," said a police officer with Kalady police station. Hashish seized City police on Friday arrested a 26-year-old youth with Hashish oil. The arrested person has been identified as Anwar Sadiq, 26. He was arrested from Edachira near Kakkanad. Police said the man had small quantities of oil stored in small vials within his possession. District anti-narcotic special action force (Dansaf) team which made the arrest said the accused was trying to sell the contraband in Kakkandad when he was caught red-handed. The seizure was done by a team led by Dansaf SI Joseph Sajan. Dansaf urged residents to tip them regarding abuse and sale of narcotic substances through the number 94979 80430. Identity of the informers would be kept confidential, police said. Man gets 10-yr RI for rape An additional district and sessions court in Ernakulam on Friday sentenced a 23-year-old Karukutty native, Amal Tomy, to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a 17-year-old girl and uploading the video of sexual act on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tn-man-found-dead-near-kalady/articleshow/76224445.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||GFP demands probe into disbursal of relief funds||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Friday petitioned the Goa Lokayukta to launch an inquiry into the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers (GBOCW) Welfare Board Assistance scheme - Covid-19 and sought an urgent hearing into the alleged diversion of funds to BJP karyakartas. “The funds, which were meant for poor construction workers, were paid to people who fraudulently registered for the scheme and should be recovered,” GFP said. In the petition, GFP vice president Durgadas Kamat said that even chief minister Pramod Sawant has admitted that some sarpanchs and deputy sarpanchs are on the list of beneficiaries. “We have filed a complaint with the Lokayukta and sought an urgent hearing into the matter. These funds were for poor people, labourers but if one looks at the names on the list, from no angle do these people look like labourers,” Kamat said. Minister for labour and employment Jennifer Monserrate has brushed aside the allegations and said the scheme had benefited labourers. GFP president Vijai Sardesai likened the alleged scam to Bihar’s Fodder scam. “Sarpanchs are perhaps BJP’s labour and Rs 5.5 crore is perhaps peanuts to Goa chief minister in whose tenure bankrupt Goa borrows like no one’s business. With such flawed administration, Goa’s Labourgate scam is striking similar to Bihar’s infamous Fodder scam that BJP always condemned,” Sardesai said. In the petition, GFP has asked for funds to be recovered and accountability to be fixed. “It can be seen clearly who are the officers and politicians involved in this. When there is a covid crisis, when the economy is down, at such a time, the government needs to give money to the labourers and construction workers. But the money was diverted. This is ultimately a shameful act on the part of the government,” Kamat said. Former advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande will be representing GFP before the Lokayukta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-demands-probe-into-disbursal-of-relief-funds/articleshow/76225871.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mysuru||Don’t put kids at risk, reopen schools in October, says Siddaramaiah||MYSURU: The state government must delay the reopening of schools and not make haste in this regard and put “children at risk”, said former chief minister and leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah. “Schoolchildren in some European countries like France and Germany have contracted coronavirus soon after schools were reopened. A vaccine for Covid-19 has not been found yet and even the infection is not under control. Schools can be reopened in October, after taking all necessary precautions. Later classes can be run in two shifts,” he said here on Friday. Siddaramaiah said he has told education minister S Suresh Kumar about it. ‘Fake economic stimulus package’ Taking a dig at the Centre and the state government, Siddaramaiah termed the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore package announced as a bogus economic stimulus plan. “It is not even 1% of the GDP but government has made a false claim that it is 10% of GDP,” he said. “Let Prime Minister Narendra Modi or finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman declare the cash outflow of the plan and the truth will be out,” he said. “Even chief minister BS Yediyurappa promised to provide assistance to people in the unorganized sector but hasn’t. People needed help in times of distress but now lockdown norms have been relaxed. Both the state and centre failed in tackling Covid challenges and protect the interest of people,” he added. “Had I been the CM now, I would have directly given away Rs 10,000 to each of the 1 crore families in the state,” Siddaramaiah said. “It comes to around Rs 10,000 crores. In the budget, Yediyurappa had announced that Rs 53,000 crores loans would be taken. Instead he could have helped poor families by announcing the package,” he added. “Ours is a federal democratic setup but all its principles have been thrown into the wind under BJP rule,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dont-put-kids-at-risk-reopen-schools-in-october-says-siddaramaiah/articleshow/76223942.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Baghel tweets message of gratitude to Nalsar alumni||Hyderabad: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel tweeted how grateful he was to the alumni of Nalsar University, who arranged for hundreds of migrants to be transported back to the state. The Nalsar Alumni Association had raised Rs 25 lakh to transport migrants, both by flight and trains, back home. Volunteers in Hyderabad helped migrants’ food needs at train stations. In a statement, Priyanka Vora, Nalsar alumni said: “The project includes documentation, health screening, and food during travel. We have finalized a discounted price with an airline. We have also partnered with Azim Premji University to arrange for ration kits and food for these folks when they land in Chhattisgarh.” As a first step, the association has facilitated the journey of 209 workers. Partner organisations will provide including endpoint pick up/drop off, food, water, protective gear, ration kits, and cash transfers to help sustain upon arrival at home (Rs 1,000 per worker). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baghel-tweets-message-of-gratitude-to-nalsar-alumni/articleshow/76225294.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Mysuru||Preparations for Panchalinga Darshan reviewed||MYSURU: District minister S T Somashekar said that the government has made necessary preparations for the 10-day Panchalinga Darshan, which will be held at Talkad in T Narasipura taluk from December 10. Presiding over the preliminary meeting held at Talkad in the district on Thursday, the minister collected information on the preparations from the district officials. The finer details of the celebration will be finalised after holding another meeting with the muzarai minister in Talkad. The cultural-cum-religious event is expected to attract over 10 lakh people from across the country. DC Abhiram G Sankar spoke on the preparations being made for the event. He said that he has entrusted the responsibility of road asphaltation works to the PWD, drinking water supply-related works to the local gram panchayat and the RDPR. A PWD engineer explained the tender process initiated for road-development works, and their early completion. An RRDPR official spoke about the works being taken up for the construction of bathing ghats, toilet facilities and change rooms for devotees near the river bank. The minister also collected information on bus service, hospitals, availability of medicine, power supply, and security from the officials concerned. Earlier, the minister visited the temples of Mudukutore Bramarambha Mallikarjunaswamy and Vaidyanatheshwara, which are part of Panchalinga Darshan ritual, and inspected the development works undertaken there. MLA Ashwin Kumar, SP C B Rishyanth, ZP CEO Prashanth Kumar Mishra and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/preparations-for-panchalinga-darshan-reviewed/articleshow/76222021.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hubballi||Day-care centre at MGNREGS work site helps parents cast aside worries about kids’ welfare||HAVERI: The idea of a creche or ‘day-care centre’ is hardly novel, considering that it is integral to the life of urban families where both parents of a child are working, but what is new is its incorporation in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) by the Haveri zilla panchayat. The ZP has introduced ‘rural day care’ to ensure that tots of couples enrolled in MGNREGS are looked after while they are occupied with work. Hedigonda gram panchayat in Byadgi taluk, Haveri has set up a day-care centre on the grounds of Gulikatti Tank. As many as 16 children are being tended to at the centre, while their parents work on desilting the waterbody under MGNREGS. The children are being cared for by Muttavva Desur, a specially-abled woman, whom the authorities have registered as a worker under MGNREGS, and is getting Rs 275 a day. “More than 10 couples have enrolled under MGNREGS, and since they cannot leave their kids at home, the mother and father are getting them to the site. We took note of the problem, and after discussing the proposal with our superiors, we decided to depute one worker for the day-care centre. Consequently, the workers are attending to their labour without any worry knowing that their children are being tended to,” Hedigonda panchayat development officer Ramesh Hulasogi said. Shantavva Kadaramundalagi, one of those employed under MGNREGS, said that she had been unable to enlist under the scheme since she had to stay at home to look after her two children, while her husband had enrolled himself in the initiative. “But I decided to join after the GP authorities set up the day-care centre at the tank. Our four-year-old boy, and six-year-old girl are being tended to at the day-care centre,” Shantavva added. Muttavva, who has cleared SSLC, said that she could not find employment on completing her schooling, while her congenital physical disability left her ill-equipped for demanding labour. “I requested the PDO to consider me if a suitable opportunity presented itself, and I was tasked with the care of children. I enjoy the job, and the wages I get help sustain me,” Muttavva said. Haveri ZP chief executive officer Ramesh Desai said that, with all anganwadis and schools being shut owing to the lockdown, the local administration decided to open a creche on the site so that those families where both the mother and father were working did not have to be anxious about leaving kids at home. “We have a responsibility to ensure that the children are cared for. We are supplying drinking water to the day-care centre, and will provide shelter if the need arises,” Desai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/day-care-centre-at-mgnregs-work-site-helps-parents-cast-aside-worries-about-kids-welfare/articleshow/76222910.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
June 6, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation council meet fails to resolve e-governance issue||Kochi: With the Kochi corporation council meet held on Friday failing to take decisions on issues related to e-governance, safety-related concerns would continue to bother Kochiites while accessing the portal. As the council couldn’t give approval for renewal of the secure socket layer (SSL), a security technology for the online data of the local body which expired in March, the corporation’s valuable is still prone to hacking. Though the opposition councillors raised the issue at the meeting, corporation authorities adopted a stand that approval for the renewal of SSL could be given along with other issues pertaining to e-governance. “As there is no security coverage for e-governance system of the corporation, valuable data may be hacked. Still, the corporation authorities are not ready to heed to our call for renewal of SSL. The corporation authorities didn’t even include the issue of renewal of the SSL in the agenda of the council meeting. When we took up the issue, corporation authorities adopted a stand that all issues pertaining to e-governance should be approved at one go,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi Corporation. “TCS, the private firm which has to implement e-governance project on behalf of the local body, is not cooperating with the corporation. Even after giving extension of tenure, TCS couldn’t complete the modules and hand them over to the corporation. At a meeting convened by local self-governance minister A C Moideen in July 2019, the agency was asked to complete all the work within six months. But, TCS demanded that their staff should be paid by Kochi corporation during the period. We as the opposition can’t agree to their demand,” Chandran said. At the council meeting, some of the councillors raised the issue of the bund constructed for facilitating the work on Padmasarovaram was causing waterlogging in Kadavanthra, Elamkulam, Chilavannoor and Gandhinagar. “But, mayor Soumini Jain didn’t even answer my queries in this regard,” education standing committee chairperson Poornima Narayan said. The council decided to take measures to provide support to e-learning at government and aided schools under the limits of the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-council-meet-fails-to-resolve-e-governance-issue/articleshow/76224469.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based doctor helps feed tribals, aims to serve one million meals||HYDERABAD: A city-based doctor has been helping feed tribals during the coronavirus pandemic. Without local fairs to sell their produce, many tribals have become more vulnerable than ever. Dr Rajah V Koppala said, “When the lockdown was announced, about 95% of my work reduced and so did the revenue. While there is no comparison is situations, it is the feeling of loss of livelihood that made me empathetic towards what tribals go through every day.” With staff and time on hand, Koppala and his friends, Srinivas Tirupati and Dr Sunil Raghav, started the ‘Million Meals Campaign’ and are close to the half-way mark. “Most of our efforts are being directed towards the tribal populace,” said the doctor. Their donors include NRIs, friends and other corporate workers. Among those who have benefited from the doctor’s work are tribals in Kothagudem in Bhadhadari- Kothagudem, Utnoor in Adilabad, Etunagram in Warangal and Srisailam in AP. “It was shocking to see the way these tribals live without basic food, water and electricity. The pandemic had made the situation worse,” said Koppala, who has been making regular visits to tribal hamlets to provide necessary supplies, including rice, dal, tamarind, chillies, turmeric, soaps and masks. “When I began distributing these kits, some of the tribals asked me what they should do with the rice. Till then they had been used to eating gruel made of broken grains usually used as leftovers for animals,” said the doctor, who practices vascular interventional radiology. The doctor and his friends have been using the help of the police and government authorities to reach out to the tribals. “We wanted to supplement the government’s effort, especially at a time when the machinery is so overwhelmed,” Koppala said. Ravinder Reddy, project director, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Srisailam, said, “With Rajah Koppala’s help we have been able to feed thousands of tribals who would otherwise have gone without food,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-based-doctor-helps-feed-tribals-aims-to-serve-one-million-meals/articleshow/76225299.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Municipal Corporation unlocks parking lots, but with riders||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the city police on Friday threw open the parking lots but no parking will be allowed in containment zones, in front of major markets and at several new blocks that had been declared no-parking zones three months ago. The parking lots will operate with the old parking fee structure. According to civic sources, the corporation has already lost close to Rs 3.5 crore in parking fees during the lockdown. “Now that the mess left behind by Cyclone Amphan has been cleared and the city is marching towards normality with more cars and two-wheelers hitting the road, there is no reason why parking lots cannot begin operations,” said an official. KMC earns nearly Rs 20 crore a year from parking lots. The traffic police said its men would be helping commuters in parking their cars. “Some commuters were parking their cars around central Kolkata for the past few weeks but that was unregulated. Now, we have discussed with KMC and fixed the exact parking spots. Anyone facing any trouble while parking can approach the nearest cop or call us at Lalbazar traffic headquarters. We have instructed police stations not to allow cartels to control parkings according to their whims and fancies,” said an officer. Sources said illegal parking, especially in the Burrabazar-Posta area, along with Park Street-Camac Street-Short Street and Mirza Ghalib Street, which are close to containment zones, will attract penalties. “We are opening the parking lots in phases on a need basis. Parking lot staffers have been asked to follow all social distancing norms and wear masks,” a KMC official stated. Several new areas, especially in the added areas in the south and spots closer to markets and slums with Covid history, have been marked as no-parking zones. This is the first time that so many roads from the added areas have gone out of bounds for parking, said a Lalbazar source. Among the areas that have been specifically chosen are Kasba, Haltu, Topsia, Tollygunge, New Alipore, Behala, Naktala and Thakurpukur. Joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey said the move is also aimed at ensuring that fee-parking spaces are specifically identified (as against no-parking spots) after the KMC said it wanted to introduce parking fees at specific parking lots in these areas. “This is not a sudden decision. We have weighed the pros and cons before taking this step,” he said. Among the major roads that have been earmarked as no-parking zones are the Park Circus Connector, Prince Anwar Shah Road, Deshapran Sasmal Road (between Tollygunge Club and Jubilee Park Road), NSC Bose Road (between Tollygunge and Ranikuthi), Haltu Main Road and DPS School Road in Kasba and Baisnabghata Patuli Road. Almost all Behala roads have been declared no-parking zones — particularly Diamond Harbour Road from Behala 14 Number to Thakurpukur (with concession for bus and auto stands). Other important roads here include Biren Roy Road connecting Behala Chowrasta with Greenfield City, almost the entire stretch of James Long Sarani, the entire MG Road from Siriti Crossing to Thakurpukur and ML Gupta Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-unlocks-parking-lots-but-with-riders/articleshow/76224480.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
June 6, 2020||Kolkata||Schools step in to allay parents’ fee concerns||KOLKATA: A school in Howrah that is not conducting any online classes has waived fees from April till the school reopens after the lockdown, raising clamours among parents of children from other schools demanding similar concessions. However, representatives of other schools in the city, most of whom are conducting online classes and giving assignments, said it would be difficult for them to pay salaries and maintain their infrastructure if they waive fees. The state school education department had earlier issued a circular requesting schools to suspend fee hikes during the crisis. After receiving complaints of non-compliance from parents, the same instructions were reissued. Waiving the monthly fee, St Joseph’s School in Howrah’s Salkia issued a circular mentioning that “session fees and all education expenses” had also been slashed by 50% but it was not clear till when. “But we are not conducting online classes,” said principal Walter Michael. Parents of La Martiniere Schools have now requested the school to defer collection of infrastructural development and session fees till the situation improved and regular classes resumed. La Martiniere Schools secretary Supriyo Dhar said: “We are ready to consider the problems faced by individual parents, but it is impossible to defer the fees for everyone. We have huge maintenance cost and must pay our staffers. We have been paying as per the Seventh Pay Commission since January.” But school authorities are willing to make some concessions, like waiving bus charges, if parents start paying the fees. “Some of the courts in other states have given the ruling that if online classes are being held, schools can collect tuition fees. We are sympathetic towards the parents,” said Richard Gasper, vice-president of the association of Heads of Anglo Indian Schools in India and principal of St Augustine’s Day School, Kolkata. In a release, Adamas International School said there will be no tuition fee hike for April, May and June. It has also decided to refund of the additional tuition fee of these three months and announced other waivers. “Parents and schools have to work together to ensure better education for our children. We can work out a formula that will not put pressure on parents and help school meet their expenses,” said Terrance John, vice-president of Heads of Anglo-Indian Schools in Bengal. “My son studies in a day-boarding school in south Kolkata. For one child, the payment is Rs 22,000 a month. Parents with two kids pay Rs 44,000 a month. In this situation, we are willing to pay Rs 8,000 for each child as tuition fee. But we want relief in payout of extra-curricular activities,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zee-lockdown-fees-05/06/20/articleshow/76224487.cms||Zeeshan Javed
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Snake rescue centre opened in Bowrampet||HYDERABAD: In a good news for wildlife conservationists and snakes that are rescued from urban areas in and around Hyderabad, Telangana forest department, in collaboration with Friends of Snakes Society (FoSS), opened a snake rescue centre in Bowrampet in Medchal district on Friday. The new facility was inaugurated on the occasion of World Environment Day. Speaking to TOI, Avinash Visvanathan of FoSS said, “We currently have about 30 snakes in the facility, of which three species are venomous and rest are non-venomous. The chief wildlife warden will allocate different forest areas away from human habitations where all these snakes will be relocated within a week’s time.” FoSS also said that it will conduct awareness programmes for people who are visiting the park in which the rescue centre is located. Forest minister A Indrakaran Reddy, who inaugurated the centre, said, “If you encounter a snake, the best thing to do is leave it alone and call FoSS or forest department.” The minister also inaugurated the official website and online ticket booking system for Nehru Zoological Park at Aranya Bhavan in Saifabad on Friday. According to the officials, the new system, which is being set up to ensure that social distancing and other health norms are strictly followed once the lockdown restrictions are lifted, can be utilised after the zoo reopens for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/snake-rescue-centre-opened-in-bowrampet/articleshow/76225301.cms||Moulika.KV
June 6, 2020||Udaipur||Industry body demands export hub in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: The Udaipur Chamber of Commerce & Industry (UCCI) has submitted a detailed proposal to the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and the state government for the development of an export hub here. “Udaipur is a gateway to the export of goods from southern Rajasthan, including the nearby districts like Rajsamand, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh, Sirohi, Banswara and Dungarpur. The demand for goods from Udaipur is quite consistent in the global market. Items such as lead & zinc metals, electrical & electronic equipment, fabricated goods, plastic products, HDPE woven sacks, marble & granite, soapstone & other mineral-based products, quartz & other dimensional stone products, textile, handicrafts, etc., are some of the categories which have high volume of exports,” manufacturers and business magnates claimed in the proposal sent to the authorities. Development of export hub in each district has been in the pipeline and recently it was announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman that such export hubs will be developed soon. “We understand that 2020-21 has begun on a disappointing note but we should set aside the worries and focus on recovery. As such government should start with the process of development of export hubs so that exports can push their production and cover the losses,” said UCCI president Ramesh Kumar Singhvi. Chartered accountant Pawan Talesara, who drafted the export plan proposal, said in the report, we have given some important policy suggestions for the growth of the exports in all categories. One suggestion is to custom notify the inland container depot at Khemli so that it can be used as a dry port. Also we have suggested the government that more container depots may be set up for better facilitation. Among other suggestions include freight subsidy, development of handicrafts and stone clusters, notification of Maharana Pratap International Airport for custom clearances, to dispose of the old cases of IGST (integrated goods and service tax) which have been pending for a long time and simplification of export policy for marble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/industry-body-demands-export-hub-in-udaipur/articleshow/76225306.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||‘Austerity measures already in place’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government has already taken some austerity measures, and by next Wednesday, it would implement more measures to control government expenditures. He also said that the government hasn’t cut down on any expenditure on health and Covid-19 management. “We know that GST and revenue collection in the state has dropped by 80%, and to tide over the situation, we have started implementing various austerity measures,” he said. “By Wednesday, we will convey to departments the austerity measures taken by the government.” Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that the house-building allowance given to MLAs, which is at a very low interest rate, will now be on par with banks. He also said that the state government has come out with a scheme to settle disputes pertaining to GST and VAT from 2016 to date. “We have emailed those having disputes with the government, and they should avail the benefit of the scheme to settle these disputes,” he said. Sawant also said that a report prepared by the economic revival committee has been submitted to the government, and that the government has constituted an economic control committee to take necessary steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/austerity-measures-already-in-place/articleshow/76225897.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Gender bender: When Deepak became Deepika||JAISALMER: He danced like a woman, walked like a woman and even behaved like a woman. Deepak, who was one a famous dancer in western Rajasthan, recently underwent a sex change surgery and became Deepika. But his decision to become a woman wasn’t easy. His wife deserted him leaving him all alone. But that did not deter him from excelling further. His fascination to become a woman started during cultural programmes where several men used to dress as women to entertain the crowds. His inspiration is late dancer Harish Suthar of Jaisalmer who became famous by the name of Queen Harish and had a huge fan following in India and abroad. He, too, used to dress like a woman and dance. He died in an accident. Harish never changed his gender. In Jaisalmer, there is another male dancer named Anu who dresses like a woman to entertain people. There are many such examples in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur where men dress like females and come up with dance performances. Deepak had become so famous as a dancer that performances without him were a no attraction. It is said that when he wraps himself in a woman’s costume, it is difficult to guess that he is a man. Deepak has been dancing wearing women’s costumes since his childhood and became a renowned Marwar dancer in Jodhpur. His desire to become a woman was so strong that he got his sex changed before lockdown at a hospital in Delhi. Deepak, who is now Deepika, wants to go to Bollywood and perform. He has earned many certificates awarded by politicians including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, mayor Ghanshyam Ojha and many MLAs and leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gender-bender-when-deepak-became-deepika/articleshow/76225321.cms||Vimal Bhatia
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Climate change like Covid: Experts||Hyderabad: Millions of people die every year due to pollution and environmental degradation and climate change is also a pandemic just like Covid-19, said experts t a webinar on Covid-19 and environmental concerns hosted by department of civil engineering, Osmania University on World Environment Day on Friday. Linking the spread of coronavirus to ecological factors, environmentalist Kajal Maheshwari said, “Coronavirus has originated from animals. Contact happens among other reasons from the loss of their habitat. Extreme weather conditions such as drought and heat destroy the natural habitat of species making them step out of forest areas, thereby, making humans more vulnerable.” Dr Wesam Al Madhoun, a professor from Malaysia, said, “Every year, over 3 million die of household air pollution in India, with women and children being most vulnerable. These could be because of pollution-related lung and heart disease.”  Experts said the use of technology can help. Valli Manickam, dean, Administrative Staff College India suggested the need for biodiversity resilience mapping. Meanwhile, Srinivasa Chary, director, urban governance and environment, ASCI, said the current pandemic has exposed the fractures in big Indian cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/climate-change-like-covid-experts/articleshow/76225307.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t set up electric snares, poachers told||Hyderabad: Ramagundam commissioner V Satyanarayana, who visited the areas near the office of the general manager of Singareni collieries in Srirampur, warned poachers against setting up electrified snares for tigers. After a tiger was spotted by locals near the RK-8 coal mine main gate and the GM’s office in Srirampur in Mancherial district on Thursday, Satyanarayana, along with the forest department officials, visited the place. “Our aim is to ensure that no harm is caused either to the tiger or the people and cattle. For this purpose, we are taking precautionary measures,” he said. According to police, three to four tigers have been moving freely in Bellampally, Chennur, Asifabad, Jaipur, Kawal forest areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-set-up-electric-snares-poachers-told/articleshow/76225302.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Infra company earns HC ire in land ownership case||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Friday turned critical towards an infrastructure company for coming to the court with confusing and conflicting details. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing an appeal filed by Vajara infra company and sought a detailed affidavit on its claim over 187 acres in Sikanderguda in Gandipet mandal in the outskirts of Hyderabad. The company says it was aggrieved with the interim orders given by high court in favour of Burra Venu Goud, Gnaneswar Goud and others protecting their rights over 38.5 acres. It wanted these stay orders to be vacated. It claimed that this land is a Paigah land. But the bench noted that there are conflicting versions in the claims of the company because on one hand it says that it was a paigah land and hence it was in the custody of court of wards and on the other hand it says that the land was partitioned. A partition is not possible if it is in the custody of court of wards. According to Burra Goud family, the state gave them the title and other rights over the land in 1978 under Inam Act.. The basis for granting the title to the family was their long-standing possession over the land (between 100 to 120 years). The Burra Goud family were issued all the requisite proofs. The bench sought a chronology of events and asked both parties to furnish brief notes on their claims and posted the case to June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infra-company-earns-hc-ire-in-land-ownership-case/articleshow/76225310.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Madurai||Two arrested for murder of woman in March||Ramanthapuram: The Ramanathapuram district police of Friday arrested two people in connection with the murder of a woman on March 16. The 35-year-old woman, identified as Kanchana, a resident of Odaikarai village was found dead inside the bushes near the irrigation tank at Anandoor on March 16. The R S Mangalam police had registered a case under section 174 CrPC and were investigating. Based on a tip-off to his phone number which was widely publicized, the superintendent of police Varun Kumar formed a special team to investigate the case. The team picked up two people - Asaithambi and Swaminthan, residents of Odaikarai village on suspicion. During investigation, the duo told police that they used to borrow money from Kanchana. Since they were in need of money, they had asked Kanchana to come near the irrigation tank on March 16. When they asked for more money, she told them she didnt have any. So, they demanded her to part with her five sovereign gold chain, but Kanchana refused. Due to this, the duo murdered Kanchana by strangulation and robbed the gold chain. The duo had pledged the chain in a private pawn shop at Thondi and split Rs 1.45 lakh among themselves. Police have recovered the chain, and remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-arrested-for-murder-of-woman-in-march/articleshow/76225323.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Shark teeth fossils prove Barmer was under sea 58 million years ago||JAISALMER: In a major discovery, geologists have found a large number of shark teeth fossils in Barmer district proving that the entire area was under the sea some 58 million years ago. The experts found the fossils near Giral lignite mine, around 40km from Barmer district headquarters. Researchers Priyadarshini Rajkumari and Prof GVR Prasad from the department of geology, University of Delhi, said the fossils were found in late Palaeocene rocks aged around 58 million years old exposed in a Fuller’s Earth (locally known as Multani Mitti). Prasad, head of the department of geology, University of Delhi, said based on the teeth, the researchers have identified nine different types of sharks present in the area. Complete skeletons of sharks were not found as their bones are composed of cartilage which does not get fossilized. Generally, it is the teeth, spine and dermal scales which get preserved as fossils. He said, “The new fossil find is significant as they indicate humid, tropical to subtropical conditions 58 million years ago in a sharp contrast to to present day dry, arid climate in the region. Although shark fossils have been reported from Barmer region earlier, those reports indicated the occurrence of shallow marine and freshwater species together in lagoonal environments.” Prasad said, “The discovery by the research team indicate rather fully marine environment prevailing in the area around 58 million years ago and the water depth ranged between 15-20 metres. The study has provided valuable insight about the environmental changes in terms of warmth, humid, coastal conditions, climatic conditions millions of years ago.” Similar fossils were reported earlier from Northwest Africa (Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Togo), Europe (England, France, Belgium) and southern North America implying that free faunal interchanges could take place between these areas and northwestern part of India through the east-west trending epicontinental sea known as Tethys Sea. This epicontinental sea separated the northern hemisphere continents from those of southern hemisphere during the Palaeogene period. Geologists have also found fossils of shark and other animals at Sultana village and Bandha village in Jaisalmer. Under the leadership of palaeontology professor Dhirendra K Pandey, two fossil shark teeth (Galeorhinus and Physogaleus) were found from the early Eocene sediments of Jaisalmer Basin in Sultana which was the first record of Physogaleus from Jaisalmer Basin. The record of Galeorhinus from the Jaisalmer Basin suggests subtropical sea condition during Early Eocene time (56 to 39 million years ago).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shark-teeth-fossils-prove-barmer-was-under-sea-58-million-years-ago/articleshow/76225324.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Pulichintala hit by 965 microquakes||HYDERABAD: Pulichintala area on the banks of river Krishna that divides Andhra Pradesh and Telangana has been witnessing hectic seismic activity. At least 965 microearthquakes have been recorded on the Richter scale since January 26 after a 4.6 magnitude quake struck the region on that day. Both Suryapet district in Telangana and Guntur in AP have been witnessing tremors since then. A microearthquake (or microquake) is a very low intensity earthquake which is 2.0 or less in magnitude. The epicentre of the microquakes is 5 km downstream of Pulichintala dam on Telangana side. NGRI chief seismologist D Srinagesh said there are all tiny quakes. “The biggest was on January 26 with 4.6 magnitude. In the last four months, the area witnessed 965 microearthquakes,” he told TOI. The 4.6 magnitude earthquake in Suryapet was felt in parts of Hyderabad too. Aftershocks were reported till evening on that day and a surveillance camera at Pulichintala dam had recorded the quake. On June 30, 1969, an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.3 was reported in Telugu states. Since then, Pulichintala was the second biggest in magnitude. Meanwhile, in Ongole, a microquake of 2.3 magnitude was recorded by the NGRI. Srinagesh said an earthquake of a magnitude of 2.6 on Richter scale occurred at Gudimellapadu near Ongole at around 10.18 am. “There was no impact,” he added. A local in Gaddalakunta in Ongole said, “We heard a big noise and the earth started shaking. We came out and within a minute, it subsided.” The NGRI chief seismologist said there are all tiny quakes. Both Suryapet district in Telangana and Guntur in AP have been witnessing tremors since January 26||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pulichintala-hit-by-965-microquakes/articleshow/76225322.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||George Floyd moment: Jodhpur cop pins down man with knee over mask||JODHPUR: A person with a criminal record assaulted two policemen for taking action against him for not wearing a face mask 'properly' at the city market on Thursday. Initially, the man protested, then threatened to gorge out the cops’ eyes and finally tried to flee. The two policemen, who were polite to him at start, had to physically stop him. A scuffle ensued between the trio as the onlookers watched and then helped the policemen control the accused. In the videos of the incident, which went viral on social media as the 'Floyd George incident' in the country, the accused is seen browbeating the two policemen. One of cops is later seen pushing him to the ground and pressing his neck with a knee to control him, using a technique similar to the one used by American cops to overpower Floyd George, resulting in his death and largescale protests against racism in the US. The videos of the incident soon went viral on social media. In the video, the accused is seen browbeating the two policemen.“We arrested him and sent him to judicial custody,” said SHO (Devnagar) Somkaran, adding that the man was already booked for piercing his father’s eyes with a spanner last June. Narrating the incident, SHO Somkaran said that the two constables were on duty at Pahla Pulia when they spotted Mukesh Kumar (40) wearing a mask around his neck on Thursday evening. They warned him against not wearing the mask properly and asked him to pay the fine. This infuriated him and he started misbehaving and threatening the two constables. “When they tried to catch him, he tried to flee. He then beat them and tore the uniform of one of them. He was finally controlled and arrested for assaulting government servants on duty and preventing and deterring them from discharging their duties,” the officer said. No action, however, has been taken against the policeman who brought the man to the ground and pressed his knees on this neck to control him. TOI tried to contact the police commissioner, but he failed to respond. A senior officer, not willing to be named, said that the cop used his knee just to control him and it lasted only a couple of seconds. He said that it was not intentional and occurred in the heat of the moment as the accused started assaulting the policemen. On social media such as Twitter many compared it to the George Floyd incident in Minneapolis, US. One twitter handle @OvaisSultanKhan, who described himself as human rights, justice and peace activist, wrote, “In a reminder of the George Floyd’s case, a video of a police constable pinning a man on the ground and kneeling on his neck in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur has gone viral on social media.” Another twitter handle @Khush_boozing wrote, “Police constable kneeling on the neck of a man for not wearing a mask in Jodhpur. Indian Police could not bear Minneapolis Cops hogging all the limelight.” Watch Man threatens cop, this is what he got||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-mans-arrest-sparks-outrage-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76225326.cms||Ajay Parmar
June 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur: Return of the natives sees rise in power, water demand||JODHPUR: Influx of migrants has led to a spurt in consumption of water and electricity in rural areas of Jodhpur district. In the last three weeks after migrants were allowed to enter the state, over 50,000 labourers returned to their homes leading to pressure on resources. Chief engineer (PHED) Neeraj Mathur said water consumption in rural areas had risen by about 20% unlike previous years. “In rural areas, the usual demand was 210 MLD, which has shot up to 250 MLD,” said Mathur. In what can be termed a double whammy for the PHED, the escalated consumption, both due to migrant influx and soaring heat, has led the department officials to step up its efforts to match up to the demand and also has to resort to supplying of water by tractors in rural areas. “There is problem in the villages, which are at the tailend of the distribution channel and such areas are being supplied water by tractors,” said Mathur. Like water, the electricity consumption has also shot up by aroun 24% with the migrants returning home. According to the MD (Jodhpur DISCOM) Avinash Singhvi, electric consumption in rural areas of the district has shot up to 158 lakh units per day contrary to 128 lakh units usually. “This escalation in consumption could be attributed to the migrants, which has caused increased use of electrical appliances. This is a record consumption, which is approximately 24% over the usual consumption,” he said. But as far as the consumption in urban areas, both water and electricity indicate contradictory trends. While the water consumption has also increased parallelly in urban areas also, the electric consumption under the similar category has recorded a slump. Mathur said since people are in their homes due to lockdown, water consumption in city has also risen to a whopping 300 MLD against 250 MLD in routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/return-of-the-natives-sees-rise-in-power-water-demand/articleshow/76225340.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Jodhpur||George Floyd moment: Jodhpur cop pins down man with knee over mask||JODHPUR: A person with a criminal record assaulted two policemen for taking action against him for not wearing a face mask 'properly' at the city market on Thursday. Initially, the man protested, then threatened to gorge out the cops’ eyes and finally tried to flee. The two policemen, who were polite to him at start, had to physically stop him. A scuffle ensued between the trio as the onlookers watched and then helped the policemen control the accused. In the videos of the incident, which went viral on social media as the 'Floyd George incident' in the country, the accused is seen browbeating the two policemen. One of cops is later seen pushing him to the ground and pressing his neck with a knee to control him, using a technique similar to the one used by American cops to overpower Floyd George, resulting in his death and largescale protests against racism in the US. The videos of the incident soon went viral on social media. In the video, the accused is seen browbeating the two policemen.“We arrested him and sent him to judicial custody,” said SHO (Devnagar) Somkaran, adding that the man was already booked for piercing his father’s eyes with a spanner last June. Narrating the incident, SHO Somkaran said that the two constables were on duty at Pahla Pulia when they spotted Mukesh Kumar (40) wearing a mask around his neck on Thursday evening. They warned him against not wearing the mask properly and asked him to pay the fine. This infuriated him and he started misbehaving and threatening the two constables. “When they tried to catch him, he tried to flee. He then beat them and tore the uniform of one of them. He was finally controlled and arrested for assaulting government servants on duty and preventing and deterring them from discharging their duties,” the officer said. No action, however, has been taken against the policeman who brought the man to the ground and pressed his knees on this neck to control him. TOI tried to contact the police commissioner, but he failed to respond. A senior officer, not willing to be named, said that the cop used his knee just to control him and it lasted only a couple of seconds. He said that it was not intentional and occurred in the heat of the moment as the accused started assaulting the policemen. On social media such as Twitter many compared it to the George Floyd incident in Minneapolis, US. One twitter handle @OvaisSultanKhan, who described himself as human rights, justice and peace activist, wrote, “In a reminder of the George Floyd’s case, a video of a police constable pinning a man on the ground and kneeling on his neck in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur has gone viral on social media.” Another twitter handle @Khush_boozing wrote, “Police constable kneeling on the neck of a man for not wearing a mask in Jodhpur. Indian Police could not bear Minneapolis Cops hogging all the limelight.” Watch Man threatens cop, this is what he got||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-mans-arrest-sparks-outrage-video-goes-viral/articleshow/76227599.cms||Ajay Parmar
June 6, 2020||Bengaluru||After travel ordeal, Odia family faces cyclone devastation||Benglauru: After a tormenting journey from Bengaluru, a migrant couple with their seven-month-old daughter reached Odisha only to find their hut in Diparadhanpur village of Baleshwar district ravaged by cyclone Amphan. In mid-November 2019, a debt-ridden Pratap Malik, 30, boarded a train to Bengaluru along with wife Jamuna and their infant daughter Joshna. In Bengaluru, Malik worked as a tailor making mosquito nets at a unit in Kaveripuram, Kamakshipalya. He earned Rs 3,000 a week and life started to look good. But the sudden Covid-19 lockdown left him jobless. The family was reduced to abject penury. “We were thrown out of our rented accommodation and were on the streets with the baby and bags,” recalled Malik over phone from Odisha, his home state, on Thursday. He then headed to Kamakshipalya police station and enquired with cops about the state government order to landlords directing them not to vacate tenants during the lockdown. The cops chased him away. Begins trek home On May 7, the family began a gruelling trek towards Odisha. But they managed to cover only about 100km in six days as police at four consecutive checkposts prevented them from going on foot on the highway. “Every time the policemen asked us to return to Bengaluru, we dodged them and walked ahead. We had nothing left in Bengaluru,” said Jamuna. The family’s plight was captured by a few media persons present on the Karnataka-Andhra border. Following this, a woman bureaucrat in the Karnataka government arranged tickets for the three on a Shramik train to Odisha. Cyclone and more misery The relieved couple was eager to meet their elder son Lakshmikanth, 8, who was living with Jamuna’s mother in Diparadhanpur village, over 180km from Cuttack. The authorities put them in quarantine as they had returned from Bengaluru, a Covid-19 red zone. “When we were in quarantine, the cyclone hit and we feared the worst,” said Malik. On May 20, Amphan wreaked havoc in Odisha and West Bengal. A few days later, the Malik family was released from quarantine. The three reached Diparadhanpur to witness the heartbreaking sight of their house ravaged by the storm. “There was no roof. Luckily my son and mother-in-law survived,” the tailor said. Malik had borrowed Rs 1 lakh from local money lenders to build his house. Now, with his job and savings gone, he goes fishing to feed the family, which has taken shelter under a temporary black plastic roof. The Karnataka officer has made a small contribution towards rebuilding Malik’s house and the family talks highly of her. “Once lockdown ends, I will return to Bengaluru to get back my job. I need to give my children a better roof above their head,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-travel-ordeal-odia-family-faces-cyclone-devastation/articleshow/76212429.cms||Petlee Peter
June 6, 2020||Pune||MSMEs yet to see money from loans sanctioned||Pune: Fewer than half the sanctioned loans for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) were actually disbursed as on June 1. ECLGS is a 100% collateral-free loan extended by banks, wherein every MSME is eligible to get up to 20% of the outstanding loan as an additional credit to tide over the liquidity crunch caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a tweet shared by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, as on June 1, public sector banks sanctioned loans worth Rs10,361.75 crore, but could disburse only Rs3,892.78 crore. Multiple reasons contributed to this, including but not limited to reluctance among bankers, insistence on documents/collateral, MSMEs still waiting before a loan is picked and order delays. “What seemed like a certain order about a month ago is no longer so,” said a public sector banker. MSMEs, on the other hand, say that these loans are being sanctioned in letter, but not being disbursed. “Banks are saying that there are still no policy guidelines finalized for MSMEs and that what they were giving were nominal amounts to show some disbursement,” said a Pune-based MSME manager. MSMEs feel banks are shying away as they think pressure on them will mount if the loan turns sour. Compared to March 27, 2020, the loans deployed by banks to MSMEs fell a sharp 12% as on April 24, 2020, according to latest RBI data. Loans to MSMEs accounted for only 16% of the total credit given by the banks to industries in April, slightly less than what it was even a year ago. Further, MSMEs have not been able to get their dues on time, the cumulative impact leaving them with no funds to pay salaries or working capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msmes-yet-to-see-money-from-loans-sanctioned/articleshow/76225320.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Turmeric cluster soon in state||Hyderabad: A plan has been chalked out to facilitate turmeric farmers in the state get a better price for their produce and also for cultivation of turmeric containing high curcumin content for export purposes. A meeting of the Spices Board held with officials of the state government suggested that Pitambar, Prabha, Rajendra Soni and Roma variety of spices should be grown. Under the trade infrastructure for export scheme (TIES) of the ministry of commerce, a turmeric cluster will be developed. The facilities that will be provided to the farmers include guidance on what seeds to be used, in addition to laboratory, packaging and export facilities. During the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, turmeric farmers demanding setting up of a separate turmeric board became an election issue. The board said the Turmeric Task Force Committee has studied the issue indepth and made recommendations. The Indian Institute of Packaging, Mumbai, will be consulted on the issue of proper packing system of turmeric.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/turmeric-cluster-soon-in-state/articleshow/76225311.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
June 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Return of the natives sees rise in power, water demand||JODHPUR: Influx of migrants has led to a spurt in consumption of water and electricity in rural areas of Jodhpur district. In the last three weeks after migrants were allowed to enter the state, over 50,000 labourers returned to their homes leading to pressure on resources. Chief engineer (PHED) Neeraj Mathur said water consumption in rural areas had risen by about 20% unlike previous years. “In rural areas, the usual demand was 210 MLD, which has shot up to 250 MLD,” said Mathur. In what can be termed a double whammy for the PHED, the escalated consumption, both due to migrant influx and soaring heat, has led the department officials to step up its efforts to match up to the demand and also has to resort to supplying of water by tractors in rural areas. “There is problem in the villages, which are at the tailend of the distribution channel and such areas are being supplied water by tractors,” said Mathur. Like water, the electricity consumption has also shot up by aroun 24% with the migrants returning home. According to the MD (Jodhpur DISCOM) Avinash Singhvi, electric consumption in rural areas of the district has shot up to 158 lakh units per day contrary to 128 lakh units usually. “This escalation in consumption could be attributed to the migrants, which has caused increased use of electrical appliances. This is a record consumption, which is approximately 24% over the usual consumption,” he said. But as far as the consumption in urban areas, both water and electricity indicate contradictory trends. While the water consumption has also increased parallelly in urban areas also, the electric consumption under the similar category has recorded a slump. Mathur said since people are in their homes due to lockdown, water consumption in city has also risen to a whopping 300 MLD against 250 MLD in routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/return-of-the-natives-sees-rise-in-power-water-demand/articleshow/76229118.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Why no help to weavers, high court asks Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday sought to know within a week as to why the state has not made enough arrangements to supply raw material to weavers during the lockdown period and why it could not help them in disposing of their existing cloth stock. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Rapolu Bhaskar describing the plight of poor weavers during the lockdown. Bringing to the notice of the court the pathetic conditions of handloom weavers who have been hit by the lockdown, Macharla Rangaiah, the counsel for the petitioners, appealed to the bench to ensure that immediate help reaches the weavers.  “The CM gives sarees as gifts to women in the state during Bathukamma. The state is purchasing only 10% of these sarees from the weavers of our state. About 90% of sarees are bought from Gujarat and Pune. Our weavers are selling their children due to extreme poverty,” he said, and appealed the state to buy all the sarees from the weavers to prevent suicides. Rangaiah said that Rapolu Bhaskar, an ex-MP from the area, had to collect donations to extend financial assistance to a weaver family after the breadwinner had committed suicide. “Not all weavers are members of weavers’ societies. Non-members approach private lenders and get stuck in the vicious cycle of loans, losses and poverty. All stocks are lying unsold and none of the schemes are reaching the weavers,” he said. Advocate general BS Prasad said the state has formulated new measures to reach out to them and sought time to file a counter. The bench posted the case to June 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-no-help-to-weavers-hc-asks-t/articleshow/76225325.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Goa||Hotels, places of worship to open from June 8: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the restaurants in the state can operate from June 8 by following social distncing norms and that the government will release standard operating procedure (SOP) and guidelines soon. Sawant also said that religious places will also be open only for performing prayers and ‘aarti’ and not for religious functions. “After opening temples, churches and mosques, people should not go there to perform ‘aarti’ and prayers in groups but only individual visits are allowed,” he said Sawant had said that his government would decide on the reopening of hotels in July. “We will not open hotels for tourists, and will take a call on that after a month,” the chief minister had said. The MHA guidelines, issued last week, permit the opening of religious places/places of worship, hotels, restaurants, malls and other hospitality services from June 8. A day after the MHA issued new guidelines, Sawant had told TOI that Goa would not permit interstate public transport for at least another month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hotels-places-of-worship-to-open-from-june-8-cm/articleshow/76225914.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Notice against Abu Faisal for inflammatory video||Hyderabad: Cyber crime sleuths of Central Crime Station, Hyderabad have issued a look out circular (LoC) against Abu Faisal of Old City. All the airports across the country have been alerted against the entry of the accused. In May 2020, cyber crime police registered a case under IPC section 153(A) and other sections of IT Act against Abu Faisal, a resident of Barkas in Old City for allegedly making inflammatory statements. On Thursday June 4, he released a new video which was found to be inflammatory. Though he is based in Dubai (UAE), he has been allegedly making inflammatory statements on social media, forcing cyber crime police to initiate suo-moto action against him. On May 14 ,the Bombay high court passed an ex-parte interim order directing the state government to block a video clip uploaded on social media by Abu Faisal immediately, observing that it was prima facie inflammatory. “In the wake of a case registered against Abu Faisal, we have issued an LoC and have sent it to all the airports across India alerting to detain him once he enters the country,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notice-against-abu-faisal-for-inflammatory-video/articleshow/76225353.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Madurai||Amicus curiae to assist HC as bar assn seeks action against advocate||Madurai: The Srivilliputhur Bar Association has sought action against an advocate who had continued his practice from 2015 to 2019 though he was suspended by the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry after he was found that he had not cleared the All India Bar Examination (AIBE). On Friday, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi of the Madras high court appointed an advocate B Ashok as amicus curiae to assist the court in the case.S Thirumalaiappan, secretary of the association in Virudhunagar district, in his petition before the Madras high court, stated that the advocate, J Auspin Jack who was enrolled in 2011, became the member of his association in 2016.When they were scrutinizing the list of members in their association, they found out that Jack’s name in the website of the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the list of advocates who had not cleared the AIBE bar exam. When the contacted the office of the bar council on August 22 2019, it was informed that Jack had been suspended on September 15, 2015. Subsequently, the association members convened a meeting and decided to remove Jack as a member of the association permanently. The bar council in response to their representation inquiring about Jack, stated that his suspension was revoked on September 5, 2019 since he had cleared the bar exam.He stated that though Jack’s suspension was revoked he had suppressed the fact about his suspension and had continued his practice as an advocate during the period he was suspended. He then lodged a complaint to the Srivilliputhur DSP. The petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. During the previous hearing, the court had suo motu impleaded the secretary of the bar council as the fourth respondent. The case has been adjourned to a further date for hearing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/amicus-curiae-to-assist-hc-as-bar-assn-seeks-action-against-advocate/articleshow/76225348.cms||---
June 6, 2020||Lucknow||‘Superman’ Sonu Sood does a cameo in Jhansi police’s Covid drive||JHANSI: Actor Sonu Sood, who has earned all-round accolades for arranging return of thousands of migrants stranded in Maharashtra to their homes in states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, has now some glowin words to say about corona warriors while endorsing an online video awareness campaign of Jhansi Police on Covid-19. The video, which is expected to hit the social media soon, begins with Sood asking people to define a corona warrior, telling that every Indian is a corona warrior in his/her own way. The actor goes on to introduce the video campaign of Jhansi Police as an important tool in spreading awareness for Covid-19. The 2.20 minute video, which has been produced here with the help of a local production company, shows Sood saying, “All Indians are Corona warriors as they are taking care of themselves and their family members. Some are fighting outside while some by staying at home. I appeal to all of you to listen to this message by Jhansi Police. By following this message, you can keep yourself and your family members safe and help in fighting Corona.” SP City Rahul Srivastava, who has been instrumental in creating the video, said: ‘Our main purpose to make the video was to create awareness among the masses towards the pandemic. The entire video has been shot and produced in Jhansi itself with the help of police personnel, NCC cadets and university students.” The video depicts the dos and dont’s that need to be practised while being in the market, using a lift, riding a bus, using staircases, entering home, disposing of used masks and so on. It shows both the right way as well as the wrong way to execute such tasks along with graphical right and wrong signs with cops and NCC cadets doubling up as actors. The vidoe up with the message, “Do gaz ki doori, mask hai majboori, haat dhona hai zaroori’ (maintain two yards distance, mask is a must and washing hands is essential).” The campaign will be launched on the official twitter handle of Jhansi police (Jhansi Police @jhansipolice) in English while the Hindi version of the campaign will be uploaded on twitter handle of SP Jhansi Rahul Srivastava (@upcoprahul) Senior under officer NCC, Hitika Yadav, who has been featured in the video, said: “It is very exciting to be a part of this video and feel honoured that it has been introduced by Sonu Sood. I am thankful to the SP Sir because of whom it was possible.” Similarly, Shaswat Singh, a post-graduate student of mass communication at Bundelkhand University, who along with three of his friends shot and edited the entire video, said: “It was a wonderful and challenging experience for us and we feel proud that we have got a chance for doing our bit in creating awareness against this global pandemic.” Watch Actor Sonu Sood does a cameo in Jhansi police’s Covid-19 drive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/superman-sood-does-a-cameo-in-jhansi-polices-covid-drive/articleshow/76225917.cms||Arindam Ghosh
